Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H9953
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2019 No. 197
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CUELLAR).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
December 10, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable HENRY
CUELLAR to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
CELEBRATING THE RESILIENT
SPIRIT OF DAVID WHEAT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. STAUBER) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Commander David
Wheat, a Vietnam veteran and former
prisoner of war from Minnesota’s
Eighth Congressional District, who is
about to celebrate his 80th birthday on
December 16.
David grew up in Duluth, Minnesota,
and graduated from the University of
Minnesota Duluth before entering the
Naval Aviation Officer Candidate
School and earning the commission of
an ensign. In April 1965, he received his
naval flight officer wings and was de-
ployed to Vietnam, flying in an F–4B
Phantom as a radar intercept officer.
In October 1965, David was shot down
and captured by enemy forces. He spent
the next 7 years and 4 months as a pris-
oner of war in various camps, including
the infamous Hanoi Hilton. Despite the
cruel torture and inhumane conditions
David endured at the hands of his cap-
tors, they were never able to rob him of
his resilient American spirit.
Following his release from prison,
David vowed that he would be happy
for the rest of his life. David went on to
continue a life of service, reporting to
pilot training and earning his naval
aviation wings in 1975.
Throughout his career, David flew
various types of aircraft and retired
after 20 years of honorable service.
David also got married and started a
family of his own.
In my hometown of Duluth, Min-
nesota, we are incredibly proud to have
a hero like Commander David Wheat
living amongst us. David has been an
active member of our community, sup-
porting activities and fundraisers for
various veterans organizations.
Mr. Speaker, on behalf of every Min-
nesotan, I thank Commander Wheat for
his brave service and wish him the
happiest of birthdays.
TAKING A STAND AGAINST VIOLENCE
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to address the heartbreaking
trend of violence troubling our Native
American communities and recognize
the Tribal leaders from my district
who are taking a stand on this issue.
Native American women in par-
ticular face a disproportionately high
risk of violence. According to one
study, the murder rate of Native Amer-
ican women is 10 times the national av-
erage.
During my 23 years as a law enforce-
ment officer in northern Minnesota, I
heard far too many horror stories
about trafficked or murdered Native
American women. Too often, these
cases go unresolved.
These victims and their families de-
serve action. I was glad to hear that
President Donald Trump recently
signed an executive order establishing
an interagency task force to review un-
solved cases. I was especially pleased
to see Fond du Lac council member
Roger Smith, Fond du Lac chairman
Kevin Dupuis, and Mille Lacs band
chief Melanie Benjamin standing
alongside our President in the Oval Of-
fice as he signed this executive order.
I applaud Minnesota’s Tribal leaders
for standing united against this epi-
demic of violence, and I remain com-
mitted to supporting them in this crit-
ical mission.
f
AND STILL I RISE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise with love for my coun-
try at heart.
Mr. Speaker, if I appear to have a
pensive persona, it is because I am ex-
periencing a melancholy moment, a
melancholy moment because some 2-
plus years ago I came to the floor of
this House, stood in the well, and
called for the impeachment of the
President some 2 years ago.
That moment is now at hand, and I
do feel a sense of thoughtfulness, pen-
siveness because, to be very honest, I
am saddened about what is about to
happen. It is not something that I want
to see occur in my country. I love my
country. This is not something that I
came to Congress to be a part of, but it
is about to happen.
The House will vote. The President
will be impeached, after which his case
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.000 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9954 December 10, 2019
will go to the Senate. The Senate will
have a trial. If the Senate convicts and
removes the President from office, this
will bring this ignoble chapter in Presi-
dential history to an end. But if the
Senate does not convict, then the
President is still subject to impeach-
ment for other acts that are impeach-
able.
I have always brought my Articles of
Impeachment to the floor. I have al-
ways had a rationale for my actions. I
never said to just impeach the Presi-
dent because he ought to be impeached.
I never felt that way. I do not feel that
way currently. Impeachment is a seri-
ous undertaking, and I always have
been serious about my actions.
I do believe that, if the Senate does
not convict, other Articles of Impeach-
ment may be considered. Currently, we
are considering two Articles of Im-
peachment—abuse of power and ob-
struction of Congress—but there is
much more to be considered. It is my
opinion that we will still have work to
do if the Senate does not convict.
To this end, I want to use an example
so that people will understand the
point I am making. The President him-
self has said that he could shoot some-
one on Fifth Avenue—these are the
President’s words—and he would not
lose his base of support. Well, if he does
that with malice aforethought and if
someone is hurt, regardless as to what
happens in the Senate, if the Senate
does not convict, the President can be
brought before the bar of justice again.
This is the bar of justice for a Presi-
dent who commits impeachable acts.
This is the only place where the Presi-
dent can be brought before the bar of
justice while he is President—right
here. If he does such a thing with mal-
ice aforethought, I would bring Arti-
cles of Impeachment before this august
body for consideration.
My prayer is that the Senate will do
its job and not only receive the Arti-
cles of Impeachment but also act on
them because I believe that the Presi-
dent ought to be convicted and re-
moved from office. I have said before
and say now: He is unfit to be Presi-
dent. My prayer is that we will soon
end this ignoble chapter in Presidential
history.
I love my country, and I stand here
with my love for my country at heart,
but equally as important is my love for
these babies, for people who are being
harmed by what this President has
done to our society. It fits perfectly in
what Alexander Hamilton called to our
attention in Federalist Paper No. 65,
for what has happened to our society?
I appreciate the articles that are
being brought now, but the harm to our
society has not been eradicated. We
have an unapologetic President who
continues to cause harm to this society
in the vein and sense that Alexander
Hamilton reminded us would be im-
peachment.
Mr. Speaker, I love my country.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECOGNIZING GEORGE
WASHINGTON CARVER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. BROOKS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, renowned Alabama educator, artist,
and botanist George Washington
Carver, like many Americans, over-
came numerous obstacles to achieve
greatness. Carver’s contributions to
science and agriculture made a huge
impact that is still felt across the
globe today.
On January 5, 2020, Alabama will
unveil a historic marker honoring Dr.
Carver at Decatur’s Horizon School.
Carter visited Decatur in 1935. Carver
Elementary was named in his honor.
During his visit, Carver spoke to an au-
dience of more than 1,000 Decatur resi-
dents. In a letter to then-super-
intendent W.W. Henson after his visit,
George Washington Carver wrote: ‘‘The
Carver School far exceeds my expecta-
tions. It is a most beautiful building,
and I hope that it will be able in every
way to integrate itself into the up-
building and the development of the
splendid possibilities which lie all
around you.’’
Carver was deeply devoted to edu-
cation. During the Civil War, George
Washington Carver was born in Dia-
mond Grove, Missouri. Shamefully,
Carver was not allowed to attend pub-
lic schools near his home because he
was an African American. But that did
not stop George Washington Carver. He
was determined to get an education, so
he enrolled at a school 10 miles away in
Neosho, Missouri.
In Neosho, Carver was befriended by
Mariah Watkins, from whom he rented
a room. Mariah Watkins’ advice to
Carver was simple: ‘‘You must learn all
you can, then go back into the world
and give your learning back to the peo-
ple.’’ Carver did just that.
Disappointed in the quality of Neo-
sho’s school, Carver moved to Kansas
and supported himself through a vari-
ety of occupations while he furthered
his education as he could. After earn-
ing his high school diploma, he discov-
ered opportunities for college for Black
men in Kansas were nonexistent. So
George Washington Carver majored in
art at Simpson College in Indianola,
Iowa, as their only Black student.
Encouraged by his Simpson profes-
sors to focus on botany, Carver trans-
ferred to Iowa State, where he earned
his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
science. Thereafter, in April 1896,
Booker T. Washington recruited Carver
to Tuskegee Institute’s agricultural
school in Alabama, where Carver
taught and mentored generations of
students for the next 47 years.
At Tuskegee, Carver developed revo-
lutionary techniques to improve soils
depleted by repeated plantings of cot-
ton. Together with other agricultural
experts, he urged farmers to restore ni-
trogen to their soils by practicing sys-
tematic crop rotation, alternating cot-
ton crops with plantings of sweet pota-
toes or legumes, such as peanuts, soy-
beans, and cowpeas.
Once at Tuskegee, Carver trained
farmers to rotate and cultivate the new
crops successfully. Carver developed
and established an agricultural exten-
sion program for all of Alabama.
Carver founded an industrial research
laboratory, where he and assistants
worked to popularize the new crops by
developing hundreds of applications for
them.
In 1916, Carver was made a member of
the Royal Society of Arts in England,
one of only a handful of Americans at
that time to receive this honor. The
United Peanut Associations of America
invited Carver to speak at their 1920
convention. He discussed ‘‘The Possi-
bilities of the Peanut’’ and exhibited
145 peanut products.
Carver received the 1923 NAACP
Spingarn Medal for outstanding
achievement by an African American.
Before his death in 1943, Carver do-
nated his life savings to establish the
Carver Research Foundation at
Tuskegee.
Carver was posthumously inducted
into the National Inventors Hall of
Fame.
The George Washington Carver Na-
tional Monument was the first national
monument dedicated to a Black Amer-
ican and the first to a non-President.
George Washington Carver left a last-
ing legacy on Alabama’s schools, and
Alabama is proud to have been the
home of this renowned scientific lead-
er.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 15
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. KILMER) at noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God, Father of us all, we give You
thanks for giving us another day.
Ever faithful to Your promises, we
ask Your presence with Your people,
now and forever.
The Sun grows dim and the daylight
is measured. In the darkness, phantoms
loom. The eye cannot discern as the
distance fades. Be for us light.
Help the Members of Congress make
clear judgments that will propel us
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.002 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9955
December 10, 2019
into a blessed future. Remove any
shadowy cloud so that they might fol-
low the patterns of Your inspirations.
O Lord of the ages, ever faithful to
Your promises, be with us during these
most contentious days, and may all
that is done in the people’s House be
for Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
THOMPSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
PROTECTING PATIENTS FROM
UNAFFORDABLE DRUG PRICES
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Mr.
Speaker, drug prices in the United
States have been rising at rates signifi-
cantly faster than anywhere else in the
world for the past 25 years, according
to the Commonwealth Fund.
Investments by the Federal Govern-
ment and research form the foundation
of advances in new treatments and
cures. The Federal Government does
all the costly basic research; the phar-
maceutical industry does all the profit-
able distribution and marketing.
Now, the Federal Government should
use its considerable leverage to nego-
tiate fair drug prices so the American
people can truly benefit from their tax-
payer investments. I am pleased to see
the House moving forward this week
with H.R. 3 that will do just that.
We must create leverage whenever we
can. Despite promises from President
Trump last year that drugmakers
would announce massive voluntary
price decreases on their products, pa-
tients continue to face enormous year-
over-year drug price increases on the
drugs they need. In the first half of
2018, for every drug that saw a price de-
crease, 96 drugs saw a price increase.
We also know that drug price hikes
are almost never connected to any evi-
dence of innovation and improved ben-
efit.
Why do drug companies raise the
price of existing drugs? Because they
can.
It is imperative that we protect pa-
tients from unaffordable drug prices
and unjustified price increases on those
drugs.
f
HIGHLIGHTING CRITICAL
IMPORTANCE OF USMCA
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, yesterday I was pleased
to join 158 of my colleagues in sending
a letter to Speaker PELOSI highlighting
the critical importance of the USMCA
trade agreement.
It has been nearly 400 days since
President Trump signed the agreement
with our two closest trading partners,
and at long last, it seems a vote may
finally be in our near future. With less
than 2 weeks left in the legislative cal-
endar, a vote is long overdue.
Farmers, ranchers, manufacturers,
and everyone in between will benefit
from the passing of USMCA. USMCA
will help increase market opportuni-
ties, keeping trade free and fair, and
the projected impact on our Nation’s
agricultural industry is staggering.
Under this new, revamped agreement,
U.S. agriculture exports are expected
to increase by more than $2 billion, an-
nually, leading to an estimated 325,000
additional jobs here at home. That is
good news, not just for our local rural
communities, but for each and every
American.
USMCA will help bring U.S. trade
policy into the 21st century. Each day
that passes without a vote is leaving
money and opportunity on the table.
f
SMALL BUSINESS GRANT
PROGRAM
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, in
2017, the Gulf region experienced one of
the greatest catastrophic floods and
hurricanes in our history: Mr. Speaker,
51 trillion gallons of water. Neighbor-
hoods that have never flooded, flooded.
People in desperate conditions, res-
ervoirs breaking, dams breaking.
And I knew that we had to rescue
them. I introduced the first Hurricane
Harvey legislation: $174 billion.
But, Mr. Speaker, there was a group
that I did not want to forget because I
know that they are entrepreneurs, and
that is why I established the small
business grant program, modeled after
9/11, that now has come into fruition
with $100 million. I will go home and
announce this to my local community.
The grants are grants and not loans—
unique. They are not like the SBA.
They are grants. We fought for that
from the Federal Government all the
way down to the State government.
I am asking my constituents to meet
me in Houston at 2 p.m. for a grand an-
nouncement in order for the small
businesses still impacted by Hurricane
Harvey to get grant relief, money that
is not a loan, and I am fighting for
those loans to be small enough to help
all of our small entrepreneurs.
f
IMPEACHMENT SHAM
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. KELLER. Mr. Speaker, this week
Speaker PELOSI and House Democrats
are continuing their 3-year-old quest to
overturn the 2016 election and tear
down President Donald Trump.
Recently, Speaker PELOSI said the
current impeachment farce is not
rushed because it has been going on for
21⁄2 years. That seems to me to be ad-
mission of what we have known for a
long time: that the Democrats do not
care how or why they impeach the
President, so long as they do so.
This impeachment sham is a result of
a quest that began the moment Presi-
dent Trump descended the escalator at
Trump Tower in 2015 to announce that
he was running for President.
It is also the result of career bureau-
crats, some in the intelligence commu-
nity, and House Democrats trying to
prevent or stop President Trump from
taking power out of their hands and re-
turning it to the people.
Just this week we have seen evidence
that the FBI has been weaponized
against the Presidential candidate;
Chairman SCHIFF abusing his power by
releasing phone records of Members of
Congress and reporters, and his refusal
to defend a one-sided report crafted by
him and his staff.
Again, enough is enough. Let’s stop
this sham and get back to the work of
the American people.
f
LOWERING DRUG COSTS NOW
(Mr. HORSFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HORSFORD. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak in support of H.R. 3, the
Elijah Cummings Lower Drug Costs
Now Act.
Across America, seniors and families
are struggling to afford the prescrip-
tion drugs they need to stay healthy.
One of my constituents from the
rural part of my district, Christie Bal-
dock from Yerington, Nevada, was re-
ceiving tele-healthcare through her
Senior Care Plus coverage before her
health plan cut its rural coverage.
Until she enrolls in another coverage,
she will have to pay out of pocket for
her prescriptions. Her insulin alone
will be $500 each month.
Under H.R. 3, some commonly used
insulins can cost as little as $400 per
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.006 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9956 December 10, 2019
year. For Christie and for the 30.3 mil-
lion Americans who live with diabetes,
we must pass H.R. 3 and lower drug
costs now.
f
ADDRESSING PFAS CONTAMINA-
TION AND ITS DEVASTATING EF-
FECTS
(Mr. DELGADO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. DELGADO. Mr. Speaker, in Sep-
tember, I was named to the National
Defense Authorization Act conference
committee, which is tasked with recon-
ciling differences between the House
and Senate-passed defense authoriza-
tion bills.
In this role, I believe I would have
the chance to advocate for provisions
for PFAS contamination and its dev-
astating effects, which include thyroid
disease, autoimmune disorders, and
cancer. The contaminant has wreaked
havoc in my district, from Hoosick
Falls to Petersburgh.
Unfortunately, leaders in both par-
ties ultimately opted to hijack nego-
tiations at the eleventh hour behind
closed doors and in a disturbingly un-
democratic fashion. In the end, nearly
every PFAS provision was stripped
from the agreement.
While I am pleased that my bipar-
tisan legislation requiring PFAS
chemicals to be listed on the EPA’s
Toxic Release Inventory was ulti-
mately included, I am, nonetheless,
deeply frustrated by an incredibly
flawed process completely void of
transparency.
For this reason, I decided not to sign
the final conference report. I expected
more from this process, and I am quite
certain the American people expect
more from this body.
f
ENSURING MEDICATION IS
ACCESSIBLE
(Mr. MORELLE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, our Na-
tion faces an alarming crisis: The cost
of prescription drugs continues to rise,
placing a dangerous burden on Amer-
ican families, especially our older citi-
zens. That is why, this week, the House
is taking action to lower the cost of
lifesaving medication individuals need
to survive by passing H.R. 3, the Elijah
Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act.
I am especially proud this landmark
legislation will include a provision I
authored with my colleagues, Con-
gressman ROSE and Congressman
VEASEY, to help reduce Medicare part
D costs for low-income seniors.
H.R. 3 will finally allow Medicare to
negotiate drug costs, and our provision
will ensure the cost savings go right
back to supporting Medicare recipients
by expanding access to programs that
lower out-of-pocket expenses for vul-
nerable adults and individuals with dis-
abilities.
We must continue working to im-
prove our healthcare system, and this
marks an important step forward in en-
suring medication is accessible and af-
fordable for everyday Americans.
f
REMEMBERING CARLOS GREGORIO
HERNANDEZ VASQUEZ
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, his name was Carlos Gregorio
Hernandez Vasquez. He was 16. He was
sick with the flu, so sick with the flu
that he passed out. He was being de-
tained by U.S. Border Patrol. He laid
on the floor of his cell for hours with-
out a single person coming to help him.
He spent hours, until he died, on the
floor alone.
When CBP detained him, they were
responsible for his well-being. We were
responsible for his well-being, and we
failed him.
Some say we must create a deterrent
from children fleeing their home coun-
try. I ask, Mr. President, is this deter-
rent enough for you?
Our country was founded on the prin-
ciple that human rights are universal
rights. It is at the very core of our Con-
stitution, our democracy, and it is why
this democratic experiment endures.
Without it, we are nothing.
f
12 DAYS OF SALT
(Ms. SHERRILL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SHERRILL. Mr. Speaker, on the
fifth day of SALT, my constituents
have said to me that the SALT cap has
hit the values of their homes and
forced them to even sometimes sell
their property.
A constituent recently shared that,
when he bought his home, his father-
in-law patted him on the back and told
him he had done a great job, but last
year he had to sell that home where he
had raised his three children because
he could no longer afford it.
Not only did my constituent have to
move, but he had to sell his home for
less than it was worth. He drew a direct
link to the 2017 tax bill’s SALT deduc-
tion cap.
This constituent is not alone. A
Moody’s economist found that the
SALT cap has taken a trillion-dollar
hit to home values. And nowhere is
that felt more than in my district.
Mr. Speaker, Essex County is the
most impacted county in the entire
country, with an average 11.3 percent
drop in home values. But counties in
Texas, New York, Illinois, and Con-
necticut all rank in the top 30.
Homeownership is the pillar of the
American Dream. The Federal Govern-
ment should not be putting up barriers
to owning a home. We need to get rid of
this SALT cap and stop punishing
homeowners.
b 1215
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 729, TRIBAL COASTAL
RESILIENCY ACT
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 748 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 748
Resolved, That any time after adoption of
this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House
resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 729) to amend the
Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 to au-
thorize grants to Indian Tribes to further
achievement of Tribal coastal zone objec-
tives, and for other purposes. The first read-
ing of the bill shall be dispensed with. All
points of order against consideration of the
bill are waived. General debate shall be con-
fined to the bill and amendments specified in
this section and shall not exceed one hour
equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources. After general
debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule. An
amendment in the nature of a substitute
consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–40 shall be considered as adopted in
the House and in the Committee of the
Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as the original bill for the purpose of
further amendment under the five-minute
rule and shall be considered as read. All
points of order against provisions in the bill,
as amended, are waived.
SEC. 2. (a) No further amendment to the
bill, as amended, shall be in order except
those printed in the report of the Committee
on Rules accompanying this resolution and
amendments en bloc described in section 3 of
this resolution.
(b) Each further amendment printed in the
report of the Committee on Rules shall be
considered only in the order printed in the
report, may be offered only by a Member des-
ignated in the report, shall be considered as
read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the
question in the House or in the Committee of
the Whole.
(c) All points of order against the further
amendments printed in the report of the
Committee on Rules or amendments en bloc
described in section 3 of this resolution are
waived.
SEC. 3. It shall be in order at any time for
the chair of the Committee on Natural Re-
sources or his designee to offer amendments
en bloc consisting of amendments printed in
the report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution not earlier disposed
of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to
this section shall be considered as read, shall
be debatable for 20 minutes equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Natural
Resources or their designees, shall not be
subject to amendment, and shall not be sub-
ject to a demand for division of the question
in the House or in the Committee of the
Whole.
SEC. 4. At the conclusion of consideration
of the bill for amendment the Committee
shall rise and report the bill to the House
with such further amendments as may have
been adopted. The previous question shall be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.008 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9957
December 10, 2019
considered as ordered on the bill and amend-
ments thereto to final passage without inter-
vening motion except one motion to recom-
mit with or without instructions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York is recognized
for 1 hour.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, for the
purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO), my friend,
pending which I yield myself such time
as I may consume. During consider-
ation of this resolution, all time yield-
ed is for the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
be given 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, on
Monday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 748,
providing for consideration of H.R. 729,
the Coastal and Great Lakes Commu-
nities Enhancement Act, under a struc-
tured rule.
This rule provides 1 hour of debate
equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking member of the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
The rule makes in order 29 amend-
ments and provides en bloc authority.
Finally, the rule provides one motion
to recommit.
Mr. Speaker, the Coastal and Great
Lakes Communities Enhancement Act
brings together ten meaningful and bi-
partisan bills that have comprehensive
and necessary benefits for the Amer-
ican people, and I am proud to add my
voice in support of this much needed
legislation.
Increased climate instability is an
undeniable reality. All around us, we
see spikes in severe weather patterns,
rising sea levels, and destroyed eco-
systems.
As natural disasters increase in fre-
quency and devastation, our commu-
nities pay the price through destroyed
infrastructure, economic instability,
and even loss of life.
Coastal communities in particular
are experiencing intense climate im-
pacts, including severe weather events,
sea level rise, chronic flooding, coastal
erosion, and changing oceanic condi-
tions.
Coastal communities and economies
need to adapt for climate change.
My own district knows all too well
the devastation that flood waters can
cause, as many of my neighbors are
still rebuilding from the severe flood-
ing that we experienced in 2017 and
again just this past spring.
Within 100 miles of shoreline that
fronts directly on Lake Ontario or
nearby bays, rivers, and streams, my
district is directly impacted by lake
fluctuations, and we are experiencing
unprecedented flood waters that erode
beaches, devastate family homes, and
cripple lakeside businesses.
As a Member of this Congress, I know
I am not alone in worrying about
whether my constituents are ade-
quately prepared for the next natural
disaster, which is not a matter of if,
but when.
So many of us in this body, in fact
most of us, have communities that are
struggling to deal with climate im-
pacts. Whether it is wildfires, flooding,
hurricanes, droughts, red tide in our
oceans, harmful blue-green algae in our
lakes, the list seems to never end, but
one thing is clear: the situation is not
going to get better on its own. We need
to act now.
H.R. 729 is an opportunity to help our
constituents prepare and adapt to our
climate crisis. This coastal resiliency
legislative package not only tells the
American people that we care about
preserving coastal communities and
natural habitat, but proves we are will-
ing to take the necessary actions to
protect coastal ecosystems and local
economies.
The bill also sets in place mecha-
nisms to improve ocean monitoring
and research and provides necessary
tools and resources for coastal commu-
nities to protect themselves from cli-
mate impacts.
It is critical that we support
proactive initiatives to prepare for and
respond to our climate crisis, and this
legislation takes those necessary steps.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to speak in
support of this significant piece of leg-
islation, and I urge all my colleagues
to join me in supporting its passage.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representative MORELLE for yielding
me the customary 30 minutes, and I
yield myself as much time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, this week, Democrats
have scheduled a series of bills on the
House floor in the name of combating
climate change that are actually re-
treads of the programs that are already
authorized and actions that are already
being taken by the Federal Govern-
ment.
H.R. 729 is clear proof that the Demo-
crats have no agency and have no pri-
orities other than to impeach the
President of the United States.
Most of the bills included in this
package duplicate existing authority
that the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration and the U.S.
Fish & Wildlife already have. Most au-
thorizations of appropriations in the
bill package are, therefore, unneces-
sary and are higher than current levels
being spent.
NOAA, the agency that would be re-
sponsible for carrying out most of this
legislation, stated in testimony that it
can do and is doing most all of these
functions under current law.
This package also creates a precedent
of having a city, Washington, D.C., and
a non-coastal one at that, as partici-
pating in the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act. There is a real threat that
this would give D.C. veto power over
Federal actions affecting its coastal
zone once it develops an approved
coastal zone management program.
The loan guarantee program under
the Working Waterfront program, sec-
tion 104, is problematic, because the
American taxpayer will be on the hook
for any default.
The National Sea Grant program is
popular amongst coastal members, but
the bill makes mandatory a fellowship
program that provides free graduate
students to congressional offices at
taxpayer expense.
Mr. Speaker, I have concerns about
the bills included in this package. For
example, this land package addresses
changes to the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act. The act signed by President
Nixon into law in 1972 provides Federal
funds to States to develop plans to pre-
serve, protect, and develop the re-
sources of our Nation’s coastal zones.
This bill that we are debating today
contains text from H.R. 2185, which
would allow Washington, D.C., to re-
ceive Federal funding to develop and
implement a coastal zone management
plan of their own.
This is an odd way to appropriate
Federal funds, as the District of Co-
lumbia does not have a coast. Rather,
Washington, D.C., borders the Potomac
River, which eventually feeds into the
Chesapeake Bay, which merges into the
Atlantic Ocean.
The inclusion of Washington, D.C., in
the Coastal Zone Management Act
would no doubt reduce the funding for
existing participants. It also raises the
question of whether States that con-
tain rivers that lead into the ocean,
such as Arkansas with the Mississippi
River or my home State of Arizona
with the Colorado River, should get
Federal funding to create a coastal
management plan.
This is a dangerous precedent to cre-
ate and a poor use of precious re-
sources.
This package also authorizes funds to
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration to perform tasks that
they already do. For example, this
package contains text from H.R. 2189,
which would authorize NOAA to con-
duct the Digital Coast program. This
program supplies coastal communities
and researchers with up-to-date map-
ping information to address coastal
issues, such as storm preparation, flood
management, ecosystem restoration,
and coastal development.
It should be noted that NOAA has al-
ready been conducting this program
under the line item of Ocean and Coast-
al Management and Services since 2007.
In other words, this bill would require
Federal agencies to carry out duties
that they have already been doing.
Like I said earlier, this is really not
a great use of the public’s time on the
House floor.
Another example of this package di-
recting Federal agencies to perform
tasks that they have already been
doing can be seen in the text that is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.009 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9958 December 10, 2019
drawn from H.R. 3541. This legislation
would establish a coastal climate
change adaption preparedness and re-
sponse program to assist States in de-
veloping plans to minimize negative
consequences of climate change and
implementation of those plans. NOAA,
through the Coastal Zone Management
Act, already funds State programs re-
lating to climate change and has al-
ready been providing assistance to
States that H.R. 3541 wants the agency
to do.
H.R. 2189 and H.R. 3541 are just two of
many examples in this bill that dupli-
cate existing authority that the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration already has under the
Coastal Zone Management Act.
Further, the cost of this land pack-
age to the American taxpayer is im-
mense. According to the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office, the cumu-
lative cost of this package would cost
as much as $1.4 billion more than what
is already being spent over the author-
ized periods.
Even worse, these bills have the po-
tential for an additional cost of $292
million outside of the bill’s authorized
windows if certain conditions are met.
With over $22 trillion in debt, we
should not be moving bills that are du-
plicative, repetitive, and unnecessarily
expensive.
b 1230
We need to be responsible with the
hardworking taxpayers’ money.
Why can’t we discuss land packages
that have more bipartisan support and
do not cost a fortune to the taxpayer?
Back in February 2019, we all voted
on S. 47, the John D. Dingell, Jr. Con-
servation, Management, and Recre-
ation Act. The bill received over-
whelming support from Republicans
and Democrats in both Chambers and
was signed into law by President
Trump. This bipartisan legislation per-
manently reauthorized the Land and
Water Conservation Fund and pro-
tected hunting and fishing rights while
also reforming various aspects of the
Federal lands governance system.
The CBO estimated that S. 47 would
decrease direct Federal spending by $9
million over a 10-year period. I believe
that effectively balancing conservation
practices, resource development, and
recreation, along with saving taxpayer
dollars, is very important.
This land package that we are cur-
rently debating today does not even
come close to the success that this
House had experienced with S. 47.
Ultimately, this package highlights
the real opportunity cost of impeach-
ment. The Democrats have rallied and
promised real, sweeping policies to ad-
dress what they call the climate crisis.
However, they have been so consumed
with attacking our President and with
impeachment that they have nothing
to show for it.
This bill is nothing more than an at-
tempt by the majority to portray
themselves as doing something, any-
thing, for the American people, when,
in fact, this bill underscores the truth:
They have and are doing nothing.
Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to the
rule, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
league and friend. We serve on the
Rules Committee together, and I al-
ways appreciate hearing her thoughts.
But I do want to make a couple of
points that I think bear being said.
This is not a duplicative effort, and
the need does exist. For instance, while
NOAA may have the flexibility to cre-
ate a program like the working water-
fronts program, they are not currently
supporting working waterfronts in the
way that the bill envisions and con-
tinue to propose the elimination of
coastal zone management grants.
The amount of need for coastal zone
management grants far exceeds the
amount made available for grants each
year, so this bill would direct NOAA to
create a grant program and a loan pro-
gram to support working waterfront
activities and would also authorize
extra funding to make that happen.
Also, I wanted to make a point as it
relates to the District of Columbia,
which sits at the confluence of the Po-
tomac and the Anacostia Rivers and
lies mostly in the coastal plain. It is
also bordered by the coastal States of
Virginia and Maryland, whose adjoin-
ing waterways are included in their
States’ coastal zones. The shorelines of
Arlington and Alexandria, Virginia,
and Prince George’s County, Maryland,
are included in their States’ coastal
zones programs.
To clarify, the Virginia side of the
Potomac is eligible, while the District
of Columbia side is not. Inclusion of
the District of Columbia would simply
connect this gap and subject it to sub-
mission and approval of the coastal
zone management plan. Coastal floods
do not recognize State borders, and the
District of Columbia is at risk of con-
tinued and increasing flooding.
Since 1950, NOAA reports a 343 per-
cent increase in nuisance flooding in
the District of Columbia, and a single
100-year flood event could cost over $1.2
billion in damages, including damages
to Federal property.
I also want to note that in addition
to consolidating 10 bipartisan bills, the
legislation also includes a range of bi-
partisan amendments. I am proud that
my own amendment will be included. It
ensures 5 percent of funds for the work-
ing waterfronts grant program will be
used for technical assistance, and this
will help States and local governments
with early-stage resources, planning
assistance, and additional expertise.
Additionally, I would like to high-
light two other amendments led by my
friend and colleague Representative
JOHN KATKO, who represents Syracuse,
New York, just to the east of my dis-
trict. Both of those amendments I am
pleased to cosponsor.
These amendments make meaningful
improvements that will advance re-
search on harmful algal bloom develop-
ment and open opportunities to assess
the impact of water level regulating
practices on the Great Lakes.
These amendments further dem-
onstrate the bipartisan work that went
into this legislative package, and I
thank my colleagues on the other side
who contributed to this bill.
Policy is always better when we work
together, and I look forward to ensur-
ing our constituents get access to the
key provisions included in this bill. I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, with all due respect to
my friend Mr. MORELLE, Washington,
D.C., does not have a beach on the
ocean. Virginia does.
Mr. Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will offer an amend-
ment to the rule to consider H. Res.
750, which expresses the sense of the
House that it is the duty of the Federal
Government to protect and promote in-
dividual choice and health insurance
for the American people and prevent
any Medicare for All proposal that
would outlaw private health insurance
plans, such as employer-based coverage
and Medicare Advantage plans.
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to insert the text of my amend-
ment in the RECORD, along with extra-
neous material, immediately prior to
the vote on the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I hear
from my constituents regularly—and I
have a lot of senior citizens—that they
are afraid of a Medicare for All ap-
proach.
They understand that a one-size-fits-
all, government-run healthcare system
will not work. That is because whether
it is called a single-payer system or a
socialist system, Medicare for All con-
stitutes a complete government take-
over of healthcare in America.
Medicare for All will end, eliminate,
private health insurance plans. It will
eliminate the current Medicare. It will
eliminate all Medicare Advantage
plans like my mother is on, and replace
it, instead, with a one-size-fits-all, gov-
ernment-controlled healthcare plan.
Just like ObamaCare, even if you like
your plan, you will not be able to keep
it.
Passage of Medicare for All would
push over 150 million Americans off
their health insurance plans and into
government health insurance plans.
Further, while no version of Medicare
for All has yet received a budget score,
Senator BERNIE SANDERS’ version of
Medicare for All did receive estimated
scores from two outside groups.
In 2016, the Urban Institute cal-
culated that Senator SANDERS’
healthcare proposals would increase
Federal funding by a whopping $32.6
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:40 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.012 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9959
December 10, 2019
trillion over 10 years. Separately, in
June 2018, the Mercatus Center esti-
mated that Medicare for All would in-
crease Federal spending by $32 trillion
over 10 years.
Our national debt is a national secu-
rity crisis, and we must work together
to combat it, not increase costs.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. BURGESS),
my good friend.
Mr. BURGESS. Mr. Speaker, H. Res.
750 expresses the sense of Congress that
individual choice in health insurance
should be protected. Almost 160 million
Americans under 65 years of age are en-
rolled in employer-sponsored health in-
surance, and another 14 million Ameri-
cans under 65 have purchased their own
private health insurance.
Additionally, an increasing number
of Americans are taking advantage of
the robust choices in Medicare Advan-
tage plans. According to the Congres-
sional Budget Office, the number of in-
dividuals with employer-sponsored in-
surance has increased by 3 million
since President Trump took office,
largely an effect of our great economy.
Right now, the Energy and Com-
merce Committee is holding a hearing
on one-size-fits-all healthcare. Being
discussed are nine bills that serve to
lay the groundwork toward socialized
medicine in the United States.
I fear that if House Democrats de-
clare this their north star, as they did
in the hearing today, it abandons the
health insurance options that Ameri-
cans have said are working for them.
Medicare for All would eliminate pri-
vate insurance, eliminate employer-
sponsored health insurance, eliminate
Medicaid, and eliminate the Children’s
Health Insurance Program, upon which
many Americans depend. I am con-
cerned about the consequences for ex-
isting Medicare beneficiaries, as this
policy would more rapidly deplete the
Medicare trust fund, which is already
slated to be insolvent in 2026.
The practical effect of that is no doc-
tor, no hospital, could be reimbursed
by Medicare under law once that trust
fund is exhausted.
Our Nation’s seniors depend on the
existence of Medicare for their health
needs in retirement. More than 70 per-
cent of Americans are satisfied with
their employer-sponsored health insur-
ance. It provides robust protections for
all individuals, and since 1996, it has
provided protections for preexisting
conditions.
This is why it is so important that
we protect individuals’ employer-spon-
sored insurance for the majority of
Americans who would like to keep it.
According to one study by America’s
health insurance plans, consumers pre-
fer greater market competition rather
than greater government involvement.
Medicare for All is a complete gov-
ernment takeover of the healthcare in-
dustry. This same study found that
consumer satisfaction is driven by
comprehensive coverage, affordability,
and choice. A one-size-fits-all health
program results in no choice for Ameri-
cans.
Consumers value discounts for good
health, flexible spending accounts, and
health savings account programs that
would all but disappear in a Medicare
for All world.
The New York Times reported rural
hospitals are saying that they would
virtually close overnight, while others
have said they would try to offset the
steep cuts by laying off hundreds of
thousands of workers and abandoning
lower paying services, such as services
for mental health.
Other countries with socialized medi-
cine have seen increased wait times. In
Canada, the wait time for a specialist
consultation is over 9 weeks. Ameri-
cans deserve to have better access to
healthcare than the long waiting lists
and lower quality care found in other
nations.
Single-payer healthcare would be an-
other failed attempt at a one-size-fits-
all approach to healthcare. Single-
payer is not one size fits all. It is one
size fits no one. It is critical that this
Congress maintain access to healthcare
choices and build upon what is working
in our healthcare system.
I urge my fellow Members to vote
‘‘no’’ on the previous question so that
we can support H. Res. 750.
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the previous question and to move on
to a vote on the rule.
Even if the previous question was de-
feated, the amendment would not be
able to move as the gentlewoman sug-
gests. The amendment is not germane
to the bill on natural resources.
Obviously, this is an attempt to ob-
scure what we are attempting to do,
which is, we can either help coastal
communities plan and prosper for a re-
silient future, or we can continue to
delay and pay.
Forty-two percent of Americans live
in coastal communities. Working wa-
terfronts employ more than 2 million
people. Great Lakes fisheries alone
support more than 75,000 jobs, and
healthy fish habitats support a rec-
reational fishing industry that pro-
vides more than 800,000 jobs to Amer-
ican citizens.
Coastal communities around the
country are experiencing intense cli-
mate impacts, including severe weath-
er events, sea level rise, chronic flood-
ing, coastal erosion, and changing
ocean conditions.
Coastal communities and economies
need to adapt for climate change, and
H.R. 729 will help communities do just
that.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I have no more speak-
ers. However, I do want to say that I
believe that the amendment, if the pre-
vious question is defeated, is germane
because it applies to the rule and not
to the bill itself.
In closing, I want to emphasize to my
friends across the aisle that we should
be bringing legislation to this floor
that showcases how we can work to-
gether. However, this package ulti-
mately highlights the real opportunity
cost of impeachment.
The Democrats have rallied for
months now and promised real, sweep-
ing policies to address what they call
the climate crisis. However, they have
been so consumed with attacking our
President and impeachment that they
have nothing to show for it. In an at-
tempt to satisfy their base that they
are doing something about climate
change, they are, instead, in this pack-
age, just repeating things already
being done, but it is at a higher cost.
Mr. Speaker, I urge ‘‘no’’ on the pre-
vious question and ‘‘no’’ on the under-
lying measure, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
b 1245
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, the next devastating
flood or natural disaster is not if, but
when, and we have a choice to make
here today: We can either help our
communities prepare and prosper for
years to come or continue to drag our
feet and face the dire consequences.
We owe it to ourselves, to our con-
stituents, and to future generations to
get this right, and I, personally, want
to be on the right side of history when
we look back on this climate crisis.
The work we are doing here is not du-
plicative or onerous; it is smart, mean-
ingful, and bipartisan, and I look for-
ward to its passage.
I would like to thank all my col-
leagues for their support of H.R. 729,
the Coastal and Great Lakes Commu-
nities Enhancement Act.
I especially would like to thank
Chairman GRIJALVA for his leadership
and the commitment of his committee
on this effort.
I applaud and thank the sponsor, Mr.
KILMER, for his leadership on this im-
portant legislation and Chairman
MCGOVERN for his work to move this
legislation to the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the rule and a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the pre-
vious question.
The material previously referred to
by Mrs. LESKO is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 748
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 5. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed to the
consideration in the House of the resolution
(H. Res. 750) expressing the sense of the
House of Representatives that individual
choice in health insurance should be pro-
tected. The resolution shall be considered as
read. The previous question shall be consid-
ered as ordered on the resolution and pre-
amble to adoption without intervening mo-
tion or demand for division of the question
except one hour of debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Energy
and Commerce. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall
not apply to the consideration of House Res-
olution 750.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:40 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.014 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9960 December 10, 2019
Mr. MORELLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MORELLE). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule
XX, the Chair will postpone further
proceedings today on motions to sus-
pend the rules on which a recorded vote
or the yeas and nays are ordered, or
votes objected to under clause 6 of rule
XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
TELEVISION VIEWER PROTECTION
ACT OF 2019
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I move to suspend
the rules and pass the bill (H.R. 5035) to
amend the Communications Act of 1934
to extend expiring provisions relating
to the retransmission of signals of tele-
vision broadcast stations, and for other
purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 5035
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Television
Viewer Protection Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY.
Section 325(b) of the Communications Act of
1934 (47 U.S.C. 325(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking ‘‘December
31, 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘the expiration date, if
any, described in section 119(h) of title 17,
United States Code’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3)(C), by striking ‘‘until
January 1, 2020,’’ each place it appears.
SEC. 3. SATISFACTION OF GOOD FAITH NEGOTIA-
TION REQUIREMENT BY MULTI-
CHANNEL VIDEO PROGRAMMING
DISTRIBUTORS.
(a) SATISFACTION OF GOOD FAITH NEGOTIA-
TION REQUIREMENT.—Section 325(b)(3)(C) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
325(b)(3)(C)) is amended—
(1) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘; and’’ and in-
serting a semicolon;
(2) in clause (v), by striking the period at the
end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(vi) not later than 90 days after the date of
the enactment of the Television Viewer Protec-
tion Act of 2019, specify that—
‘‘(I) a multichannel video programming dis-
tributor may satisfy its obligation to negotiate
in good faith under clause (iii) with respect to
a negotiation for retransmission consent under
this section with a large station group by desig-
nating a qualified MVPD buying group to nego-
tiate on its behalf, so long as the qualified
MVPD buying group itself negotiates in good
faith in accordance with such clause;
‘‘(II) it is a violation of the obligation to nego-
tiate in good faith under clause (iii) for the
qualified MVPD buying group to disclose the
prices, terms, or conditions of an ongoing nego-
tiation or the final terms of a negotiation to a
member of the qualified MVPD buying group
that is not intending, or is unlikely, to enter
into the final terms negotiated by the qualified
MVPD buying group; and
‘‘(III) a large station group has an obligation
to negotiate in good faith under clause (ii) with
respect to a negotiation for retransmission con-
sent under this section with a qualified MVPD
buying group.’’.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—Section 325(b)(7) of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 325(b)(7))
is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘; and’’
and inserting a semicolon;
(2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period
at the end and inserting a semicolon; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(C) ‘qualified MVPD buying group’ means
an entity that, with respect to a negotiation
with a large station group for retransmission
consent under this section—
‘‘(i) negotiates on behalf of two or more multi-
channel video programming distributors—
‘‘(I) none of which is a multichannel video
programming distributor that serves more than
500,000 subscribers nationally; and
‘‘(II) that do not collectively serve more than
25 percent of all households served by a multi-
channel video programming distributor in any
single local market in which the applicable large
station group operates; and
‘‘(ii) negotiates agreements for such retrans-
mission consent—
‘‘(I) that contain standardized contract provi-
sions, including billing structures and technical
quality standards, for each multichannel video
programming distributor on behalf of which the
entity negotiates; and
‘‘(II) under which the entity assumes liability
to remit to the applicable large station group all
fees received from the multichannel video pro-
gramming distributors on behalf of which the
entity negotiates;
‘‘(D) ‘large station group’ means a group of
television broadcast stations that—
‘‘(i) are directly or indirectly under common
de jure control permitted by the regulations of
the Commission;
‘‘(ii) generally negotiate agreements for re-
transmission consent under this section as a sin-
gle entity; and
‘‘(iii) include only television broadcast sta-
tions that have a national audience reach of
more than 20 percent;
‘‘(E) ‘local market’ has the meaning given
such term in section 122(j) of title 17, United
States Code; and
‘‘(F) ‘multichannel video programming dis-
tributor’ has the meaning given such term in
section 602.’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—Section 325(b)
of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
325(b)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘and’’ after ‘‘1992,’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘, and the term ‘local market’
has the meaning given that term in section 122(j)
of such title’’; and
(2) in paragraph (3)(C), by striking ‘‘(as de-
fined in section 122(j) of title 17, United States
Code)’’ each place it appears.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section, and the regulations promulgated
by the Federal Communications Commission
under such amendments, shall not take effect
before January 1 of the calendar year after the
calendar year in which this Act is enacted.
SEC. 4. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO CHARGES
FOR COVERED SERVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part IV of title VI of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 551 et
seq.) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘SEC. 642. REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO
CHARGES FOR COVERED SERVICES.
‘‘(a) CONSUMER RIGHTS IN SALES.—
‘‘(1) RIGHT TO TRANSPARENCY.—Before enter-
ing into a contract with a consumer for the pro-
vision of a covered service, a provider of a cov-
ered service shall provide the consumer, by
phone, in person, online, or by other reasonable
means, the total monthly charge for the covered
service, whether offered individually or as part
of a bundled service, selected by the consumer
(explicitly noting the amount of any applicable
promotional discount reflected in such charge
and when such discount will expire), including
any related administrative fees, equipment fees,
or other charges, a good faith estimate of any
tax, fee, or charge imposed by the Federal Gov-
ernment or a State or local government (whether
imposed on the provider or imposed on the con-
sumer but collected by the provider), and a good
faith estimate of any fee or charge that is used
to recover any other assessment imposed on the
provider by the Federal Government or a State
or local government.
‘‘(2) RIGHT TO FORMAL NOTICE.—A provider of
a covered service that enters into a contract de-
scribed in paragraph (1) shall, not later than 24
hours after entering into the contract, send the
consumer, by email, online link, or other reason-
ably comparable means, a copy of the informa-
tion described in such paragraph.
‘‘(3) RIGHT TO CANCEL.—A provider of a cov-
ered service that enters into a contract described
in paragraph (1) shall permit the consumer to
cancel the contract, without paying early can-
cellation fees or other disconnection fees or pen-
alties, during the 24-hour period beginning
when the provider of the covered service sends
the copy required by paragraph (2).
‘‘(b) CONSUMER RIGHTS IN E-BILLING.—If a
provider of a covered service provides a bill to a
consumer in an electronic format, the provider
shall include in the bill—
‘‘(1) an itemized statement that breaks down
the total amount charged for or relating to the
provision of the covered service by the amount
charged for the provision of the service itself
and the amount of all related taxes, administra-
tive fees, equipment fees, or other charges;
‘‘(2) the termination date of the contract for
the provision of the covered service entered into
between the consumer and the provider; and
‘‘(3) the termination date of any applicable
promotional discount.
‘‘(c) CONSUMER RIGHTS TO ACCURATE EQUIP-
MENT CHARGES.—A provider of a covered service
or fixed broadband internet access service may
not charge a consumer for—
‘‘(1) using covered equipment provided by the
consumer; or
‘‘(2) renting, leasing, or otherwise providing to
the consumer covered equipment if—
‘‘(A) the provider has not provided the equip-
ment to the consumer; or
‘‘(B) the consumer has returned the equipment
to the provider, except to the extent that the
charge relates to the period beginning on the
date when the provider provided the equipment
to the consumer and ending on the date when
the consumer returned the equipment to the pro-
vider.
‘‘(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) BROADBAND INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE.—
The term ‘broadband internet access service’ has
the meaning given such term in section 8.1(b) of
title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any
successor regulation.
‘‘(2) COVERED EQUIPMENT.—The term ‘covered
equipment’ means equipment (such as a router)
employed on the premises of a person (other
than a provider of a covered service or fixed
broadband internet access service) to provide a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:40 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.018 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9961
December 10, 2019
covered service or to provide fixed broadband
internet access service.
‘‘(3) COVERED SERVICE.—The term ‘covered
service’ means service provided by a multi-
channel video programming distributer, to the
extent such distributor is acting as a multi-
channel video programming distributor.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—Section 642 of the Com-
munications Act of 1934, as added by subsection
(a) of this section, shall apply beginning on the
date that is 6 months after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act. The Federal Communications
Commission may grant an additional 6-month
extension if the Commission finds that good
cause exists for such an additional extension.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE)
and the gentleman from Oregon (Mr.
WALDEN) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Pennsylvania.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent that all Members may have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H.R. 5035.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such
time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the Television Viewer
Protection Act will help ensure that
millions of Americans, including near-
ly 1 million satellite television cus-
tomers, will not lose access to broad-
cast television content.
It is important we get this legisla-
tion passed and to the President’s desk
before the end of the year. I urge our
colleagues in the Senate to take this
bill up and move it through their
Chamber as quickly as possible.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. WALDEN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise in support of
H.R. 5035, the Television Viewer Pro-
tection Act, and I commend my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
for the bipartisan work we have done
on this measure.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania. Mr. Speaker, I urge all our col-
leagues to support this very important
bill. I thank my friend for his coopera-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE) that the House sus-
pend the rules and pass the bill, H.R.
5035, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess for a pe-
riod of less than 15 minutes.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 51
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1259
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. BUTTERFIELD) at 12
o’clock and 59 minutes p.m.
f
FOSTERING UNDERGRADUATE
TALENT BY UNLOCKING RE-
SOURCES FOR EDUCATION ACT
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 5363), to reauthorize mandatory
funding programs for historically
Black colleges and universities and
other minority-serving institutions,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 5363
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Fostering
Undergraduate Talent by Unlocking Re-
sources for Education Act’’ or the ‘‘FUTURE
Act’’.
SEC. 2. CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR MINORITY-
SERVING INSTITUTIONS.
Section 371(b)(1)(A) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(b)(1)(A)) is
amended by striking ‘‘for each of the fiscal
years 2008 through 2019.’’ and all that follows
through the end of the subparagraph and in-
serting ‘‘for fiscal year 2020 and each fiscal
year thereafter.’’.
SEC. 3. SECURE DISCLOSURE OF TAX-RETURN IN-
FORMATION TO CARRY OUT THE
HIGHER EDUCATION ACT OF 1965.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (13) of section
6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(13) DISCLOSURE OF RETURN INFORMATION
TO CARRY OUT THE HIGHER EDUCATION ACT OF
1965.—
‘‘(A) APPLICATIONS AND RECERTIFICATIONS
FOR INCOME-CONTINGENT OR INCOME-BASED RE-
PAYMENT.—The Secretary shall, upon written
request from the Secretary of Education, dis-
close to any authorized person, only for the
purpose of (and to the extent necessary in)
determining eligibility for, or repayment ob-
ligations under, income-contingent or in-
come-based repayment plans under title IV
of the Higher Education Act of 1965 with re-
spect to loans under part D of such title, the
following return information from returns
(for any taxable year specified by the Sec-
retary of Education as relevant to such pur-
pose) of an individual certified by the Sec-
retary of Education as having provided ap-
proval under section 494(a)(2) of such Act (as
in effect on the date of enactment of this
paragraph) for such disclosure:
‘‘(i) Taxpayer identity information.
‘‘(ii) Filing status.
‘‘(iii) Adjusted gross income.
‘‘(iv) Total number of exemptions claimed,
if applicable.
‘‘(v) Number of dependents taken into ac-
count in determining the credit allowed
under section 24.
‘‘(vi) If applicable, the fact that there was
no return filed.
‘‘(B) DISCHARGE OF LOAN BASED ON TOTAL
AND PERMANENT DISABILITY.—The Secretary
shall, upon written request from the Sec-
retary of Education, disclose to any author-
ized person, only for the purpose of (and to
the extent necessary in) monitoring and re-
instating loans under title IV of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 that were discharged
based on a total and permanent disability
(within the meaning of section 437(a) of such
Act), the following return information from
returns (for any taxable year specified by the
Secretary of Education as relevant to such
purpose) of an individual certified by the
Secretary of Education as having provided
approval under section 494(a)(3) of such Act
(as in effect on the date of enactment of this
paragraph) for such disclosure:
‘‘(i) The return information described in
clauses (i), (ii), and (vi) of subparagraph (A).
‘‘(ii) The return information described in
subparagraph (C)(ii).
‘‘(C) FEDERAL STUDENT FINANCIAL AID.—The
Secretary shall, upon written request from
the Secretary of Education, disclose to any
authorized person, only for the purpose of
(and to the extent necessary in) determining
eligibility for, and amount of, Federal stu-
dent financial aid under a program author-
ized under subpart 1 of part A, part C, or part
D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 the following return information from
returns (for the taxable year used for pur-
poses of section 480(a) of such Act) of an indi-
vidual certified by the Secretary of Edu-
cation as having provided approval under
section 494(a)(1) of such Act (as in effect on
the date of enactment of this paragraph) for
such disclosure:
‘‘(i) Return information described in
clauses (i) through (vi) of subparagraph (A).
‘‘(ii) The amount of any net earnings from
self-employment (as defined in section
1402(a)), wages (as defined in section 3121(a)
or 3401(a)), and taxable income from a farm-
ing business (as defined in section 236A(e)(4)).
‘‘(iii) Amount of total income tax.
‘‘(iv) Amount of any credit allowed under
section 25A.
‘‘(v) Amount of individual retirement ac-
count distributions not included in adjusted
gross income.
‘‘(vi) Amount of individual retirement ac-
count contributions and payments to self-
employed SEP, Keogh, and other qualified
plans which were deducted from income.
‘‘(vii) Amount of tax-exempt interest re-
ceived.
‘‘(viii) Amounts from retirement pensions
and annuities not included in adjusted gross
income.
‘‘(ix) If applicable, the fact that any of the
following schedules (or equivalent successor
schedules) were filed with the return:
‘‘(I) Schedule A.
‘‘(II) Schedule B.
‘‘(III) Schedule D.
‘‘(IV) Schedule E.
‘‘(V) Schedule F.
‘‘(VI) Schedule H.
‘‘(x) If applicable, the amount reported on
Schedule C (or an equivalent successor
schedule) as net profit or loss.
‘‘(D) ADDITIONAL USES OF DISCLOSED INFOR-
MATION.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In addition to the pur-
poses for which information is disclosed
under subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), return
information so disclosed may be used by an
authorized person, with respect to income-
contingent or income-based repayment
plans, awards of Federal student financial
aid under a program authorized under sub-
part 1 of part A, part C, or part D of title IV
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:40 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.011 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9962 December 10, 2019
of the Higher Education Act of 1965, and dis-
charges of loans based on a total and perma-
nent disability (within the meaning of sec-
tion 437(a) of such Act), for purposes of—
‘‘(I) reducing the net cost of improper pay-
ments under such plans, relating to such
awards, or relating to such discharges,
‘‘(II) oversight activities by the Office of
Inspector General of the Department of Edu-
cation as authorized by the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978, and
‘‘(III) conducting analyses and forecasts for
estimating costs related to such plans,
awards, or discharges.
‘‘(ii) LIMITATION.—The purposes described
in clause (i) shall not include the conduct of
criminal investigations or prosecutions.
‘‘(iii) REDISCLOSURE TO INSTITUTIONS OF
HIGHER EDUCATION, STATE HIGHER EDUCATION
AGENCIES, AND DESIGNATED SCHOLARSHIP OR-
GANIZATIONS.—Authorized persons may redis-
close return information received under sub-
paragraph (C), solely for the use in the appli-
cation, award, and administration of finan-
cial aid awarded by the Federal government
or awarded by a person described in sub-
clause (I), (II), or (III), to the following per-
sons:
‘‘(I) An institution of higher education par-
ticipating in a program under subpart 1 of
part A, part C, or part D of title IV of the
Higher Education Act of 1965.
‘‘(II) A State higher education agency.
‘‘(III) A scholarship organization which is
an entity designated (prior to the date of the
enactment of this clause) by the Secretary of
Education under section 483(a)(3)(E) of such
Act.
This clause shall only apply to the extent
that the taxpayer with respect to whom the
return information relates provides written
consent for such redisclosure to the Sec-
retary of Education.
‘‘(E) AUTHORIZED PERSON.—For purposes of
this paragraph, the term ‘authorized person’
means, with respect to information disclosed
under subparagraph (A), (B), or (C), any per-
son who—
‘‘(i) is an officer, employee, or contractor,
of the Department of Education, and
‘‘(ii) is specifically authorized and des-
ignated by the Secretary of Education for
purposes of such subparagraph (applied sepa-
rately with respect to each such subpara-
graph).
‘‘(F) JOINT RETURNS.—In the case of a joint
return, any disclosure authorized under sub-
paragraph (A), (B), or (C) with respect to an
individual shall be treated for purposes of
this paragraph as applying with respect to
the taxpayer.’’.
(b) CONFIDENTIALITY OF RETURN INFORMA-
TION.—Section 6103(a)(3) of such Code is
amended by inserting ‘‘, (13)’’ after ‘‘(12)’’.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(1) Section 6103(p)(3)(A) of such Code is
amended by striking ‘‘(13)’’.
(2) Section 6103(p)(4) of such Code is amend-
ed by inserting ‘‘, (13)’’ after after ‘‘(l)(10)’’
each place it appears.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to disclo-
sures after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(e) REQUIREMENT TO DESIGNATE THE INSPEC-
TOR GENERAL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EDU-
CATION AS AN AUTHORIZED PERSON.—The Sec-
retary of Education shall authorize and des-
ignate the Inspector General of the Depart-
ment of Education as an authorized person
under subparagraph (E)(ii) of section
6103(l)(13) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 for purposes of subparagraphs (A), (B),
and (C) of such section.
(f) REPORT TO TREASURY.—The Secretary of
Education shall annually submit a written
report to the Secretary of the Treasury—
(1) regarding redisclosures of return infor-
mation under subparagraph (D)(iii) of sec-
tion 6103(l)(13) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, including the number of such re-
disclosures, and
(2) regarding any unauthorized use, access,
or disclosure of return information disclosed
under such section.
(g) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The Secretary of
the Treasury (or the Secretary’s designee)
shall annually submit a written report to
Congress regarding disclosures under section
6103(l)(13) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, including information provided to the
Secretary under subsection (f).
SEC. 4. AUTOMATIC RECERTIFICATION OF IN-
COME.
(a) INCOME-CONTINGENT REPAYMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 455(e) of the High-
er Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e(e)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) AUTOMATIC RECERTIFICATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish and implement, with respect to any
borrower described in subparagraph (B), pro-
cedures to—
‘‘(i) use return information disclosed under
section 6103(l)(13) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, pursuant to approval provided
under section 494, to determine the repay-
ment obligation of the borrower without fur-
ther action by the borrower;
‘‘(ii) allow the borrower (or the spouse of
the borrower), at any time, to opt out of dis-
closure under such section 6103(l)(13) and in-
stead provide such information as the Sec-
retary may require to determine the repay-
ment obligation of the borrower (or with-
draw from the repayment plan under this
subsection); and
‘‘(iii) provide the borrower with an oppor-
tunity to update the return information so
disclosed before the determination of the re-
payment obligation of the borrower.
‘‘(B) APPLICABILITY.—Subparagraph (A)
shall apply to each borrower of a loan made
under this part who, on or after the date on
which the Secretary establishes procedures
under such subparagraph—
‘‘(i) selects, or is required to repay such
loan pursuant to, an income-contingent re-
payment plan; or
‘‘(ii) recertifies income or family size
under such plan.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
455(e)(6) of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1087e(e)(6)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘including notification of
such borrower’’ and all that follows through
‘‘that if a borrower’’ and inserting ‘‘includ-
ing notification of such borrower, that if a
borrower’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘as determined using the
information described in subparagraph (A),
or the alternative documentation described
in paragraph (3)’’.
(b) INCOME-BASED REPAYMENT.—Section
493C(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1098e(c)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘The Secretary shall estab-
lish’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘The Secretary shall con-
sider’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(2) PROCEDURES FOR ELIGIBILITY.—The
Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) consider’’;
(3) by striking ‘‘428C(b)(1)(E).’’ and insert-
ing the following: ‘‘428C(b)(1)(E); and
‘‘(B) carry out, with respect to borrowers
of any loan made under part D (other than
an excepted PLUS loan or excepted consoli-
dation loan), procedures for income-based re-
payment plans that are equivalent to the
procedures carried out under section 455(e)(8)
with respect to income-contingent repay-
ment plans.’’.
SEC. 5. AUTOMATIC INCOME MONITORING PRO-
CEDURES AFTER A TOTAL AND PER-
MANENT DISABILITY DISCHARGE.
Section 437(a) of the Higher Education Act
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087(a)) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘(3) AUTOMATIC INCOME MONITORING.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish and implement, with respect to any
borrower described in subparagraph (B), pro-
cedures to—
‘‘(i) use return information disclosed under
section 6103(l)(13) of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, pursuant to approval provided
under section 494, to determine the bor-
rower’s continued eligibility for the loan dis-
charge described in subparagraph (B);
‘‘(ii) allow the borrower, at any time, to
opt out of disclosure under such section
6103(l)(13) and instead provide such informa-
tion as the Secretary may require to deter-
mine the borrower’s continued eligibility for
such loan discharge; and
‘‘(iii) provide the borrower with an oppor-
tunity to update the return information so
disclosed before determination of such bor-
rower’s continued eligibility for such loan
discharge.
‘‘(B) APPLICABILITY.—Subparagraph (A)
shall apply—
‘‘(i) to each borrower of a loan that is dis-
charged due to the total and permanent dis-
ability (within the meaning of this sub-
section) of the borrower; and
‘‘(ii) during the period beginning on the
date on which such loan is so discharged and
ending on the first day on which such loan
may no longer be reinstated.’’.
SEC. 6. PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS FOR
REQUESTING TAX RETURN INFOR-
MATION FROM THE INTERNAL REV-
ENUE SERVICE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Part G of title IV of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘SEC. 494. PROCEDURE AND REQUIREMENTS FOR
REQUESTING TAX RETURN INFOR-
MATION FROM THE INTERNAL REV-
ENUE SERVICE.
‘‘(a) NOTIFICATION AND APPROVAL REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
‘‘(1) FEDERAL STUDENT FINANCIAL AID.—In
the case of any written or electronic applica-
tion under section 483 by an individual for
Federal student financial aid under a pro-
gram authorized under subpart 1 of part A,
part C, or part D, the Secretary, with respect
to such individual and any parent or spouse
whose financial information is required to be
provided on such application, shall—
‘‘(A) notify such individuals that—
‘‘(i) if such individuals provide approval
under subparagraph (B), the Secretary will
have the authority to request that the Sec-
retary of the Treasury disclose return infor-
mation of such individuals to authorized per-
sons (as defined in section 6103(l)(13) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986) for the rel-
evant purposes described in such section; and
‘‘(ii) the failure to provide such approval
for such disclosure will result in the Sec-
retary being unable to calculate eligibility
for such aid to such individual; and
‘‘(B) require, as a condition of eligibility
for such aid, that such individuals affirma-
tively approve the disclosure described in
subparagraph (A)(i).
‘‘(2) INCOME-CONTINGENT AND INCOME-BASED
REPAYMENT.—
‘‘(A) NEW APPLICANTS.—In the case of any
written or electronic application by an indi-
vidual for an income-contingent or income-
based repayment plan for a loan under part
D, the Secretary, with respect to such indi-
vidual and any spouse of such individual,
shall—
‘‘(i) provide to such individuals the notifi-
cation described in paragraph (1)(A)(i);
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:40 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.012 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9963
December 10, 2019
‘‘(ii) require, as a condition of eligibility
for such repayment plan, that such individ-
uals—
‘‘(I) affirmatively approve the disclosure
described in paragraph (1)(A)(i) and agree
that such approval shall serve as an ongoing
approval of such disclosure until the date on
which the individual elects to opt out of such
disclosure under section 455(e)(8) or the
equivalent procedures established under sec-
tion 493C(c)(2)(B), as applicable; or
‘‘(II) provide such information as the Sec-
retary may require to confirm the eligibility
of such individual for such repayment plan.
‘‘(B) RECERTIFICATIONS.—With respect to
the first written or electronic recertification
(after the date of the enactment of the FU-
TURE Act) of an individual’s income or fam-
ily size for purposes of an income-contingent
or income-based repayment plan (entered
into before the date of the enactment of the
FUTURE Act) for a loan under part D, the
Secretary, with respect to such individual
and any spouse of such individual, shall meet
the requirements of clauses (i) and (ii) of
subparagraph (A) with respect to such recer-
tification.
‘‘(3) TOTAL AND PERMANENT DISABILITY.—In
the case of any written or electronic applica-
tion by an individual for a discharge of a
loan under this title based on total and per-
manent disability (within the meaning of
section 437(a)) that requires income moni-
toring, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) provide to such individual the notifi-
cation described in paragraph (1)(A)(i); and
‘‘(B) require, as a condition of eligibility
for such discharge, that such individual—
‘‘(i) affirmatively approve the disclosure
described in paragraph (1)(A)(i) and agree
that such approval shall serve as an ongoing
approval of such disclosure until the earlier
of—
‘‘(I) the date on which the individual elects
to opt out of such disclosure under section
437(a)(3)(A); or
‘‘(II) the first day on which such loan may
no longer be reinstated; or
‘‘(ii) provide such information as the Sec-
retary may require to confirm the eligibility
of such individual for such discharge.
‘‘(b) LIMIT ON AUTHORITY.—The Secretary
shall only have authority to request that the
Secretary of the Treasury disclose return in-
formation under section 6103(l)(13) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 with respect to
an individual if the Secretary of Education
has obtained approval under subsection (a)
for such disclosure.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
484(q) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1091(q)) is repealed.
SEC. 7. INCREASED FUNDING FOR FEDERAL PELL
GRANTS.
Section 401(b)(7)(A)(iv) of the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1070a(b)(7)(A)(iv)) is amended—
(1) in subclause (X), by striking
‘‘$1,430,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$1,455,000,000’’;
and
(2) in subclause (XI), by striking
‘‘$1,145,000,000’’ and inserting ‘‘$1,170,000,000’’.
SEC. 8. REPORTS ON IMPLEMENTATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than each speci-
fied date, the Secretary of Education and the
Secretary of the Treasury shall issue joint
reports to the Committees on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions and Finance of
the Senate and the Committees on Edu-
cation and Labor and Ways and Means of the
House of Representatives regarding the
amendments made by this Act. Each such re-
port shall include, as applicable—
(1) an update on the status of implementa-
tion of the amendments made by this Act;
(2) an evaluation of how such implementa-
tion had affected the processing of applica-
tions for Federal student financial aid, appli-
cations for income-based repayment and in-
come-contingent repayment, and applica-
tions for discharge of loans under title IV of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1070 et seq.) based on total and permanent
disability; and
(3) implementation issues and suggestions
for potential improvements.
(b) SPECIFIED DATE.—For purposes of sub-
section (a), the term ‘‘specified date’’
means—
(1) the date that is 90 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act;
(2) the date that is 120 days after the first
day that the disclosure process established
under section 6103(l)(13) of the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986, as amended by section 3(a)
of this Act, is operational and accessible to
officers, employees, and contractors of the
Department of Education (as specifically au-
thorized and designated by the Secretary of
Education); and
(3) the date that is 1 year after the report
date described in paragraph (2).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. ADAMS) and the
gentleman from South Dakota (Mr.
JOHNSON) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from North Carolina.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and in-
sert extraneous material on H.R. 5363,
the Fostering Undergraduate Talent by
Unlocking Resources for Education, or
FUTURE Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from North Carolina?
There was no objection.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R.
5363, the Fostering Undergraduate Tal-
ent by Unlocking Resources for Edu-
cation, or the FUTURE Act. We can
also simply call it FUTURE Act 2.0.
Mr. Speaker, 3 months ago, on Sep-
tember 17, the House of Representa-
tives unanimously passed the first
version of the FUTURE Act, H.R. 2486,
which would have reauthorized title
III, part F of the Higher Education Act
for the next 2 years. We acted on that
day because this important program,
which prepares the 8 million students
at our Nation’s minority-serving insti-
tutions for careers in STEM, expired on
September 30.
Unfortunately, inaction on the part
of the Senate left us in a situation
where colleges and universities have
already had to begin laying off staff,
and smaller schools have planned to
cut back programmatic offerings to
stay afloat.
Fortunately, Congress has shown
that we can actually come together
and work in a bipartisan, bicameral
fashion to make the lives of our citi-
zens better. The agreement reached in
H.R. 5363 will not only reauthorize 255
million in mandatory funding for his-
torically Black colleges and univer-
sities and all MSIs for 2 years, it will
reauthorize this funding permanently.
A permanent reauthorization means
that for the rest of time, long after we
are all gone, Mr. Speaker, diverse col-
lege students can count on a robust in-
vestment from their Federal Govern-
ment. And it was all done because we,
as Members, were able to put aside par-
tisanship, come together for the com-
mon cause of ensuring a bright and
prosperous future for millions of low-
income, first-generation college stu-
dents of color.
Mr. Speaker, the FUTURE Act 2.0 is,
once again, responsible legislation that
is completely paid for. There are a
number of people to thank for getting
this bill to the floor today, but I want
to particularly recognize the leader-
ship of Chairman NEAL of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means and Rep-
resentative DELBENE for her partner-
ship. Because of these collaborative ef-
forts, the House today can once again
address the number one priority of our
minority-serving institutions, which
educate nearly 30 percent of all under-
graduate students in America.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a letter from the American Council on
Education and 42 other national orga-
nizations in support of the FUTURE
Act’s passage today by the House.
AMERICAN COUNCIL ON EDUCATION,
Washington, DC, December 10, 2019.
Representative NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
Representative KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Minority Leader, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SPEAKER PELOSI AND MINORITY LEAD-
ER MCCARTHY: On behalf of the organizations
listed below, we write to express our strong
support for H.R. 5363, the FUTURE Act. This
legislation is fully offset and offers practical
solutions to critical issues facing students
and institutions. H.R. 5363 has strong bipar-
tisan support, which is reflected in the fact
that previous iterations of this bill passed
the House under suspension in September,
and an amended version passed the Senate
under unanimous consent last week.
This legislation addresses several impor-
tant issues. First, it would restore, and make
permanent, critical mandatory funding for
Historically Black Colleges and Universities,
Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Tribal Col-
leges and Universities and other Minority-
Serving Institutions that had expired at the
end of September, allowing those institu-
tions to strengthen STEM education pro-
grams and build institutional capacity to
better serve students. It is vital that this
funding be restored immediately as cam-
puses are already making decisions regard-
ing staffing, facilities and programming,
which are directly influenced by the avail-
ability of this support.
Beyond the benefits to historically under-
resourced institutions, the FUTURE Act
would make significant improvements to the
federal student aid system, by simplifying
and streamlining the processes for applying
for student aid and repaying student loans.
This will dramatically simplify the Free Ap-
plication for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
and make it far easier for low- and middle-
income families to apply for and receive fed-
eral student aid. In addition, the changes
proposed in the legislation will also make
the process of paying for college signifi-
cantly easier for students and their families.
This bill would also strengthen the accuracy
and effectiveness of the administration of
these programs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:40 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.012 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9964 December 10, 2019
Finally, the bill includes additional fund-
ing for the Federal Pell Grant program,
which is the cornerstone of federal student
aid. These grants enable millions of low-in-
come students to access and afford college,
and we appreciate the inclusion of additional
support for this valuable program.
For all of these reasons, we urge you, and
the Members you represent, to support this
legislation when it comes to the floor for a
vote today. We appreciate your attention to
this important legislation and look forward
to working with you to ensure passage into
law of the FUTURE Act.
Sincerely,
TED MITCHELL,
President.
On behalf of:
Achieving the Dream, Inc.; ACPA-College
Student Educators International; American
Association of Colleges of Nursing; American
Association of Collegiate Registrars and Ad-
missions Officers; American Association of
Community Colleges; American Association
of State Colleges and Universities; American
Association of University Professors; Amer-
ican Council on Education; American Dental
Education Association; American Indian
Higher Education Consortium; Association
of American Universities; Association of
American Colleges and Universities; Associa-
tion of Catholic Colleges and Universities;
Association of Governing Boards of Univer-
sities and Colleges.
Association of Jesuit Colleges and Univer-
sities; Association of Public and Land-grant
Universities; College and University Profes-
sional Association for Human Resources;
Common App; Consortium of Universities of
the Washington Metropolitan Area; Council
for Advancement and Support of Education;
Council for Higher Education Accreditation;
Council for Opportunity in Education; Coun-
cil of Graduate Schools; Council of Inde-
pendent Colleges; Council on Social Work
Education; EDUCAUSE ETS; Hispanic Asso-
ciation of Colleges and Universities; NAFSA:
Association of International Educators.
NASPA-Student Affairs Administrators in
Higher Education; National Association for
College Admission Counseling; National As-
sociation for Equal Opportunity in Higher
Education; National Association of College
and University Business Officers; National
Association of Colleges and Employers; Na-
tional Association of Independent Colleges
and Universities; National Association of
Student Financial Aid Administrators; Na-
tional Council for Community and Education
Partnerships; Phi Beta Kappa Society; The
College Board; TMCF; UNCF; UPCEA.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we live in a highly di-
vided time, of course, high levels of po-
larization, but I would submit, Mr.
Speaker, that one thing that every
Member of this esteemed body can
agree upon is they want people to be
able to work their way out of poverty,
that that pathway out of poverty is a
critically important part of the Amer-
ican story.
And one thing that I know deep in
my heart, and I know that my col-
league, Congresswoman ADAMS, agrees,
and that is that education is a powerful
tool. Education and hard work creates
opportunity for people to be able to
build better lives, and that is why we
gather here today: the FUTURE Act,
Fostering Undergraduate Talent by
Unlocking Resources for Education
Act.
Now, Congress has long recognized
the importance of historically Black
colleges and Tribal colleges, of which
there are a number in South Dakota,
and we will hear more about them in a
bit, and there are other minority-serv-
ing institutions. They play a critically
important role in building that path-
way out of poverty that we have been
talking about.
We also know what a large role
STEM—science, technology, engineer-
ing and math—is playing in our coun-
try today, and we know that it will
play an even larger role in the future.
And so what this bill does, what the
FUTURE Act does, is make sure that
the Congressional commitment to that
STEM education continues for a dec-
ade.
Mr. Speaker, $255 million a year has
gone to historically Black institutions,
Tribal colleges, and other minority-
serving institutions. It has unlocked
great potential and great opportunity.
We do know that these institutions
work. We know that they are worth in-
vesting in. We know that graduates of
those minority-serving institutions
earn more and have more successful ca-
reers than people who do not graduate
from those institutions.
And, in fact, we know that for many
of the institutions, their outcomes for
their students are better than the out-
comes for students who graduate from
non-minority-serving institutions. This
a powerful story, and it is worth in-
vesting in.
We talked about that for a decade
this program has been in place and it
has been working. The 10-year author-
ization lapsed earlier this year—Sep-
tember 30, 2019. We have an oppor-
tunity here today for this Chamber to
reinvest in what works and to get our
work done on, at least, close to on
time.
So, Mr. Speaker, I have other com-
ments to make, particularly about
Tribal colleges, but at this point, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. DELBENE).
Ms. DELBENE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congresswoman ADAMS for her incred-
ible work on this legislation.
Yesterday, I reintroduced an updated
version of the Faster Access to Federal
Student Aid Act, also known as the
FAFSA Act.
My bill, through better integration
with the Department of Education and
the IRS, would simplify the applica-
tion, verification, and student loan re-
payment process. My bill also provides
a more secure way for taxpayer data to
be shared between the IRS and the De-
partment of Education for the purposes
of verifying income for applicants re-
questing or renewing eligibility for in-
come-driven loan repayment plans.
My home State of Washington ranged
48 in FAFSA application completion
among high school seniors last year,
leaving millions of dollars in grants to
attend college on the table. With the
ever-rising cost of education, that is
unacceptable. Each year, roughly 19
percent of borrowers in income-driven
repayment fail to recertify their in-
come on time, resulting in payment
spikes and interest capitalization for
approximately 1.3 million borrowers.
This important legislation is the first
step in reducing the burdensome verifi-
cation process for students and parents
filing for aid, addressing a difficult
challenge many students face accessing
and affording higher education.
I am honored to be working with my
colleagues in the Senate, Chairman
ALEXANDER and Ranking Member MUR-
RAY, to simplify and streamline the
FAFSA application process and in-
crease access to higher education for
students across the country. This bi-
partisan approach to FAFSA sim-
plification has been a long time com-
ing.
I am pleased we were able to get the
entirety of my bill included in the FU-
TURE Act, which I urge my colleagues
to support today. In these challenging
times, this kind of bipartisan solution
is something that we can all support.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, for 22 years, Texas has been
ably represented by Congressman
KEVIN BRADY, who has done a fantastic
job serving Texas in this country. But
I do have to brag, he is still a favored
son of his native State of South Da-
kota, where Rapid City and Vermillion
remember him well.
Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. BRADY).
Mr. BRADY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Congressman JOHNSON for yielding me
time, and I thank him for his leader-
ship for that great State.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition—to
be clear—not to the underlying bill. I
strongly support the education provi-
sion; the one that would strengthen
historically Black colleges and univer-
sities and other minority-serving insti-
tutions. In fact, that provision has
passed this House with, I believe, unan-
imous support. But I do rise in opposi-
tion to the dangerous precedent set by
the tax provision included in this bill.
I don’t believe taxpayer rights should
be trampled in this process.
The Senate, as you know, airdropped
an unrelated $2.5 billion provision that
threatens taxpayer privacy and creates
a dangerous opportunity to potentially
misuse our private tax information.
The bill, for the first time, now author-
izes new large-scale sharing of pre-
viously protected taxpayer informa-
tion. With hundreds of contractors,
thousands of educational institutions,
and other bureaucrats, in many cases,
without taxpayer consent and, poten-
tially, without the safeguards that pro-
tect it.
The scale we are talking about here
is huge. We are talking about at least
31 million individual disclosures of tax-
payer information every year and hun-
dreds of thousands a year after that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.013 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9965
December 10, 2019
This would be the third largest disclo-
sure of taxpayer information for non-
tax purposes in the history, second
only to the Census and the Affordable
Care Act.
It doesn’t have to be this way. We
have another option that pays for this
bill but protects taxpayer information.
And why is that privacy so impor-
tant? The IRS has more information
about you than almost any other agen-
cy in the Federal Government. They
know how many kids you have, how
much money you make, whether you
have a home office, you bought a hy-
brid car. They know how much money
you donate; they know your marital
status. That kind of information is val-
uable. Almost every Federal agency
would like access to it.
More importantly, a lot of bad actors
would like to have access to it. And out
of this bill, these bad actors could have
access for many years after you go to
school. We know Watergate the hear-
ings revealed a White House attorney
who had tried to use IRS information
to target political enemies. And admin-
istrations have tried to do this for
farmers, unsuccessfully.
Congress recognized this vast amount
of private information could be abused,
and we acted to protect it. Those pro-
tections ensure taxpayer information
is kept confidential unless it meets
certain exemptions.
Over the years, we have added exemp-
tions and we have deleted them, but
every time Congress has carefully con-
sidered the cost and the consequences
of those actions. But this bill’s amend-
ment is being rushed through the
House without that appropriate care or
consideration.
Today, when you file a form for a
loan or a repayment or all that, you
fill out that information, or you
download the taxpayer information.
That will be blocked. No more can you
do that. So in the future, these mil-
lions of records will be out in the neth-
er lands for years after you graduate
from college. And as you know, once
your data is out there—the horse is out
of the barn—you can never get it back.
Mr. Speaker, so I rise today in oppo-
sition to this bill, basically to ask,
‘‘let’s pause.’’ Let’s pause this play,
which we all support, replace this pri-
vacy risk with another pay-for we can
all agree on while more work is done in
this measure.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. DELBENE).
Ms. DELBENE. Mr. Speaker, I think
this bill is all about making sure that
we support consumer privacy and that
we do it in a streamlined way. So the
legislation in this bill would actually
make this more secure for consumers.
And, again, I reiterate, the under-
lying legislation, the FAFSA Act, was
passed out by the Republican majority
and the Senate Finance Committee al-
most a year ago, and then passed the
Senate by unanimous consent shortly
after. So it is a truly bipartisan effort.
Currently, each year when verifying
their income for an income-based re-
payment plan, students have to manu-
ally go into their FAFSA account and
submit their IRS documents. They are
submitting those documents. The
FAFSA Act would create a more secure
way for folks to have their IRS infor-
mation be sent to the Department of
Education for verification by having
their data go directly. That is a more
secure and streamlined process.
That streamlined process means that
8 to 9 million applicants who are cur-
rently unable to access their IRS data
for their FAFSA applications for veri-
fication, that means this process will
be automated and they would be able
to move forward with going to school
and receiving the support that they
need.
b 1315
So, I strongly disagree with the con-
cerns the gentleman raised. This is
strengthening security, strengthening
privacy.
Also, students and parent borrowers
always have the opportunity to opt out
of that transfer. They consent to it
originally. They can opt out of that
transfer, if they so wish, later on.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly urge folks to
support this bill, which strengthens
privacy and supports streamlining for
parents and students.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, Chief Sitting Bull said:
‘‘Let us put our minds together and see
what life we can make for our chil-
dren.’’
Now, Chief Sitting Bull has cast a
long shadow in South Dakota and that
general geographic area. His words are
as true today as they were when he ut-
tered them. And he is the namesake for
one of the impressive, successful, hard-
working Tribal colleges in South Da-
kota.
They are collectively serving and im-
proving the lives of thousands of, large-
ly, Native students, although, some
White students as well. And the out-
comes are fantastic. They really are
changing lives. They work every single
day, often in difficult geographic envi-
ronments, often in difficult financial
environments, to help students who are
so often first-generation students take
those important educational steps to
find that pathway toward a more suc-
cessful life.
This is worth investing in. I have
been to these colleges. Over my 20
years in and out of the public sector, I
have been to Oglala Lakota College,
and I have been to Sitting Bull College
and Sinte Gleska and Sisseton
Wahpeton.
The names of these presidents—
Vermillion, Azure, Bordeaux, and
Shortbull—these are legends in the
educational arena. Those leaders and
their staffs are using these dollars to
deploy this STEM education in a way
that really works.
And we all know, Mr. Speaker, how
important STEM education is. I sus-
pect we all understand that 15 of the 20
fastest growing careers are in the
STEM fields. They require advanced
study in science, in mathematics. We
understand that job growth over the
course of the next 10 years in these
STEM fields will be 100 percent higher
than job growth in other fields.
Now, that is not in any way an at-
tempt to minimize the importance of
other types of education, of course;
but, if we want to have students at his-
torically Black colleges and Tribal uni-
versities and other minority-serving
institutions be prepared to be a key
part of this growing American econ-
omy, the FUTURE Act and the STEM
education that it supports is critically
important.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his comments, and I
will add my testimony to that, a 40-
year college professor at Bennett Col-
lege in Greensboro, North Carolina, an
HBCU, a fine HBCU, a women’s college;
and having done my studies at North
Carolina A&T State University twice—
my bachelor’s and master’s there—and
knowing that North Carolina has more
HBCUs than any other State, we are
proud of that.
Having said that, Mr. Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI), who is
also a member of the Education and
Labor Committee and chair of the Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Human
Services.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 5363, the FU-
TURE Act.
This bill will provide critical support
to our Nation’s minority-serving insti-
tutions by permanently reauthorizing
mandatory funding for historically
Black colleges and universities, Trib-
ally controlled colleges and univer-
sities, and other minority-serving in-
stitutions. These schools serve an im-
portant role in expanding opportunities
for African American students and his-
torically unrepresented student popu-
lations.
Congress must do all we can to make
sure these institutions have the re-
sources they need to support their stu-
dents, and I thank Representative
ADAMS for her tireless leadership on
this issue.
In addition to the critical support for
the historically Black colleges and uni-
versities and minority-serving institu-
tions, this bill will also allow for the
secure—and I repeat, secure—direct
transfer of taxpayer data from the IRS
to the Department of Education to en-
roll and reenroll borrowers in income-
driven repayment plans. This change
will make a real difference for bor-
rowers.
We know that borrowers with small
loan balances are more likely to de-
fault than borrowers with six-figure
debts. Those who owe less than $10,000
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.024 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9966 December 10, 2019
are most likely to default, are less
likely to have completed their degrees,
and are often burdened by low incomes
or unemployment.
I have heard from many borrowers in
northwest Oregon who describe loan re-
payment as anxiety-inducing,
daunting, and overwhelming; and I
have heard from several constituents
who faced financial consequences for
missing the deadline to annually recer-
tify their income for income-driven re-
payment plans.
This change will protect many bor-
rowers from default by getting and
keeping them in manageable, income-
driven repayment plans. This bill will
also remove burdensome paper require-
ments for borrowers who are totally
and permanently disabled.
This has been a longtime priority of
mine through the bipartisan SIMPLE
Act, and I applaud my colleague, Rep-
resentative DELBENE, for her leader-
ship on the language included in the
bill before us today.
Finally, I am pleased that this bill
includes a much-needed increase in
Pell grant funding.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this critical legisla-
tion when it comes to the floor, as we
continue our work to make college
more affordable and equitable for ev-
eryone.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, in August, I was at Sit-
ting Bull College, and I had an oppor-
tunity, over the course of half a day or
so, to speak with the instructors, the
professors, the administrators, and,
most importantly, the students there.
The stories of these students brought
such a smile to my face.
If anybody is having a bad day, you
have got to go to one of these Tribal
colleges. You have got to hear from the
students who are seeing the prospects
for a better tomorrow improve every
single day they sit in the classroom; to
see these facilities, which are not the
fanciest campuses in America, but are
places where people with large hearts
and with limited resources have built a
center of learning and economic oppor-
tunity.
One student had had a very difficult
life, and I asked her: So why do you
persevere? Why are you here? Why are
you doing homework late into the
night so you can be prepared for class?
Wouldn’t it be easier to go do some-
thing else?
She said: Congressman JOHNSON, the
life I have had isn’t the life that I want
to have. My children deserve better,
and, sir, I am going to give it to them.
Hard work alone can only do so
much. Hard work, when paired with
education, can unlock the universe.
This is happening in our country, and
it is worth investing in.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, may I in-
quire how much time remains on either
side.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from North Carolina has 11
minutes remaining. The gentleman
from South Dakota has 9 minutes re-
maining.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. SCOTT), the capable chair of
the Committee on Education and
Labor.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentlewoman for her lead-
ership in bringing this bill to the floor,
and I want to thank all of my House
and Senate colleagues who have
worked diligently on this legislation.
Historically Black colleges and uni-
versities, Tribally controlled colleges
and universities, and other minority-
serving institutions play a significant
role in expanding access to higher edu-
cation for low-income students and
students of color.
Collectively, they educate more than
one-fourth of all undergraduates—near-
ly 6 million students—including many
first-time college students and stu-
dents from our Nation’s most under-
served communities.
Historically Black colleges and uni-
versities specifically make up less than
3 percent of colleges and universities,
yet they produce almost 20 percent of
all Black graduates, half of all Black
professionals, and over a third of all
Black STEM graduates.
Unfortunately, despite their outsized
role in serving our Nation’s most un-
derserved students, HBCUs and MSIs
have historically been underresourced
compared to other institutions of high-
er education.
That is why, 3 months ago, the House
unanimously passed the FUTURE Act,
a proposal to provide vital funding for
HBCUs and other MSIs. Regrettably,
that funding had expired on September
30. This bill will restore that funding.
In fact, after careful negotiation and
compromise, this bill we are voting on
today does not just restore the guar-
antee of more than $250 million a year
for HBCUs and MSIs; it permanently
authorizes that funding. It also facili-
tates stronger cooperation between the
IRS and the Department of Education
to simplify the Free Application for
Federal Student Aid, or FAFSA, to
make it easier for students to access
student aid and repay their loans.
I want to note that, as mentioned,
the FUTURE Act streamlines the in-
come-driven repayment process for
millions of Direct Loan borrowers.
For the 12.4 million borrowers with a
Federal Family Education Loan, the
loan from our old program that is
winding down, this bill does not disturb
the Treasury’s authority to continue
operating the data retrieval tool. This
tool allows borrowers, including FFEL
borrowers, to retrieve their own tax in-
formation for the purposes of certi-
fying their income for an income-driv-
en repayment plan.
Many FFEL borrowers are currently
enrolled in income-driven repayment
plans and rely on this existing tool
made available by the Internal Rev-
enue Service and the Department of
Education. This legislation does not
eliminate the authority for the data re-
trieval tool, and, indeed, we urge the
Secretaries of Treasury and Education
to maintain that tool to ensure that all
FFEL borrowers, especially those
whose loans are owned by the Depart-
ment of Education, have streamlined
access to manageable monthly pay-
ments.
Before I close, I would like to give
special thanks to Chairman NEAL of
the Ways and Means Committee for his
dedication and hard work in negoti-
ating to bring this bill to the floor.
Thanks to his leadership, we are voting
on a bill today that will expand access
to both institutions of higher learning
and student aid for generations to
come.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the FUTURE Act.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, just a short note about Con-
gresswoman ADAMS.
I have the honor of serving with her
on both the Education and Labor Com-
mittee as well as the Agriculture Com-
mittee, and, every time we have a com-
mittee hearing, I get an opportunity to
see her hard work, her respect, her con-
scientiousness, her approach toward
making this institution be the best
that it can be. She has done yeoman’s
work in getting us to this point.
I would advise the Congresswoman as
well as the Speaker that I have no fur-
ther speakers and that I am prepared
to close at the appropriate time, sir.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his kind remarks,
and it is a real pleasure serving with
him and working with him on this par-
ticular issue.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. DOGGETT).
Mr. DOGGETT. Mr. Speaker, today’s
bill, which I am pleased to cosponsor,
accomplishes much good. While pro-
viding critical support for minority-
serving institutions like Huston-
Tillotson in Austin, it includes provi-
sions from the bipartisan Student Aid
Simplification Act, which I introduced
earlier this year. It will assist students
in all universities, and it is also
mighty important to graduates repay-
ing student debt.
I salute the chairman, Mr. SCOTT, for
the work of his committee; College
Forward and National College Access
Network, who have worked with me on
this for months; and, certainly, Sen-
ators MURRAY and ALEXANDER for mov-
ing this through the Senate.
Too many students find the current
Free Application for Federal Student
Aid, FAFSA, so complicated and the
difficulty of getting all of the financial
information required so demanding
that they never complete the applica-
tion. In fact, I was in San Antonio this
past weekend. The completion rate
there is a mere 35 percent. So $2.6 bil-
lion in free money available for student
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.025 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9967
December 10, 2019
financial assistance goes unclaimed
each year.
This bill will eliminate up to 22
FAFSA questions and require the De-
partment of Education and IRS to
work together and do some of the
heavy lifting for the students by shar-
ing the taxpayer information required
for FAFSA completion. This means an
increase in access to Pell grants and
other educational opportunities, espe-
cially for first-time students whose
parents may work multiple jobs.
And the provisions included from the
bill that we introduced earlier this
year will also eliminate problems that
about 7 million students who graduated
have faced in the annual recertifi-
cation process for income-driven loans.
b 1330
These are folks who may owe a lot,
but they don’t earn a lot. They include
many teachers who have been kicked
out of the Public Service Loan For-
giveness program for not recertifying
each year. We eliminate that. These
borrowers will now be protected from
payment spikes.
We do all this through administra-
tive simplification, through greater ac-
curacy, so the bill actually raises the
$2.8 billion that we need for our minor-
ity-serving institutions.
When more students can access all
the education that they are willing to
work for, the students win, their fami-
lies win, and our economy wins. Invest-
ing in our students is one of the best
investments we can make, and invest-
ing in our minority-serving institu-
tions means that opportunity is avail-
able for all.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CASTRO).
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 5363, the
FUTURE Act.
I thank all the Members of Congress,
the Members of the Senate, the edu-
cational institutions, and the advo-
cates who helped shepherd this legisla-
tion.
Under the FUTURE Act, MSIs will
permanently receive the $255 million
they need for the next 10 years. With-
out this funding, schools would miss
out on funding for STEM programs,
academic counseling, and financial
support for students in need.
This funding can be the difference be-
tween millions of students being able
to afford college or attend college at
all. This funding provides many stu-
dents of color with the only oppor-
tunity they have ever had to enter
fields where they are so often sorely
underrepresented.
We must support these critical ef-
forts by MSIs to help students com-
plete their college degrees and diver-
sify STEM careers.
Today, many students continue to
leave STEM fields while in college, es-
pecially minority students. About 37
percent of Latino STEM students and
40 percent of Black STEM students will
switch majors during college, com-
pared to 29 percent of White STEM stu-
dents. About 20 percent of Latino stu-
dents and 26 percent of Black students
will drop out before completing their
STEM degrees.
By providing schools with a means to
support their students, we can prevent
these trends from continuing and help
diversify all fields of study. It will help
dismantle the lingering discrimination
found in some career fields that these
folks want to pursue.
When we diversify, we develop dif-
ferent perspectives, gather better tal-
ent, and become more competitive
globally, and I urge my colleagues to
support this piece of legislation.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, this bill does three im-
portant things.
First, it invests in these historically
Black colleges, Tribal colleges, and
other minority-serving institutions we
have been talking about, and the value
proposition for those is clear. It is a
great American success story.
The second important thing that the
FUTURE Act does is invest in STEM
education. We have talked a fair
amount today about what an impor-
tant and powerful engine that can be
for economic growth within this coun-
try.
We have also talked a fair amount
today about the third component of
this bill, which is streamlining and
modernizing this complicated Federal
student aid system that costs Amer-
ican taxpayers real money. That
streamlining will help.
Mr. Speaker, with that three-pronged
value proposition, we have before us
the FUTURE Act, which will continue
this wonderful American investment in
STEM education at these minority-
serving institutions. I ask my col-
leagues to support the FUTURE Act.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. ADAMS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from South Dakota (Mr. JOHNSON) for
all of his work and his support. Let me
again thank all of my colleagues who
have helped to bring us to the precipice
of solidifying a robust Federal invest-
ment into HBCUs and MSIs for all
time. I thank Chairman NEAL and Rep-
resentative DELBENE, as well as Chair-
man BOBBY SCOTT for his leadership
every step of the way in this effort. I
thank the chair of the Congressional
Black Caucus, Congresswoman KAREN
BASS, and the chairs of the Congres-
sional Hispanic Caucus and the Con-
gressional Asian Pacific American Cau-
cus, Congressman JOAQUIN CASTRO and
Congresswoman JUDY CHU. I thank the
leadership of the House for making
HBCUs and MSIs and the students they
serve a priority for this body.
It is telling how important this issue
is for the fate of our Nation that we are
considering this measure in the midst
of all that Congress has to do before
the end of the year.
To the advocates, the United Negro
College Fund, the Thurgood Marshall
College Fund, and NAFEO, whose mem-
bers have sent over 65,000 letters and
made calls to Members of Congress, I
hope we can let them know that while
they have worked hard, their hard
work has paid off.
Mr. Speaker, 8 million students from
across America are counting on us
today. They are counting on Congress
to keep its promise.
In 2008, when mandatory funding lan-
guage was first authorized in title III,
this body approved the measure by a
vote of 354-to-58. Congress in 2008 un-
derstood the importance of our HBCUs
and MSIs and the educational opportu-
nities that they specifically tailor to
students who have traditionally been
denied access to adequately funded
schools throughout their lives. Con-
gress understood how the program was
needed to help these institutions fulfill
their mission to assist students in
meeting their goals. That fact remains
true now more than ever.
Let’s have a strong vote to pass FU-
TURE Act 2.0 out of this House today.
Bring it to the Senate and send it to
the President’s desk so that our HBCUs
and MSIs and their students can finally
have certainty from their government
and know that when Congress makes a
promise to provide for their future, we
mean what we say.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the legislation, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from North Carolina
(Ms. ADAMS) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 5363, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 748;
Adoption of House Resolution 748, if
ordered; and
The motion to suspend the rules and
pass H.R. 5363.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.027 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9968 December 10, 2019
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 729, TRIBAL COASTAL
RESILIENCY ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on ordering
the previous question on the resolution
(H. Res. 748) providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 729) to amend the
Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972
to authorize grants to Indian Tribes to
further achievement of Tribal coastal
zone objectives, and for other purposes,
on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 226, nays
188, not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 657]
YEAS—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—188
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—16
Aderholt
Brown (MD)
Carter (TX)
Clarke (NY)
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Lesko
Lieu, Ted
Marchant
Meuser
Rooney (FL)
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Simpson
Wasserman
Schultz
b 1407
Messrs. WILSON of South Carolina
and CRENSHAW changed their vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. WOODALL. Mr. Speaker, on that
I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 226, nays
189, not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 658]
YEAS—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—189
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.029 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9969
December 10, 2019
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—15
Aderholt
Bishop (UT)
Brown (MD)
Carter (TX)
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Lieu, Ted
Marchant
Meuser
Rooney (FL)
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Simpson
Wasserman
Schultz
b 1417
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
FOSTERING UNDERGRADUATE
TALENT BY UNLOCKING RE-
SOURCES FOR EDUCATION ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 5363) to reauthorize manda-
tory funding programs for historically
Black colleges and universities and
other minority-serving institutions,
and for other purposes, as amended, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from North Carolina
(Ms. ADAMS) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 319, nays 96,
not voting 15, as follows:
[Roll No. 659]
YEAS—319
Abraham
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Balderson
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Waltz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—96
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Banks
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Cheney
Cloud
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gosar
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Holding
Johnson (OH)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
King (IA)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McClintock
Meadows
Miller
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Schweikert
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Williams
Wright
Yoho
NOT VOTING—15
Aderholt
Brown (MD)
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Lieu, Ted
Marchant
Meuser
Rooney (FL)
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Simpson
Smith (WA)
Wasserman
Schultz
Woodall
b 1427
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, for personal
reasons, I missed the first vote series today.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’
on rollcall No. 657, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 658,
and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 659.
f
TRIBAL COASTAL RESILIENCY ACT
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. CASE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous materials on H.R.
729.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Hawaii?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 748 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.015 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9970 December 10, 2019
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 729.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from Maine (Ms. PINGREE) to preside
over the Committee of the Whole.
b 1430
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 729) to
amend the Coastal Zone Management
Act of 1972 to authorize grants to In-
dian Tribes to further achievement of
Tribal coastal zone objectives, and for
other purposes, with Ms. PINGREE in
the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall be confined to
the bill and amendments specified in
the resolution and shall not exceed 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
The gentleman from Hawaii (Mr.
CASE) and the gentleman from Utah
(Mr. BISHOP) each will control 30 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Hawaii.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, today I am truly hon-
ored to bring to the floor a bipartisan
bill championed by many colleagues
from throughout the country and many
individuals and organizations passion-
ately committed to our oceans, lakes,
and coastlines and to the ecosystems,
communities, and economies that de-
pend on them.
I especially want to recognize my
colleagues who introduced and advo-
cated the measures that are incor-
porated in this bill: Representatives
KILMER, HUFFMAN, WITTMAN, QUIGLEY,
PALLONE, PINGREE, NORTON, CARBAJAL,
RUPPERSBERGER, and YOUNG.
This bill consolidates 10 bipartisan
bills, cosponsored by a total of 24 of my
minority colleagues, that tackle the
crisis and challenge of our time: cli-
mate change.
Climate change, of course, knows no
partisan, country, or other manmade
boundaries. It indiscriminately threat-
ens us all, but it is especially insidious
as it applies to our world’s oceans,
lakes, and coastlines.
Earlier this year, the Intergovern-
mental Panel on Climate Change
issued a special report on ocean and
cryosphere in a changing climate,
making crystal clear that our oceans
and coasts are under mortal threat.
Over 40 percent of Americans live in
coastal counties right on our oceans
and lakes. These communities not only
account for nearly half of our U.S.
gross domestic product, but they are
on the front lines of climate change
and need resources today to help pre-
pare for and respond to the effects of
climate change, including flooding, sea
level rise, severe weather, coastal ero-
sion, and changing water conditions
that affect ecosystems and fish popu-
lations.
They need help, and as we help them,
we help all of us. We know from a gen-
eration of data now that every dollar
invested in predisaster mitigation
saves at least $6 in recovery costs. H.R.
729 includes bipartisan measures that
will do this in four ways.
First, it will improve coastal resil-
ience and economic enhancement by
making several important updates to
the Coastal Zone Management Act, a
then-revolutionary law from 1972 to es-
tablish a partnership between the Fed-
eral Government and coastal and Great
Lakes States. It will also help commu-
nities implement climate-resilient liv-
ing shoreline projects that use natural
materials to protect communities and
ecosystems instead of hard or armored
walls and infrastructure that we know
are less effective.
Second, it will reinforce fish habitat
conservation and fisheries research. It
will also authorize steady funding for
the U.S. Geological Survey to conduct
science and research activities to sup-
port fishery management in the Great
Lakes and to restore the loss of basic
fishery science capabilities and accel-
erate implementation of new tech-
nology.
Third, recognizing that responsible
management of the oceans, coasts, and
Great Lakes relies on robust data, this
bill will reauthorize the integrated
coastal and ocean observation system
and, for the first time, formally au-
thorize the digital coast partnership,
both of which are led by the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
Finally, H.R. 729 will update the Na-
tional Sea Grant College Program to
ensure the United States has a strong
marine and coastal science and policy
workforce so that we can continue to
develop smart policy solutions in the
future.
This bipartisan bill is supported by a
plethora of diverse organizations
across our country, including the Con-
gressional Sportsmen’s Foundation,
the Teddy Roosevelt Conservation
Project, the American Sportfishing As-
sociation, and Ocean Conservancy.
It won’t, in and of itself, solve cli-
mate change. That takes a much larg-
er, more focused, and deliberate inter-
national effort. But it will move our
Federal policy into the present and the
future as to what risks arise for our
oceans, lakes, and coasts and their
communities, and this bill is an imper-
ative step in the difficult process we
face.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues’
support, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM-
MITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND
TECHNOLOGY,
Washington, DC, December 6, 2019.
Chairman RAÚL M. GRIJALVA,
Committee on Natural Resources,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN GRIJALVA: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 2405, the ‘‘National Sea
Grant College Program Amendments Act of
2019,’’ which was referred to the Committee
on Natural Resources on April 30, 2019.
In the interest of expedience in the consid-
eration of H.R. 2405 the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology will waive
formal consideration of the bill. This is, how-
ever, not a waiver of future jurisdictional
claims by the Science Committee over the
subject matter contained in H.R. 2405 or
similar legislation.
Thank you for agreeing to include our ex-
change of letters in the Congressional
Record. Thank you for your cooperation on
this legislation.
Sincerely,
EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON,
Chairwoman, Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON NATURAL RESOURCES,
Washington, DC, December 9, 2019.
Chairwoman EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON,
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN JOHNSON: In recognition
of the goal of expediting consideration of
H.R. 2405, the ‘‘National Sea Grant College
Program Amendments Act of 2019,’’ which
was referred solely to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources, the Committee on Natural
Resources appreciates the decision by the
Committee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology (‘‘Science Committee’’) not to pursue
its request for a sequential referral of the
bill as to any provisions that fall within the
Rule X jurisdiction of the Science Com-
mittee.
The Committee on Natural Resources ac-
knowledges this action with the mutual un-
derstanding that, in doing so, the Science
Committee does not waive any future juris-
dictional claims over the subject matter con-
tained in this or similar legislation, and the
Committee on Natural Resources agrees to
include our exchange of letters in the Con-
gressional Record.
I appreciate your cooperation regarding
this legislation.
Sincerely,
RAÚL M. GRIJALVA,
Chair, Committee on Natural Resources.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, as we approach this
particular piece of legislation, there
are other issues that seem to be float-
ing around at this time of year that
seem to have sucked all the air out of
Congress. Everyone seems to be talking
about impeachment instead of this
stuff. But I realize it is important for
the majority party to try and give the
illusion that we are actually doing
something, and, therefore, we have this
bill before us.
If this bill is indeed the vision that
the majority party wants to say is
their way of helping climate control or
helping the costs and the betterment of
our seas and oceans, if this is their phi-
losophy, if this is their vision, and if
this is their new, really big and giant
kind of really cool thing that they are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:48 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.035 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9971
December 10, 2019
going to bring out here as their state-
ment of what is going to happen, then
they ought to be embarrassed in some
way.
This bill is like getting that Christ-
mas package, and once you tear off all
the pretty wrapping paper and the
satin bows, Madam Chair, you will re-
alize, and Americans will realize, this
piece of legislation is an empty box.
There is nothing there.
There are 10 bills that we have here.
Three would actually qualify to go as
suspensions. We have no qualms with
those. But it is certainly not
groundbreaking new ideas that are
coming up here.
In fact, one of those bills is the one
from Mr. KILMER. He has a great bill. It
has one small problem with it that
could create a problem in the future,
and there was a Democrat amendment
that was proposed to the Rules Com-
mittee which would be a perfect solu-
tion.
Unfortunately, of all the 29-plus
amendments the Rules Committee de-
cided to make in order, the one that
actually fixes something that we would
support, they decided not to make that
in order. It is great. It is marvelous.
We will try to fix it over in the Senate
side.
Of the other bills, four of them do ab-
solutely nothing. In fact, the testi-
mony we had in committee on those
bills was they are presently being done
by the status quo. The agency said in
their testimony that they have the
power and the authority to do this al-
ready. The only thing you are going to
add by combining these extra bills,
Madam Chair, is simply a $1.4 billion
cost increase to it.
There are four of these bills that
have no Senate counterpart, which
means we can pass them over here, but
they are going nowhere in the Senate.
So, once again, this is simply a lost
opportunity to do something when we
have so many significant issues. In
fact, in the Rules Committee last
night, they mentioned some of the
things we need to do before next Fri-
day, like the NDAA, which should have
been done in September; or the
USMCA, which was ready to go in Au-
gust; or the funding bill that we need
to do, which we should have had done
by June; or even the backlog mainte-
nance bill that Mr. KILMER and I have,
which has 330 sponsors and cosponsors
and still has yet to have a vote on this
floor.
Those actually solve problems. They
do something. But we are not sched-
uling that stuff. So we are sitting here
with this illusion of coming up with
something.
Some of these bills will make amend-
ments to the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act, an act that was signed into
law by Richard Nixon, which gives the
Democrats kind of an ironic sense of
humor in actually doing that kind of
amendment in the atmosphere of this
particular time period.
Then we also have a whole bunch of
amendments that were made in order.
Four of those 29 amendments are actu-
ally bills that other people have pro-
posed.
Since nothing is really being done in
the legislative process here, this seems
to be like the only game in town, so
why not add your bill on to it?
We saw the same thing happening on
the NDAA when we did several things
that were in the purview of our com-
mittee that were added to that bill
having nothing to do with the military,
but it was the only thing going in
town, so add your bill on top of it.
Of those bills, three of them had ab-
solutely no hearings whatsoever; they
are just new. They have been added on
here, and we are going to try and do
this and bypass the entire system
which is supposed to be the way you
actually do legislating in this body.
One of them did have a hearing. Un-
fortunately, it was last Congress when
we were in charge. I guess that is close
enough for government work here.
But the problem that we do simply
have is that there are so many poten-
tial problems with this bill.
Now, two of these bills that have
been added to this have some specific
issues which we will talk about in the
course of the discussion that we have
around the bill: one of them dealing
with, once again, whether a city is the
same thing as a State for coastal man-
agement planning; one of them will be
dealing with some of the programs that
are going to be mandatory under this
particular folderol of legislation that
has been kind of cobbled together as if
this were a good, bright, and com-
prehensive approach to try and solve
problems in America.
Madam Chair, I don’t want to be too
critical because I realize one of these
bills in here is yours. At the same
time, this package of bills is not a
great idea; it is not grand philosophy;
and it doesn’t solve anything. In fact,
for the majority of it, you already have
the power to do it. You don’t need this
stuff in here. There are better ways of
doing it, and this is certainly not one
of those ways.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Wash-
ington (Mr. KILMER), who is the intro-
ducer of the bill in chief.
Mr. KILMER. Madam Chair, I thank
my friend from Hawaii for yielding
time.
Madam Chair, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 729, the Coastal and
Great Lakes Communities Enhance-
ment Act, a package of 10 bipartisan
bills that will make significant strides
to address the critical challenges our
coastal communities face as a direct
result of climate change and sea level
rise.
Madam Chair, this is Taholah, the
lower village of the Quinault Indian
Nation. This photo doesn’t show some-
one canoeing on a river or on a lake. It
shows someone canoeing through the
streets of their village after seawater
flooded the area during a storm.
Far too often and far too many
times, we have seen more severe
storms and rising sea levels threaten
communities like this. In my region,
we have seen it in La Push, where the
Quileute Tribal School is in the cross-
hairs of a rising ocean.
We have seen coastal challenges
threaten public safety, public access,
and cultural landmarks for these
Tribes and others, including the Hoh
and Makah Tribes. These communities
are seeing the impact of climate
change right now.
Breached seawalls, persistent flood-
ing, mold damage, tsunami threats,
and coastal erosion put homes at risk.
They put schools serving Tribal youth
at risk and community centers serving
elders at risk, not to mention impor-
tant cultural sites that date back gen-
erations.
Unfortunately, these threats from
changing landscapes and weather
events can’t be adequately addressed
by Tribal governments alone because
they don’t have the resources. While
the Federal Government has resources
to help coastal communities, there is
no ability under current law to make
direct applications for this funding.
Madam Chair, I grew up on the Olym-
pic Peninsula. I have seen, firsthand,
challenges faced by coastal commu-
nities; and, today, in the face of these
threats, with this bill, we say that we
are not going to tell these communities
that they are on their own, because to-
day’s proposal includes my bill, the
Tribal Coastal Resiliency Act, which
aims to uphold Tribal sovereignty by
modernizing NOAA’s Coastal Zone
Management grant program to allow
Tribal governments to directly com-
pete for these grants instead of requir-
ing them to petition States to
prioritize these projects.
b 1445
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield an
additional 15 seconds to the gentleman
from Washington.
Mr. KILMER. This is about helping
communities that face more severe
storms and increased flooding in my re-
gion and around the country. This is
about the Federal Government uphold-
ing its trust responsibility. This is
about making a difference for coastal
communities.
Madam Chair, let’s pass this bill and
help our communities.
Mr. CASE. Madam Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
yield 4 minutes to gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. GOSAR).
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Chairwoman, I
thank the gentleman for the time.
Madam Chair, the package before us
represents the misguided partisan na-
ture of this majority infecting every-
thing Congress touches. This package
highlights the real lost opportunities
before us because of the majority’s in-
sistence on impeachment all the time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:48 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.036 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9972 December 10, 2019
The Democrats have rallied and
promised real sweeping policies to cre-
ate jobs, address our trade challenges,
tackle our national energy needs, and
fight wildfires. Yet, they have been so
consumed with attacking our President
and impeachment that they have noth-
ing to show for it.
So to save face, Speaker PELOSI load-
ed up her giant jumbo jet, wasted tax-
payer dollars gallivanting around
Spain to simply talk about climate
change. This coming week, she has
scheduled a series of bills on the House
floor in the name of ‘‘combating cli-
mate change’’ that are actually re-
treads of programs that are already au-
thorized and actions that are already
being taken by the Federal Govern-
ment.
H.R. 729 is clear proof that the Demo-
crats have no agenda and have no plan
other than to impeach President
Trump. Most of the bills included in
this package before us today duplicate
existing authority that the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, or NOAA, already has under the
Coastal Zone Management Act, CZMA.
Also, under Tribal CZMA, living shore-
line and climate change, NOAA and
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service have for
fishery research and management, like
the Great Lakes fishery, or NOAA has
for Digital Coast data platforms. This
package represents deeply misguided
priorities based off misguided efforts.
Now, let’s start with the premise
that we need to designate a city, a non-
coastal city, as a participating member
of the Coastal Zone Management Act.
Why would we declare the District of
Columbia a ‘‘coastal city’’ and give
them veto power over Federal actions
affecting its coastal zone, once it de-
velops an approved coastal zone man-
agement program? Political partisan
power.
What does this threaten?
What happens when the District of
Columbia expresses concerns with the
impacts of expanded Federal oper-
ations at Naval Station Norfolk? What
happens when the Federal Government
wants to expand the Wilson Bridge and
I–495? Does D.C. get veto authority?
This bill could grant them that author-
ity.
Next, let’s be clear, the loan guar-
antee program under the Working Wa-
terfront program will simply put the
American taxpayer on the hook for
local defaults with little or no ade-
quate oversight.
While the National Sea Grant Pro-
gram is popular among coastal mem-
bers, this bill establishes a mandatory
fellowship program that provides free
graduate students to staff, and, yes,
Democratic congressional offices, at
taxpayer expense.
Finally, according to the Congres-
sional Budget Office, CBO, the cumu-
lative cost of this package to the
American taxpayers would be upwards
of $1.4 billion over the authorized peri-
ods, with the potential for an addi-
tional cost of $292 million outside of
the authorized windows. Yet, here we
are with massive new authorizations in
the bill package that are unnecessary,
and like all things in this Congress, are
much higher than current levels of
spending.
The agencies responsible for carrying
out most of this legislation stated that
it can do, and is doing, most of these
functions under current law.
So why are we here? To create giant
authorization slush funds that future
Democratic Congresses working with
future Democratic Presidents will have
available to funnel money to their
schemes to combat climate change. We
should reject this package before us.
We should pass the USMCA. We should
focus on infrastructure permitting and
reforming the way we approve major
projects in this country to create jobs
and move America forward.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. QUIGLEY).
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Chair, I rise
in support of H.R. 729, which includes
the text of my bill, the Great Lakes
Fishery Research Authorization Act.
The Great Lakes hold 18 percent of
the world’s fresh water supply, and
over 35 million people depend on the
lakes for drinking water, recreation,
fish and wildlife-related activities, in-
dustrial water supply, and commercial
navigation.
The Lakes support more than 1.5 mil-
lion jobs and generate $62 billion in
wages. Of those jobs, more than 50,000
are directly sustained by the Great
Lakes’ $7 billion fishing industry.
The Great Lakes Science Center has
field operations in 5 of the 8 Great
Lake States and owns and operates a
fleet of large research vessels that
monitor the Lakes and the fishery to
ensure that these crucial ecosystems
stay healthy and productive.
The Center is the only agency that
conducts multi-jurisdictional, lake-
wide scientific assessments in the
Lakes, and is crucial for protecting and
preserving this incredible resource and
economic driver.
Due to the unique governance struc-
ture of the Great Lakes, where there is
no Federal water, NOAA, which nor-
mally manages fishery science, has no
jurisdiction, and GLSC falls under the
umbrella of the USGS.
Unfortunately, unlike coastal fishery
management agencies, the GLSC has
had to piece together funding from the
USGS base appropriation since it has
no formal authorization or dedicated
line item. It has been forced to cobble
together funding from three or four dif-
ferent sources within USGS every year,
and as a result, has lagged far behind
its peers in introducing 21st century
technology to properly and effectively
monitor the Lakes. In fact, its funding
has even been raided and diverted to
other projects, including to fossil fuel
extraction research.
The Great Lakes Fishery and Re-
search Authorization Act would fix
this problem and give the GLSC the
dedicated funding it needs. This bipar-
tisan bill, which, I will add, has more
Republican than Democratic cospon-
sors, will correct the authorization and
funding deficiencies in a transparent
manner and in a way that puts the
Great Lakes on par with other mari-
time environments in the Nation.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair,
even though this is another wonderful
program that already has three dif-
ferent agencies that do the same thing
and they have the authority to do it, in
the Christmas spirit—maybe the gen-
tleman from Michigan will find the
error of his ways—in the Christmas
spirit, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. UPTON).
Mr. UPTON. Madam Chair, I thank
my good friend and I thank, too, Mr.
QUIGLEY, who just spoke, as the two of
us are the bipartisan sponsors of the
Great Lakes Fisheries Authorization
Act, and we are glad that it is part of
this package.
And I rise, obviously, in support,
Madam Chair, today for this package of
bills to help protect our coast and the
Great Lakes.
You know, in the southwest there is
a saying, ‘‘Don’t mess with Texas.’’
Well, as one that grew up on the shores
of Lake Michigan, there is a saying
that we have, too, ‘‘Don’t mess with
the Great Lakes.’’
This issue is deeply personal. It is
one of great importance to the Nation.
Our Great Lakes hold 18 percent of the
world’s fresh water supply, covers some
9,000 miles of shoreline, and this helps
generate over $7 billion a year in sport
and commercial fishing industry alone.
This bill would authorize the U.S. Geo-
logical Survey Great Lakes Science
Center to conduct science and research
activities to support fishery manage-
ment decisions in the Great Lakes.
Funds are going to be used to restore
the loss of basic fishery science capa-
bilities, accelerate the development of
invasive species controls and the res-
toration of native species, and imple-
ment advanced autonomous and re-
mote sensing technologies. Current au-
thorizations for the U.S. Geological
Survey Great Lakes Science Center is
confusing and funding is often piece-
meal. In the past, the funds have been
diverted to other unrelated purposes
and disrupted ongoing research. That
has got to change.
With dedicated funding and clear au-
thorization, the U.S. Geological Survey
Great Lakes Science Center will, in
fact, be able to better ensure the
health of the Great Lakes ecosystem.
This is going to help enhance our
coastal resilience, restore fish habitat,
and protect our important coastal
economies.
I support the legislation.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. HUFFMAN), the chair of the
Natural Resources Committee Sub-
committee on Water, Oceans and Wild-
life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:48 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.038 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9973
December 10, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Chair, it is
great to follow those warm, bipartisan
remarks from my friend from Michi-
gan, because, after all, even though
you wouldn’t know it from the ranking
member’s remarks, we are here to con-
sider a package of bipartisan bills that
provide commonsense, science-based
solutions for issues facing our coastal
communities. These bills reflect put-
ting aside our differences and looking
at the facts for the sake of our con-
stituents in coastal economies around
this country.
Last week, I attended the U.N. Cli-
mate Conference in Madrid. We were
focused on international action on cli-
mate change, and specifically, the role
of the oceans.
Because of climate change, coastal
cities will be devastated from sea-level
rise, and commercial fisheries could be
either totally collapsed or moved be-
yond the reach of our coastal commu-
nities, all in my children’s lifetimes.
So, yes, adaptation and mitigation
will be costly, but the cost of doing
nothing is exponentially higher. And
the cost of inaction continues to in-
crease every day that special interests
concerned with keeping the status quo
are put ahead of our oceans, our coasts,
and future generations.
Now, this package of bills will pro-
vide tools and resources coastal com-
munities need to prepare for the im-
pacts of climate change and to protect
local economies.
One section is based on my bill, the
National Sea Grant College Program
Amendments Act. It updates the Sea
Grant program to better respond to the
needs of the coastal communities
through research, education, and ex-
tension programs. It also helps develop
the coastal and marine research and
policy workforce that our country
needs to respond to these challenges.
Reauthorizing this important pro-
gram is critical. To date, the program
has improved the resilience of 462
coastal communities. It has also been
an incredibly successful program in
terms of leveraging Federal resources
with State and local funds to meet the
growing needs of these communities.
Last year, Sea Grant’s work sup-
ported over 7,000 jobs, over 1,500 busi-
nesses, and it resulted in $624 million
in economic benefits. This program
consistently has bipartisan support be-
cause of its effectiveness and impor-
tance to communities around this
country.
So, again, I thank the gentleman
from Hawaii (Mr. CASE).
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair,
even though it has been said, you have
already read it in some reports from
the chairs of the committee of jurisdic-
tion as well as the committee that
could have sequential referral of this,
that they approve adding some of the
amendments we are going to be talking
about later into this package. I think
the same thing is actually having a
hearing and allowing members of those
committees to have their will and say
something.
The process is not to allow the chair-
man to determine what bills will or
will not be added—what bills will or
will not be. It is to allow the members
of the committee to have that kind of
input, and this process is eliminating
that kind of input.
Madam Chair, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCLINTOCK). He knows more about
this issue than the rest of us on the
floor combined.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to
this measure. A collection of minor,
flawed bills was presented to our Sub-
committee on Water, Oceans and Wild-
life a few months ago, and instead of
correcting the flaws, they have simply
been repackaged and rebranded as a
landmark climate change bill.
The net result is the climate is going
to continue to change and our country
will be about $1.5 billion a year poorer
for it.
Take, for example, H.R. 1023 included
in this package, it creates a new Fed-
eral fishery monitoring program for
the Great Lakes Basin. Well, the Na-
tional Marine Fisheries Service and
the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service al-
ready conduct similar fishery studies
right now. Instead, this bill would task
an agency that has little experience in
fishery, science, and management, the
U.S. Geological Survey, to do basically
the same thing.
And this is especially baffling since
we are currently paying NOAA some
$28 million a year for ocean, coastal,
and Great Lakes research, and another
$2.9 million for interjurisdictional fish-
eries grants, which could be used for
Great Lakes management and science.
Another measure is H.R. 2405, this re-
authorizes NOAA’s Sea Grant Program,
bumping it $10 million higher than cur-
rently appropriated, and then increas-
ing that authorization by nearly 5 per-
cent annually thereafter. This program
is one that the President rightly
sought to eliminate in his budget in
order to free up funding for NOAA to
complete its most important core func-
tions.
Another bill in this package purports
to modernize and enhance the Coastal
Zone Management Act. This is my fa-
vorite. What it actually does is to place
the seaside resort of Washington, D.C.,
into the Coastal Zone Management
Act. Now, I don’t deny that Wash-
ington is a world-class swamp, but it is
not a coastal community, and placing
it in a coastal zone doesn’t make it
one. What it does do is to rob legiti-
mate coastal communities of funding
and influence, and it opens the door to
further encroachments as more and
more inland cities seek to claim coast-
al zone status.
Another measure thrown into this
package is H.R. 3115. This bill, which
never had a hearing and was rushed
through markup, costs over $631 mil-
lion and inserts Federal priorities into
coastal zone management, which
counters the CZMA’s original intention
of assessing coastal management needs
according to the unique and diverse
conditions and desires of the commu-
nities along our coast.
b 1500
Another measure thrown into this
package is H.R. 1314, which reauthor-
izes the Integrated Ocean Observing
System. Now, this system is good. It
provides data to coastal communities
and local fishermen on weather condi-
tions. It is critical. So far, so good.
But then it follows up on very good
public policy with very bad fiscal pol-
icy by providing open, limitless author-
ization of funds for the program. It
should be amended to set specific au-
thorization limits, as Senate versions
of the measure have done.
Madam Chair, I fail to see how this
package would provide new benefits to
coastal States other than, apparently,
the coastal community of Washington,
D.C. Further, NOAA already does most
of the work that this package claims to
authorize. This is duplicative and
wasteful of our resources at a time
when the Nation is running dan-
gerously high deficits.
And, as I said, it is going to require
another $1.4 billion of Federal spend-
ing; that is about $11 from the earnings
of every family in the country. I think
that is an expensive press release for
something that does so little that we
are not already doing.
And, with that, I would ask that the
bill be rejected.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM), a valued
member of our Natural Resources Com-
mittee.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair,
Americans depend on their oceans. In
Lowcountry, the ocean drives our tour-
ism economy and is integral to who we
are, which is why we need bold action
to protect our coastal communities
from the growing threats of sea level
rise and storms, increasing both in fre-
quency and severity.
H.R. 729 is an important step in this
direction and will empower coastal
communities to better prepare for and
respond to our rapidly changing coast-
lines. It will promote development of
climate-resilient shorelines that pro-
tect our coasts from storms and im-
prove fish and wildlife habitats. It will
shore up working waterfronts, which
face their own challenges caused by a
changing environment.
H.R. 729 will be a lifeline to our
coastal communities at a time when
they need it most, and I urge all my
colleagues to join me in supporting
this critical legislation.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. RUPPERSBERGER).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:48 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.039 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9974 December 10, 2019
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER. Madam
Chair, there is a reason that the Dig-
ital Coast Act is bipartisan and bi-
cameral: We all have a stake in pro-
tecting our shorelines.
Our country’s 95,000 miles of shore-
line—not just our oceans, but our riv-
ers, streams, and lakes—are home to
more than 42 percent of our country’s
population and millions of businesses
that supply most of our gross domestic
product.
Unfortunately, current coastal maps
and geospatial data are woefully inad-
equate, outdated, or even nonexistent.
My bill, the Digital Coast Act, which
is part of this package, will allow pro-
fessionals at NOAA to begin a com-
prehensive mapping process of our Na-
tion’s fragile shorelines.
Coastal communities will be able to
use the data to better prepare for
storms, manage floods, restore eco-
systems, and plan smarter develop-
ments near America’s coasts, harbors,
ports, and shorelines.
NOAA will train decisionmakers at
the local and State level on how to use
the datasets to answer questions about
storm surge, erosion, and water level
trends. The data will also be available
on NOAA’s website for free and easy
public access, so every citizen can le-
verage the expertise of the Federal
Government.
Every day, planners in our home-
towns are asking questions, such as,
what is the storm surge in this commu-
nity, how much is the bluff going to
erode, or what are the water level
trends at the marina where we want to
build a new dock?
I represent Maryland, home of the
Chesapeake Bay, which provides $1 tril-
lion to the economies of its watershed.
So, protecting the shores of the bay
means protecting jobs.
The bill’s Republican cosponsor, Mr.
DON YOUNG, represents Alaska, a State
with 44,000 miles of coastline. There,
they rely on their shipping channels
for goods from the lower 48 States.
They need mapping for search and res-
cue operations and to support the fish-
ing industry, which is their largest pri-
vate-sector employer.
The Digital Coast Act will arm local
planners and managers with the high-
tech data they need to make smart de-
cisions and investments that could
save people’s lives.
In addition to the bill’s Republican
cosponsor, Congressman YOUNG, I
would like to thank Chairman GRI-
JALVA and Ranking Member BISHOP for
their hard work on this package, even
though I understand Ranking Member
BISHOP has some issues. And I also
would like to thank Senators TAMMY
BALDWIN and LISA MURKOWSKI for
championing the bill in the Senate.
I urge all my colleagues to support
this bill.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
appreciate the gentleman from Mary-
land. He has got a good bill. It should
be a suspension. We wouldn’t even ask
for a vote for it. There is nothing
wrong that.
Mr. KILMER’s H.R. 729 is a good, de-
cent bill. What is so sad is the Demo-
crats have decided to take these two
decent bills that should be suspensions
and hold them as hostage to tack a
whole bunch of other really crappy
stuff on with them as well, and that is
the sad part of this.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. CASTOR).
Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentleman from Ha-
waii for yielding the time.
I rise today in support of the Coastal
and Great Lakes Communities En-
hancement Act, H.R. 729. I also rise as
a proud Floridian and as the chair of
the House Select Committee on the
Climate Crisis. Our select committee is
tasked with developing a climate ac-
tion plan in the coming months.
Communities across America are
grappling with the rising costs of the
climate crisis. Here in Congress, we are
working to be good partners with our
neighbors and communities back home
and provide the tools they need to take
care of America’s diverse and vital
coastal communities.
That is why, last month, I visited
two of my colleagues in south Florida,
Congresswoman DONNA SHALALA and
Congresswoman DEBBIE MUCARSEL-
POWELL—they are in the Florida Keys
and Miami Beach—to see how their
communities are responding to climate
change. Here we are with Lad Akins of
the National Marine Sanctuary Foun-
dation. They are doing a lot, but we
have to do more.
Across the Keys and Miami Beach,
and all across this great country, local
officials are taking bold action to
adapt to sea level rise and make their
communities more resilient, but they
need our help.
That is why Congress must ramp up
bold climate legislation, like this bill,
which includes 10 separate measures to
help coastal communities become more
resilient.
One of these bills will create a grant
program for coastal communities to
create living shorelines. Another will
expand the use of climate data, which
is so vital to determining how we are
going to mitigate and how we are going
to adapt.
This Congress will continue to act on
the climate crisis. Next spring, our se-
lect committee will release a bold cli-
mate action plan, which will serve as a
roadmap for committees to take addi-
tional action.
But Chairman GRIJALVA and the Nat-
ural Resources Committee are ahead of
the game, and I want to thank him and
his committee members and profes-
sional staff for their deep commitment
to America and the places we hold dear
as we work to tackle the rising cost of
climate.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Oklahoma (Mr. KEVIN HERN) so he can
once again explain how there are three
good bills in this package and a whole
lot of other bad ones.
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
Madam Chair, as we heard in the Rules
Committee debate yesterday, this
package of bills before us is the first
major package put forth by House
Democrats to solve the climate crisis
that we hear about daily.
Many House Democrats ran their last
elections on the platform of putting
forth real, tangible solutions to this
situation. Unfortunately, they have
not lived up to those promises and are
letting their constituents down with
this package.
As Ranking Member BISHOP men-
tioned, this package is a hodgepodge of
provisions that reinstate current Fed-
eral authorities, all to the tune of
nearly 1.4 billion taxpayer dollars.
Let’s examine just a few of the provi-
sions in this bill:
Section 102 authorizes a Living
Shoreline Grant Program. According to
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, ‘‘The agency currently
provides financial and technical assist-
ance to coastal communities for the
use of living shorelines through exist-
ing programs.’’ CBO estimates that
this provision will cost American tax-
payers $300 million.
Section 103 authorizes the Working
Waterfronts Grant Program. According
to NOAA, ‘‘Under the CZMA, coastal
States have the discretion to use fund-
ing for many of the purposes that
would be addressed by the Working Wa-
terfronts Grant Program.’’ The CBO es-
timates this provision will cost Amer-
ican taxpayers upwards of $23 million.
Section 106 authorizes coastal cli-
mate change adaptation planning and
preparedness grants. According to
NOAA, under the CZMA, coastal States
already have the discretion to use
funding to develop and implement ad-
aptation plans. CBO estimates that
this provision will cost American tax-
payers upwards of $114 million.
Subtitle A of title II authorizes the
National Fish Habitat Conservation
Through Partnerships program, at a
cost to American taxpayers of nearly
$40 million. Supporters of this provi-
sion have stated its great success,
which is very true. However, this pro-
gram has been successfully leveraging
Federal and State funds since 2006, all
under existing Federal funding. That
leads me to question why we are now
authorizing an additional $40 million
for something that we have already
been spending on since 2006.
Ultimately, this package is a deceit-
ful attempt to act on climate policy.
Democrats have promised sweeping
policy reforms and under-delivered in a
major way. I would urge my colleagues
to oppose this misguided legislation.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Ohio
(Ms. KAPTUR).
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I rise to
support H.R. 729.
I thank Congressman CASE for yield-
ing to me and call attention to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:48 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.049 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9975
December 10, 2019
Great Lakes Fishery Research Author-
ization Act, which authorizes the U.S.
Geological Service Science Center for
the Great Lakes and commend Con-
gressman QUIGLEY for his hard work on
the legislation.
This service protects the Great Lakes
Fishery from voracious, destructive,
invasive species that threaten the in-
tegrity of our entire Great Lakes sys-
tem.
Today, in our district, the Geological
Service is leading the charge to iden-
tify and contain grass carp, a per-
nicious invasive whose population
threatens to explode but for the work
of the Federal science agencies.
Every day, our country sits in neu-
tral with inadequate direction to the
Geological Service we allow invasive
species to undermine the multibillion-
dollar Great Lakes Fishery.
The Great Lakes have come a long
way since the Cuyahoga River caught
fire 60 years ago and since has healed,
but we have a long way to go.
With this authorization, the Geologi-
cal Service will be able to conduct
deepwater ecosystem science to help us
better understand fish movement and
behavior; and, for my district, which
contains the most productive,
shallowest, and warmest $7 billion fish-
ery of the Great Lakes, the western
basin of Lake Erie, the service’s work
protects the region’s priceless ecologi-
cal and economic future.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support H.R. 729.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield such
time as he may consume to the gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. GRIJALVA),
the chair of the full Natural Resources
Committee.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Chair, last
week, I was honored to attend the
United Nations Climate Change Con-
ference with Speaker PELOSI and my
Democratic colleagues in Congress.
That conference focused on the ur-
gent need to prevent climate change
from destroying our oceans. The con-
sensus is clear: Oceans across the plan-
et are already being damaged, and
coastal communities everywhere are
hurting.
At the conference, we were asked
how we plan to respond to the climate
crisis. We could either plan now and
build a sustainable future or delay and
pay a very, very heavy price. To me,
that was an easy choice.
While we need to end our dependence
on fossil fuels, we also need to plan for
the impacts we already know are com-
ing for millions of Americans.
This package of bills does that. Forty
percent of Americans live in coastal
counties. From fishing to shipping to
recreation and tourism, American jobs
depend on healthy, resilient coasts.
These communities need the tools to
protect themselves.
We need to support our coastal com-
munities in their adaptation and resil-
ience planning, especially indigenous
and disadvantaged communities that
are often most at risk. We need to sup-
port all these communities and fund
adaptation and coastal planning that
will protect these communities and
their ways of life.
This bipartisan package, led by Mem-
bers from across the country and
across the aisle, will help communities
on the front lines of climate change
prepare for and respond to the impacts
of climate change that endanger liveli-
hoods, communities, and ecosystems.
I commend the many sponsors on
this important work and urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 729.
b 1515
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Maine (Ms. PINGREE).
Ms. PINGREE. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman from Hawaii for yield-
ing. I thank Chairman GRIJALVA for his
work on this committee, and I thank
the ranking member even though we
don’t seem to agree on too much about
this bill.
I rise today in support of H.R. 729,
which includes my bipartisan bill to
protect America’s working waterfronts
at a time when environmental pres-
sures and rapid development threaten
their future. More than 30,000 Mainers
rely on marine-related industries for
their livelihoods. Yet out of 5,000 miles
of coastline, just 20 miles of workable
waterfront remain in our State.
Coastal communities across the
country are feeling that same squeeze.
Further reducing our usable coastline
will adversely impact everything from
aquaculture and boatbuilding to coast-
al tourism and commercial fishing.
My bill will help to reverse this dis-
turbing nationwide trend of shrinking
waterfronts. It will protect jobs and
preserve the character of coastal com-
munities. It establishes a working wa-
terfronts grant program and a 5-year
loan fund pilot program for waterfront
preservation. It sets up a task force
within the Department of Commerce to
identify and prioritize critical needs
for the Nation’s working waterfronts.
Through the task force, the bill will
also help communities identify and
mitigate the impacts of the climate
crisis. At a time when 42 percent of
Americans live in coastal commu-
nities, this task force is not only a
vital planning measure for today, it
will support the generations who will
follow us.
For 8 years, House leadership on the
other side stalled critical initiatives
like this one to address the climate cri-
sis. The scope and severity of this cri-
sis require comprehensive action.
Though my bill addresses just one
small piece, it will make all the dif-
ference for communities in my State
and across the country.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
support of working waterfronts and
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this bill.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 90
seconds to the gentlewoman from Or-
egon (Ms. BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman from Hawaii for
yielding.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of the
Coastal and Great Lakes Communities
Enhancement Act, which includes leg-
islation to improve ocean data collec-
tion and information sharing between
Federal agencies and coastal observa-
tion partners.
Our coastal communities rely on ac-
curate ocean data and monitoring for
information about ocean acidification,
harmful algal blooms and hypoxia fore-
casting, tsunami preparedness, naviga-
tion, and port security.
I worked with my fellow co-chair of
the House Oceans Caucus, DON YOUNG,
to reintroduce the Integrated Coastal
Ocean Observing System Act, which is
included in this bill and will allow the
Integrated Ocean Observing System to
strengthen its work using satellites,
buoys, underwater gliders, and tide
gauges to deliver accurate and contin-
uous data on our oceans and coasts.
Mapping the ocean floor is expected
to be a top priority as the United Na-
tions’ Decade of Ocean Science for Sus-
tainable Development begins in 2021.
We must strengthen investments in the
Integrated Ocean Observing System
and ocean monitoring so we can mean-
ingfully contribute to these efforts.
I thank my colleague from Alaska
(Mr. YOUNG) for his leadership on this
issue, and I thank Chairman GRIJALVA
for his support. I encourage my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
yield myself 2 minutes.
Madam Chair, one of the things that
the other side has been talking about is
how we need a vision and need to plan
for the future, which is true. The only
problem is that the stuff we have be-
fore us isn’t it. This is a collection of
minor programs that already exist and
changing them in ways that sometimes
make no difference but sometimes have
some negative counterpoints.
There is one bill that was just talked
about here that if there is a default on
that bill, all of the sudden now, the
Federal Government is on the hook to
pay for that. It was never that way be-
fore.
Those are minor changes that if we
were handling these bills separately, if
they were actually being done in an ap-
propriate way, we could talk about
those minor changes in there. But once
you put them all together in a package
with a couple of really good things to
lead the way, everything kind of falls
in place.
Let me give you another example.
One of the issues that comes in the fol-
derol of bills that are underneath this
is the Sea Grant Fellowship Program,
which is currently discretionary. This
bill would make it mandatory. Sounds
kind of nice.
The program places fellows in the ex-
ecutive branch. We have no problem
with that whatsoever, but what this
bill would do, one of the things in the
weeds of this concoction of bills that
has been cobbled together, is it would
use taxpayer dollars to supply free
staff for Members of Congress. That
concept is just plain wrong.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:48 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.050 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9976 December 10, 2019
The underlying program is not bad.
Reauthorizing is not bad. That one
change in there is wrong. If we were
doing these bill-by-bill, talking about
them one-by-one instead of trying to
add them all together in a big package
of nothing, if we were dealing with
that, we could be talking about those
specific issues and making those kinds
of decisions.
That is the way legislation ought to
be done. This is not the way legislation
ought to be done.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from the
District of Columbia (Ms. NORTON).
Ms. NORTON. Madam Chair, I thank
my good friend for yielding, and I want
to assure the ranking member that the
program I am discussing does not al-
ready exist, but it should.
I rise today to express my strong sup-
port for the Coastal and Great Lakes
Communities Enhancement Act, which
includes the text of my bill, the Dis-
trict of Columbia Flood Prevention Act
of 2019. I thank my friend Natural Re-
sources Committee chair RAÚL GRI-
JALVA and Water, Oceans, and Wildlife
Subcommittee chair JARED HUFFMAN
for including my bill in this legisla-
tion.
This legislation would amend the
Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972
to include the Nation’s capital in the
definition of ‘‘coastal state.’’ Our bill
would correct an apparent oversight in
the omission of the District of Colum-
bia from the CZMA and would make
the District eligible to receive Federal
coastal zone management funding, in-
cluding flood mitigation and preven-
tion funds for the Nation’s capital.
Importantly, the District is located
on two rivers, the Anacostia and the
Potomac, which are tidally influenced
and show tangible salt water effects
and fish and are a part of an intertidal-
zone existing between high and low
maritime tides. D.C. has suffered sub-
stantial coastal floods in the past and
has also experienced numerous in-
stances of riverine and interior flood-
ing, such as the massive flood of 2006,
which flooded Constitution Avenue and
caused millions of dollars in damage to
the National Archives, the Internal
Revenue Service, and other Federal
buildings.
Despite these factors, D.C. was omit-
ted from the list of eligible States and
territories in the CZMA. The oversight
probably occurred because the CZMA
was passed in 1972 before the District
achieved home rule. Because terri-
tories are included in the definition of
‘‘coastal states’’ under the CZMA, it
appears that the District omission is a
mistake which only Congress can cor-
rect.
I appreciate the gentleman for in-
cluding my bill in this bill.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL), a member of
the Natural Resources Committee.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Chair, I rise
in support of H.R. 729, the Coastal and
Great Lakes Communities Enhance-
ment Act. This strong, bipartisan
package is a combination of months of
work in the Natural Resources Com-
mittee. It includes many key priorities
for the Great Lakes region, including
Representative QUIGLEY’s Great Lakes
Fishery Research Authorization Act.
This bipartisan legislation will
strengthen our understanding of Great
Lakes fisheries and provide additional
resources for research into the Great
Lakes Basin’s fisheries and biology.
Cutting-edge technologies authorized
by the Great Lakes Fishery Research
Reauthorization Act will enable sci-
entists to deliver near-real-time data
on quickly emerging crises, such as po-
tential fisheries crashes or new and
very unwelcome invasive species like
the Asian carp.
Additionally, the package includes
key sportsmen’s priorities like the Na-
tional Fish Habitat Conservation
Through Partnerships Act, which
builds off State- and locally led joint
ventures to better conserve wildlife
and fish habitats.
As one of the co-chairs of the Great
Lakes Task Force here in Congress, I
urge all of my colleagues to support
these important provisions and vote in
favor of the Coastal and Great Lakes
Communities Enhancement Act.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES).
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentleman from
Utah for yielding.
Madam Chair, I was sitting in my of-
fice in a meeting and looked up at the
TV screen on C–SPAN, and I watched
our distinguished chairman put up a
chart that said that for every $1 you in-
vest in proactive predisaster mitiga-
tion, you get $6 in cost savings.
I was somewhat shocked because I
have used that statistic over and over
again, and I have also used the sta-
tistic that the Congressional Budget
Office has a study that says you get $3
in cost savings for every $1 you invest.
The Corps of Engineers has a study
that says you get $7.92 for every $1 you
invest. The National Institutes for
Building Standards says you get $11 in
cost savings for every $1 you invest.
You know what? Every single time I
have tried to do this, my good friend
has voted against me—every single
time.
This bill is designed to send out press
releases. Let me be clear: Right now,
we have well over $100 billion in resil-
iency projects that are needed across
the Nation. Just last year, under a Re-
publican Congress, we put tens of bil-
lions of dollars into funding those resil-
iency projects through the Corps of En-
gineers, through FEMA. So taking an
existing program that manages our
coastal resources and expanding the
eligibility, expanding the uses of fund-
ing without adding new funds, all that
is doing is further complicating the
very mission that the majority is try-
ing to achieve.
The bill goes on further to give USGS
permanent authority, or at least au-
thorizing them over the long-term, for
fisheries management—you know,
USGS, our fisheries agency. No, they
don’t manage fisheries. That would be
NOAA.
This program also takes funds and
does a set-aside of authorization for
Tribes under a coastal zone. We have
learned over and over again that the
way that you manage your coastal re-
sources is by integrated management,
not by breaking it up further and fur-
ther into smaller and smaller pieces.
We already have 35 coastal States
and territories. We need to have inte-
grated management. We don’t need to
have Louisiana doing something to
mess up Mississippi or Texas. We need
to make sure that we are looking at it
holistically as a Nation.
I have been one of the biggest advo-
cates in this Congress for being
proactive and making investments in
our communities. I represent south
Louisiana, one of the most disaster-im-
pacted areas in our entire Nation. The
people I represent have been through it
all, Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav,
Ike, Isaac. We have had high water on
the Mississippi River 4 years of the last
6, record high water draining from
Montana to New York to Canada on
down.
This is not the right approach. This
is a flawed approach.
I can’t even believe I am standing
here. My friends have voted against me
every single time we have tried to do
thoughtful, integrated approaches to
protect our coastal communities, pro-
tect our ecological resources. To come
in and do this in a partisan manner and
do it in a way that is totally hypo-
critical over previous actions is ridicu-
lous.
Madam Chair, I urge rejection of this
bill and ask that we sit down in a bi-
partisan manner and work out bipar-
tisan solutions.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
What the gentleman from Louisiana
was saying is exactly right. Actually,
he had an amendment that could have
helped with that problem that was not
made in order by our crack Rules Com-
mittee. I am sure if he would promise
to shave next time he speaks, they
probably would make it in order the
next time we have this bill.
b 1530
Not only are there a lot of bills that
are basically meaningless because the
authority is already there, there are a
few situations simply when the new ad-
ditions to it do not make sense.
One of the speakers in here was talk-
ing about one of the coastal zone man-
agement amendments to add Wash-
ington, D.C., to the coastal zone man-
agement plan, which would be good ex-
cept that, first of all, Washington,
D.C., is not a State, and, secondly, it is
not even a coastal State.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.041 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9977
December 10, 2019
It would actually make more sense to
have my hometown, because at least
we are on the Great Salt Lake and
have brackish water that could be in-
cluded in part of this thing.
It also would make a problem of sim-
ply reducing the total amount of funds
that go to the 35 States that actually
have their programs already here. It is
not a problem for Utah. We are not
part of it. But those States that have
coasts, they will have their programs
reduced because of this.
More importantly, it provides juris-
dictional problems in how the city of
Washington, D.C., would interface with
the Federal Government.
Now, those are not insurmountable
problems, but they should have been
worked out, and they could have been
worked out if you are actually dealing
with these things in a logical, sequen-
tial way instead of lumping them all
together into some kind of overall pro-
gram that actually doesn’t necessarily
meet the guidelines of what we are try-
ing to accomplish.
But, as I said, there are three of
these bills that are in here that could
easily have gone in suspension. We
would have done it.
There is another bill in here that,
had one amendment been made, it
would have easily solved the problem,
and it should have been done.
But for the bulk of these bills—minor
changes in here, but the bulk of these
bills can actually be done under cur-
rent statutory authority.
As we had testimony from NOAA, on
one of the bills, they simply said the
agency already provides financial and
technical assistance through existing
programs. There was no reason to add
that particular bill to this list.
Another one that was on this list
that tries to do the CZMA, under their
authority, States have discretion to
use funding for many of the purposes of
the working waterfronts grant program
that were proposed by this particular
bill. They can do it now. There is no
additional authority that is needed.
Then, another one of the bills that is
part of this falderal of legislation
under one umbrella said that the coast-
al States already have discretion to use
funding to develop and implement
adoption plans, and they gave a spe-
cific example of how one of the States
that does use that, NOAA gave the ex-
ample of how that flexibility already
exists.
But we are saying over and over
again, one of the problems we have
with this is that you have taken one
really decent bill by Mr. KILMER, a cou-
ple of others that should have easily
been in suspensions, and have used
them as a hostage to add up a whole
bunch of other stuff to it.
Then, if you look at some of the
amendments that were made in order,
obviously, when you take other bills
that have not had hearings, they
haven’t gone through the process, we
are going to try and now add them on
to this, well, why would anyone want
to do that, except we are giving the il-
lusion of getting something done.
And this is the only game in town
that is going through, so why not try
and put as many bills as you can? That
way, somebody could stand up and say,
‘‘Look, we just passed 16 bills.
Wouldn’t it be nice if the Senate
picked them up?’’
Well, that is not the way we are
doing it. We are adding 16 bills. Most of
them have no Senate counterpart.
Most of them will never be done in the
Senate. If the Senate actually deals
with this issue at all, they are going to
separate it and divide it up and do it
piecemeal, which is the way we should
have done it in the first particular
place.
If this package of bills is really a phi-
losophy, a vision of the future of what
we are going to do to make either the
air better or the climate safer or water
more drinkable, it doesn’t happen in
this bill.
These things are simply a retread of
ideas that, in reality, the authority
they are trying to develop is actually
already in existence. They are doing it.
Except that every once in awhile, in
one of these bills, you will add a little
tweak here or a little tweak there that
basically is something that is wrong,
that it should not be doing:
Creating a program to provide in-
terns for our offices without having it
come out of our own budgets, that is
not a great idea, but it is in here;
Creating new areas for something
that is not a State, that is not even a
coastal State, so they can get part of
that money, that is not a great idea,
but it is part of it that is in here.
Those are the things that, if we did
things per regular order, if we actually
tried to be logical about taking a bill
and discussing it and then coming up
with a solution to some of the prob-
lems, we could easily do that in a bi-
partisan way.
But we don’t do that. Instead, we just
lump everything together in one pack-
age in an effort to say, ‘‘Look, we are
being productive.’’ But we are not solv-
ing a problem. We are not doing any-
thing that is moving the ball forward.
All we are doing is checking a box, say-
ing, yes, we were here on this par-
ticular day, and giving the illusion of
some kind of activity.
What we really need is activity. What
we really need is to get on with things
that are of significance that should
have been done well before now, like
the NDAA and the trade treaty and our
budget and the backlog maintenance
bill. All of those things should be done,
but they are not being scheduled.
And still we are coming up with a se-
ries of bills that don’t make the case;
they are not ready for prime time.
This is a package that we will send
over to the Senate, if indeed it is
passed in here, and it will be ignored or
it will be stripped apart; and we will be
asking the Senate to do what we
should have done in the first place:
taking these things in a logical, se-
quential way, trying to solve some of
the major problems that are there.
And reauthorizing something that is
already in existence doesn’t need to ac-
tually be something we spend our time
doing that particular thing.
So, actually, in the spirit of Christ-
mas, you’ll be sorry if you are actually
going to vote for this. Only if you spell
‘‘you’ll,’’ Y-U-L-E, and then it can be a
pun.
Is the gentleman satisfied?
Madam Chair, this is fun.
This is not a solution. This is not a
vision. This is not anything that really
moves us forward. This is something
that should have and could have been
done in a much, much better way.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Madam Chair, first of all, I thank the
members of my majority who rose in
favor of this bill as well as the few
members of the minority who did as
well.
And I again thank the 24 Republicans
who supported a portion of this bill
that is at least a start on the challenge
of our time: climate change and the
impacts on our oceans, on our coast-
lines, and on our lakes.
The ranking member complains on
several fronts. The first front he com-
plains on is that this is just an illusion,
that this is just moving the ball no-
where at all.
I completely reject that. I com-
pletely reject the notion that strength-
ening our Federal programs that are
directly related to resiliency of our
coastlines, that are directly related to
good science applied to our oceans and
lakes, that are directly related to find-
ing good, solid public-private partner-
ships to address the incredible negative
impacts of climate change and other
causes on our oceans and coastlines is
not moving the ball forward.
In fact, I would suggest that the illu-
sion we are talking about is the illu-
sion that the ranking member cares at
all about these issues because, if you
look at the record of addressing these
issues under the Republican majority,
that record is zero. They have not
moved any balls forward whatsoever.
And further, pardon me for dis-
trusting the current administration,
because the ranking member complains
that NOAA and other Federal agencies
are already exercising flexibility on
many of these programs—fine. Admin-
istrative flexibility is one thing, and
all power to good people and NOAA
who are trying to do the right thing,
but that is different from a congres-
sional mandate to do something.
The reason for the concern is staring
us in the face. Every year of this ad-
ministration, there have been proposed
disastrous budget cuts to NOAA and
other ocean-related programs. For the
current fiscal year, 2020, a cut of 18 per-
cent was restored by the House major-
ity: cuts to eliminate or severely de-
crease funding to our critical ocean
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:48 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.044 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9978 December 10, 2019
and coastal programs, Sea Grant,
coastal zone management, National
Centers for Coastal Ocean Science, hy-
drographic surveys and ocean observ-
ing, climate change research, programs
that manage coral reefs and marine
mammals and sea turtles, and many
more.
So pardon me if we are distrustful of
this administration or of future admin-
istrations on severely restricting the
flexibility that these programs have to
administer critical needs for not only
our country, but our world.
Pardon me, but it is a congressional
mandate in these areas that is really
necessary.
The ranking member and his col-
leagues complain that we are not ad-
vancing climate change by a step. If
they want to advance climate change
with us, then join us in a major cli-
mate change initiative; join us in re-
turning to the Paris climate accord;
join us across the board.
The ranking member complains that
no due consideration was given to
these many bills. In fact, these bills
were heard; they were discussed; and,
with the exception of the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES), there
were no Republican amendments of-
fered to any of these bills.
The gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr.
KEVIN HERN) complains that we should
not spend more on our oceans, lakes,
and coastal cities; we should not an-
ticipate disaster mitigation. The gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES)
argues that, in fact, there is not a posi-
tive cost benefit in these programs and
their funding going forward.
The citation for that information is
the National Institute of Building
Sciences, based on 23 years’ worth of
data from FEMA, the Economic Devel-
opment Administration, and HUD.
Investments upfront for the impacts
of climate change and other man-made
causation to our oceans and lakes and
coastlines is, in fact, a major return to
not only our communities, but to all
parts of our country.
The gentleman complains, and the
minority would have you believe, that
this is a mandatory increase of over $1
billion in Federal funding. It is not. It
is discretionary, in large part, to the
Appropriations Committee.
So, as we go into the amendment
process, I appreciate my colleagues’
support, and I truly hope that this can
be a bipartisan bill.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Chair, I commend my
colleagues on the Natural Resources Com-
mittee and the authors of the bill’s various pro-
visions and amendments for their work on
H.R. 729, the Coastal and Great Lakes Com-
munities Enhancement Act. I am proud to sup-
port this critical bill aimed at equipping coastal
and great lakes communities with the tools
they need to enhance resiliency planning ef-
forts; implement forward-thinking solutions to
address intense climate impacts; and ensure a
cleaner, safer, and more sustainable future.
Orange County is ground zero for the cli-
mate crisis. Families living on the coast know
that rising sea-levels, frequent flooding, coast-
al erosion, and increasingly severe weather
events are a clear and present danger to our
lives and livelihoods. This legislation protects
and preserves coastline, helps communities
create and enact resiliency measures, and im-
proves ocean monitoring and research. Cli-
mate change is here, and we must continue to
take bold and swift action to protect coastal
communities.
The first of my two amendments to the
Coastal and Great Lakes Communities En-
hancement act authorizes a prize competition
to stimulate innovation to advance coastal risk
and resilience measures. My second amend-
ment requires the development of a catalog of
research on applicable coastal risk reduction
and resilience measures to evaluate effective-
ness, eliminate redundancies, encourage co-
operation, and make research findings avail-
able to the public. These amendments
strengthen the underlying bill, and I appreciate
the opportunity to offer to advocate for the mil-
lions of Americans who live and work in coast-
al communities.
I urge adoption of my amendments to this
important piece of legislation and final pas-
sage of the Coastal and Great Lakes Commu-
nities Enhancement Act.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Chair, I rise to ex-
press my strong support for the Coastal and
Great Lakes Communities Enhancement Act
(H.R. 729), which contains a number of impor-
tant provisions, including the text of my bill,
the District of Columbia Flood Prevention Act
of 2019 (H.R. 2185). I thank my friend, Natural
Resources Committee Chair RAÚL GRIJALVA,
and Water, Oceans, and Wildlife Sub-
committee Chair JARED HUFFMAN, for including
my bill in this legislation. This legislation would
amend the Coastal Zone Management Act of
1972 (CZMA) to include the nation’s capital in
the definition of ‘‘coastal state.’’ Our bill would
correct an apparent oversight in the omission
of the District of Columbia from the CZMA and
would make the District eligible to receive fed-
eral coastal zone management funding, includ-
ing flood mitigation and prevention funds.
Importantly, the District is located on two riv-
ers, the Anacostia and Potomac Rivers, which
are tidally influenced and show tangible salt
water effects (and fish) and are part of an
‘‘intertidal-zone’’ existing between high and
low maritime tides. D.C. has suffered substan-
tial coastal floods in the past and has also ex-
perienced numerous instances of riverine and
interior flooding, such as the massive flood of
2006 which flooded Constitution Avenue and
caused millions of dollars in damage to the
National Archives, the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice and other federal buildings.
Despite these factors, D.C. was omitted
from the list of eligible states and territories in
the CZMA. This oversight probably occurred
because the CZMA was passed in 1972—be-
fore the District achieved home rule. Because
territories are included in the definition of
‘‘coastal states’’ under the CZMA, it appears
that D.C.’s omission is a mistake, which only
Congress can correct.
A member of the other side complained that
the District should not be included in the bill.
However, scientists have predicted that the
tides on the Atlantic Coast could rise two to
four feet by the year 2100, causing private
and federal property worth as much as $7 bil-
lion in the District to be routinely under threat
by floodwaters. Because of these factors, the
District should be eligible under the CZMA,
just like the states and territories already listed
in the CZMA.
I urge support for this bill.
The CHAIR. All time for debate has
expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
An amendment in the nature of a
substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116–40 shall be
considered as adopted in the House and
in the Committee of the Whole. The
bill, as amended, shall be considered as
the original bill for the purpose of fur-
ther amendment under the 5-minute
rule and shall be considered as read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 729
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FRONT MATTER.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Coastal and Great Lakes Communities En-
hancement Act’’.
(b) DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—The budgetary effects of this Act, for
the purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined
by reference to the latest statement titled
‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation’’ for
this Act, submitted for printing in the Congres-
sional Record by the Chairman of the House
Budget Committee, provided that such statement
has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
(c) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Front matter.
TITLE I—COASTAL RESILIENCE AND
ECONOMIC ENHANCEMENT
Sec. 101. Grants to further achievement of Trib-
al coastal zone objectives.
Sec. 102. Living Shoreline Grant Program.
Sec. 103. Working Waterfronts Grant Program.
Sec. 104. Working Waterfronts Preservation
Fund; grants.
Sec. 105. Eligibility of District of Columbia for
Federal funding under the Coast-
al Zone Management Act of 1972.
Sec. 106. Climate change preparedness in the
coastal zone.
TITLE II—FISHERY RESEARCH AND
CONSERVATION
Subtitle A—National Fish Habitat Conservation
Through Partnerships
Sec. 201. Purpose.
Sec. 202. Definitions.
Sec. 203. National Fish Habitat Board.
Sec. 204. Fish Habitat Partnerships.
Sec. 205. Fish Habitat Conservation Projects.
Sec. 206. Technical and scientific assistance.
Sec. 207. Coordination with States and Indian
Tribes.
Sec. 208. Interagency Operational Plan.
Sec. 209. Accountability and reporting.
Sec. 210. Effect of this subtitle.
Sec. 211. Nonapplicability of Federal Advisory
Committee Act.
Sec. 212. Funding.
Sec. 213. Prohibition against implementation of
regulatory authority by Federal
agencies through Partnerships.
Subtitle B—Great Lakes Fishery Research
Authorization
Sec. 214. Definitions.
Sec. 215. Findings.
Sec. 216. Great Lakes monitoring, assessment,
science, and research.
Sec. 217. Authorization of appropriations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6343 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.045 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9979
December 10, 2019
TITLE III—MEETING 21ST CENTURY OCEAN
AND COASTAL DATA NEEDS
Subtitle A—Digital Coast
Sec. 301. Findings.
Sec. 302. Definitions.
Sec. 303. Establishment of the Digital Coast.
Subtitle B—Integrated Coastal and Ocean
Observation System
Sec. 304. Staggered terms for National Inte-
grated Coastal and Ocean Obser-
vation System Advisory Com-
mittee.
Sec. 305. Integrated coastal and ocean observa-
tion system cooperative agree-
ments.
Sec. 306. Reauthorization of Integrated Coastal
and Ocean Observation System
Act of 2009.
TITLE IV—NATIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE
PROGRAM AMENDMENTS
Sec. 401. References to the National Sea Grant
College Program Act.
Sec. 402. Modification of Dean John A. Knauss
Marine Policy Fellowship.
Sec. 403. Modification of authority of Secretary
of Commerce to accept donations
for National Sea Grant College
Program.
Sec. 404. Repeal of requirement for report on co-
ordination of oceans and coastal
research activities.
Sec. 405. Reduction in frequency required for
National Sea Grant Advisory
Board report.
Sec. 406. Modification of elements of National
Sea Grant College Program.
Sec. 407. Direct hire authority; Dean John A.
Knauss Marine Policy Fellowship.
Sec. 408. Authorization of appropriations for
National Sea Grant College Pro-
gram.
Sec. 409. Technical corrections.
TITLE I—COASTAL RESILIENCE AND
ECONOMIC ENHANCEMENT
SEC. 101. GRANTS TO FURTHER ACHIEVEMENT OF
TRIBAL COASTAL ZONE OBJECTIVES.
(a) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.)
is amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 320. GRANTS TO FURTHER ACHIEVEMENT
OF TRIBAL COASTAL ZONE OBJEC-
TIVES.
‘‘(a) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—The Secretary
may award competitive grants to Indian Tribes
to further achievement of the objectives of such
a Tribe for its Tribal coastal zone.
‘‘(b) COST SHARE.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share of the
cost of any activity carried out with a grant
under this section shall be—
‘‘(A) in the case of a grant of less than
$200,000, 100 percent of such cost; and
‘‘(B) in the case of a grant of $200,000 or more,
95 percent of such cost, except as provided in
paragraph (2).
‘‘(2) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive the
application of paragraph (1)(B) with respect to
a grant to an Indian Tribe, or otherwise reduce
the portion of the share of the cost of an activ-
ity required to be paid by an Indian Tribe under
such paragraph, if the Secretary determines
that the Tribe does not have sufficient funds to
pay such portion.
‘‘(c) COMPATIBILITY.—The Secretary may not
award a grant under this section unless the Sec-
retary determines that the activities to be car-
ried out with the grant are compatible with this
title and that the grantee has consulted with
the affected coastal state regarding the grant
objectives and purposes.
‘‘(d) AUTHORIZED OBJECTIVES AND PUR-
POSES.—Amounts awarded as a grant under this
section shall be used for one or more of the ob-
jectives and purposes authorized under sub-
sections (b) and (c), respectively, of section
306A.
‘‘(e) FUNDING.—Of amounts appropriated to
carry out this Act, $5,000,000 is authorized to
carry out this section for each fiscal year.
‘‘(f) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) INDIAN LAND.—The term ‘Indian land’
has the meaning that term has under section
2601 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (25 U.S.C.
3501).
‘‘(2) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘Indian Tribe’
means an Indian tribe, as that term is defined in
section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304).
‘‘(3) TRIBAL COASTAL ZONE.—The term ‘Tribal
coastal zone’ means any Indian land of an In-
dian Tribe that is within the coastal zone.
‘‘(4) TRIBAL COASTAL ZONE OBJECTIVE.—The
term ‘Tribal coastal zone objective’ means, with
respect to an Indian Tribe, any of the following
objectives:
‘‘(A) Protection, restoration, or preservation
of areas in the Tribal coastal zone of such Tribe
that hold—
‘‘(i) important ecological, cultural, or sacred
significance for such Tribe; or
‘‘(ii) traditional, historic, and esthetic values
essential to such Tribe.
‘‘(B) Preparing and implementing a special
area management plan and technical planning
for important coastal areas.
‘‘(C) Any coastal or shoreline stabilization
measure, including any mitigation measure, for
the purpose of public safety, public access, or
cultural or historical preservation.’’.
(b) GUIDANCE.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of Commerce shall issue guidance for the
program established under the amendment made
by subsection (a), including the criteria for
awarding grants under such program based on
consultation with Indian Tribes (as that term is
defined in that amendment).
(c) USE OF STATE GRANTS TO FULFILL TRIBAL
OBJECTIVES.—Section 306A(c)(2) of the Coastal
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C.
1455a(c)(2)) is amended by striking ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon at the end of subparagraph (D),
by striking the period at the end of subpara-
graph (E) and inserting ‘‘; and’’, and by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(F) fulfilling any Tribal coastal zone objec-
tive (as that term is defined in section 320).’’.
(d) OTHER PROGRAMS NOT AFFECTED.—Noth-
ing in this section shall be construed to affect
the ability of an Indian Tribe to apply for, re-
ceive assistance under, or participate in any
program authorized by the Coastal Zone Man-
agement Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) or
other related Federal laws.
SEC. 102. LIVING SHORELINE GRANT PROGRAM.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Administrator shall
make grants to eligible entities for purposes of—
(1) designing and implementing large- and
small-scale, climate-resilient living shoreline
projects; and
(2) applying innovative uses of natural mate-
rials and systems to protect coastal communities,
habitats, and natural system functions.
(b) PROJECT PROPOSALS.—To be eligible to re-
ceive a grant under this section, an eligible enti-
ty shall—
(1) submit to the Administrator a proposal for
a living shoreline project, including monitoring,
data collection, and measurable performance
criteria with respect to the project; and
(2) demonstrate to the Administrator that the
entity has any permits or other authorizations
from local, State, and Federal government agen-
cies necessary to carry out the living shoreline
project or provide evidence demonstrating gen-
eral support from such agencies.
(c) PROJECT SELECTION.—
(1) DEVELOPMENT OF CRITERIA.—The Adminis-
trator shall select eligible entities to receive
grants under this section based on criteria de-
veloped by the Administrator, in consultation
with relevant offices of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, such as the
Office of Habitat Conservation, the Office for
Coastal Management, and the Restoration Cen-
ter.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In developing criteria
under paragraph (1) to evaluate a proposed liv-
ing shoreline project, the Administrator shall
take into account—
(A) the potential of the project to protect the
community and maintain the viability of the en-
vironment, such as through protection of eco-
system functions, environmental benefits, or
habitat types, in the area where the project is to
be carried out;
(B) the historic and future environmental con-
ditions of the project site, particularly those en-
vironmental conditions affected by climate
change;
(C) the ecological benefits of the project; and
(D) the ability of the entity proposing the
project to demonstrate the potential of the
project to protect the coastal community where
the project is to be carried out, including
through—
(i) mitigating the effects of erosion;
(ii) attenuating the impact of coastal storms
and storm surge;
(iii) mitigating shoreline flooding;
(iv) mitigating the effects of sea level rise, ac-
celerated land loss, and extreme tides;
(v) sustaining, protecting, or restoring the
functions and habitats of coastal ecosystems; or
(vi) such other forms of coastal protection as
the Administrator considers appropriate.
(3) PRIORITY.—In selecting living shoreline
projects to receive grants under this section, the
Administrator shall give priority consideration
to a proposed project to be conducted in an
area—
(A) for which the President has declared, dur-
ing the 10-year period preceding the submission
of the proposal for the project under subsection
(b), that a major disaster exists pursuant to sec-
tion 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170)
because of a hurricane, tropical storm, coastal
storm, or flooding; or
(B) that has a documented history of coastal
erosion or frequent coastal inundation during
that 10-year period.
(4) MINIMUM STANDARDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall de-
velop minimum standards to be used in selecting
eligible entities to receive grants under this sec-
tion, taking into account—
(i) the considerations described in paragraph
(2); and
(ii) the need for such standards to be general
enough to accommodate concerns relating to
specific project sites.
(B) CONSULTATIONS.—In developing standards
under subparagraph (A), the Administrator—
(i) shall consult with relevant offices of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, such as the Office of Habitat Conservation,
the Office for Coastal Management, and the
Restoration Center; and
(ii) may consult with—
(I) relevant interagency councils, such as the
Estuary Habitat Restoration Council;
(II) State coastal management agencies; and
(III) relevant nongovernmental organizations.
(d) USE OF FUNDS.—A grant awarded under
this section to an eligible entity to carry out a
living shoreline project may be used by the eligi-
ble entity only—
(1) to carry out the project, including adminis-
tration, design, permitting, entry into negotiated
indirect cost rate agreements, and construction;
and
(2) to monitor, collect, and report data on the
performance (including performance over time)
of the project, in accordance with standards
issued by the Administrator under subsection
(f)(2).
(e) COST-SHARING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), an eligible entity that receives a grant
under this section to carry out a living shoreline
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9980 December 10, 2019
project shall provide, from non-Federal sources,
funds or other resources (such as land or con-
servation easements or in-kind matching from
private entities) valued at not less than 50 per-
cent of the total cost, including administrative
costs, of the project.
(2) REDUCED MATCHING REQUIREMENT FOR
CERTAIN COMMUNITIES.—The Administrator may
reduce or waive the matching requirement under
paragraph (1) for an eligible entity representing
a community or nonprofit organization if—
(A) the eligible entity submits to the Adminis-
trator in writing—
(i) a request for such a reduction and the
amount of the reduction; and
(ii) a justification for why the entity cannot
meet the matching requirement; and
(B) the Administrator agrees with the jus-
tification.
(f) MONITORING AND REPORTING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall re-
quire each eligible entity receiving a grant
under this section (or a representative of the en-
tity) to carry out a living shoreline project—
(A) to transmit to the Administrator data col-
lected under the project;
(B) to monitor the project and to collect data
on—
(i) the ecological benefits of the project and
the protection provided by the project for the
coastal community where the project is carried
out, including through—
(I) mitigating the effects of erosion;
(II) attenuating the impact of coastal storms
and storm surge;
(III) mitigating shoreline flooding;
(IV) mitigating the effects of sea level rise, ac-
celerated land loss, and extreme tides;
(V) sustaining, protecting, or restoring the
functions and habitats of coastal ecosystems; or
(VI) such other forms of coastal protection as
the Administrator considers appropriate; and
(ii) the performance of the project in providing
such protection;
(C) to make data collected under the project
available on a publicly accessible internet
website of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration; and
(D) not later than one year after the entity re-
ceives the grant, and annually thereafter until
the completion of the project, to submit to the
Administrator a report on—
(i) the measures described in subparagraph
(B); and
(ii) the effectiveness of the project in increas-
ing protection of the coastal community where
the project is carried out through living shore-
lines techniques, including—
(I) a description of—
(aa) the project;
(bb) the activities carried out under the
project; and
(cc) the techniques and materials used in car-
rying out the project; and
(II) data on the performance of the project in
providing protection to that coastal community.
(2) GUIDELINES.—In developing guidelines re-
lating to paragraph (1)(C), the Administrator
shall consider how additional data could safely
be collected before and after major disasters or
severe weather events to measure project per-
formance and project recovery.
(3) STANDARDS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Ad-
ministrator shall, in consultation with relevant
offices of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, relevant interagency councils,
and relevant nongovernmental organizations,
issue standards for the monitoring, collection,
and reporting under subsection (d)(2) of data re-
garding the performance of living shoreline
projects for which grants are awarded under
this section.
(B) REPORTING.—The standards issued under
subparagraph (A) shall require an eligible entity
receiving a grant under this section to report the
data described in that subparagraph to the Ad-
ministrator on a regular basis.
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated
$50,000,000 to the Administrator for each of fis-
cal years 2020 through 2025 for purposes of car-
rying out this section.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ means the Administrator of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘‘eligible enti-
ty’’ means any of the following:
(A) A unit of a State or local government.
(B) An organization described in section
501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
that is exempt from taxation under section
501(a) of such Code.
(C) An Indian Tribe (as defined in section 4 of
the Indian Self-Determination and Education
Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 5304)).
(3) LIVING SHORELINE PROJECT.—The term
‘‘living shoreline project’’—
(A) means a project that—
(i) restores or stabilizes a shoreline, including
marshes, wetlands, and other vegetated areas
that are part of the shoreline ecosystem, by
using natural materials and systems to create
buffers to attenuate the impact of coastal
storms, currents, flooding, and wave energy and
to prevent or minimize shoreline erosion while
supporting coastal ecosystems and habitats;
(ii) incorporates as many natural elements as
possible, such as native wetlands, submerged
aquatic plants, oyster shells, native grasses,
shrubs, or trees;
(iii) utilizes techniques that incorporate eco-
logical and coastal engineering principles in
shoreline stabilization; and
(iv) to the extent possible, maintains or re-
stores existing natural slopes and connections
between uplands and adjacent wetlands or sur-
face waters;
(B) may include the use of—
(i) natural elements, such as sand, wetland
plants, logs, oysters or other shellfish, sub-
merged aquatic vegetation, native grasses,
shrubs, trees, or coir fiber logs;
(ii) project elements that provide ecological
benefits to coastal ecosystems and habitats in
addition to shoreline protection; and
(iii) structural materials, such as stone, con-
crete, wood, vinyl, oyster domes, or other ap-
proved engineered structures in combination
with natural materials; and
(C) may include a project that expands upon
or restores natural living shorelines or existing
living shoreline projects.
(4) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each of
the several States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United
States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa,
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mar-
iana Islands.
SEC. 103. WORKING WATERFRONTS GRANT PRO-
GRAM.
The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16
U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘SEC. 321. WORKING WATERFRONTS GRANT PRO-
GRAM.
‘‘(a) WORKING WATERFRONT TASK FORCE.—
‘‘(1) ESTABLISHMENT AND FUNCTIONS.—The
Secretary of Commerce shall establish a task
force to work directly with coastal States, user
groups, and coastal stakeholders to identify and
address critical needs with respect to working
waterfronts.
‘‘(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The members of the task
force shall be appointed by the Secretary of
Commerce, and shall include—
‘‘(A) experts in the unique economic, social,
cultural, ecological, geographic, and resource
concerns of working waterfronts; and
‘‘(B) representatives from the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration’s Office of
Coastal Management, the United States Fish
and Wildlife Service, the Department of Agri-
culture, the Environmental Protection Agency,
the United States Geological Survey, the Navy,
the National Marine Fisheries Service, the Eco-
nomic Development Agency, and such other
Federal agencies as the Secretary considers ap-
propriate.
‘‘(3) FUNCTIONS.—The task force shall—
‘‘(A) identify and prioritize critical needs with
respect to working waterfronts in States that
have a management program approved by the
Secretary of Commerce pursuant to section 306,
in the areas of—
‘‘(i) economic and cultural importance of
working waterfronts to communities;
‘‘(ii) changing environments and threats
working waterfronts face from environment
changes, trade barriers, sea level rise, extreme
weather events, ocean acidification, and harm-
ful algal blooms; and
‘‘(iii) identifying working waterfronts and
highlighting them within communities;
‘‘(B) outline options, in coordination with
coastal States and local stakeholders, to address
such critical needs, including adaptation and
mitigation where applicable;
‘‘(C) identify Federal agencies that are re-
sponsible under existing law for addressing such
critical needs; and
‘‘(D) recommend Federal agencies best suited
to address any critical needs for which no agen-
cy is responsible under existing law.
‘‘(4) INFORMATION TO BE CONSIDERED.—In
identifying and prioritizing policy gaps pursu-
ant to paragraph (3), the task force shall con-
sider the findings and recommendations con-
tained in section VI of the report entitled ‘The
Sustainable Working Waterfronts Toolkit: Final
Report’, dated March 2013.
‘‘(5) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months after
the date of the enactment of this section, the
task force shall submit a report to Congress on
its findings.
‘‘(6) IMPLEMENTATION.—The head of each
Federal agency identified in the report pursuant
to paragraph (3)(C) shall take such action as is
necessary to implement the recommendations
contained in the report by not later than 1 year
after the date of the issuance of the report.
‘‘(b) WORKING WATERFRONT GRANT PRO-
GRAM.—
‘‘(1) The Secretary shall establish a Working
Waterfront Grant Program, in cooperation with
appropriate State, regional, and other units of
government, under which the Secretary may
make a grant to any coastal State for the pur-
pose of implementing a working waterfront plan
approved by the Secretary under subsection (c).
‘‘(2) Subject to the availability of appropria-
tions, the Secretary shall award matching
grants under the Working Waterfronts Grant
Program to coastal States with approved work-
ing waterfront plans through a regionally equi-
table, competitive funding process in accordance
with the following:
‘‘(A) The Governor, or the lead agency des-
ignated by the Governor for coordinating the
implementation of this section, where appro-
priate in consultation with the appropriate local
government, shall determine that the applica-
tion is consistent with the State’s or territory’s
approved coastal zone plan, program, and poli-
cies prior to submission to the Secretary.
‘‘(B) In developing guidelines under this sec-
tion, the Secretary shall consult with coastal
States, other Federal agencies, and other inter-
ested stakeholders with expertise in working wa-
terfront planning.
‘‘(C) Coastal States may allocate grants to
local governments, agencies, or nongovern-
mental organizations eligible for assistance
under this section.
‘‘(3) In awarding a grant to a coastal State,
the Secretary shall consider—
‘‘(A) the economic, cultural, and historical
significance of working waterfront to the coast-
al State;
‘‘(B) the demonstrated working waterfront
needs of the coastal State as outlined by a work-
ing waterfront plan approved for the coastal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9981
December 10, 2019
State under subsection (c), and the value of the
proposed project for the implementation of such
plan;
‘‘(C) the ability to successfully leverage funds
among participating entities, including Federal
programs, regional organizations, State and
other government units, landowners, corpora-
tions, or private organizations;
‘‘(D) the potential for rapid turnover in the
ownership of working waterfront in the coastal
State, and where applicable the need for coastal
States to respond quickly when properties in ex-
isting or potential working waterfront areas or
public access areas as identified in the working
waterfront plan submitted by the coastal State
come under threat or become available; and
‘‘(E) the impact of the working waterfront
plan approved for the coastal State under sub-
section (c) on the coastal ecosystem and the
users of the coastal ecosystem.
‘‘(4) The Secretary shall approve or reject an
application for such a grant within 60 days
after receiving an application for the grant.
‘‘(c) WORKING WATERFRONT PLANS.—
‘‘(1) To be eligible for a grant under sub-
section (b), a coastal State must submit and
have approved by the Secretary a comprehensive
working waterfront plan in accordance with
this subsection, or be in the process of devel-
oping such a plan and have an established
working waterfront program at the State or
local level, or the Secretary determines that an
existing coastal land use plan for that State is
in accordance with this subsection.
‘‘(2) Such plan—
‘‘(A) must provide for preservation and expan-
sion of access to coastal waters to persons en-
gaged in commercial fishing, recreational fish-
ing and boating businesses, aquaculture,
boatbuilding, or other water-dependent, coastal-
related business;
‘‘(B) shall include one or more of—
‘‘(i) an assessment of the economic, social,
cultural, and historic value of working water-
front to the coastal State;
‘‘(ii) a description of relevant State and local
laws and regulations affecting working water-
front in the geographic areas identified in the
working waterfront plan;
‘‘(iii) identification of geographic areas where
working waterfronts are currently under threat
of conversion to uses incompatible with commer-
cial and recreational fishing, recreational fish-
ing and boating businesses, aquaculture,
boatbuilding, or other water-dependent, coastal-
related business, and the level of that threat;
‘‘(iv) identification of geographic areas with a
historic connection to working waterfronts
where working waterfronts are not currently
available, and, where appropriate, an assess-
ment of the environmental impacts of any ex-
pansion or new development of working water-
fronts on the coastal ecosystem;
‘‘(v) identification of other working water-
front needs including improvements to existing
working waterfronts and working waterfront
areas;
‘‘(vi) a strategic and prioritized plan for the
preservation, expansion, and improvement of
working waterfronts in the coastal State;
‘‘(vii) for areas identified under clauses (iii),
(iv), (v), and (vi), identification of current
availability and potential for expansion of pub-
lic access to coastal waters;
‘‘(viii) a description of the degree of commu-
nity support for such strategic plan; and
‘‘(ix) a contingency plan for properties that
revert to the coastal State pursuant to deter-
minations made by the coastal State under sub-
section (g)(4)(C);
‘‘(C) may include detailed environmental im-
pacts on working waterfronts, including haz-
ards, sea level rise, inundation exposure, and
other resiliency issues;
‘‘(D) may be part of the management program
approved under section 306;
‘‘(E) shall utilize to the maximum extent prac-
ticable existing information contained in rel-
evant surveys, plans, or other strategies to ful-
fill the information requirements under this
paragraph; and
‘‘(F) shall incorporate the policies and regula-
tions adopted by communities under local work-
ing waterfront plans or strategies in existence
before the date of the enactment of this section.
‘‘(3) A working waterfront plan—
‘‘(A) shall be effective for purposes of this sec-
tion for the 5-year period beginning on the date
it is approved by the Secretary;
‘‘(B) must be updated and re-approved by the
Secretary before the end of such period; and
‘‘(C) shall be complimentary to and incor-
porate the policies and objectives of regional or
local working waterfront plans as in effect be-
fore the date of enactment of this section or as
subsequently revised.
‘‘(4) The Secretary may—
‘‘(A) award planning grants to coastal States
for the purpose of developing or revising com-
prehensive working waterfront plans; and
‘‘(B) award grants consistent with the pur-
poses of this section to States undertaking the
working waterfront planning process under this
section, for the purpose of preserving and pro-
tecting working waterfronts during such proc-
ess.
‘‘(5) Any coastal State applying for a working
waterfront grant under this title shall—
‘‘(A) develop a working waterfront plan,
using a process that involves the public and
those with an interest in the coastal zone;
‘‘(B) coordinate development and implementa-
tion of such a plan with other coastal manage-
ment programs, regulations, and activities of the
coastal State; and
‘‘(C) if the coastal State allows qualified hold-
ers (other than the coastal State) to enter into
working waterfront covenants, provide as part
of the working waterfront plan under this sub-
section a mechanism or procedure to ensure that
the qualified holders are complying their duties
to enforce the working waterfront covenant.
‘‘(d) USES, TERMS, AND CONDITIONS.—
‘‘(1) Each grant made by the Secretary under
this section shall be subject to such terms and
conditions as may be appropriate to ensure that
the grant is used for purposes consistent with
this section.
‘‘(2) A grant under this section may be used—
‘‘(A) to acquire a working waterfront, or an
interest in a working waterfront;
‘‘(B) to make improvements to a working wa-
terfront, including the construction or repair of
wharfs, boat ramps, or related facilities; or
‘‘(C) for necessary climate adaptation mitiga-
tion.
‘‘(e) PUBLIC ACCESS REQUIREMENT.—A work-
ing waterfront project funded by grants made
under this section must provide for expansion,
improvement, or preservation of reasonable and
appropriate public access to coastal waters at or
in the vicinity of a working waterfront, except
for commercial fishing or other industrial access
points where the coastal State determines that
public access would be unsafe.
‘‘(f) LIMITATIONS.—
‘‘(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), a
grant awarded under this section may be used
to purchase working waterfront or an interest in
working waterfront, including an easement,
only from a willing seller and at fair market
value.
‘‘(2) A grant awarded under this section may
be used to acquire working waterfront or an in-
terest in working waterfront at less than fair
market value only if the owner certifies to the
Secretary that the sale is being entered into
willingly and without coercion.
‘‘(3) No Federal, State, or local entity may ex-
ercise the power of eminent domain to secure
title to any property or facilities in connection
with a project carried out under this section.
‘‘(g) ALLOCATION OF GRANTS TO LOCAL GOV-
ERNMENTS AND OTHER ENTITIES.—
‘‘(1) The Secretary shall encourage coastal
States to broadly allocate amounts received as
grants under this section among working water-
fronts identified in working waterfront plans
approved under subsection (c).
‘‘(2) Subject to the approval of the Secretary,
a coastal State may, as part of an approved
working waterfront plan, designate as a quali-
fied holder any unit of State or local govern-
ment or nongovernmental organization, if the
coastal State is ultimately responsible for ensur-
ing that the property will be managed in a man-
ner that is consistent with the purposes for
which the land entered into the program.
‘‘(3) A coastal State or a qualified holder des-
ignated by a coastal State may allocate to a unit
of local government, nongovernmental organiza-
tion, fishing cooperative, or other entity, a por-
tion of any grant made under this section for
the purpose of carrying out this section, except
that such an allocation shall not relieve the
coastal State of the responsibility for ensuring
that any funds so allocated are applied in fur-
therance of the coastal State’s approved work-
ing waterfront plan.
‘‘(4) A qualified holder may hold title to or in-
terest in property acquired under this section,
except that—
‘‘(A) all persons holding title to or interest in
working waterfront affected by a grant under
this section, including a qualified holder, pri-
vate citizen, private business, nonprofit organi-
zation, fishing cooperative, or other entity, shall
enter into a working waterfront covenant;
‘‘(B) such covenant shall be held by the coast-
al State or a qualified holder designated under
paragraph (2);
‘‘(C) if the coastal State determines, on the
record after an opportunity for a hearing, that
the working waterfront covenant has been vio-
lated—
‘‘(i) all right, title, and interest in and to the
working waterfront covered by such covenant
shall, except as provided in subparagraph (D),
revert to the coastal State; and
‘‘(ii) the coastal State shall have the right of
immediate entry onto the working waterfront;
‘‘(D) if a coastal State makes a determination
under subparagraph (C), the coastal State may
convey or authorize the qualified holder to con-
vey the working waterfront or interest in work-
ing waterfront to another qualified holder; and
‘‘(E) nothing in this subsection waives any
legal requirement under any Federal or State
law.
‘‘(h) MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS.—
‘‘(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), the
Secretary shall require that each coastal State
that receives a grant under this section, or a
qualified holder designated by that coastal State
under subsection (g), shall provide matching
funds in an amount equal to at least 25 percent
of the total cost of the project carried out with
the grant.
‘‘(2) The Secretary may waive the application
of paragraph (1) for any qualified holder that is
an underserved community, a community that
has an inability to draw on other sources of
funding because of the small population or low
income of the community, or for other reasons
the Secretary considers appropriate.
‘‘(3) A local community designated as a quali-
fied holder under subsection (g) may utilize
funds or other in-kind contributions donated by
a nongovernmental partner to satisfy the match-
ing funds requirement under this subsection.
‘‘(4) As a condition of receipt of a grant under
this section, the Secretary shall require that a
coastal State provide to the Secretary such as-
surances as the Secretary determines are suffi-
cient to demonstrate that the share of the cost
of each eligible project that is not funded by the
grant awarded under this section has been se-
cured.
‘‘(5) If financial assistance under this section
represents only a portion of the total cost of a
project, funding from other Federal sources may
be applied to the cost of the project. Each por-
tion shall be subject to match requirements
under the applicable provision of law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9982 December 10, 2019
‘‘(6) The Secretary shall treat as non-Federal
match the value of a working waterfront or in-
terest in a working waterfront, including con-
servation and other easements, that is held in
perpetuity by a qualified holder, if the working
waterfront or interest is identified in the appli-
cation for the grant and acquired by the quali-
fied holder within 3 years of the grant award
date, or within 3 years after the submission of
the application and before the end of the grant
award period. Such value shall be determined by
an appraisal performed at such time before the
award of the grant as the Secretary considers
appropriate.
‘‘(7) The Secretary shall treat as non-Federal
match the costs associated with acquisition of a
working waterfront or an interest in a working
waterfront, and the costs of restoration, en-
hancement, or other improvement to a working
waterfront, if the activities are identified in the
project application and the costs are incurred
within the period of the grant award, or, for
working waterfront described in paragraph (6),
within the same time limits described in that
paragraph. These costs may include either cash
or in-kind contributions.
‘‘(i) LIMIT ON ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—No
more than 5 percent of the funds made available
to the Secretary under this section may be used
by the Secretary for planning or administration
of the program under this section.
‘‘(j) OTHER TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL ASSIST-
ANCE.—
‘‘(1) Up to 5 percent of the funds appropriated
under this section may be used by the Secretary
for purposes of providing technical assistance as
described in this subsection.
‘‘(2) The Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) provide technical assistance to coastal
States and local governments in identifying and
obtaining other sources of available Federal
technical and financial assistance for the devel-
opment and revision of a working waterfront
plan and the implementation of an approved
working waterfront plan;
‘‘(B) provide technical assistance to States
and local governments for the development, im-
plementation, and revision of comprehensive
working waterfront plans, which may include,
subject to the availability of appropriations,
planning grants and assistance, pilot projects,
feasibility studies, research, and other projects
necessary to further the purposes of this section;
‘‘(C) assist States in developing other tools to
protect working waterfronts;
‘‘(D) collect and disseminate to States guid-
ance for best storm water management practices
in regards to working waterfronts;
‘‘(E) provide technical assistance to States
and local governments on integrating resilience
planning into working waterfront preservation
efforts; and
‘‘(F) collect and disseminate best practices on
working waterfronts and resilience planning.
‘‘(k) REPORTS.—
‘‘(1) The Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) develop performance measures to evalu-
ate and report on the effectiveness of the pro-
gram under this section in accomplishing the
purpose of this section; and
‘‘(B) submit to Congress a biennial report that
includes such evaluations, an account of all ex-
penditures, and descriptions of all projects car-
ried out using grants awarded under this sec-
tion.
‘‘(2) The Secretary may submit the biennial
report under paragraph (1)(B) by including it in
the biennial report required under section 316.
‘‘(l) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘qualified holder’ means a
coastal State or a unit of local or coastal State
government or a non-State organization des-
ignated by a coastal State under subsection (g).
‘‘(2) The term ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary,
acting through the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration.
‘‘(3) The term ‘working waterfront’ means real
property (including support structures over
water and other facilities) that provides access
to coastal waters to persons engaged in commer-
cial and recreational fishing, recreational fish-
ing and boating businesses, boatbuilding, aqua-
culture, or other water-dependent, coastal-re-
lated business and is used for, or that supports,
commercial and recreational fishing, rec-
reational fishing and boating businesses,
boatbuilding, aquaculture, or other water-de-
pendent, coastal-related business.
‘‘(4) The term ‘working waterfront covenant’
means an agreement in recordable form between
the owner of working waterfront and one or
more qualified holders, that provides such as-
surances as the Secretary may require that—
‘‘(A) the title to or interest in the working wa-
terfront will be held by a grant recipient or
qualified holder in perpetuity, except as pro-
vided in subparagraph (C);
‘‘(B) the working waterfront will be managed
in a manner that is consistent with the purposes
for which the property is acquired pursuant to
this section, and the property will not be con-
verted to any use that is inconsistent with the
purpose of this section;
‘‘(C) if the title to or interest in the working
waterfront is sold or otherwise exchanged—
‘‘(i) all working waterfront owners and quali-
fied holders involved in such sale or exchange
shall accede to such agreement; and
‘‘(ii) funds equal to the fair market value of
the working waterfront or interest in working
waterfront shall be paid to the Secretary by par-
ties to the sale or exchange, and such funds
shall, at the discretion of the Secretary, be paid
to the coastal State in which the working water-
front is located for use in the implementation of
the working waterfront plan of the State ap-
proved by the Secretary under this section; and
‘‘(D) such covenant is subject to enforcement
and oversight by the coastal State or by another
person as determined appropriate by the Sec-
retary.
‘‘(m) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Grant Program $12,000,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 104. WORKING WATERFRONTS PRESERVA-
TION FUND; GRANTS.
The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16
U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is further amended by add-
ing at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 322. WORKING WATERFRONTS PRESERVA-
TION LOAN FUND.
‘‘(a) FUND.—There is established in the Treas-
ury a separate account that shall be known as
the ‘Working Waterfronts Preservation Loan
Fund’ (in this section referred to as the ‘Fund’).
‘‘(b) USE.—
‘‘(1) Subject to the availability of appropria-
tions, amounts in the Fund may be used by the
Secretary to make loans to coastal States for the
purpose of implementing a working waterfront
plan approved by the Secretary under section
321(c) through preservation, improvement, res-
toration, rehabilitation, acquisition of working
waterfront properties under criteria established
by the Secretary.
‘‘(2) Upon enactment of this section, the Sec-
retary of Commerce shall conduct a feasibility
study on the administration of the development
and management of a Working Waterfronts
Preservation Loan Fund.
‘‘(3) Upon the completion of the study under
paragraph (2), the Secretary shall establish a
fund in accordance with the results of that
study, and establish such criteria as referenced
in subsection (c) in consultation with States
that have a management program approved by
the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to section
306 and local government coastal management
programs.
‘‘(c) AWARD CRITERIA.—The Secretary shall
award loans under this section through a re-
gionally equitable, competitive funding process,
and in accordance with the following:
‘‘(1) The Governor, or the lead agency des-
ignated by the Governor for coordinating the
implementation of this section, where appro-
priate in consultation with the appropriate local
government, shall determine that an application
for a loan is consistent with the State’s ap-
proved coastal zone plan, program, and policies
prior to submission to the Secretary.
‘‘(2) In developing guidelines under this sec-
tion, the Secretary shall consult with coastal
States, other Federal agencies, and other inter-
ested stakeholders with expertise in working wa-
terfront planning.
‘‘(3) Coastal States may allocate amounts
loaned under this section to local governments,
agencies, or nongovernmental organizations eli-
gible for loans under this section.
‘‘(4) In awarding a loan for activities in a
coastal State, the Secretary shall consider—
‘‘(A) the economic and cultural significance of
working waterfront to the coastal State;
‘‘(B) the demonstrated working waterfront
needs of the coastal State as outlined by a work-
ing waterfront plan approved for the coastal
State under section 321(c), and the value of the
proposed loan for the implementation of such
plan;
‘‘(C) the ability to successfully leverage loan
funds among participating entities, including
Federal programs, regional organizations, State
and other government units, landowners, cor-
porations, or private organizations;
‘‘(D) the potential for rapid turnover in the
ownership of working waterfront in the coastal
State, and where applicable the need for coastal
States to respond quickly when properties in ex-
isting or potential working waterfront areas or
public access areas as identified in the working
waterfront plan submitted by the coastal State
come under threat or become available;
‘‘(E) the impact of the loan on the coastal eco-
system and the users of the coastal ecosystem;
and
‘‘(F) the extent of the historic connection be-
tween working waterfronts for which the loan
will be used and the local communities within
the coastal State.
‘‘(d) LOAN AMOUNT AND TERMS.—
‘‘(1) The amount of a loan under this sec-
tion—
‘‘(A) shall be not less than $100,000; and
‘‘(B) shall not exceed 15 percent of the amount
in the Fund as of July 1 of the fiscal year in
which the loan is made.
‘‘(2) The interest rate for a loan under this
section shall not exceed 4 percent.
‘‘(3) The repayment term for a loan under this
section shall not exceed 20 years.
‘‘(e) DEADLINE FOR APPROVAL.—The Secretary
shall approve or reject an application for a loan
under this section within 60 days after receiving
an application for the loan.
‘‘(f) LIMIT ON ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS.—No
more than 5 percent of the funds made available
to the Secretary under this section may be used
by the Secretary for planning or administration
of the program under this section.
‘‘(g) DEFINITIONS.—The definitions in section
321(l) shall apply to this section.
‘‘(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Fund $12,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024.’’.
SEC. 105. ELIGIBILITY OF DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
FOR FEDERAL FUNDING UNDER THE
COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ACT
OF 1972.
Section 304(4) of the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453(4)) is amended
by inserting ‘‘the District of Columbia,’’ after
‘‘the term also includes’’.
SEC. 106. CLIMATE CHANGE PREPAREDNESS IN
THE COASTAL ZONE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 323. CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION PRE-
PAREDNESS AND RESPONSE PRO-
GRAM.
‘‘ (a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish, consistent with the national policies set
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9983
December 10, 2019
forth in section 303, a coastal climate change
adaptation preparedness and response program
to—
‘‘(1) provide assistance to coastal States to
voluntarily develop coastal climate change ad-
aptation plans, pursuant to approved manage-
ment programs approved under section 306, to
minimize contributions to climate change and to
prepare for and reduce the negative con-
sequences that may result from climate change
in the coastal zone; and
‘‘(2) provide financial and technical assist-
ance and training to enable coastal States to im-
plement plans developed pursuant to this sec-
tion through coastal States’ enforceable policies.
‘‘(b) COASTAL CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION
PLANNING AND PREPAREDNESS GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, subject to
the availability of appropriations, may make a
grant to any coastal State for the purpose of de-
veloping climate change adaptation plans pur-
suant to guidelines issued by the Secretary
under paragraph (8).
‘‘(2) PLAN CONTENT.—A plan developed with a
grant under this subsection shall include the
following:
‘‘(A) Identification of public facilities and
public services, working waterfronts, coastal re-
sources of national significance, coastal waters,
energy facilities, or other land and water uses
located in the coastal zone that are likely to be
impacted by climate change.
‘‘(B) Adaptive management strategies for land
use to respond or adapt to changing environ-
mental conditions, including strategies to pro-
tect biodiversity, protect water quality, and es-
tablish habitat buffer zones, migration cor-
ridors, and climate refugia.
‘‘(C) Adaptive management strategies for
ocean-based ecosystems and resources, including
strategies to plan for and respond to geographic
or temporal shifts in marine resources, to create
protected areas that will provide climate
refugia, and to maintain and restore ocean eco-
system function.
‘‘(D) Requirements to initiate and maintain
long-term monitoring of environmental change
to assess coastal zone adaptation and to adjust
when necessary adaptive management strategies
and new planning guidelines to attain the poli-
cies under section 303.
‘‘(E) Other information considered necessary
by the Secretary to identify the full range of cli-
mate change impacts affecting coastal commu-
nities.
‘‘(3) STATE HAZARD MITIGATION PLANS.—Plans
developed with a grant under this subsection
shall be consistent with State hazard mitigation
plans and natural disaster response and recov-
ery programs developed under State or Federal
law.
‘‘(4) ALLOCATION.—Grants under this sub-
section shall be available only to coastal States
with management programs approved by the
Secretary under section 306 and shall be allo-
cated among such coastal States in a manner
consistent with regulations promulgated pursu-
ant to section 306(c).
‘‘(5) PRIORITY.—In the awarding of grants
under this subsection, the Secretary may give
priority to any coastal State that has received
grant funding to develop program changes pur-
suant to paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (5), (6), (7), and
(8) of section 309(a).
‘‘(6) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—The Secretary
may provide technical assistance to a coastal
State consistent with section 310 to ensure the
timely development of plans supported by grants
awarded under this subsection.
‘‘(7) FEDERAL APPROVAL.—In order to be eligi-
ble for a grant under subsection (c), a coastal
State must have its plan developed under this
subsection approved by the Secretary.
‘‘(8) GUIDELINES.—Within 180 days after the
date of enactment of this section, the Secretary,
in consultation with the coastal States, shall
issue guidelines for the implementation of the
grant program established under this subsection.
‘‘(c) COASTAL CLIMATE CHANGE ADAPTATION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, subject to
the availability of appropriations, may make
grants to any coastal State that has a climate
change adaptation plan approved under sub-
section (b)(7), in order to support projects that
implement strategies contained within such
plans.
‘‘(2) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—The Sec-
retary, within 90 days after approval of the first
plan approved under subsection (b)(7), shall
publish in the Federal Register requirements re-
garding applications, allocations, eligible activi-
ties, and all terms and conditions for grants
awarded under this subsection. No less than 30
percent, and no more than 50 percent, of the
funds appropriated in any fiscal year for grants
under this subsection shall be awarded through
a merit-based competitive process.
‘‘(3) ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES.—The Secretary may
award grants to coastal States to implement
projects in the coastal zone to address stress fac-
tors in order to improve coastal climate change
adaptation, including the following:
‘‘(A) Activities to address physical disturb-
ances within the coastal zone, especially activi-
ties related to public facilities and public serv-
ices, tourism, sedimentation, ocean acidifica-
tion, and other factors negatively impacting
coastal waters.
‘‘(B) Monitoring, control, or eradication of
disease organisms and invasive species.
‘‘(C) Activities to address the loss, degrada-
tion, or fragmentation of wildlife habitat
through projects to establish or protect marine
and terrestrial habitat buffers, wildlife refugia,
other wildlife refuges, or networks thereof, pres-
ervation of migratory wildlife corridors and
other transition zones, and restoration of fish
and wildlife habitat.
‘‘(D) Projects to reduce, mitigate, or otherwise
address likely impacts caused by natural haz-
ards in the coastal zone, including sea level rise,
coastal inundation, storm water management,
coastal erosion and subsidence, severe weather
events such as cyclonic storms, tsunamis and
other seismic threats, and fluctuating Great
Lakes water levels. The Secretary shall give pri-
ority to projects that utilize green infrastructure
solutions.
‘‘(E) Projects to adapt existing infrastructure,
including enhancements to both built and nat-
ural environments.
‘‘(F) Provision of technical training and as-
sistance to local coastal policy makers to in-
crease awareness of science, management, and
technology information related to climate
change and adaptation strategies.
‘‘(4) PROMOTION AND USE OF NATIONAL ESTUA-
RINE RESEARCH RESERVES.—The Secretary shall
promote and encourage the use of National Es-
tuarine Research Reserves as sites for pilot or
demonstration projects carried out with grants
awarded under this section.’’.
(b) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—Sec-
tion 318(a) of the Coastal Zone Management Act
of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1464(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘and’’ after the semicolon at
the end of paragraph (1);
(2) by striking the period at the end of para-
graph (2) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) for grants under section 323, such sums as
are necessary.’’.
(c) INTENT OF CONGRESS.—Nothing in this sec-
tion shall be construed to require any coastal
State to amend or modify its approved manage-
ment program pursuant to section 306(e) of the
Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 (16
U.S.C. 1455(e)) or to extend the enforceable poli-
cies of a coastal State beyond the coastal zone
as identified in the coastal State’s approved
management program.
TITLE II—FISHERY RESEARCH AND
CONSERVATION
Subtitle A—National Fish Habitat
Conservation Through Partnerships
SEC. 201. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subtitle is to encourage
partnerships among public agencies and other
interested persons to promote fish conserva-
tion—
(1) to achieve measurable habitat conservation
results through strategic actions of Fish Habitat
Partnerships that lead to better fish habitat
conditions and increased fishing opportunities
by—
(A) improving ecological conditions;
(B) restoring natural processes; or
(C) preventing the decline of intact and
healthy systems;
(2) to establish a consensus set of national
conservation strategies as a framework to guide
future actions and investment by Fish Habitat
Partnerships;
(3) to broaden the community of support for
fish habitat conservation by—
(A) increasing fishing opportunities;
(B) fostering the participation of local commu-
nities, especially young people in local commu-
nities, in conservation activities; and
(C) raising public awareness of the role
healthy fish habitat play in the quality of life
and economic well-being of local communities;
(4) to fill gaps in the National Fish Habitat
Assessment and the associated database of the
National Fish Habitat Assessment—
(A) to empower strategic conservation actions
supported by broadly available scientific infor-
mation; and
(B) to integrate socioeconomic data in the
analysis to improve the lives of humans in a
manner consistent with fish habitat conserva-
tion goals; and
(5) to communicate to the public and con-
servation partners—
(A) the conservation outcomes produced col-
lectively by Fish Habitat Partnerships; and
(B) new opportunities and voluntary ap-
proaches for conserving fish habitat.
SEC. 202. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation and the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the
House of Representatives.
(2) BOARD.—The term ‘‘Board’’ means the Na-
tional Fish Habitat Board established by section
203.
(3) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the United States Fish and Wild-
life Service.
(4) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY AS-
SISTANT ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Environ-
mental Protection Agency Assistant Adminis-
trator’’ means the Assistant Administrator for
Water of the Environmental Protection Agency.
(5) INDIAN TRIBE.—The term ‘‘Indian Tribe’’
has the meaning given to the term ‘‘Indian
tribe’’ in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determina-
tion and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C.
5304).
(6) NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC AD-
MINISTRATION ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR.—The
term ‘‘National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration Assistant Administrator’’ means
the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
(7) PARTNERSHIP.—The term ‘‘Partnership’’
means an entity designated by Congress as a
Fish Habitat Partnership under section 204.
(8) REAL PROPERTY INTEREST.—The term ‘‘real
property interest’’ means an ownership interest
in—
(A) land; or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9984 December 10, 2019
(B) water (including water rights).
(9) MARINE FISHERIES COMMISSIONS.—The term
‘‘Marine Fisheries Commissions’’ means—
(A) The Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Com-
mission;
(B) the Gulf States Marine Fisheries Commis-
sion; and
(C) the Pacific States Marine Commission.
(10) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of the Interior.
(11) STATE.—The term ‘‘State’’ means each of
the several States, Puerto Rico, American
Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands,
the United States Virgin Islands, and the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
(12) STATE AGENCY.—The term ‘‘State agency’’
means—
(A) the fish and wildlife agency of a State;
and
(B) any department or division of a depart-
ment or agency of a State that manages in the
public trust the inland or marine fishery re-
sources of the State or sustains the habitat for
those fishery resources pursuant to State law or
the constitution of the State.
SEC. 203. NATIONAL FISH HABITAT BOARD.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) FISH HABITAT BOARD.—There is established
a board, to be known as the ‘‘National Fish
Habitat Board’’, whose duties are—
(A) to promote, oversee, and coordinate the
implementation of this subtitle;
(B) to establish national goals and priorities
for fish habitat conservation;
(C) to recommend to Congress entities for des-
ignation as Partnerships; and
(D) to review and make recommendations re-
garding fish habitat conservation projects.
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—The Board shall be com-
posed of 25 members, of whom—
(A) 1 shall be a representative of the Depart-
ment of the Interior;
(B) 1 shall be a representative of the United
States Geological Survey;
(C) 1 shall be a representative of the Depart-
ment of Commerce;
(D) 1 shall be a representative of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture;
(E) 1 shall be a representative of the Associa-
tion of Fish and Wildlife Agencies;
(F) 4 shall be representatives of State agen-
cies, 1 of whom shall be nominated by a regional
association of fish and wildlife agencies from
each of the Northeast, Southeast, Midwest, and
Western regions of the United States;
(G) 1 shall be a representative of either—
(i) Indian Tribes in the State of Alaska; or
(ii) Indian Tribes in States other than the
State of Alaska;
(H) 1 shall be a representative of either—
(i) the Regional Fishery Management Coun-
cils established under section 302 of the Magnu-
son-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Manage-
ment Act (16 U.S.C. 1852); or
(ii) a representative of the Marine Fisheries
Commissions;
(I) 1 shall be a representative of the
Sportfishing and Boating Partnership Council;
(J) 7 shall be representatives selected from at
least one from each of the following:
(i) the recreational sportfishing industry;
(ii) the commercial fishing industry;
(iii) marine recreational anglers;
(iv) freshwater recreational anglers;
(v) habitat conservation organizations; and
(vi) science-based fishery organizations;
(K) 1 shall be a representative of a national
private landowner organization;
(L) 1 shall be a representative of an agricul-
tural production organization;
(M) 1 shall be a representative of local govern-
ment interests involved in fish habitat restora-
tion;
(N) 2 shall be representatives from different
sectors of corporate industries, which may in-
clude—
(i) natural resource commodity interests, such
as petroleum or mineral extraction;
(ii) natural resource user industries; and
(iii) industries with an interest in fish and
fish habitat conservation; and
(O) 1 shall be a leadership private sector or
landowner representative of an active partner-
ship.
(3) COMPENSATION.—A member of the Board
shall serve without compensation.
(4) TRAVEL EXPENSES.—A member of the Board
may be allowed travel expenses, including per
diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized
for an employee of an agency under subchapter
I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code,
while away from the home or regular place of
business of the member in the performance of
the duties of the Board.
(b) APPOINTMENT AND TERMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise provided
in this section, a member of the Board described
in any of subparagraphs (F) through (O) of sub-
section (a)(2) shall serve for a term of 3 years.
(2) INITIAL BOARD MEMBERSHIP.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The initial Board shall con-
sist of representatives as described in subpara-
graphs (A) through (F) of subsection (a)(2).
(B) REMAINING MEMBERS.—Not later than 60
days after the date of enactment of this Act, the
representatives of the initial Board under sub-
paragraph (A) shall appoint the remaining
members of the Board described in subpara-
graphs (H) through (O) of subsection (a)(2).
(C) TRIBAL REPRESENTATIVES.—Not later than
60 days after the enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall provide to the Board a recommenda-
tion of not fewer than 3 Tribal representatives,
from which the Board shall appoint 1 represent-
ative pursuant to subparagraph (G) of sub-
section (a)(2).
(3) STAGGERED TERMS.—Of the members de-
scribed in subsection (a)(2)(J) initially appointed
to the Board—
(A) 2 shall be appointed for a term of 1 year;
(B) 2 shall be appointed for a term of 2 years;
and
(C) 3 shall be appointed for a term of 3 years.
(4) VACANCIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A vacancy of a member of
the Board described in subparagraph (H), (I),
(J), (K), (L), (M), (N), or (O) of subsection (a)(2)
shall be filled by an appointment made by the
remaining members of the Board.
(B) TRIBAL REPRESENTATIVES.—Following a
vacancy of a member of the Board described in
subparagraph (G) of subsection (a)(2), the Sec-
retary shall recommend to the Board a list of
not fewer than 3 Tribal representatives, from
which the remaining members of the Board shall
appoint a representative to fill the vacancy.
(5) CONTINUATION OF SERVICE.—An individual
whose term of service as a member of the Board
expires may continue to serve on the Board
until a successor is appointed.
(6) REMOVAL.—If a member of the Board de-
scribed in any of subparagraphs (H) through
(O) of subparagraph (a)(2) misses 3 consecutive
regularly scheduled Board meetings, the mem-
bers of the Board may—
(A) vote to remove that member; and
(B) appoint another individual in accordance
with paragraph (4).
(c) CHAIRPERSON.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The representative of the As-
sociation of Fish and Wildlife Agencies ap-
pointed under subsection (a)(2)(E) shall serve as
Chairperson of the Board.
(2) TERM.—The Chairperson of the Board
shall serve for a term of 3 years.
(d) MEETINGS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall meet—
(A) at the call of the Chairperson; but
(B) not less frequently than twice each cal-
endar year.
(2) PUBLIC ACCESS.—All meetings of the Board
shall be open to the public.
(e) PROCEDURES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Board shall establish
procedures to carry out the business of the
Board, including—
(A) a requirement that a quorum of the mem-
bers of the Board be present to transact busi-
ness;
(B) a requirement that no recommendations
may be adopted by the Board, except by the vote
of 2⁄3 of all members;
(C) procedures for establishing national goals
and priorities for fish habitat conservation for
the purposes of this subtitle;
(D) procedures for designating Partnerships
under section 204; and
(E) procedures for reviewing, evaluating, and
making recommendations regarding fish habitat
conservation projects.
(2) QUORUM.—A majority of the members of
the Board shall constitute a quorum.
SEC. 204. FISH HABITAT PARTNERSHIPS.
(a) AUTHORITY TO RECOMMEND.—The Board
may recommend to Congress the designation of
Fish Habitat Partnerships in accordance with
this section.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of a Partnership
shall be—
(1) to work with other regional habitat con-
servation programs to promote cooperation and
coordination to enhance fish populations and
fish habitats;
(2) to engage local and regional communities
to build support for fish habitat conservation;
(3) to involve diverse groups of public and pri-
vate partners;
(4) to develop collaboratively a strategic vision
and achievable implementation plan that is sci-
entifically sound;
(5) to leverage funding from sources that sup-
port local and regional partnerships;
(6) to use adaptive management principles, in-
cluding evaluation of project success and
functionality;
(7) to develop appropriate local or regional
habitat evaluation and assessment measures
and criteria that are compatible with national
habitat condition measures; and
(8) to implement local and regional priority
projects that improve conditions for fish and
fish habitat.
(c) CRITERIA FOR DESIGNATION.—An entity
seeking to be designated by Congress as a Part-
nership shall—
(1) submit to the Board an application at such
time, in such manner, and containing such in-
formation as the Board may reasonably require;
and
(2) demonstrate to the Board that the entity
has—
(A) a focus on promoting the health of impor-
tant fish and fish habitats;
(B) an ability to coordinate the implementa-
tion of priority projects that support the goals
and national priorities set by the Board that are
within the Partnership boundary;
(C) a self-governance structure that supports
the implementation of strategic priorities for fish
habitat;
(D) the ability to develop local and regional
relationships with a broad range of entities to
further strategic priorities for fish and fish habi-
tat;
(E) a strategic plan that details required in-
vestments for fish habitat conservation that ad-
dresses the strategic fish habitat priorities of the
Partnership and supports and meets the stra-
tegic priorities of the Board;
(F) the ability to develop and implement fish
habitat conservation projects that address stra-
tegic priorities of the Partnership and the
Board; and
(G) the ability to develop fish habitat con-
servation priorities based on sound science and
data, the ability to measure the effectiveness of
fish habitat projects of the Partnership, and a
clear plan as to how Partnership science and
data components will be integrated with the
overall Board science and data effort.
(d) REQUIREMENTS FOR RECOMMENDATION TO
CONGRESS.—The Board may recommend to Con-
gress for designation an application for a Part-
nership submitted under subsection (c) if the
Board determines that the applicant—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9985
December 10, 2019
(1) meets the criteria described in subsection
(c)(2);
(2) identifies representatives to provide sup-
port and technical assistance to the Partnership
from a diverse group of public and private part-
ners, which may include State or local govern-
ments, nonprofit entities, Indian Tribes, and
private individuals, that are focused on con-
servation of fish habitats to achieve results
across jurisdictional boundaries on public and
private land;
(3) is organized to promote the health of im-
portant fish species and important fish habitats,
including reservoirs, natural lakes, coastal and
marine environments, and estuaries;
(4) identifies strategic fish and fish habitat
priorities for the Partnership area in the form of
geographical focus areas or key stressors or im-
pairments to facilitate strategic planning and
decision making;
(5) is able to address issues and priorities on
a nationally significant scale;
(6) includes a governance structure that—
(A) reflects the range of all partners; and
(B) promotes joint strategic planning and de-
cision making by the applicant;
(7) demonstrates completion of, or significant
progress toward the development of, a strategic
plan to address declines in fish populations,
rather than simply treating symptoms, in ac-
cordance with the goals and national priorities
established by the Board; and
(8) promotes collaboration in developing a
strategic vision and implementation program
that is scientifically sound and achievable.
(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than February 1 of
the first fiscal year beginning after the date of
enactment of this Act and each February 1
thereafter, the Board shall develop and submit
to the appropriate congressional committees an
annual report, to be entitled ‘‘Report to Con-
gress on Future Fish Habitat Partnerships and
Modifications’’, that—
(A) identifies each entity that—
(i) meets the requirements described in sub-
section (d); and
(ii) the Board recommends to Congress for des-
ignation as a Partnership;
(B) describes any proposed modifications to a
Partnership previously designated by Congress
under subsection (f);
(C) with respect to each entity recommended
for designation as a Partnership, describes, to
the maximum extent practicable—
(i) the purpose of the recommended Partner-
ship; and
(ii) how the recommended Partnership fulfills
the requirements described in subsection (d).
(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY; NOTIFICATION.—The
Board shall—
(A) make the report publicly available, includ-
ing on the internet; and
(B) provide to the appropriate congressional
committees and the State agency of any State
included in a recommended Partnership area
written notification of the public availability of
the report.
(f) DESIGNATION OR MODIFICATION OF PART-
NERSHIP.—Congress shall have the exclusive au-
thority to designate or modify a Partnership.
(g) EXISTING PARTNERSHIPS.—
(1) DESIGNATION REVIEW.—Not later than 5
years after the date of enactment of this Act,
any partnership receiving Federal funds as of
the date of enactment of this Act shall be sub-
ject to a designation review by Congress in
which Congress shall have the opportunity to
designate the partnership under subsection (f).
(2) INELIGIBILITY FOR FEDERAL FUNDS.—A
partnership referred to in paragraph (1) that
Congress does not designate as described in that
paragraph shall be ineligible to receive Federal
funds under this subtitle.
SEC. 205. FISH HABITAT CONSERVATION
PROJECTS.
(a) SUBMISSION TO BOARD.—Not later than
March 31 of each year, each Partnership shall
submit to the Board a list of priority fish habitat
conservation projects recommended by the Part-
nership for annual funding under this subtitle.
(b) RECOMMENDATIONS BY BOARD.—Not later
than July 1 of each year, the Board shall submit
to the Secretary a priority list of fish habitat
conservation projects that includes a descrip-
tion, including estimated costs, of each project
that the Board recommends that the Secretary
approve and fund under this subtitle for the fol-
lowing fiscal year.
(c) CRITERIA FOR PROJECT SELECTION.—The
Board shall select each fish habitat conserva-
tion project recommended to the Secretary under
subsection (b) after taking into consideration, at
a minimum, the following information:
(1) A recommendation of the Partnership that
is, or will be, participating actively in imple-
menting the fish habitat conservation project.
(2) The capabilities and experience of project
proponents to implement successfully the pro-
posed project.
(3) The extent to which the fish habitat con-
servation project—
(A) fulfills a local or regional priority that is
directly linked to the strategic plan of the Part-
nership and is consistent with the purpose of
this subtitle;
(B) addresses the national priorities estab-
lished by the Board;
(C) is supported by the findings of the habitat
assessment of the Partnership or the Board, and
aligns or is compatible with other conservation
plans;
(D) identifies appropriate monitoring and
evaluation measures and criteria that are com-
patible with national measures;
(E) provides a well-defined budget linked to
deliverables and outcomes;
(F) leverages other funds to implement the
project;
(G) addresses the causes and processes behind
the decline of fish or fish habitats; and
(H) includes an outreach or education compo-
nent that includes the local or regional commu-
nity.
(4) The availability of sufficient non-Federal
funds to match Federal contributions for the
fish habitat conservation project, as required by
subsection (e).
(5) The extent to which the fish habitat con-
servation project—
(A) will increase fish populations in a manner
that leads to recreational fishing opportunities
for the public;
(B) will be carried out through a cooperative
agreement among Federal, State, and local gov-
ernments, Indian Tribes, and private entities;
(C) increases public access to land or water
for fish and wildlife-dependent recreational op-
portunities;
(D) advances the conservation of fish and
wildlife species that have been identified by a
State agency as species of greatest conservation
need;
(E) where appropriate, advances the conserva-
tion of fish and fish habitats under the Magnu-
son-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Manage-
ment Act (16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) and other rel-
evant Federal law and State wildlife action
plans; and
(F) promotes strong and healthy fish habitats
so that desired biological communities are able
to persist and adapt.
(6) The substantiality of the character and de-
sign of the fish habitat conservation project.
(d) LIMITATIONS.—
(1) REQUIREMENTS FOR EVALUATION.—No fish
habitat conservation project may be rec-
ommended by the Board under subsection (b) or
provided financial assistance under this subtitle
unless the fish habitat conservation project in-
cludes an evaluation plan designed using appli-
cable Board guidance—
(A) to appropriately assess the biological, eco-
logical, or other results of the habitat protec-
tion, restoration, or enhancement activities car-
ried out using the assistance;
(B) to reflect appropriate changes to the fish
habitat conservation project if the assessment
substantiates that the fish habitat conservation
project objectives are not being met;
(C) to identify improvements to existing fish
populations, recreational fishing opportunities,
and the overall economic benefits for the local
community of the fish habitat conservation
project; and
(D) to require the submission to the Board of
a report describing the findings of the assess-
ment.
(2) ACQUISITION AUTHORITIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A State, local government,
or other non-Federal entity is eligible to receive
funds for the acquisition of real property from
willing sellers under this subtitle if the acquisi-
tion ensures—
(i) public access for fish and wildlife-depend-
ent recreation; or
(ii) a scientifically based, direct enhancement
to the health of fish and fish populations, as de-
termined by the Board.
(B) STATE AGENCY APPROVAL.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—All real property interest ac-
quisition projects funded under this subtitle
must be approved by the State agency in the
State in which the project is occurring.
(ii) PROHIBITION.—The Board may not rec-
ommend, and the Secretary may not provide any
funding for, any real property interest acquisi-
tion that has not been approved by the State
agency.
(C) ASSESSMENT OF OTHER AUTHORITIES.—The
Board may not recommend, and the Secretary
may not provide any funding under this subtitle
for, any real property interest acquisition unless
the Partnership that recommended the project
has conducted a project assessment, submitted
with the funding request and approved by the
Board, to demonstrate all other Federal, State,
and local authorities for the acquisition of real
property have been exhausted.
(D) RESTRICTIONS.—A real property interest
may not be acquired pursuant to a fish habitat
conservation project by a State, local govern-
ment, or other non-Federal entity conducted
with funds provided under this subtitle, un-
less—
(i) the owner of the real property authorizes
the State, local government, or other non-Fed-
eral entity to acquire the real property; and
(ii) the Secretary and the Board determine
that the State, local government, or other non-
Federal entity would benefit from undertaking
the management of the real property being ac-
quired because that is in accordance with the
goals of a Partnership.
(e) NON-FEDERAL CONTRIBUTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in para-
graph (2), no fish habitat conservation project
may be recommended by the Board under sub-
section (b) or provided financial assistance
under this subtitle unless at least 50 percent of
the cost of the fish habitat conservation project
will be funded with non-Federal funds.
(2) NON-FEDERAL SHARE.—Such non-Federal
share of the cost of a fish habitat conservation
project—
(A) may not be derived from another Federal
grant program; and
(B) may include in-kind contributions and
cash.
(3) SPECIAL RULE FOR INDIAN TRIBES.—Not-
withstanding paragraph (1) or any other provi-
sion of law, any funds made available to an In-
dian Tribe pursuant to this subtitle may be con-
sidered to be non-Federal funds for the purpose
of paragraph (1).
(f) APPROVAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of receipt of the recommended priority
list of fish habitat conservation projects under
subsection (b), and subject to subsection (d) and
based, to the maximum extent practicable, on
the criteria described in subsection (c), the Sec-
retary, after consulting with the Secretary of
Commerce on marine or estuarine projects, shall
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9986 December 10, 2019
approve or reject any fish habitat conservation
project recommended by the Board.
(2) FUNDING.—If the Secretary approves a fish
habitat conservation project under paragraph
(1), the Secretary shall use amounts made avail-
able to carry out this subtitle to provide funds
to carry out the fish habitat conservation
project.
(3) NOTIFICATION.—If the Secretary rejects
under paragraph (1) any fish habitat conserva-
tion project recommended by the Board, not
later than 90 days after the date of receipt of
the recommendation, the Secretary shall provide
to the Board, the appropriate Partnership, and
the appropriate congressional committees a writ-
ten statement of the reasons that the Secretary
rejected the fish habitat conservation project.
SEC. 206. TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC ASSIST-
ANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director, the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Assist-
ant Administrator, the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency Assistant Administrator, and the
Director of the United States Geological Survey,
in coordination with the Forest Service and
other appropriate Federal departments and
agencies, may provide scientific and technical
assistance to Partnerships, participants in fish
habitat conservation projects, and the Board.
(b) INCLUSIONS.—Scientific and technical as-
sistance provided under subsection (a) may in-
clude—
(1) providing technical and scientific assist-
ance to States, Indian Tribes, regions, local
communities, and nongovernmental organiza-
tions in the development and implementation of
Partnerships;
(2) providing technical and scientific assist-
ance to Partnerships for habitat assessment,
strategic planning, and prioritization;
(3) supporting the development and implemen-
tation of fish habitat conservation projects that
are identified as high priorities by Partnerships
and the Board;
(4) supporting and providing recommendations
regarding the development of science-based
monitoring and assessment approaches for im-
plementation through Partnerships;
(5) supporting and providing recommendations
for a national fish habitat assessment;
(6) ensuring the availability of experts to as-
sist in conducting scientifically based evalua-
tion and reporting of the results of fish habitat
conservation projects; and
(7) providing resources to secure State agency
scientific and technical assistance to support
Partnerships, participants in fish habitat con-
servation projects, and the Board.
SEC. 207. COORDINATION WITH STATES AND IN-
DIAN TRIBES.
The Secretary shall provide a notice to, and
cooperate with, the appropriate State agency or
Tribal agency, as applicable, of each State and
Indian Tribe within the boundaries of which an
activity is planned to be carried out pursuant to
this subtitle, including notification, by not later
than 30 days before the date on which the activ-
ity is implemented.
SEC. 208. INTERAGENCY OPERATIONAL PLAN.
Not later than 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter,
the Director, in cooperation with the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Assist-
ant Administrator, the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency Assistant Administrator, the Direc-
tor of the United States Geological Survey, and
the heads of other appropriate Federal depart-
ments and agencies (including, at a minimum,
those agencies represented on the Board) shall
develop an interagency operational plan that
describes—
(1) the functional, operational, technical, sci-
entific, and general staff, administrative, and
material needs for the implementation of this
subtitle; and
(2) any interagency agreements between or
among Federal departments and agencies to ad-
dress those needs.
SEC. 209. ACCOUNTABILITY AND REPORTING.
(a) REPORTING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, and every 5
years thereafter, the Board shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a report
describing the progress of this subtitle.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each report submitted under
paragraph (1) shall include—
(A) an estimate of the number of acres, stream
miles, or acre-feet, or other suitable measures of
fish habitat, that was maintained or improved
by Partnerships under this subtitle during the 5-
year period ending on the date of submission of
the report;
(B) a description of the public access to fish
habitats established or improved under this sub-
title during that 5-year period;
(C) a description of the improved opportuni-
ties for public recreational fishing achieved
under this subtitle; and
(D) an assessment of the status of fish habitat
conservation projects carried out with funds
provided under this subtitle during that period,
disaggregated by year, including—
(i) a description of the fish habitat conserva-
tion projects recommended by the Board under
section 205(b);
(ii) a description of each fish habitat con-
servation project approved by the Secretary
under section 205(f), in order of priority for
funding;
(iii) a justification for—
(I) the approval of each fish habitat conserva-
tion project; and
(II) the order of priority for funding of each
fish habitat conservation project;
(iv) a justification for any rejection of a fish
habitat conservation project recommended by
the Board under section 205(b) that was based
on a factor other than the criteria described in
section 205(c); and
(v) an accounting of expenditures by Federal,
State, or local governments, Indian Tribes, or
other entities to carry out fish habitat conserva-
tion projects under this subtitle.
(b) STATUS AND TRENDS REPORT.—Not later
than December 31, 2020, and every 5 years there-
after, the Board shall submit to the appropriate
congressional committees a report that in-
cludes—
(1) a status of all Partnerships designated
under this subtitle;
(2) a description of the status of fish habitats
in the United States as identified by designated
Partnerships; and
(3) enhancements or reductions in public ac-
cess as a result of—
(A) the activities of the Partnerships; or
(B) any other activities carried out pursuant
to this subtitle.
SEC. 210. EFFECT OF THIS SUBTITLE.
(a) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this subtitle—
(1) establishes any express or implied reserved
water right in the United States for any pur-
pose;
(2) affects any water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act;
(3) preempts or affects any State water law or
interstate compact governing water; or
(4) affects any Federal or State law in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of the Act regard-
ing water quality or water quantity.
(b) AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE WATER RIGHTS OR
RIGHTS TO PROPERTY.—Only a State, local gov-
ernment, or other non-Federal entity may ac-
quire, under State law, water rights or rights to
property with funds made available through
section 212.
(c) STATE AUTHORITY.—Nothing in this sub-
title—
(1) affects the authority, jurisdiction, or re-
sponsibility of a State to manage, control, or
regulate fish and wildlife under the laws and
regulations of the State; or
(2) authorizes the Secretary to control or regu-
late within a State the fishing or hunting of fish
and wildlife.
(d) EFFECT ON INDIAN TRIBES.—Nothing in
this subtitle abrogates, abridges, affects, modi-
fies, supersedes, or alters any right of an Indian
Tribe recognized by treaty or any other means,
including—
(1) an agreement between the Indian Tribe
and the United States;
(2) Federal law (including regulations);
(3) an Executive order; or
(4) a judicial decree.
(e) ADJUDICATION OF WATER RIGHTS.—Noth-
ing in this subtitle diminishes or affects the abil-
ity of the Secretary to join an adjudication of
rights to the use of water pursuant to subsection
(a), (b), or (c) of section 208 of the Departments
of State, Justice, Commerce, and The Judiciary
Appropriation Act, 1953 (43 U.S.C. 666).
(f) DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AUTHORITY.—
Nothing in this subtitle affects the authority, ju-
risdiction, or responsibility of the Department of
Commerce to manage, control, or regulate fish or
fish habitats under the Magnuson-Stevens Fish-
ery Conservation and Management Act (16
U.S.C. 1801 et seq.).
(g) EFFECT ON OTHER AUTHORITIES.—
(1) PRIVATE PROPERTY PROTECTION.—Nothing
in this subtitle permits the use of funds made
available to carry out this subtitle to acquire
real property or a real property interest without
the written consent of each owner of the real
property or real property interest, respectively.
(2) MITIGATION.—Nothing in this subtitle au-
thorizes the use of funds made available to
carry out this subtitle for fish and wildlife miti-
gation purposes under—
(A) the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
(33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.);
(B) the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16
U.S.C. 661 et seq.);
(C) the Water Resources Development Act of
1986 (Public Law 99–662; 100 Stat. 4082); or
(D) any other Federal law or court settlement.
(3) CLEAN WATER ACT.—Nothing in this sub-
title affects any provision of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.),
including any definition in that Act.
SEC. 211. NONAPPLICABILITY OF FEDERAL ADVI-
SORY COMMITTEE ACT.
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App.) shall not apply to—
(1) the Board; or
(2) any Partnership.
SEC. 212. FUNDING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) FISH HABITAT CONSERVATION PROJECTS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary $7,200,000 for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023 to provide funds for fish habitat
conservation projects approved under section
205(f), of which 5 percent is authorized only for
projects carried out by Indian Tribes.
(2) ADMINISTRATIVE AND PLANNING EX-
PENSES.—There is authorized to be appropriated
to the Secretary for each of fiscal years 2019
through 2023 an amount equal to 5 percent of
the amount appropriated for the applicable fis-
cal year pursuant to paragraph (1)—
(A) for administrative and planning expenses
under this subtitle; and
(B) to carry out section 209.
(3) TECHNICAL AND SCIENTIFIC ASSISTANCE.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for each
of fiscal years 2020 through 2024 to carry out,
and provide technical and scientific assistance
under, section 206—
(A) $400,000 to the Secretary for use by the
United States Fish and Wildlife Service;
(B) $400,000 to the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration Assistant Adminis-
trator for use by the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration;
(C) $400,000 to the Environmental Protection
Agency Assistant Administrator for use by the
Environmental Protection Agency;
(D) $400,000 to the Secretary for use by the
United States Geological Survey; and
(E) $400,000 to the Chief of the Forest Service
for use by the United States Department of Agri-
culture Forest Service.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9987
December 10, 2019
(b) AGREEMENTS AND GRANTS.—The Secretary
may—
(1) on the recommendation of the Board, and
notwithstanding sections 6304 and 6305 of title
31, United States Code, and the Federal Finan-
cial Assistance Management Improvement Act of
1999 (31 U.S.C. 6101 note; Public Law 106–107),
enter into a grant agreement, cooperative agree-
ment, or contract with a Partnership or other
entity to provide funds authorized by this sub-
title for a fish habitat conservation project or
restoration or enhancement project;
(2) apply for, accept, and, subject to the avail-
ability of appropriations, use a grant from any
individual or entity to carry out the purposes of
this subtitle; and
(3) subject to the availability of appropria-
tions, make funds authorized by this Act avail-
able to any Federal department or agency for
use by that department or agency to provide
grants for any fish habitat protection project,
restoration project, or enhancement project that
the Secretary determines to be consistent with
this subtitle.
(c) DONATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may—
(A) enter into an agreement with any organi-
zation described in section 501(c)(3) of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 that is exempt from
taxation under section 501(a) of that Code to so-
licit private donations to carry out the purposes
of this subtitle; and
(B) accept donations of funds, property, and
services to carry out the purposes of this sub-
title.
(2) TREATMENT.—A donation accepted under
this subtitle—
(A) shall be considered to be a gift or bequest
to, or otherwise for the use of, the United
States; and
(B) may be—
(i) used directly by the Secretary; or
(ii) provided to another Federal department or
agency through an interagency agreement.
SEC. 213. PROHIBITION AGAINST IMPLEMENTA-
TION OF REGULATORY AUTHORITY
BY FEDERAL AGENCIES THROUGH
PARTNERSHIPS.
Any Partnership designated under this sub-
title—
(1) shall be for the sole purpose of promoting
fish conservation; and
(2) shall not be used to implement any regu-
latory authority of any Federal agency.
Subtitle B—Great Lakes Fishery Research
Authorization
SEC. 214. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the United States Geological Sur-
vey.
(2) GREAT LAKES BASIN.—The term ‘‘Great
Lakes Basin’’ means the air, land, water, and
living organisms in the United States within the
drainage basin of the Saint Lawrence River at
and upstream from the point at which such river
and the Great Lakes become the international
boundary between Canada and the United
States.
SEC. 215. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The Great Lakes support a diverse eco-
system, on which the vibrant and economically
valuable Great Lakes fisheries depend.
(2) To continue successful fisheries manage-
ment and coordination, as has occurred since
signing of the Convention on Great Lakes Fish-
eries between the United States and Canada on
September 10, 1954, management of the eco-
system and its fisheries require sound, reliable
science, and the use of modern scientific tech-
nologies.
(3) Fisheries research is necessary to support
multi-jurisdictional fishery management deci-
sions and actions regarding recreational and
sport fishing, commercial fisheries, tribal har-
vest, allocation decisions, and fish stocking ac-
tivities.
(4) President Richard Nixon submitted, and
the Congress approved, Reorganization Plan No.
4 (84 Stat. 2090), conferring science activities
and management of marine fisheries to the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
(5) Reorganization Plan No. 4 expressly ex-
cluded fishery research activities within the
Great Lakes from the transfer, retaining man-
agement and scientific research duties within
the already established jurisdictions under the
1954 Convention on Great Lakes Fisheries, in-
cluding those of the Great Lakes Fishery Com-
mission and the Department of the Interior.
SEC. 216. GREAT LAKES MONITORING, ASSESS-
MENT, SCIENCE, AND RESEARCH.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director may conduct
monitoring, assessment, science, and research,
in support of the binational fisheries within the
Great Lakes Basin.
(b) SPECIFIC AUTHORITIES.—The Director
shall, under subsection (a)—
(1) execute a comprehensive, multi-lake, fresh-
water fisheries science program;
(2) coordinate with and work cooperatively
with regional, State, tribal, and local govern-
ments; and
(3) consult with other interested entities
groups, including academia and relevant Cana-
dian agencies.
(c) INCLUDED RESEARCH.—To properly serve
the needs of fisheries managers, monitoring, as-
sessment, science, and research under this sec-
tion may include—
(1) deepwater ecosystem sciences;
(2) biological and food-web components;
(3) fish movement and behavior investigations;
(4) fish population structures;
(5) fish habitat investigations;
(6) invasive species science;
(7) use of existing, new, and experimental bio-
logical assessment tools, equipment, vessels,
other scientific instrumentation and laboratory
capabilities necessary to support fishery man-
agement decisions; and
(8) studies to assess impacts on Great Lakes
fishery resources.
(d) SAVINGS CLAUSE.—Nothing in this subtitle
is intended or shall be construed to impede, su-
persede, or alter the authority of the Great
Lakes Fishery Commission, States, and Indian
tribes under the Convention on Great Lakes
Fisheries between the United States of America
and Canada on September 10, 1954, and the
Great Lakes Fishery Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C. 931
et seq.).
SEC. 217. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
For each of fiscal years 2020 through 2029,
there is authorized to be appropriated
$17,500,000 to carry out this subtitle.
TITLE III—MEETING 21ST CENTURY
OCEAN AND COASTAL DATA NEEDS
Subtitle A—Digital Coast
SEC. 301. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The Digital Coast is a model approach for
effective Federal partnerships with State and
local government, nongovernmental organiza-
tions, and the private sector.
(2) Access to current, accurate, uniform, and
standards-based geospatial information, tools,
and training to characterize the United States
coastal region is critical for public safety and
for the environment, infrastructure, and econ-
omy of the United States.
(3) More than half of all people of the United
States (153,000,000) currently live on or near a
coast and an additional 12,000,000 are expected
in the next decade.
(4) Coastal counties in the United States aver-
age 300 persons per square mile, compared with
the national average of 98.
(5) On a typical day, more than 1,540 permits
for construction of single-family homes are
issued in coastal counties, combined with other
commercial, retail, and institutional construc-
tion to support this population.
(6) Over half of the economic productivity of
the United States is located within coastal re-
gions.
(7) Highly accurate, high-resolution remote
sensing and other geospatial data play an in-
creasingly important role in decision making
and management of the coastal zone and econ-
omy, including for—
(A) flood and coastal storm surge prediction;
(B) hazard risk and vulnerability assessment;
(C) emergency response and recovery plan-
ning;
(D) community resilience to longer range
coastal change;
(E) local planning and permitting;
(F) habitat and ecosystem health assessments;
and
(G) landscape change detection.
SEC. 302. DEFINITIONS.
In this subtitle:
(1) COASTAL REGION.—The term ‘‘coastal re-
gion’’ means the area of United States waters
extending inland from the shoreline to include
coastal watersheds and seaward to the terri-
torial sea.
(2) COASTAL STATE.—The term ‘‘coastal State’’
has the meaning given the term ‘‘coastal state’’
in section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management
Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453).
(3) FEDERAL GEOGRAPHIC DATA COMMITTEE.—
The term ‘‘Federal Geographic Data Committee’’
means the interagency committee that promotes
the coordinated development, use, sharing, and
dissemination of geospatial data on a national
basis.
(4) REMOTE SENSING AND OTHER GEOSPATIAL.—
The term ‘‘remote sensing and other geospatial’’
means collecting, storing, retrieving, or dissemi-
nating graphical or digital data depicting nat-
ural or manmade physical features, phenomena,
or boundaries of the Earth and any information
related thereto, including surveys, maps, charts,
satellite and airborne remote sensing data, im-
ages, LiDAR, and services performed by profes-
sionals such as surveyors, photogrammetrists,
hydrographers, geodesists, cartographers, and
other such services.
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’ means
the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the
Administrator of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration.
SEC. 303. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DIGITAL
COAST.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall establish
a program for the provision of an enabling plat-
form that integrates geospatial data, decision-
support tools, training, and best practices to ad-
dress coastal management issues and needs.
Under the program, the Secretary shall strive to
enhance resilient communities, ecosystem val-
ues, and coastal economic growth and develop-
ment by helping communities address their
issues, needs, and challenges through cost-effec-
tive and participatory solutions.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The program established
under paragraph (1) shall be known as the
‘‘Digital Coast’’ (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘program’’).
(b) PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying out
the program, the Secretary shall ensure that the
program provides data integration, tool develop-
ment, training, documentation, dissemination,
and archiving by—
(1) making data and resulting integrated
products developed under this section readily
accessible via the Digital Coast Internet website
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, the GeoPlatform.gov and data.gov
Internet websites, and such other information
distribution technologies as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate;
(2) developing decision-support tools that use
and display resulting integrated data and pro-
vide training on use of such tools;
(3) documenting such data to Federal Geo-
graphic Data Committee standards; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9988 December 10, 2019
(4) archiving all raw data acquired under this
title at the appropriate National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration data center or such
other Federal data center as the Secretary con-
siders appropriate.
(c) COORDINATION.—The Secretary shall co-
ordinate the activities carried out under the pro-
gram to optimize data collection, sharing and
integration, and to minimize duplication by—
(1) consulting with coastal managers and de-
cision makers concerning coastal issues, and
sharing information and best practices, as the
Secretary considers appropriate, with—
(A) coastal States;
(B) local governments; and
(C) representatives of academia, the private
sector, and nongovernmental organizations;
(2) consulting with other Federal agencies, in-
cluding interagency committees, on relevant
Federal activities, including activities carried
out under the Ocean and Coastal Mapping Inte-
gration Act (33 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), the Coastal
Zone Management Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1451 et
seq.), the Integrated Coastal and Ocean Obser-
vation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C. 3601 et
seq.), and the Hydrographic Services Improve-
ment Act of 1998 (33 U.S.C. 892 et seq.);
(3) participating, pursuant to section 216 of
the E-Government Act of 2002 (Public Law 107–
347; 44 U.S.C. 3501 note), in the establishment of
such standards and common protocols as the
Secretary considers necessary to assure the
interoperability of remote sensing and other
geospatial data with all users of such informa-
tion within—
(A) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration;
(B) other Federal agencies;
(C) State and local government; and
(D) the private sector;
(4) coordinating with, seeking assistance and
cooperation of, and providing liaison to the Fed-
eral Geographic Data Committee pursuant to
Office of Management and Budget Circular A–
16 and Executive Order 12906 of April 11, 1994
(59 Fed. Reg. 17671), as amended by Executive
Order 13286 of February 28, 2003 (68 Fed. Reg.
10619); and
(5) developing and maintaining a best prac-
tices document that sets out the best practices
used by the Secretary in carrying out the pro-
gram and providing such document to the
United States Geological Survey, the Corps of
Engineers, and other relevant Federal agencies.
(d) FILLING NEEDS AND GAPS.—In carrying out
the program, the Secretary shall—
(1) maximize the use of remote sensing and
other geospatial data collection activities con-
ducted for other purposes and under other au-
thorities;
(2) focus on filling data needs and gaps for
coastal management issues, including with re-
spect to areas that, as of the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, were underserved by coastal
data and the areas of the Arctic that are under
the jurisdiction of the United States;
(3) pursuant to the Ocean and Coastal Map-
ping Integration Act (33 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.),
support continue improvement in existing efforts
to coordinate the acquisition and integration of
key data sets needed for coastal management
and other purposes, including—
(A) coastal elevation data;
(B) land use and land cover data;
(C) socioeconomic and human use data;
(D) critical infrastructure data;
(E) structures data;
(F) living resources and habitat data;
(G) cadastral data; and
(H) aerial imagery; and
(4) integrate the priority supporting data set
forth under paragraph (3) with other available
data for the benefit of the broadest measure of
coastal resource management constituents and
applications.
(e) FINANCIAL AGREEMENTS AND CONTRACTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—In carrying out the program,
the Secretary—
(A) may enter into financial agreements to
carry out the program, including—
(i) support to non-Federal entities that par-
ticipate in implementing the program; and
(ii) grants, cooperative agreements, inter-
agency agreements, contracts, or any other
agreement on a reimbursable or non-reimburs-
able basis, with other Federal, tribal, State, and
local governmental and nongovernmental enti-
ties; and
(B) may, to the maximum extent practicable,
enter into such contracts with private sector en-
tities for such products and services as the Sec-
retary determines may be necessary to collect,
process, and provide remote sensing and other
geospatial data and products for purposes of the
program.
(2) FEES.—
(A) ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION.—The Sec-
retary may assess and collect fees to conduct
any planned training, workshop, or conference
that advances the purposes of the program.
(B) AMOUNTS.—The amount of a fee under
this paragraph may not exceed the sum of costs
incurred, or expected to be incurred, by the Sec-
retary as a direct result of the conduct of the
training, workshop, or conference, including for
subsistence expenses incidental to the training,
workshop, or conference, as applicable.
(C) USE OF FEES.—Amounts collected by the
Secretary in the form of fees under this para-
graph may be used to pay for—
(i) the costs incurred for conducting an activ-
ity described in subparagraph (A); or
(ii) the expenses described in subparagraph
(B).
(3) SURVEY AND MAPPING.—Contracts entered
into under paragraph (1)(B) shall be considered
‘‘surveying and mapping’’ services as such term
is used in and as such contracts are awarded by
the Secretary in accordance with the selection
procedures in chapter 11 of title 40, United
States Code.
(f) OCEAN ECONOMY.—The Secretary may es-
tablish publically available tools that track
ocean and Great Lakes economy data for each
coastal State.
Subtitle B—Integrated Coastal and Ocean
Observation System
SEC. 304. STAGGERED TERMS FOR NATIONAL IN-
TEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OB-
SERVATION SYSTEM ADVISORY COM-
MITTEE.
Section 12304(d)(3)(B) of the Integrated Coast-
al and Ocean Observation System Act of 2009 (33
U.S.C. 3603(d)(3)(B)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Members’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (ii), members’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) STAGGERED TERMS.—The Administrator
may appoint or reappoint a member for a partial
term of 1 or 2 years in order to establish a sys-
tem of staggered terms. The Administrator may
appoint or reappoint a member under this clause
only once. A member appointed or reappointed
to a partial term under this clause may not
serve more than one full term.’’.
SEC. 305. INTEGRATED COASTAL AND OCEAN OB-
SERVATION SYSTEM COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS.
Section 12305(a) of the Integrated Coastal and
Ocean Observation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C.
3604(a)) is amended by inserting ‘‘disburse ap-
propriated funds to,’’ after ‘‘agreements, with,’’.
SEC. 306. REAUTHORIZATION OF INTEGRATED
COASTAL AND OCEAN OBSERVATION
SYSTEM ACT OF 2009.
Section 12311 of the Integrated Coastal and
Ocean Observation System Act of 2009 (33 U.S.C.
3610) is amended by striking ‘‘for fiscal years
2009 through 2013 such sums as are necessary’’
and inserting ‘‘$47,500,000 for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024’’.
TITLE IV—NATIONAL SEA GRANT
COLLEGE PROGRAM AMENDMENTS
SEC. 401. REFERENCES TO THE NATIONAL SEA
GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM ACT.
Except as otherwise expressly provided, wher-
ever in this title an amendment or repeal is ex-
pressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal
of, a section or other provision, the reference
shall be considered to be made to a section or
other provision of the National Sea Grant Col-
lege Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1121 et seq.).
SEC. 402. MODIFICATION OF DEAN JOHN A.
KNAUSS MARINE POLICY FELLOW-
SHIP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 208(b) (33 U.S.C.
1127(b)) is amended by striking ‘‘may’’ and in-
serting ‘‘shall’’.
(b) PLACEMENTS IN CONGRESS.—Such section is
further amended—
(1) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘The Sec-
retary’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary’’; and
(2) in paragraph (1), as designated by para-
graph (1) of this section, in the second sentence,
by striking ‘‘A fellowship’’ and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) PLACEMENT PRIORITIES.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In each year in which the
Secretary awards a legislative fellowship under
this subsection, when considering the placement
of fellows, the Secretary shall prioritize place-
ment of fellows in the following:
‘‘(i) Positions in offices of committees of Con-
gress that have jurisdiction over the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
‘‘(ii) Positions in offices of Members of Con-
gress who are on such committees.
‘‘(iii) Positions in offices of Members of Con-
gress that have a demonstrated interest in
ocean, coastal, or Great Lakes resources.
‘‘(B) EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION.—
‘‘(i) FINDING AND RECOGNITION.—Congress—
‘‘(I) finds that both host offices and fellows
benefit when fellows have the opportunity to
choose from a range of host offices from dif-
ferent States and regions, both chambers of Con-
gress, and both political parties; and
‘‘(II) recognizes the steps taken by the Na-
tional Sea Grant College Program to facilitate
an equitable distribution of fellows among the
political parties.
‘‘(ii) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ensure,
to the maximum extent practicable, that fellows
have the opportunity to choose from offices that
are described in clauses (i), (ii), and (iii) of sub-
paragraph (A) and that are equitably distrib-
uted among—
‘‘(I) the political parties; and
‘‘(II) the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives.
‘‘(iii) POLITICAL AND CAMERAL EQUITY.—The
Secretary shall ensure that placements are equi-
tably distributed between—
‘‘(I) the political parties; and
‘‘(II) the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives.
‘‘(3) DURATION.—A fellowship’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by subsection (b) shall apply with respect to the
first calendar year beginning after the date of
the enactment of this Act and each fiscal year
thereafter.
(d) SENSE OF CONGRESS CONCERNING FEDERAL
HIRING OF FORMER FELLOWS.—It is the sense of
Congress that in recognition of the competitive
nature of the fellowship under section 208(b) of
the National Sea Grant College Program Act (33
U.S.C. 1127(b)), and of the exceptional qualifica-
tions of fellowship awardees—
(1) the Secretary of Commerce, acting through
the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans
and Atmosphere, should encourage partici-
pating Federal agencies to consider opportuni-
ties for fellowship awardees at the conclusion of
their fellowships for workforce positions appro-
priate for their education and experience; and
(2) Members and committees of Congress
should consider opportunities for such awardees
for such positions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9989
December 10, 2019
SEC. 403. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF SEC-
RETARY OF COMMERCE TO ACCEPT
DONATIONS FOR NATIONAL SEA
GRANT COLLEGE PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 204(c)(4)(E) (33
U.S.C. 1123(c)(4)(E)) is amended to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(E) accept donations of money and, notwith-
standing section 1342 of title 31, United States
Code, of voluntary and uncompensated serv-
ices;’’.
(b) PRIORITIES.—The Secretary of Commerce,
acting through the Under Secretary of Com-
merce for Oceans and Atmosphere, shall estab-
lish priorities for the use of donations accepted
under section 204(c)(4)(E) of the National Sea
Grant College Program Act (33 U.S.C.
1123(c)(4)(E)), and shall consider among those
priorities the possibility of expanding the Dean
John A. Knauss Marine Policy Fellowship’s
placement of additional fellows in relevant legis-
lative offices under section 208(b) of such Act (33
U.S.C. 1127(b)), in accordance with the rec-
ommendations under subsection (c) of this sec-
tion.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Director
of the National Sea Grant College Program, in
consultation with the National Sea Grant Advi-
sory Board and the Sea Grant Association,
shall—
(1) develop recommendations for the optimal
use of any donations accepted under section
204(c)(4)(E) of the National Sea Grant College
Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1123(c)(4)(E)); and
(2) submit to Congress a report on the rec-
ommendations developed under paragraph (1).
(d) CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in this section
shall be construed to limit or otherwise affect
any other amounts available for marine policy
fellowships under section 208(b) of the National
Sea Grant College Program Act (33 U.S.C.
1127(b)), including amounts—
(1) accepted under section 204(c)(4)(F) of such
Act (33 U.S.C. 1123(c)(4)(F)); or
(2) appropriated under section 212 of such Act
(33 U.S.C. 1131).
SEC. 404. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR REPORT
ON COORDINATION OF OCEANS AND
COASTAL RESEARCH ACTIVITIES.
Section 9 of the National Sea Grant College
Program Act Amendments of 2002 (33 U.S.C. 857–
20) is repealed.
SEC. 405. REDUCTION IN FREQUENCY REQUIRED
FOR NATIONAL SEA GRANT ADVI-
SORY BOARD REPORT.
Section 209(b)(2) (33 U.S.C. 1128(b)(2)) is
amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘BIENNIAL’’
and inserting ‘‘PERIODIC’’; and
(2) in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Board shall report to the Congress every two
years’’ and inserting ‘‘Not less frequently than
once every 4 years, the Board shall submit to
Congress a report’’.
SEC. 406. MODIFICATION OF ELEMENTS OF NA-
TIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE PRO-
GRAM.
Section 204(b) (33 U.S.C. 1123(b)) is amended
by inserting ‘‘for research, education, extension,
training, technology transfer, public service,’’
after ‘‘financial assistance’’.
SEC. 407. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY; DEAN JOHN
A. KNAUSS MARINE POLICY FELLOW-
SHIP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—During fiscal year 2019 and
any fiscal year thereafter, the head of any Fed-
eral agency may appoint, without regard to the
provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title
5, United States Code, other than sections 3303
and 3328 of such title, a qualified candidate de-
scribed in subsection (b) directly to a position
with the Federal agency for which the can-
didate meets Office of Personnel Management
qualification standards.
(b) QUALIFIED CANDIDATE.—Subsection (a) ap-
plies with respect to a former recipient of a
Dean John A. Knauss Marine Policy Fellowship
under section 208(b) of the National Sea Grant
College Program Act (33 U.S.C. 1127(b)) who—
(1) earned a graduate or post-graduate degree
in a field related to ocean, coastal, or Great
Lakes resources or policy from an institution of
higher education accredited by an agency or as-
sociation recognized by the Secretary of Edu-
cation pursuant to section 496(a) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1099b(a));
(2) received a Dean John A. Knauss Marine
Policy Fellowship under section 208(b) of the
National Sea Grant College Program Act (33
U.S.C. 1127(b)) within 5 years before the date
the individual is appointed under this section;
and
(3) successfully fulfilled the requirements of
the fellowship within the executive or legislative
branch of the United States Government.
SEC. 408. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS
FOR NATIONAL SEA GRANT COLLEGE
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 212(a) (33 U.S.C.
1131(a)) is amended—
(1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to be
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this
title—
‘‘(A) $87,520,000 for fiscal year 2020;
‘‘(B) $91,900,000 for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(C) $96,500,000 for fiscal year 2022;
‘‘(D) $101,325,000 for fiscal year 2023;
‘‘(E) $106,380,000 for fiscal year 2024; and
‘‘(F) $111,710,813 for fiscal year 2025.’’; and
(2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as fol-
lows:
‘‘(2) PRIORITY ACTIVITIES FOR FISCAL YEARS
2020 THROUGH 2025.—In addition to the amounts
authorized to be appropriated under paragraph
(1), there are authorized to be appropriated
$6,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2025 for competitive grants for the following:
‘‘(A) University research on the biology, pre-
vention, and control of aquatic nonnative spe-
cies.
‘‘(B) University research on oyster diseases,
oyster restoration, and oyster-related human
health risks.
‘‘(C) University research on the biology, pre-
vention, and forecasting of harmful algal
blooms.
‘‘(D) University research, education, training,
and extension services and activities focused on
coastal resilience and United States working
waterfronts and other regional or national pri-
ority issues identified in the strategic plan
under section 204(c)(1).
‘‘(E) University research and extension on
sustainable aquaculture techniques and tech-
nologies.
‘‘(F) Fishery research and extension activities
conducted by sea grant colleges or sea grant in-
stitutes to enhance, and not supplant, existing
core program funding.’’.
(b) MODIFICATION OF LIMITATIONS ON
AMOUNTS FOR ADMINISTRATION.—Paragraph (1)
of section 212(b) (33 U.S.C. 1131(b)) is amended
to read as follows:
‘‘(1) ADMINISTRATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—There may not be used for
administration of programs under this title in a
fiscal year more than 5.5 percent of the lesser
of—
‘‘(i) the amount authorized to be appropriated
under this title for the fiscal year; or
‘‘(ii) the amount appropriated under this title
for the fiscal year.
‘‘(B) CRITICAL STAFFING REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Director shall use the
authority under subchapter VI of chapter 33 of
title 5, United States Code, to meet any critical
staffing requirement while carrying out the ac-
tivities authorized under this title.
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION FROM CAP.—For purposes of
subparagraph (A), any costs incurred as a result
of an exercise of authority described in clause
(i) shall not be considered an amount used for
administration of programs under this title in a
fiscal year.’’.
(c) ALLOCATION OF FUNDING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 204(d)(3) (33 U.S.C.
1123(d)(3)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘With respect to sea grant col-
leges and sea grant institutes’’ and inserting
‘‘With respect to sea grant colleges, sea grant
institutes, sea grant programs, and sea grant
projects’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘funding
among sea grant colleges and sea grant insti-
tutes’’ and inserting ‘‘funding among sea grant
colleges, sea grant institutes, sea grant pro-
grams, and sea grant projects’’.
(2) REPEAL OF REQUIREMENTS CONCERNING DIS-
TRIBUTION OF EXCESS AMOUNTS.—Section 212 (33
U.S.C. 1131) is amended—
(A) by striking subsection (c); and
(B) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as
subsections (c) and (d), respectively.
SEC. 409. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
(a) Section 204(d)(3)(B) (33 U.S.C.
1123(d)(3)(B)) is amended by moving clause (vi)
2 ems to the right.
(b) Section 209(b) (33 U.S.C. 1128(b)), as
amended by this Act, is further amended—
(1) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘The Sec-
retary shall’’ and all that follows; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(3) AVAILABILITY OF RESOURCES OF DEPART-
MENT OF COMMERCE.—The Secretary shall’’.
The CHAIR. No further amendment
to the bill, as amended, shall be in
order except those printed in House Re-
port 116–330 and amendments en bloc
described in section 3 of House Resolu-
tion 748.
Each further amendment printed in
House Report 116–330, shall be consid-
ered in the order printed in the report,
may be offered only by a Member des-
ignated in the report, shall be consid-
ered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally di-
vided and controlled by the proponent
and an opponent, shall not be subject
to amendment, and shall not be subject
to a demand for division of the ques-
tion.
It shall be in order at any time for
the chair of the Committee on Natural
Resources or his designee to offer
amendments en bloc consisting of
amendments printed in House Report
116–330 not earlier disposed of. Amend-
ments en bloc offered pursuant to this
section shall be considered as read,
shall be debatable for 20 minutes equal-
ly divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the
Committee on Natural Resources or
their respective designees, shall not be
subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the
question.
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC OFFERED BY MR. CASE
OF HAWAII
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, pursuant to
section 3 of House Resolution 748, I
offer amendments en bloc under the
rule.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendments en bloc.
Amendments en bloc No. 1 consisting
of amendment Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 11, 13,
15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 24, 25, 27, and
28 printed in House Report 116–330, of-
fered by Mr. CASE of Hawaii:
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
Page 49, after line 24, insert the following:
(G) Activities or projects to address the
immediate and long-term degradation or loss
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.020 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9990 December 10, 2019
of coral and coral reefs in response to bac-
teria, fungi, viruses, increased sea surface
temperatures, ultraviolet radiation, and pol-
lutants.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
Page 66, line 4, insert ‘‘coral reefs,’’ after
‘‘environments,’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. MORELLE OF
NEW YORK
Page 35, line 4, strike ‘‘may’’ and insert
‘‘shall’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. MCEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
Page 10, line 5, strike ‘‘or’’.
page 10, line 8, strike the period and insert
‘‘; or’’
(C) which include communities that may
not have adequate resources to prepare for or
respond to coastal hazards, including low in-
come communities, communities of color,
Tribal communities, and rural communities.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. LIPINSKI OF
ILLINOIS
Page 45, line 25, insert after subparagraph
(C) the following:
(C) Adaptive management strategies for
Great Lakes ecosystems and resources, in-
cluding strategies to support freshwater fish-
eries, monitor ice cover, manage phos-
phorous and nitrogen chemical loads, mini-
mize invasive species and harmful blooms of
algae, and create protected areas to main-
tain Great Lakes ecosystems.
Page 46, lines 1 and 7, redesignate subpara-
graphs (D) and (E) as subparagraphs (E) and
(F), respectively.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MS. MOORE OF
WISCONSIN
Page 45, line 15, insert ‘‘combat invasive
species,’’ after ‘‘strategies to’’.
Page 46, after line 6, insert the following:
(E) A description of how the plan will ad-
dress the impact of climate change affecting
coastal communities will have on nearby
Tribes, Tribal communities, and low-income
or low-resource communities and how those
stakeholders will be included in and in-
formed about the development of the plan.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MS. MOORE OF
WISCONSIN
Page 7, line 17, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 7, line 23, strike the period and insert
‘‘; and’’
(3) include an outreach or education com-
ponent that seeks and solicits feedback from
the local or regional community most di-
rectly affected by the proposal.
Page 11, after line 6, insert the following:
(II) Tribes and Tribal organizations;
AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED BY MR. HIGGINS OF
NEW YORK
Page 91, after line 14, insert the following:
(7) research on the impacts of harmful
algal blooms, nutrient pollution, and dead
zones on Great Lakes fisheries;
AMENDMENT NO. 15 OFFERED BY MS. SPEIER OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 49, line 19, insert ‘‘, such as sea walls
and living shorelines’’ after ‘‘environment’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 16 OFFERED BY MS. BONAMICI
OF OREGON
Page 48, line 19, insert ‘‘coastal acidifica-
tion, hypoxia,’’ after ‘‘acidification,’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 17 OFFERED BY MS. BONAMICI
OF OREGON
At the end of title III, insert the following:
SEC. 307. ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS
AGENCY–OCEANS.
(a) AGREEMENT.—Not later than 45 days
after the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, the Administrator shall seek to enter
into an agreement with the National Acad-
emy of Sciences to conduct the comprehen-
sive assessment under subsection (b).
(b) COMPREHENSIVE ASSESSMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Under an agreement be-
tween the Administrator and the National
Academy of Sciences under this section, the
National Academy of Sciences shall conduct
a comprehensive assessment of the need for
and feasibility of establishing an Advanced
Research Projects Agency–Oceans (ARPA–O).
(2) ELEMENTS.—The comprehensive assess-
ment carried out pursuant to paragraph (1)
shall include—
(A) an assessment of how an ARPA–O could
help overcome the long-term and high-risk
technological barriers in the development of
ocean technologies, with the goal of enhanc-
ing the economic, ecological, and national
security of the United States through the
rapid development of technologies that re-
sult in—
(i) improved data collection, monitoring,
and prediction of the ocean environment, in-
cluding sea ice conditions;
(ii) overcoming barriers to the application
of new and improved technologies, such as
high costs and scale of operational missions;
(iii) improved management practices for
protecting ecological sustainability;
(iv) improved national security capacity;
(v) improved technology for fishery popu-
lation assessments;
(vi) expedited processes between and
among Federal agencies to successfully iden-
tify, transition, and coordinate research and
development output to operations, applica-
tions, commercialization, and other uses;
and
(vii) ensuring that the United States main-
tains a technological lead in developing and
deploying advanced ocean technologies;
(B) an evaluation of the organizational
structures under which an ARPA–O could be
organized, which takes into account—
(i) best practices for new research pro-
grams;
(ii) metrics and approaches for periodic
program evaluation;
(iii) capacity to fund and manage external
research awards; and
(iv) options for oversight of the activity
through a Federal agency, an interagency or-
ganization, nongovernmental organization,
or other institutional arrangement; and
(C) an estimation of the scale of invest-
ment necessary to pursue high priority
ocean technology projects.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 18 months
after the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, the Administrator shall submit to Con-
gress a report on the comprehensive assess-
ment conducted under subsection (b).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the term
‘‘Administrator’’ means the Under Secretary
of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere in
the Under Secretary’s capacity as Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration.
AMENDMENT NO. 18 OFFERED BY MR. KILDEE OF
MICHIGAN
At the end of title I, insert the following:
SEC. 108. UPDATE TO ENVIRONMENTAL SENSI-
TIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS OF NA-
TIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOS-
PHERIC ADMINISTRATION FOR
GREAT LAKES.
(a) UPDATE REQUIRED ENVIRONMENTAL SEN-
SITIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS FOR GREAT
LAKES.—Not later than 180 days after the
date of the enactment of this Act, the Under
Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere shall
commence updating the environmental sen-
sitivity index products of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration for
each coastal area of the Great Lakes.
(b) PERIODIC UPDATES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL
SENSITIVITY INDEX PRODUCTS GENERALLY.—
Subject to the availability of appropriations
and the priorities set forth in subsection (c),
the Under Secretary shall—
(1) periodically update the environmental
sensitivity index products of the Administra-
tion; and
(2) endeavor to do so not less frequently
than once every 7 years.
(c) PRIORITIES.—When prioritizing geo-
graphic areas to update environmental sensi-
tivity index products, the Under Secretary
shall consider—
(1) the age of existing environmental sensi-
tivity index products for the areas;
(2) the occurrence of extreme events, be it
natural or man-made, which have signifi-
cantly altered the shoreline or ecosystem
since the last update;
(3) the natural variability of shoreline and
coastal environment; and
(4) the volume of vessel traffic and general
vulnerability to spilled pollutants.
(d) ENVIRONMENTAL SENSITIVITY INDEX
PRODUCT DEFINED.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘environmental sensitivity index prod-
uct’’ means a map or similar tool that is uti-
lized to identify sensitive shoreline, coastal
or offshore, resources prior to an oil spill
event in order to set baseline priorities for
protection and plan cleanup strategies, typi-
cally including information relating to
shoreline type, biological resources, and
human use resources.
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to the Under Secretary
$7,500,000 to carry out subsection (a).
(2) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts appropriated
or otherwise made available pursuant to
paragraph (1) shall be available to the Under
Secretary for the purposes set forth in such
paragraph until expended.
AMENDMENT NO. 19 OFFERED BY MS. PLASKETT
OF VIRGIN ISLANDS
Page 75, lines 7-8, strike ‘‘paragraph (2)’’
and insert ‘‘paragraphs (2) and (4)’’.
Page 75, after line 25, insert the following:
(4) WAIVER AUTHORITY.—The Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of Com-
merce with respect to marine or estuarine
projects, may waive the application of para-
graph (2)(A) with respect to a State or an In-
dian Tribe, or otherwise reduce the portion
of the non-Federal share of the cost of an ac-
tivity required to be paid by a State or an
Indian Tribe under paragraph (1), if the Sec-
retary determines that the State or Indian
Tribe does not have sufficient funds not de-
rived from another Federal grant program to
pay such non-Federal share, or portion of the
non-Federal share, without the use of loans.
AMENDMENT NO. 20 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
OF WASHINGTON
Page 55, line 25, strike ‘‘25’’ and insert
‘‘26’’.
Page 56, line 16, strike ‘‘1 shall be a rep-
resentative’’ and insert ‘‘2 shall be represent-
atives’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 21 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
OF WASHINGTON
Page 11, line 16, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 11, line 20, strike the period and in-
sert ‘‘; and’’
(3) to incentivize landowners to engage in
living shoreline projects.
AMENDMENT NO. 22 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
OF WASHINGTON
Page 10, line 15, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 10, line 18, strike the period and in-
sert ‘‘; and’’.
Page 10, after line 19, insert the following:
(iii) the consideration of an established eli-
gible entity program with systems to dis-
burse funding from a single grant to support
multiple small-scale projects.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.022 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9991
December 10, 2019
AMENDMENT NO. 24 OFFERED BY MR. LEVIN OF
MICHIGAN
Page 49, line 1, insert ‘‘, avian,’’ after ‘‘ma-
rine’’.
Page 49, line 5, insert ‘‘, avian,’’ after
‘‘fish’’.
AMENDMENT NO. 25 OFFERED BY MR. LEVIN OF
MICHIGAN
Page 91, after line 14, insert the following:
(7) research into the affects of per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances, mercury, and
other contaminants on fisheries and fishery
ecosystems;
AMENDMENT NO. 27 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 50, after line 24, insert the following:
SEC. 107. PRIZE COMPETITIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may carry
out a program to award prizes competitively
under section 24 of the Stevenson-Wydler
Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C.
3719), for the purpose described in subsection
(b).
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose described in
this subsection is to stimulate innovation to
advance the following coastal risk reduction
and resilience measures:
(1) Natural features, including dunes, reefs,
and wetlands.
(2) Nature-based features, including beach
nourishment, dune restoration, wetland and
other coastal habitat restoration, and living
shoreline construction.
(3) Nonstructural measures, including flood
proofing of structures, flood warning sys-
tems, and elevated development.
AMENDMENT NO. 28 OFFERED BY MR. ROUDA OF
CALIFORNIA
Page 50, after line 24, insert the following:
SEC. 107 CATALOG OF RESEARCH ON APPLICA-
BLE COASTAL RISK REDUCTION AND
RESILIENCE MEASURES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Commerce, acting through the
Administrator, shall—
(1) identify all Department of Commerce
research activities regarding applicable
coastal risk reduction and resilience meas-
ures;
(2) consult with the heads of other Federal
agencies to identify what activities, if any,
those Federal agencies are conducting re-
garding applicable coastal risk reduction and
resilience measures;
(3) evaluate the effectiveness of the activi-
ties identified under paragraphs (1) and (2);
and
(4) appoint one or more officers or employ-
ees of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration to liaise with non-Federal
entities conducting research related to appli-
cable coastal risk reduction and resilience
measures in order to eliminate redundancies,
cooperate for common climate research
goals, and to make research findings readily
available to the public.
(b) DEFINITION OF APPLICABLE COASTAL
RISK REDUCTION AND RESILIENCE MEAS-
URES.—In this section, the term ‘‘applicable
coastal risk reduction and resilience meas-
ures’’ means natural features, nature-based
features, or nonstructural measures.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 748, the gentleman from Hawaii
(Mr. CASE) and the gentleman from
Utah (Mr. BISHOP) each will control 10
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Hawaii.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, again, in the interests
of an incredibly good bipartisan bill
and moving this bill forward, I offer
this en bloc amendment, which is a
package of a number of amendments
offered by colleagues that all seek to
further improve the resilience of our
coastlines and of our Great Lakes.
I applaud the sponsors of these
amendments for their thoughtful en-
gagement on this issue and for acting
to ensure that families in their dis-
tricts are safe and healthy, with pro-
ductive jobs and clean environments.
We are working to create a more sus-
tainable, healthy planet, and this pack-
age of bills and these amendments will
move us in the right direction.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
b 1545
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, I first want to thank
the Democrats for at least not wasting
our time by debating all of these
amendments individually. But, once
again, within the pockets you will find
some good things and some not so good
things that are part of what is going on
here.
For example, there will be within
that list some blanket waivers for Fed-
eral cost-sharing requirements. It is
not a good idea to do it.
There are some stand-alone bills that
are in there that have no regular order
consideration in this House. It is also
not a good process to go through.
But if we are going to throw regular
order out the window and address 20
amendments all at once that don’t
really have that significant of a change
or an impact, at least we are doing this
in the most efficient and effective way
that we possibly could. It is not nec-
essarily making a bill, it is not really
going anywhere better, but at least we
are getting stuff done so we can say we
have the illusion of activity on the
floor.
Madam Chair, I urge rejection of the
en bloc, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. LIPINSKI), my colleague.
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentleman from Hawaii for yield-
ing and for his work on this bill.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of my
amendment to ensure that Great Lakes
States have access to the resources in
this bill, so they can address climate
change threats specific to our region.
Increased rain has already led to
more agricultural runoff into the Great
Lakes, resulting in higher bacterial
counts and larger algal blooms. This
has put our drinking water supplies at
risk. Lake Michigan alone provides
drinking water for 10 million people.
Climate change increasingly threat-
ens Great Lakes wildlife, including
fisheries important to our economy, by
changing temperatures, precipitation
patterns, and ice cover.
These are some of the reasons that
America’s ‘‘third coast,’’ our Great
Lakes States, need access to the re-
sources in this bill.
Madam Chair, I thank Chairman GRI-
JALVA for his support, including my
amendment in this en bloc, and I ask
my colleagues to join me and support
this amendment and the underlying
bill.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Or-
egon (Ms. BONAMICI), my colleague.
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman from Hawaii for
yielding.
Madam Chair, I rise today in support
of the en bloc amendment.
The ocean covers more than 70 per-
cent of the planet. It supplies much of
the oxygen that we breathe, it regu-
lates our climate, it is linked to the
water we drink, and it is home to more
than half of all life on Earth. But de-
spite our intrinsic connection to our
ocean, we know very little about what
is beneath its surface.
As co-chair of the House Oceans Cau-
cus, I have worked with my fellow co-
chair for the caucus, Congressman DON
YOUNG from Alaska, to improve ocean
data and monitoring efforts through
the introduction of our BLUE GLOBE
Act. My amendment parallels those ef-
forts and would direct the NOAA ad-
ministrator to enter into an agreement
with the National Academy of Sciences
to assess the potential for, and feasi-
bility of, an Advanced Research
Project Agency-Oceans, or ARPA-O.
Coastal communities, like those I
represent in northwest Oregon, rely on
accurate ocean data and monitoring for
information on ocean acidification,
forecasting of harmful algal blooms
and hypoxia, tsunami preparedness,
navigation, and port security. And
after the stark findings in the latest
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change Special Report on ‘‘The Ocean
and Cryosphere in a Changing Cli-
mate,’’ we know that ocean data and
monitoring are more important than
ever in adapting to the climate crisis.
My other amendment would add and
expand a new grant program estab-
lished in the underlying bill to
strengthen research opportunities on
coastal acidification and hypoxia. The
basic chemistry of our oceans is chang-
ing at an unprecedented rate, and addi-
tional research efforts like those estab-
lished in this bill will help commu-
nities respond.
I thank Chairman GRIJALVA and Mr.
CRIST for their support of these amend-
ments and for their leadership.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support the en bloc amendment.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
continue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. CASE. Madam Chair, again,
these en bloc amendments are critical
additions and positive additions to a
critical bill. These amendments ad-
dress major issues related to the harm-
ful impacts of climate change and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.022 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9992 December 10, 2019
other man-made effects on our oceans,
our coastlines, and our lakes.
For example, they single out the de-
struction that is being wrought, as we
speak, on our coral reefs throughout
our entire country, our coral reefs
throughout the Gulf Coast, throughout
Florida, and throughout the West
Coast, in Hawaii and beyond: the acidi-
fication that has led to bleaching of
these coral reefs. And as we all know,
or at least I hope we all know, as go
the coral reefs, so go our oceans.
These amendments would strengthen
Federal programs that address the
health of our coral reefs. These amend-
ments go to harmful algal blooms,
which are a problem throughout our
country, as well.
What can we and should we do about
it as a Federal coordinated effort? Of
course, we should do something about
that.
These amendments would strengthen
this bill. These amendments would for-
ward a Federal-State partnership, a
community partnership, to address an-
other harmful consequence which is
killing our oceans.
These amendments would address
coastal resiliency. How do we prevent
our coastlines from eroding? In my own
home State of Hawaii, we have seen
significant erosion. And that is true of
all of the other coasts: significant in-
creases in sea level over a very, very
recent period of time that has caused
major erosion.
How can we adopt better overall pro-
grams that adapt to a changing ocean
and do not worsen the problem of
coastal erosion? How do we do that?
These amendments get at these
issues. These are good, solid, and posi-
tive additions that our colleagues have
come up with to strengthen a good,
solid, and positive bipartisan bill.
Madam Chair, I support these amend-
ments, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Madam Chair, I
appreciate especially the ability of put-
ting all these amendments into en bloc
to help move this process along. I am
just looking at some of the issues that
have been brought up already, and I am
looking at the list of the Federal
grants and the agencies that are al-
ready spending their money on these
approaches.
If the issue is, obviously, you want
more money spent on those programs,
that is not an authorization that we
are doing here. That is an appropria-
tions issue. Go to the Appropriations
Committee and talk about how that
fits into the overall budget.
This does not necessarily move us
forward, but at least we are not spend-
ing as much time as we would if we ad-
dressed each of these individually.
Mr. Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Chair, I rise in support of
my amendments which are included in en bloc
No. 1.
My amendments are simply. I will sum them
up in six words: Community Engagement,
Education, Outreach, and Consultation.
The impacts of climate change and environ-
mental degradation affect us all. But the fact
is climate change has a disparate impact on
low-income and minority communities. Indeed,
these communities are also disproportionately
impacted by other environmental hazards. It is
also worth mentioning that these communities,
which suffer resource deficits, cannot simply
relocate out of flood zones or pay for expen-
sive mitigation efforts.
Similarly, my Native brothers and sisters
have unique cultures that are highly vulnerable
to climate change impacts which threatens
their ways of life, subsistence, lands and water
rights, and survival. For example, the Great
Lakes have been an integral part of the history
of many of the region’s tribes.
However, too often, the most vulnerable
communities are left out when it comes to the
great ideas and projects like those we are au-
thorizing in this bill. Tribal communities and
low-income communities have a great stake in
this debate. My amendment makes sure that
they are included and active participants in the
efforts authorized by this bill. My amendments
would amend two of the grant programs in the
bill to make clear that you must consult with,
reach out, and meaningfully engage with tribal
and low-income communities located where
these projects are planned.
My amendments affect two programs cre-
ated in this bill: the Living Shorelines Grant
Program and the Climate Change Adaption
Preparedness and Response Program.
The Living Shorelines Grant program is in-
tended to fund the design, implementation,
and monitoring of climate resilient living shore-
line projects intended to protect coastal com-
munities and ecosystem functions from envi-
ronmental conditions, particularly those im-
pacted by climate change.
The Climate Program is intended to help de-
velop and fund comprehensive adaptation
plans to help states better understand the
scope of the threat of climate change, identify
state-wide costs, and develop local strategies
to ensure safety for their residents.
We get better policy making and outcomes
when we ensure that all segments of our com-
munities are engaged and meaningfully in-
volved in the process.
I thank the chairman for his support of these
commonsense amendments.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. HECK). The
question is on the amendments en bloc
offered by the gentleman from Hawaii
(Mr. CASE).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, I demand
a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendments en bloc
offered by the gentleman from Hawaii
will be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in
House Report 116–330.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair-
man, I have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 92, after line 7, insert the following:
Subtitle C—Chesapeake Bay Oyster Research
SEC. 218. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Chesa-
peake Bay Office of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration shall be the pri-
mary representative of the Administration
in the Chesapeake Bay.
SEC. 219. GRANTS FOR RESEARCHING OYSTERS
IN THE CHESAPEAKE BAY.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of the
Commerce, acting through the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, shall establish a
grant program (in this section referred to as
the ‘‘Program’’) under which the Secretary
shall award grants to eligible entities for the
purpose of conducting research on the con-
servation, restoration, or management of
oysters in the Chesapeake Bay.
(b) APPLICATION.—To be eligible to receive
a grant under this section, an eligible entity
shall submit to the Secretary an application
at such time, in such manner, and con-
taining such information as the Secretary
may require.
(c) ALLOCATION OF GRANT FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall award
a grant under the Program to eligible enti-
ties that submit an application under sub-
section (b).
(2) MATCHING REQUIREMENT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the total amount of Fed-
eral funding received under the Program by
an eligible entity may not exceed 85 percent
of the total cost of the research project for
which the funding was awarded. For the pur-
poses of this subparagraph, the non-Federal
share of project costs may be provided by in-
kind contributions and other noncash sup-
port.
(B) WAIVER.—The Secretary may waive all
or part of the requirement in subparagraph
(A) if the Secretary determines that no rea-
sonable means are available through which
an eligible entity applying for a grant under
this section can meet such requirement and
the probable benefit of such research project
outweighs the public interest in such re-
quirement.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section, the fol-
lowing definitions apply:
(1) ACADEMIC COMMUNITY.—The term ‘‘aca-
demic community’’ means faculty, research-
ers, professors, and representatives of State-
accredited colleges and universities.
(2) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—The term ‘‘eligible
entity’’ means a member of the academic
community, the seafood industry, a relevant
nonprofit organization, or a relevant State
agency, that is proposing or conducting a re-
search project on the conservation, restora-
tion, or management of oysters in the Chesa-
peake Bay developed through consultation
with a member of the academic community,
a member of the seafood industry, a relevant
nonprofit organization, or a relevant State
agency.
(3) NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION.—The term
‘‘nonprofit organization’’ means an organiza-
tion described in section 501(c)(3) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from
tax under section 501(a) of such Code.
(4) SEAFOOD INDUSTRY.—The term ‘‘seafood
industry’’ means shellfish growers, shellfish
harvesters, commercial fishermen, and rec-
reational fishermen.
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Commerce, act-
ing through the Administrator of the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion.
(e) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Secretary $2,000,000 for each of the fiscal
years 2020 through 2025 to carry out this sec-
tion.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.052 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9993
December 10, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. BROWN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Chair-
man, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Chairman, I want to first recog-
nize the hard work of Chairman GRI-
JALVA and the sponsors of the under-
lying pieces of legislation. This pack-
age reflects a bipartisan collaboration
between Members dedicated to con-
serving our natural resources.
In the face of changing climate, ex-
treme weather patterns and events, ris-
ing tides, disappearing species, and
habitat destruction, it is critical we
act now to preserve and protect our
coastlines, and the communities and
local economies that depend on the
continued health of our water re-
sources.
This includes the Chesapeake Bay,
the largest estuary in the country, in
my State of Maryland. The bay is criti-
cally important as an economic engine
that attracts millions of tourists and
supports thousands of jobs.
For decades, oyster harvesting was
one of the bay’s most important indus-
tries. Yet today, we are seeing an
alarming decline in the bay’s oyster
population, a decline caused by climate
change, years of overharvesting, ocean
acidification, nutrient reduction,
denitrification, habitat destruction,
and oyster-debilitating disease. How-
ever, there is still much we don’t know
as to why the depletion is occurring
and how best to conserve oysters.
Mr. Chairman, my amendment
strengthens the underlying bill by pro-
viding research grants to those work-
ing to reverse the depletion and decline
of oysters in the Chesapeake Bay.
These grants support collaborative
partnerships to research the long-term
conservation, restoration, and manage-
ment of oysters in the Chesapeake Bay.
This program will encourage collabo-
rations between the academic commu-
nity, the seafood industry, nonprofit
organizations, and State agencies to
develop new innovative solutions.
These grants will help us better un-
derstand why oyster hatcheries are
crashing and to develop best practices
in mitigating habitat destruction.
My amendment will provide us more
tools to strengthen the oyster popu-
lation and the health of the Chesa-
peake Bay.
Mr. Chairman, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this amendment and
the underlying bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
I rise in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Utah is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
I actually don’t have great pleasure in
doing that because Mr. BROWN is a vital
member of our committee, does a great
job, and defends his State brilliantly. I
appreciate him doing that.
But, once again, the process we are
doing is adding another new taxpayer
program that already has existing pro-
grams in effect, and is actually a
stand-alone bill that has not received a
hearing, a markup, or a CBO score, and
adding that to this, because this is,
once again, the only train in town and
we are not taking time to do these
things individually as we ought to.
But when it comes to oyster re-
search, which is extremely important, I
recognize fully, as you see by the chart
the total numbers in each of these
years, starting in fiscal year 2014, are
how much had been given to this par-
ticular program.
In 2018, it was $617 million in funds
from all of the different government
agencies that actually participate.
That includes Agriculture, Commerce,
Defense, Homeland Security, Interior,
and EPA for watershed restoration.
NOAA does have a Chesapeake Bay
office. They provide research. They
provide grants to both Maryland and
Virginia. Last year, they also provided
a grant to the Chesapeake Bay Founda-
tion to add these programs in there.
What we are trying to say here is, it
is already being done.
Now, if this is a problem of not
enough money going into there, as
some of the other speakers have said,
well, that is not an issue of authoriza-
tion. The authorization authority ex-
ists. That is a question of how much we
are actually appropriating, which is an
entirely different issue, which you
should go to the Appropriations Com-
mittee to see if you actually want that
number higher.
But, actually, the Federal Govern-
ment does do this, and they are in-
creasing with it. There is not a prob-
lem that needs authorization. If you
need more money, that is an appropria-
tions issue. This, unfortunately, is not
about appropriations. This is about au-
thorization.
So I appreciate the gentleman from
Maryland. I appreciate his interest. I
appreciate this issue. But it is already
being done by other agencies. There is
no need for another entity to enter
into this particular market.
Mr. Chairman, I urge Members to
vote ‘‘no,’’ and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, I demand
a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Maryland will be
postponed.
b 1600
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. HUIZENGA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 6 printed in
House Report 116–330.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 16, after line 2, insert the following:
(h) MINIMUM REQUIRED FUNDS FOR SHORE-
LINE PROJECTS LOCATED WITHIN THE GREAT
LAKES.—The Secretary shall make not less
than 10 percent of the funds awarded under
this section to projects located in the Great
Lakes.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. HUIZENGA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chair, while I
stand here today as I offer my amend-
ment, residents across the Great Lakes
are facing imminent threats to their
property, their infrastructure, and the
shorelines themselves due to histori-
cally high water levels.
Great Lakes communities, including
many in my own district along the
shores of Lake Michigan, are in critical
need of shoreline projects to protect
against devastating erosion.
For those of us who call the region
home, the Great Lakes forever shape
our way of life. It is where we recreate.
It is where we do business. It is where
we pass along the heritage of our re-
gion.
The Great Lakes form the largest
fresh surface water system on the
Earth, holding nearly 20 percent of the
world’s freshwater supply.
They directly generate more than 1.5
million jobs, provide the backbone of a
$5 trillion regional economy, and are
the home for more than 3,500 different
plants and species.
As I often say, we can and should pro-
tect and promote both the economy
and the ecology of the Great Lakes.
However, our communities are facing
devastating consequences if we don’t
act to protect our shorelines now. The
high water levels, combined with the
effect of recent storms that brought
even higher waves and strong winds,
are threatening our communities.
Public infrastructure, including
roads, bridges, and docks, have been
battered and, in some cases, actually
lost. Recreational beaches have dis-
appeared, and others are covered with
dangerous debris now. Habitats have
been destroyed. Numerous homes are
teetering on the edge of dune cliffs or
are threatened by the rising water
level.
This amendment, which would set
aside just 10 percent of the spending in
these particular projects, would ensure
that communities within the Great
Lakes system receive necessary fund-
ing through the living shoreline grant
program to protect and preserve our
shorelines.
It is imperative that resources are
provided through all available options
to enhance the shorelines of the Great
Lakes and to protect our homes and
our communities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.055 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9994 December 10, 2019
I understand the ranking member’s
position on this particular package of
bills and Senate activity, or maybe
lack thereof on this. Yet, I do have a
responsibility to not only highlight
this issue but to advocate for those
who are in desperate need and in des-
perate situations.
That is one of the reasons I will be
supporting this package. I ask for con-
sideration of my colleagues to help
adopt this amendment.
Whether it is going together as a
package or whether it gets dealt with
separately in the Senate, I know that
this is something that we need to look
at as a legislative body, and we need to
act now.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I ask unani-
mous consent to claim the time in op-
position, although I am not opposed to
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Hawaii?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Hawaii is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, for our major-
ity colleagues, I deeply appreciate my
colleague’s comments in support of his
amendment and his appreciation and
understanding of the communities that
he represents, in terms of the impacts
of climate change and other man-made
causes not only on our oceans, because
we tend to focus on our oceans, but on
our lakes, to include our Great Lakes.
The Great Lakes are currently expe-
riencing nearly record high water lev-
els, causing widespread erosion of
beaches and property and costing peo-
ple their lives. In fact, there have been
over 50 percent more deaths in the
Great Lakes in 2019 because of these
dangerous conditions compared to 2018.
These high lake levels are forecast to
continue for 2020 and, in all likelihood,
beyond. Just this month, 12 Michigan
State lawmakers asked Governor
Whitmer to declare a state of emer-
gency for the Lake Michigan shoreline
because of water levels.
Resilient, living shorelines are one of
the best options for the Great Lakes
communities dealing with the impacts
of high lake levels, as they are for
other communities in the body of this
bill.
Our majority does support my col-
league’s amendment to be sure that
this money does find its way to where
it is most needed. I support this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Chairman, I ap-
preciate the chairman from Hawaii and
his acknowledgment of what is going
on in the Great Lakes.
In fact, it was my own State rep-
resentative who led that letter of State
legislators requesting Governor
Whitmer to declare this emergency
declaration so that the Federal Gov-
ernment can look at that.
Mr. Chair, I appreciate that support,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. HUIZENGA).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MR. KATKO
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
House Report 116–330.
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 91, after line 14, insert the following:
(7) harmful algal bloom development re-
search;
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. KATKO) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of my amendment to
H.R. 729, which I am proud to offer with
my colleagues from New York, Rep-
resentatives MORELLE, BRINDISI, and
STEFANIK.
This amendment would explicitly au-
thorize the U.S. Geological Survey to
conduct research on harmful algal
bloom, or HAB, development within
the Great Lakes Basin system. This re-
search would help to address signifi-
cant risks that algal blooms pose to
freshwater ecosystems, including the
production of toxins that endanger hu-
mans and animal life.
These hazards are all too familiar to
the community that I represent in cen-
tral New York, which has faced a rising
number of outbreaks in recent years.
In these instances, outbreaks have
jeopardized the availability of clean
drinking water for my constituents and
directly impacted the health of our
lakefront communities.
Unfortunately, this issue extends be-
yond my district and even further be-
yond the Great Lakes. These algal
blooms have been recorded in all 50
States, necessitating increased Federal
support for research and mitigation ef-
forts nationwide.
Research conducted in the Great
Lakes under this amendment would
help to stem the increasing spread of
this toxic threat and provide peace of
mind to at-risk communities.
Mr. Chair, I urge support of my
amendment, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I ask unani-
mous consent to claim the time in op-
position, although I am not opposed to
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Hawaii?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Hawaii is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chairman, I very
much appreciate my colleague’s efforts
on this particular amendment, which,
as he points out, is a truly bipartisan
amendment joined in by Members from
the New York delegation on a bipar-
tisan basis. I think this illustrates a
couple of different things.
First of all, this bill and these
amendments need not be partisan. In
fact, they offer one of the best avenues
forward for true bipartisanship as we
confront the crisis of climate change.
Second, they illustrate that when we
talk about our marine resources and
climate change, and in this bill, we
focus on our oceans and tend to think
that our coastal States are those that
are affected. Clearly, it is not only our
coastal States that are affected.
Many States throughout our country
are directly affected by the impacts of
climate change, including New York
State, in conjunction with the Great
Lakes. So this is an amendment that
we can support. Every year, we seem to
hear about another toxic algal bloom
in the Great Lakes closing beaches or
fisheries.
It is important that the fishery re-
search reauthorization in this bill in-
clude researching the impacts of harm-
ful algal blooms because there is a lot
that is unknown about the causes of
these toxic blooms and the long-term
effects in fish populations.
When we speak of fish populations in
the Great Lakes, we speak not only of
the benefits of the fish populations
through our natural ecosystems in the
Great Lakes and not only of rec-
reational fisheries, but we speak in the
range of some 75,000 jobs that can be di-
rectly attributed to the health of our
fisheries in our Great Lakes. So I am
pleased to urge adoption of this amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Chairman, I thank
my colleague from Hawaii. I urge adop-
tion of my amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. KATKO).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MR. KATKO
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 9 printed in
House Report 116–330.
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 49, after line 24, insert the following:
(G) Projects to assess the impact on coast-
al resiliency of water level regulating prac-
tices on the Great Lakes.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. KATKO) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Chairman, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.058 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9995
December 10, 2019
Mr. Chairman, I rise in support of my
amendment to H.R. 729, the Coastal
and Great Lakes Communities En-
hancement Act. This amendment
would extend the eligibility for grant
funding under H.R. 729 to projects that
assess the impact of Great Lakes water
level management practices on coastal
resiliency.
My constituents on Lake Ontario’s
southern shore have faced record high
and oftentimes catastrophic water lev-
els in 2 of the last 3 years. These rising
levels have resulted in catastrophic
flood damage and coastal erosion,
threatening the physical well-being of
our communities and posing an exis-
tential threat to the local economy.
As water levels continue to rise
across the Great Lakes, it is important
that we thoroughly evaluate all the
factors that contribute to the health of
our coastal communities, including the
water level management procedures
that are supposed to mitigate those
threats to our coasts.
My amendment will provide nec-
essary support to projects that include
a thorough evaluation of these proce-
dures as a part of the broader effort to
improve coastal resiliency across the
Great Lakes.
I urge support of my amendment, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chairman, I ask unan-
imous consent to claim the time in op-
position, although I am not opposed to
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Hawaii?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Hawaii is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chairman, again, this
is a very positive, bipartisan amend-
ment by the Members from New York
and indicates that we can, in fact, pro-
ceed in a bipartisan way on these crit-
ical issues.
As already noted earlier in my re-
marks, the Great Lakes have experi-
enced record or near-record high levels
of water this year and are projected to
continue to have high levels next year
and well beyond.
Many coastal communities and prop-
erty owners in the Great Lakes are suf-
fering from accelerated land loss and
erosion. This amendment rightfully en-
sures that water level regulating prac-
tices can be a part of coastal resilience
planning.
I only regret that when it comes to
our world’s oceans, we don’t have the
luxury of regulating sea levels in ac-
cordance with water level regulating
practices.
We support this amendment and the
intent of this amendment, but I must
indicate a caution for the RECORD, and
that is that if this amendment leads to
the uncontrolled, indiscriminate con-
struction of dams throughout our
country, we need to be careful because
dams are double-edged swords. They
can be a tremendous boon to water reg-
ulating practices and electricity, en-
ergy, sports and fishing, and many
other concerns, but they can have un-
intended environmental consequences.
I would simply caution that as we go
forward with the implementation of
this amendment, I hope that we pay
very close attention to the sound
science behind water level regulating
practices.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. KATKO. Mr. Chairman, I urge
adoption of my amendment, but I will
note that my colleague from Hawaii is
right in that this needs to be properly
administered if it is, in fact, made into
law.
One of the problems we have in the
Great Lakes in general is the high
water levels. What we have on Lake
Ontario is something called the Inter-
national Joint Commission, which I
would argue is not properly admin-
istering the water levels and is contrib-
uting greatly to the problem.
This amendment is meant, in part, to
address that and to have more uni-
formity with respect to the application
of water levels and considering more
the impact on the coastal shorelines
from those regulations.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. KATKO).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MR. CRIST
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 12 printed
in House Report 116–330.
Mr. CRIST. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 48, lines 19-20, insert ‘‘harmful algal
blooms,’’ after ‘‘ocean acidification,’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. CRIST) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Florida.
Mr. CRIST. Mr. Chair, my amend-
ment today is simple. It clarifies that
projects to address harmful algal
blooms are eligible for priority funding
under the climate change adaptation,
preparedness, and response program
created by the underlying bill.
b 1615
Last year, the State of Florida was
ravaged by simultaneous outbreaks of
red tide and blue-green algae. Florid-
ians across the State were forced to en-
dure threats to their health. Dead fish,
dolphins, and Florida’s iconic manatees
washed up on our beaches in droves,
and an awful and inescapable stench
drifted inland for miles.
In Florida, our waterways and nat-
ural resources are our livelihoods, but
these harmful algae blooms threaten
that. According to a damage assess-
ment from the Tampa Bay Regional
Planning Council, businesses in the 12
most impacted counties lost over $130
million in 4 short months, and at least
300 hardworking Floridians lost their
jobs as a direct result of these out-
breaks.
This is not just a seasonal nuisance.
These outbreaks are a threat to Flor-
ida’s environment and to our very way
of life. As our State still struggles to
recover from last year’s disaster, an-
other red tide outbreak is happening
right now.
The reality is that these outbreaks
will only get worse as our climate
changes and our oceans warm. It is im-
perative that any program to help pre-
pare our communities for the impacts
of climate change also includes initia-
tives to address harmful algae blooms
such as red tides.
Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank
the bipartisan sponsors of my amend-
ment: the gentleman from Florida (Mr.
ROONEY); the gentlewoman from Or-
egon, Chairwoman BONAMICI; the gen-
tlewoman from Ohio, Chairwoman KAP-
TUR; and the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. HASTINGS). I would also like to
thank the Rules Committee for making
my amendment in order.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support this critical amendment as
well as the underlying bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
I claim the time in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
this is, once again, where we have the
same situation that the issue and the
problem of which the gentleman from
Florida speaks is real and it is there.
The concept is it is already also being
addressed. These are the kinds of pro-
grams that already exist to do exactly
what the gentleman wishes to do.
Nonetheless, this amendment would
authorize a duplicative program that
would cost $114 million if it were actu-
ally implemented. But just because we
pass the amendment doesn’t mean the
money is there to implement the pro-
gram.
So much of the opposition and so
many of the complaints that we have
been hearing are that there is not
enough money appropriated to do it.
The $114 million doesn’t exist until
there is an appropriation to actually go
about that concept.
Here is where the problem lies for all
of these amendments that we are going
to be hearing for this entire process.
The bill is the Harmful Algal Bloom
and Hypoxia Research and Control Act,
passed in 1998, which already provides
the legal authority and the funding
level—not necessarily the appropria-
tion but the legal, authorized funding
level—for algae bloom prevention and
control.
In addition—in addition to these ac-
tivities—and they are being conducted
by NOAA, USGS, NASA, the Army
Corps of Engineers, and EPA—it is the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.062 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9996 December 10, 2019
concept we have been saying all along,
this entire concept of this package that
we are bringing in here is stuff that is
trying to highlight another issue and
another problem which may be, in this
case, a legitimate issue and problem,
but fails to realize it is already cov-
ered.
Mr. Chairman, you don’t need a du-
plicative program to do what we are al-
ready doing. If you want more money
for it, that is another issue, and that
doesn’t take place in these authoriza-
tions. That takes place in appropria-
tions. But we are already doing it.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. CRIST).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Chairman, I demand
a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Florida will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NUMBER 14 OFFERED BY MR.
PANETTA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 14 printed
House Report 116–330.
Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 92, after line 23, insert the following:
(3) Collaborations and partnerships be-
tween institutions of higher education and
Federal agencies help ensure digital data fo-
cused on coastal management issues are
communicated effectively between such enti-
ties.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentleman
from California (Mr. PANETTA) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Chairman, I rise
to offer an amendment to H.R. 729, the
Coastal and Great Lakes Communities
Enhancement Act.
As we have heard today, this bill
helps communities like mine on the
central coast of California prepare for
and respond to climate change, and it
does this with scientific data to ad-
dress coastal and ocean management.
More importantly, this bill estab-
lishes the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration’s Digital Coast
program, a web-based collection of
tools, training resources, and data that
informs coastal managers on their cli-
mate-related decisions.
Now, my amendment will expand
that data set, and it will do that by en-
couraging collaborations and partner-
ships between higher educational insti-
tutions and Federal agencies.
Now, in my district, there are coastal
colleges and universities that are pur-
suing cutting-edge research focused on
coastal resilience. At the same time,
there are Federal agencies like NOAA
that are doing innovative work on this
very same topic.
My amendment will ensure that
there is communication, coordination,
and collaboration between academic
scholars and the policymakers when it
comes to digital data focused on coast-
al management issues. This will not
only improve the relevance and appli-
cability of our Nation’s efforts to pro-
tect coastal communities, but it will
help our Nation gather the evidence it
needs and continue being the leader it
needs to be when it comes to mitiga-
tion and adaptation in dealing with cli-
mate change.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
I claim the time in opposition, al-
though, in all fairness, I am not op-
posed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
this adds a finding to it. It doesn’t have
any cost. This is not a duplicative pro-
gram because it is a finding, so I sup-
port this amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. PANETTA).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Chairman, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from California will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 23 OFFERED BY MS. MUCARSEL-
POWELL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 23 printed
in House Report 116–330.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Chairman, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 17, line 6, insert ‘‘corals,’’ after ‘‘sub-
merged aquatic plants,’’.
Page 17, line 18, insert ‘‘corals,’’ after ‘‘sub-
merged aquatic vegetation,’’
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentlewoman
from Florida (Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Florida.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Chairman, I rise in support of my
amendment, which would ensure that
corals are included in projects eligible
for grants provided for by section 102 of
the underlying bill, the Living Shore-
lines grant program.
Living shorelines are essential for
protecting our coastlines from rising
sea levels and stronger wave action
from intensifying storms.
My district in south Florida benefits
greatly from many elements of living
shorelines. Mangroves absorb the
power of strong waves, protect our
coasts from erosion, and store carbon.
Our beautiful Everglades provide tre-
mendous flood protection, clean our
water, and provide habitats for so
many types of wildlife.
Another crucial tool in our natural
toolbox is coral reefs, and we must en-
sure that projects to protect and re-
store our reefs are eligible for grants.
My district is home to the third larg-
est barrier reef in the world and the
only barrier reef in the continental
United States. Healthy corals dissipate
the force of waves and protect coast-
lines from damage and erosion. In fact,
according to NOAA, healthy coral reefs
absorb 97 percent of a wave’s energy,
providing significant shoreline protec-
tion.
Unlike concrete and stone seawalls
and breakwaters, coral reefs have a tre-
mendous amount of biodiversity that is
unparalleled under the surface. They
are the rain forest of the ocean. They
are essential for our tourism industry
and for our fishing industry, both rec-
reational and commercial.
Our coral reefs are suffering right
now under the stressors of today’s en-
vironment and human activity. We
need to take steps wherever we can to
protect and restore our reefs.
Mr. Chairman, I urge the support of
my amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
again, I claim the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
we, once again, are in the same situa-
tion. This is not a bad idea, and it is
not a bad concept. In fact, it is such a
good concept, we are already doing it.
So, if I quote NOAA in their testi-
mony in our committee, the agency
currently provides financial and tech-
nical assistance to coastal commu-
nities for the use of living shorelines
through existing programs. The pro-
gram already has $300 million that is
going in there, and it is going through
those areas, including the Interior,
NOAA, Fish and Wildlife, EPA, Science
Foundation, United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, and the Department
of Agriculture.
All of those are providing funds for
this very thing, which means it is hap-
pening. You don’t need to add this lan-
guage to have it happen, Mr. Chairman,
because it already is happening.
By adding the language, I guess, well,
you get to add another line in the code,
and you can say you passed something.
But the bottom line is it still is an un-
necessary amendment to an unneces-
sary bill because the authority and the
authorization is already there.
The only thing that might not be
there is, once again, you don’t think it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.065 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9997
December 10, 2019
is spending enough money, in which
case that is an appropriations issue,
not an authorization issue.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Chairman, I appreciate the concern of
my fellow colleague from the other
side, but you know the technicalities
that we have to deal with when dealing
with bureaucratic agencies and govern-
ments. So we just need to make sure
that we do not exclude such a crucial
part of what we are talking about,
which is protection for our shorelines.
I just want to mention one more
thing, that the annual benefits of coral
reefs, including a flood protection bar-
rier for more than 18,000 coastal citi-
zens, actually provide $1.8 billion worth
of coastal infrastructure in the United
States in terms of benefits. So, what-
ever we are going to spend in providing
grants to protect our coral reefs, we
are going to receive back in benefits.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Florida (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Chairman, I demand a
recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Florida will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 26 OFFERED BY MRS. LURIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 26 printed
House Report 116–330.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Chairman, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 8, line 24, strike ‘‘and’’.
Page 9, line 18, strike the period and insert
‘‘; and’’.
Page 9, line 19, insert ‘‘(E) the potential of
the project to support resiliency at a mili-
tary installation or community infrastruc-
ture supportive of a military installation (as
such terms are defined in section 2391 of title
10, United States Code).’’
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentlewoman
from Virginia (Mrs. LURIA) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Virginia.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Chairman, I rise to
offer an amendment to H.R. 729, the
Coastal and Great Lakes Communities
Enhancement Act.
My amendment directs NOAA to con-
sider the potential of proposed living
shoreline projects to enhance the resil-
iency of military installations and the
communities that surround them.
Earlier this year, the Department of
Defense found that well over half of the
highest priority military installations
are or will be at risk of recurrent flood-
ing. The report found that greater
Hampton Roads is one of the areas
‘‘most vulnerable to flooding’’ in the
entire United States.
Hampton Roads is home to the larg-
est Navy base in the world and instal-
lations from every branch of the serv-
ice. When it floods in coastal Virginia,
it is both a local nuisance as well as a
threat to our national security.
Coastal Virginians are stepping up to
meet this challenge. The cities of Nor-
folk and Virginia Beach have proposed
almost $1.5 billion in coastal resiliency
infrastructure, but Hampton Roads and
other coastal localities with military
presence cannot bear the cost of sea
level rise, severe storms, and recurrent
flooding alone.
My amendment will strengthen H.R.
729 by ensuring that NOAA takes into
account the crucial role resiliency
projects can play in bolstering our na-
tional security and our local commu-
nities.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment and the un-
derlying bill, and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
I would actually ask to claim the time
in opposition, though, once again, I am
not really opposed to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
this is one of those elements which,
once again, the gentlewoman raises an
issue that I think is right, it is good,
and it is appropriate; and the idea that
we should make sure these consider-
ations take effect is an appropriate
thing.
The concept, once again, but the
problem is there is nothing that pro-
hibits that from being done, and, in-
deed, it is being done even as we speak,
but you want to reemphasize it.
Once again, we should be taking mili-
tary consideration into everything we
are doing, not just this particular
amendment. But it is the right concept
there. It is why I am not really opposed
to this. It is the right thing to do.
Actually, it is such a right thing to
do, we should have been spending our
time doing the NDAA, which is much
more successful and much more impor-
tant to the military. That should have
been passed months ago. That is how
important this particular topic is.
I am not really opposed to it. It is,
once again, redundant, and we are al-
ready doing that. There is nothing that
stops us from doing that.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
b 1630
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Hawaii
(Mr. CASE).
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I applaud the
sponsor of this amendment, my col-
league from the beautiful and critical
Virginia coast.
Everything she said in her remarks
could easily have applied to many,
many of our military installations
across the country.
Of course, Hampton Roads is critical
to our Nation’s defense, and so is Joint
Base Pearl Harbor, the home of our Air
Force and our Navy in the Indo-Pacific,
as is Marine Corps Base Kaneohe, the
home of our marines in the Indo-Pa-
cific.
My colleague, as a member of the
Committee on Armed Services, knows
full well that our military has actually
taken the lead in assessing the real-
istic consequences of climate change
on our military installations across the
country. They deserve credit for that.
They also need help with that. My col-
leagues’ amendment would provide
them that help and will create the
partnership that we need to guarantee
the continued security and operation of
our Nation’s key military installations
and the family communities that de-
pend on them.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Chair, coastal resil-
iency projects, such as the Living
Shoreline Program, can strengthen our
military and the local communities
that support them. My amendment will
improve H.R. 729 by ensuring that
NOAA considers the national security
benefits of these projects.
Let me be clear: A vote against this
amendment is a vote to turn our backs
on our servicemembers and military
families, as well as disregard the future
of military readiness in our coastal
communities.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this critical amendment in the
underlying bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chair, let’s
just say this: In concept once again, re-
gardless of how one votes on this
amendment, the issue is still signifi-
cant. The issue is still being covered.
The issue is already being done. There
is a redundancy in some elements to it,
but it is a redundancy for a good cause.
Mr. Chair, I am not going to vote
against it, but, once again, we are
doing it. We are doing it already, that
is what we are doing with the entire
package that we are debating. We are
doing it already.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Virginia (Mrs. LURIA).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Chair, I demand a re-
corded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Virginia will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 29 OFFERED BY MR. JOHNSON
OF LOUISIANA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 29 printed
House Report 116–330.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.069 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9998 December 10, 2019
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Add at the end the following:
TITLE V—STREAMLINING
ENVIRONMENTAL APPROVALS
SEC. 501. ADDRESSING PERMITS FOR TAKING OF
MARINE MAMMALS.
Section 101(a)(5)(D) of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(5)(D))
is amended as follows:
(1) In clause (i)—
(A) by striking ‘‘citizens of the United
States’’ and inserting ‘‘persons’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘within a specific geo-
graphic region’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘of small numbers’’;
(D) by striking ‘‘such citizens’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘such persons’’; and
(E) by striking ‘‘within that region’’.
(2) In clause (ii)—
(A) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘, and
other means of effecting the least prac-
ticable impact on such species or stock and
its habitat’’;
(B) in subclause (III), by striking ‘‘require-
ments pertaining to the monitoring and re-
porting of such taking by harassment, in-
cluding’’ and inserting ‘‘efficient and prac-
tical requirements pertaining to the moni-
toring of such taking by harassment while
the activity is being conducted and the re-
porting of such taking, including, as the Sec-
retary determines necessary,’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘Any condition imposed pursuant to sub-
clause (I), (II), or (III) may not result in
more than a minor change to the specified
activity and may not alter the basic design,
location, scope, duration, or timing of the
specified activity.’’.
(3) In clause (iii), by striking ‘‘receiving an
application under this subparagraph’’ and in-
serting ‘‘an application is accepted or re-
quired to be considered complete under sub-
clause (I)(aa), (II)(aa), or (IV) of clause (viii),
as applicable,’’.
(4) In clause (vi), by striking ‘‘a determina-
tion of ‘least practicable adverse impact on
such species or stock’ under clause (i)(I)’’
and inserting ‘‘conditions imposed under
subclause (I), (II), or (III) of clause (ii)’’.
(5) By adding at the end the following:
‘‘(viii)(I) The Secretary shall—
‘‘(aa) accept as complete a written request
for authorization under this subparagraph
for incidental taking described in clause (i),
by not later than 45 days after the date of
submission of the request; or
‘‘(bb) provide to the requester, by not later
than 15 days after the date of submission of
the request, a written notice describing any
additional information required to complete
the request.
‘‘(II) If the Secretary provides notice under
subclause (I)(bb), the Secretary shall, by not
later than 30 days after the date of submis-
sion of the additional information described
in the notice—
‘‘(aa) accept the written request for au-
thorization under this subparagraph for inci-
dental taking described in clause (i); or
‘‘(bb) deny the request and provide the re-
quester a written explanation of the reasons
for the denial.
‘‘(III) The Secretary may not make a sec-
ond request for information, request that the
requester withdraw and resubmit the re-
quest, or otherwise delay a decision on the
request.
‘‘(IV) If the Secretary fails to respond to a
request for authorization under this subpara-
graph in the manner provided in subclause
(I) or (II), the request shall be considered to
be complete.
‘‘(ix)(I) At least 90 days before the expira-
tion of any authorization issued under this
subparagraph, the holder of such authoriza-
tion may apply for a one-year extension of
such authorization. The Secretary shall
grant such extension within 14 days after the
date of such request on the same terms and
without further review if there has been no
substantial change in the activity carried
out under such authorization nor in the sta-
tus of the marine mammal species or stock,
as applicable, as reported in the final annual
stock assessment reports for such species or
stock.
‘‘(II) In subclause (I) the term ‘substantial
change’ means a change that prevents the
Secretary from making the required findings
to issue an authorization under clause (i)
with respect to such species or stock.
‘‘(III) The Secretary shall notify the appli-
cant of such substantial changes with speci-
ficity and in writing within 14 days after the
applicant’s submittal of the extension re-
quest.
‘‘(x) If the Secretary fails to make the re-
quired findings and, as appropriate, issue the
authorization within 120 days after the appli-
cation is accepted or required to be consid-
ered complete under subclause (I)(aa),
(II)(aa), or (III) of clause (viii), as applicable,
the authorization is deemed to have been
issued on the terms stated in the application
and without further process or restrictions
under this Act.’’.
SEC. 502. REMOVING DUPLICATIONS.
Section 101(a)(5)(D) of the Marine Mammal
Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C.
1371(a)(5)(D)), as amended, is further amend-
ed by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(xi) Any taking of a marine mammal in
compliance with an authorization under this
subparagraph is exempt from the prohibition
on taking in section 9 of the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1538). Any Fed-
eral agency authorizing, funding, or carrying
out an action that results in such taking,
and any agency action authorizing such tak-
ing, is exempt from the requirement to con-
sult regarding potential impacts to marine
mammal species or designated critical habi-
tat under section 7(a)(2) of such Act (16
U.S.C. 1536(a)(2)).’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 748, the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. JOHNSON) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Louisiana.
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Chair, I rise to offer this amendment to
the underlying legislation, H.R. 729,
the Coastal and Great Lakes Commu-
nities Enhancement Act.
My amendment seeks to provide crit-
ical reforms to duplicative, burden-
some, and outdated policies that ham-
per energy exploration and critical
coastal restoration. To be clear, coast-
al restoration is vital to deterring eco-
system degradation and fueling eco-
nomic sustainability for communities
who call this southernmost part of
Louisiana home.
The loss of our coastal areas presents
an increased threat to safety within
residential communities, and it nega-
tively impacts business investments
due to the difficulty in obtaining insur-
ance.
Since the 1930s, Louisiana has suf-
fered nearly 1,900 square miles of land
loss, and it is anticipated to lose an ad-
ditional 4,000-plus, unless Congress acts
to loosen the regulations that have de-
layed critical projects that bolster vul-
nerable habitats and communities.
Take my home State of Louisiana,
for example, which has greatly suffered
from overreaching government regula-
tion.
In March of 2017, the Coalition to Re-
store Coastal Louisiana announced the
Mid-Barataria Sediment Diversion
Project was going to be delayed an ad-
ditional 2 years due to permitting
issues. This project is considered the
very cornerstone of the Coastal Protec-
tion and Restoration Authority’s 2017
Coastal Master Plan to mitigate flood
risks, restore and protect critical habi-
tats, and ensure Congress is not debat-
ing the issue 15 years after the region
has been irreparably lost and sunk into
the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, this amendment supports
the national security interest of the
United States to ensure our men and
women in uniform are able to properly
train for future missions.
In 2016, a Federal court of appeals re-
voked the U.S. Navy’s authorization to
use sonar for critical national security
training because it conflicted with the
rules and regulations under the MMPA.
To address these delays directly, my
amendment simply makes common-
sense updates to the MMPA that help
increase regulatory efficiency and re-
move duplicative permitting require-
ments under Federal law.
For anyone to insinuate that this
amendment will destroy protections
and result in wetland and species de-
cline is simply untrue. In fact, the re-
forms made by my amendment would
further support coastal habitats and
species restoration, U.S. national secu-
rity interest, and American energy
independence.
Mr. Chair, I urge all my colleagues to
support my amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I rise in opposi-
tion to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Hawaii is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, this amend-
ment is not a coastal resilience amend-
ment. This amendment has nothing to
do with the underlying bill; in fact, it
was a miracle that it was ruled ger-
mane. This amendment instead is sim-
ply an unneeded handout to oil and gas
companies that takes us in exactly the
wrong direction, not only on climate
change, but on the very survival of our
oceans.
We all know, and I remind everybody,
that this language is the exact lan-
guage that in past Congresses was in-
cluded in the other side’s ocean drilling
package that would have paved the
way for faster permitting of seismic
testing and ocean drilling.
Why? Because our oceans marine
mammals get in the way of that.
Congress first enacted the Marine
Mammal Protection Act over 40 years
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.073 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9999
December 10, 2019
ago to protect all marine mammals in
response to declines caused by human
activities, and it has worked success-
fully for almost all of those years. The
Marine Mammal Protection Act en-
sures that activities that may result in
incidental harm or take of marine
mammals are thoroughly reviewed,
rather than permitted through the ex-
pedited and inadequate process pro-
posed by this bill.
Activities such as seismic air gun
testing used for oil and gas explo-
ration, offshore drilling, sonar, and
geophysical surveys can all affect ma-
rine mammals. And while I sometimes
hear the other side falsely claim that
these activities have not killed any
marine mammals, the best available
science for decades has demonstrated
that, in fact, there are significant long-
term negative impacts on several ma-
rine mammal species that do, in fact,
cause their death.
This amendment would undermine
critical protections under the Marine
Mammal Protection Act by striking
the conditions required for permitted
activities. It would allow for unmiti-
gated incidental harm, that is without
the current safeguards that would
allow for the, ‘‘least practicable impact
on such species or stocks,’’ among
other things. Is it too much to ask that
we require the least practicable impact
on such species or stock?
It would further limit mitigation for
any incidental losses and requirements
for monitoring. These legislative
changes would allow industry to con-
tinue their activities with oversight of
their impacts only if it was, ‘‘efficient
and practical.’’ Efficient and practical?
Let’s just give them carte blanche to
gut this bill, literally and figuratively.
Lastly, this amendment would waive
requirements for take and consultation
under the Endangered Species Act, an-
other decades-long cornerstone of our
protection of our natural species for
any threatened or endangered marine
mammals. The ESA has been critical
to the recovery of several populations
of marine mammals and is needed to
protect other species from extinction.
Let’s keep the focus where we can
focus on a bipartisan solution to cli-
mate change as it affects our oceans,
our coastlines and our lakes. Let’s
keep the focus on coastal resilience, on
assisting communities, on fostering
Federal-State organization partner-
ships, on living in the present and the
future and not in the past on the ef-
fects of climate change.
Let’s keep that focus there, rather
than use this bill, this amendment, to
provide a desired handout to an indus-
try that does not or has not dem-
onstrated a true understanding of its
impacts on our oceans, an industry
that does need to continue to be regu-
lated through strong positive time-
tested legislation, such as the Marine
Mammal Protection Act.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Chair, I really appreciate the gentle-
man’s zeal, but I want him to know the
focus is on the right thing. We are fo-
cused here on solving problems.
This is not the first time this legisla-
tion has been misunderstood or even
mischaracterized. As I stated pre-
viously, those who say that this
amendment would weaken the effec-
tiveness of certain elements of the Ma-
rine Mammal Protection Act resulting
in industries involved with offshore
areas having unfettered access to con-
duct activities that are detrimental to
marine life is just absolutely not the
case.
This amendment would roll back bur-
densome regulations on companies
seeking to do business in offshore
areas, but it does it in a very safe and
responsible way. The current process is
just too burdensome; it is too time-
consuming.
Though the MMPA includes statu-
tory deadlines for Federal agencies
processing Incidental Harassment Au-
thorization applications, industries op-
erating in offshore areas cite delays
that lasts hundreds of days, and that is
just simply not acceptable.
Previously, the Government Ac-
countability Office reported on this
exact issue. The GAO discovered that
the National Marine Fishery Service
and the Fish and Wildlife Service failed
to meet basic tasks, which included ac-
curately recording application dates
and timelines. In addition, the GAO
found that some IHA applications sat
within these agencies for years. In ad-
dition, ESA’s list of species recovery
efforts have also been hampered or de-
layed by the current IHA process.
During a previous Water, Power and
Ocean Subcommittee hearing on ma-
rine mammal predation of ESA-listed
salmon species in the Pacific North-
west, the then-regional director of the
Washington Department of Fish and
Wildlife testified that, ‘‘the conditions
associated with the current require-
ments of Section 120 of the MMPA are
challenging and expensive to imple-
ment, limited in scope and legal chal-
lenges have slowed the progress in re-
ducing impacts to salmon.’’ That is
just one species, as an example, but it
illustrates the need for this amend-
ment to be adopted to H.R. 721.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I am prepared
to close after the gentleman closes, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Chair, I yield such time as he may con-
sume to the gentleman from Utah (Mr.
BISHOP), our distinguished ranking
member.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Chairman,
may I inquire how much time is re-
maining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
has 11⁄2 minutes.
Mr. BISHOP of UTAH. Mr. Chair, un-
like the other amendments that we
have had, this is the only one that is
added here that actually has had a
hearing. It has had a markup, it has
gone through regular order, and it is
the only one that is not doing some-
thing that is duplicative.
This is a problem that does exist and
trying to make it to actually happen.
Everything else we have talked about
is stuff that is nice, but it is duplica-
tive. It doesn’t actually do anything.
This is the only one that does some-
thing, and it does something in a posi-
tive way.
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Chair, I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, we understand
that for some industries interested in
the exploitation of our oceans that the
Marine Mammal Protection Act is in-
convenient. We understand that we ask
for limitations on the activities of
those industries, which would other-
wise not demonstrate any discernible
concern for our oceans. And we reject
the basic premise that that regulation
is not necessary for our oceans.
Our marine mammals deserve our
protection, and we have protected
them, and we have worked through the
give-and-take of legitimate activities
in the oceans where they can and
should be balanced with impacts on our
marine mammals.
So, again, I respectfully submit that
this particular proposal, which has
been—as the ranking member points
out—thoroughly vetted in prior Con-
gresses, although not brought to the
floor, can in fact yield a good, solid de-
bate. But we simply reject the position
taken.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
b 1645
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. JOHNSON).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Chair, I demand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Louisiana will be
postponed.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, proceedings will
now resume on those amendments
printed in House Report 116–330 on
which further proceedings were post-
poned, in the following order:
Amendments en bloc by Mr. CASE of
Hawaii.
Amendment No. 4 by Mr. BROWN of
Maryland.
Amendment No. 12 by Mr. CRIST of
Florida.
Amendment No. 14 by Mr. PANETTA of
California.
Amendment No. 23 by Ms. MUCARSEL-
POWELL of Florida.
Amendment No. 26 by Mrs. LURIA of
Virginia.
Amendment No. 29 by Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.074 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10000 December 10, 2019
The Chair will reduce to 2 minutes
the minimum time for any electronic
vote after the first vote in this series.
AMENDMENTS EN BLOC OFFERED BY MR. CASE
OF HAWAII
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on amendments en bloc offered by
the gentleman from Hawaii (Mr. CASE)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendments en bloc.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ments en bloc.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 249, noes 166,
not voting 21, as follows:
[Roll No. 660]
AYES—249
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waltz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
NOES—166
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—21
Aderholt
Clarke (NY)
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lawrence
Lieu, Ted
Meuser
Moore
Perry
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
Rouzer
San Nicolas
Serrano
Smucker
Thompson (PA)
Wasserman
Schultz
b 1713
Messrs. WALBERG and GROTHMAN
changed their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the en bloc amendments were
agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr. Chair, I was
delayed in arriving to votes due to a personal
matter. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 657 and ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 660.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN)
on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the ayes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 235, noes 179,
not voting 22, as follows:
[Roll No. 661]
AYES—235
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.076 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10001
December 10, 2019
Rose (NY)
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waltz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Yarmuth
NOES—179
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Cox (CA)
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Kelly (MS)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Peterson
Porter
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—22
Aderholt
Clarke (NY)
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Johnson (GA)
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lawson (FL)
Lieu, Ted
Meuser
Perry
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
Rouda
Rush
San Nicolas
Serrano
Smucker
Thompson (PA)
Wasserman
Schultz
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1718
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. RUSH. Mr. Chair, I was unavoidably de-
tained for rollcall No. 661. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 661.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MR. CRIST
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. CRIST) on
which further proceedings were post-
poned and on which the ayes prevailed
by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 297, noes 121,
not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 662]
AYES—297
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Graves (LA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Zeldin
NOES—121
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Hartzler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mooney (WV)
Murphy (NC)
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Pence
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
NOT VOTING—18
Aderholt
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lieu, Ted
Meuser
Perry
Radewagen
Rodgers (WA)
Rooney (FL)
San Nicolas
Serrano
Smucker
Thompson (PA)
Wasserman
Schultz
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.035 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10002 December 10, 2019
b 1722
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. PALMER. Mr. Chair, for the record, on
the Crist amendment No. 12, rollcall No. 662
I intended to vote ‘‘nay.’’ I mistakenly voted
‘‘yea.’’
AMENDMENT NO. 14 OFFERED BY MR. PANETTA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from California (Mr. PA-
NETTA) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 389, noes 29,
not voting 18, as follows:
[Roll No. 663]
AYES—389
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—29
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Babin
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Brady
Buck
Burgess
Carter (TX)
Cline
Duncan
Flores
Gaetz
Gohmert
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Griffith
Harris
Hice (GA)
King (IA)
Long
Loudermilk
Massie
Norman
Roy
Smith (MO)
Weber (TX)
Wright
NOT VOTING—18
Aderholt
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lieu, Ted
Meuser
Perry
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
San Nicolas
Serrano
Shalala
Smucker
Thompson (PA)
Wasserman
Schultz
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1727
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 23 OFFERED BY MS. MUCARSEL-
POWELL
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL) on which further
proceedings were postponed and on
which the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 285, noes 134,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 664]
AYES—285
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.081 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10003
December 10, 2019
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Waltz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Yarmuth
Yoho
NOES—134
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Cox (CA)
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Hudson
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Jordan
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McAdams
McCarthy
McClintock
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Peterson
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—17
Aderholt
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lieu, Ted
Meuser
Perry
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
San Nicolas
Serrano
Smucker
Thompson (PA)
Wasserman
Schultz
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1730
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 26 OFFERED BY MRS. LURIA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from Virginia (Mrs.
LURIA) on which further proceedings
were postponed and on which the ayes
prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 368, noes 51,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 665]
AYES—368
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Woodall
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—51
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Babin
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Burchett
Carter (GA)
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Crawford
Davidson (OH)
Duncan
Estes
Ferguson
Flores
Fulcher
Gohmert
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Griffith
Grothman
Harris
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hudson
Jordan
King (IA)
LaHood
Long
Loudermilk
Massie
Meadows
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Olson
Rice (SC)
Rogers (AL)
Roy
Smith (MO)
Walker
Weber (TX)
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Wright
Yoho
NOT VOTING—17
Aderholt
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lieu, Ted
Meuser
Perry
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
San Nicolas
Serrano
Smucker
Thompson (PA)
Wasserman
Schultz
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (during the vote).
There is 1 minute remaining.
b 1734
So the amendment was agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.040 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10004 December 10, 2019
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
AMENDMENT NO. 29 OFFERED BY MR. JOHNSON
OF LOUISIANA
The Acting CHAIR. The unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentleman from Louisiana (Mr. JOHN-
SON) on which further proceedings were
postponed and on which the noes pre-
vailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This will be a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 160, noes 259,
not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 666]
AYES—160
Abraham
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gosar
Granger
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Massie
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Tipton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—259
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Timmons
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waltz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—17
Aderholt
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lieu, Ted
Meuser
Perry
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
San Nicolas
Serrano
Smucker
Thompson (PA)
Wasserman
Schultz
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE ACTING CHAIR
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. PAYNE) (dur-
ing the vote). There is 1 minute re-
maining.
b 1737
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR. There being no
further amendments under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
HECK) having assumed the chair, Mr.
PAYNE, Acting Chair of the Committee
of the Whole House on the state of the
Union, reported that that Committee,
having had under consideration the bill
(H.R. 729) to amend the Coastal Zone
Management Act of 1972 to authorize
grants to Indian Tribes to further
achievement of Tribal coastal zone ob-
jectives, and for other purposes, and,
pursuant to House Resolution 748, he
reported the bill, as amended by that
resolution, back to the House with sun-
dry further amendments adopted in the
Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
further amendment reported from the
Committee of the Whole? If not, the
Chair will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 262, nays
151, not voting 17, as follows:
[Roll No. 667]
YEAS—262
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.088 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10005
December 10, 2019
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steube
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walberg
Walorski
Waltz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wittman
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—151
Abraham
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Spano
Steil
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Wagner
Walden
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
NOT VOTING—17
Aderholt
Allen
Gabbard
Gooden
Hunter
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lieu, Ted
Meuser
Perry
Rooney (FL)
Roy
Serrano
Smucker
Thompson (PA)
Wasserman
Schultz
b 1747
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, a motion to reconsider is
laid on the table.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, I object to
the motion to lay on the table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Objec-
tion is heard.
MOTION TO RECONSIDER
Mr. HIMES. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Himes moves to reconsider the vote on
passage of H.R. 729.
MOTION TO TABLE
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I have
a motion to table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Ms. McCollum moves to lay the motion to
reconsider on the table.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to table.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. HARRIS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
CELEBRATING HUMAN RIGHTS
DAY
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate Human Rights Day.
More than 70 years ago today, the
United Nations established the funda-
mental human rights to be protected
for every person in every nation, such
as the right to liberty, freedom from
slavery, and freedom of opinion.
But there were rights added in 1976
that bear repeating here today: the
right to work in just and under favor-
able conditions, the right to an ade-
quate standard of living, and the right
to an education.
In the last few decades, we have
failed to live up to these rights. We
have allowed unions to lose their power
and protect worker conditions. We
have failed to increase the Federal
minimum wage. We have failed to pro-
vide funding for higher education.
We need to get these rights back for
all Americans. We can regain the high
ground in our struggle for human
rights.
f
RECOGNIZING STAFF MEMBER
BETTY FORD
(Mr. MULLIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MULLIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize a member of my
staff and a true servant of Oklahoma,
Betty Ford.
Betty has served southeast Okla-
homa, working as a congressional field
rep for 29 years. She has worked for
five different Members of Congress, in-
cluding myself. At the end of the year,
Betty is going to retire.
I know she is looking forward to
spending more time with her grandkids
and with her kids. While we will defi-
nitely miss her, we wish her nothing
but the best in her next chapter.
I thank Betty for serving with a serv-
ant’s heart, and I thank her for all she
has done for all of us in Oklahoma.
May God bless her.
f
END THE USE OF HARMFUL BURN
PITS
(Mr. RUIZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, many serv-
icemembers and veterans across the
country who have been exposed to mili-
tary burn pits are becoming ill. Many
are dying due to cancers and suffering
from severe pulmonary and auto-
immune diseases.
We have the chance to end the use of
harmful burn pits this week with my
two amendments in the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020.
Our military uses burn pits to elimi-
nate dangerous waste, including chemi-
cals, jet fuels, and batteries, which can
emit toxic smoke containing carcino-
gens and particulate matter.
In my district, we tragically lost to
pancreatic cancer Jennifer Kepner, a
39-year-old Air Force veteran exposed
to burn pits who left behind her hus-
band and two young children.
We must act now for veterans like
Jennifer, for their families, and for ev-
eryone affected by burn pit exposure.
My provisions in the NDAA require
the Department of Defense to submit
to Congress an implementation plan to
end the use of burn pits and to inform
Congress on all locations where burn
pits were used.
These amendments are an important
step in the comprehensive plan to end
the use of burn pits. We must do it
now.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.043 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10006 December 10, 2019
b 1800
REMEMBERING CRAIG HARNEY
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Mr. Craig Harney, who passed away on
November 30 at the age of 65 after bat-
tling cancer.
Mr. Harney was a stalwart of Savan-
nah journalism—unbelievably dedi-
cated to his craft at WTOC—and large-
ly responsible for making WTOC the
Southeast news leader.
He began at the news station 40 years
ago, while a student in college, with a
part-time job answering the phone. By
the end of his career, he had worked his
way up to become WTOC’s creative di-
rector and, at different points, held
nearly every position at the station.
His colleagues remember that he
knew how to get to the heart of the
story and that he was interested in
doing everything he could to help shine
a light on what made our community
so special. It was this effort and talent
that he put into his stories, which
made our area a better place to live
and exemplified Mr. Harney as a true
Savannahian.
His vibrant personality, always me-
andering throughout our communities
in search of stories to highlight, is sim-
ply irreplaceable.
My thoughts and prayers will be with
his family, friends, and all of his col-
leagues at WTOC during this most dif-
ficult time.
f
CONGRATULATING SUNNY HILLS
HIGH SCHOOL AND ESPERANZA
HIGH SCHOOL
(Mr. CISNEROS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CISNEROS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate two high schools
in my district on their CIF Southern
Section football championships.
I offer my sincere congratulations to
Sunny Hills High School’s Lancers
from Fullerton for their win in the CIF
Southern Section Division 8 final.
I also want to congratulate the
Esperanza High School Aztecs for their
win in the CIF Southern Section Divi-
sion 13 final.
We are all especially proud of both
schools for their amazing run through
the playoffs. This is both Sunny Hills’
and Esperanza’s first CIF champion-
ships since 1972. Their championships
speak to the leadership of their head
coaches, Pete Karavedas and Wes
Choate, and their respective coaching
staffs.
But, more importantly, these cham-
pionships were possible due to the dedi-
cation, commitment, and teamwork of
the players. I have no doubt that this is
just the beginning of continued success
for both programs.
Again, on behalf of the 39th Congres-
sional District, I want to congratulate
both Sunny Hills and Esperanza High
Schools for two outstanding champion-
ship seasons.
f
HONORING OFFICER KEN FOLEY
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
honor a local police officer, husband,
father, and respected community mem-
ber: Ken Foley.
In 1990, Officer Foley joined the
Lakeland Police Department following
8 years with the United States Marine
Corps. Last week, on December 4, after
29 years of distinguished service, his
career and his life here on this Earth
came to an end as he died unexpectedly
while on duty.
Police Chief Ruben Garcia shared
that Foley was an ‘‘everyday first re-
sponder and definitely one of our local
heroes.’’
Officer Foley was active in the com-
munity, and he knew it well. Lakeland
residents flooded social media with
anecdotes about Officer Foley’s infec-
tious smile, his compassion, and his
unique ability to connect with people.
Officers like Ken Foley make me
proud of my community and grateful
for the daily sacrifices of our first re-
sponders.
So, to Officer Foley’s family, his
friends, and the entire Lakeland Police
Department: Our prayers are with you
all. May God bless, comfort, and keep
you during this difficult time.
f
MULLICA TOWNSHIP ACES
PROGRAM
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, today
I want to acknowledge the Mullica
Township ACES program, a school dis-
trict initiative in south Jersey. It is an
initiative started by Barbara Rheault
that provides academic aid and enrich-
ment to students after school hours.
The ACES program started in
Mullica Township, south Jersey, 12
years ago thanks to grant funds for a
21st Century Community Learning
Center from the New Jersey Depart-
ment of Education.
This after-school program is vital to
south Jersey because it provides after-
school care to students that balances
academic opportunities and rec-
reational activities. At ACES, students
have time to complete their homework
and participate in sports or other
games and activities, which cultivates
both their academic and social develop-
ment.
ACES also offers additional tutoring,
counseling, and health-safety edu-
cation so every student has access to
whatever they need to achieve success.
I thank the ACES program, Barbara
Rheault, and the Mullica Township
School District for providing this edu-
cational experience for our youth. I am
proud of them.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO DR. C.O.
SIMPKINS, SR.
(Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to
a true Louisiana icon, Dr. C.O.
Simpkins, Sr., a doctor, veteran, dis-
tinguished public servant, and civil
rights leader, who passed away last
week.
Doctor Simpkins, a proud native of
Mansfield, Louisiana, leaves behind a
wonderful legacy of service to his fel-
low Louisianians: He defended our Na-
tion as a captain in the United States
Air Force; he treated our families as a
beloved dentist; and he served honor-
ably as a member of the Louisiana
House of Representatives.
Dr. Simpkins’ greatest impact was
unquestionably in the fight for civil
rights. He was a friend and contem-
porary of the Reverend Dr. Martin Lu-
ther King; he was a founder of the
Southern Christian Leadership Con-
ference; and he was a tireless advocate
for freedom, justice, and equality.
Today I am honored to join my col-
leagues from the Louisiana delegation
to introduce legislation to designate a
U.S. Post Office in Dr. Simpkins’ name
in his hometown of Mansfield. It is a
small but sincere gesture of apprecia-
tion for a good man whose legacy lives
on in our Nation, our State, and our
communities.
Godspeed, Dr. Simpkins.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO LA SALLE
HIGH SCHOOL
(Mr. CHABOT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CHABOT. Mr. Speaker, I rise this
evening to congratulate my alma
mater, La Salle High School, for win-
ning their fourth Ohio Division II foot-
ball championship in the last 6 years.
They defeated a tough Masillon Wash-
ington High School team 34–17.
I was particularly pleased to see La
Salle bring home another champion-
ship since I played defensive line for
the Lancers back in the day, and my
brother, Dave, 10 years later, played
defensive back.
Congratulations to Coach Pat
McLaughlin, his coaching staff, the
players, parents, students, and fans.
You made the school and all of Cin-
cinnati proud. Lancers roll deep.
Mr. Speaker, I would also like to con-
gratulate the Cincinnati Elder Pan-
thers, who had a great season as well
but came up just short of winning the
Ohio Division I championship.
My nephews, Joey and Mikey Del
Prince, played for Elder a few years
back.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.096 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10007
December 10, 2019
Don’t get too down, guys. You will
get them next year. Go Panthers.
f
THE BLESSINGS OF FREE
ENTERPRISE AND CAPITALISM
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
DELGADO). Under the Speaker’s an-
nounced policy of January 3, 2019, the
gentleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR)
is recognized for 60 minutes as the des-
ignee of the minority leader.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, tonight we
find ourselves at a crossroads in the
history of our great Nation, a nation
founded upon the simple, self-evident
truth that we are endowed by our Cre-
ator ‘‘with certain unalienable rights,
that among these are life, liberty, and
the pursuit of happiness—that to se-
cure these rights, governments are in-
stituted among men, deriving their
just powers from the consent of the
governed.’’
With those words, the Declaration of
Independence gave birth to a new na-
tion rooted in the principles of limited
government, individual freedom, and
the rule of law through self-govern-
ment, and it set into motion the great-
est experiments in human freedom and
prosperity the world has ever known.
That is largely because our Constitu-
tion protected those principles through
separation of powers, federalism, and
the Bill of Rights.
Just as the Constitution protected
political freedom, it also protected our
economic freedom and enabled the
American people to flourish through
entrepreneurship, business, and private
enterprise operating in a free market.
In short, Mr. Speaker, American cap-
italism, as enabled by the United
States Constitution, has delivered the
most free, prosperous, and successful
country in the history of the world.
But today, those principles of free en-
terprise and capitalism are under at-
tack, and that experiment in liberty is
threatened by leftwing politicians who
are openly embracing socialism, de-
fenders of central planning in the
media and in the academy, and even
some business leaders who are calling
for a redefinition of the purpose of a
corporation.
So, today, my colleagues and I, mem-
bers of the Republican Study Com-
mittee, join the debate. We join the de-
bate between staying on the road of
capitalism, prosperity, and freedom
versus going down a much different
path, what Austrian-British economist
and philosopher Friedrich August von
Hayek called ‘‘The Road to Serfdom,’’
in which he spelled out a vivid warning
to the socialist intelligentsia in Eng-
land that an experiment with socialist
policies would result in the same disas-
trous outcomes that had destroyed lib-
erty in Germany and Russia.
The experience of history is clear:
Whenever and wherever socialism has
been tried and put into place, it has re-
sulted in a loss of individual freedom,
economic stagnation, diminished pro-
ductivity, deprivation and shortages,
misery, and death.
Central planning in Germany, Italy,
and Japan before World War II and in
the Soviet Union and China in the
postwar, Cold War era, invariably re-
sulted in soul-destroying and liberty-
crushing totalitarianism.
To paraphrase Hayek, fascism, com-
munism, and so-called democratic so-
cialism are merely variants of the
same totalitarianism which central
control of all economic activity tends
to produce.
Socialist Parties may not delib-
erately aim for a totalitarian regime,
but the experience of history teaches
us that the unforeseen but inevitable
consequences of socialist planning cre-
ate a state of affairs in which, if the
policy is to be pursued, totalitarian
forces will get the upper hand.
Economic planning necessarily re-
quires coercion and uses of compulsion
upon individuals in ways that deprive
them of freedom of choice. As author
Charles C. W. Cooke recently wrote,
‘‘Socialism Is Not Democratic.’’
Ascendant elements within the
American left are engaged in a sus-
tained attempt to reintroduce and re-
habilitate the word ‘‘socialism,’’ in
part by prepending to it a word that
has a much better reputation and an
infinitely better historical record:
‘‘democratic.’’
Voters should not be fooled by the re-
branding, for there is no sense in which
socialism can be made compatible with
democracy. At worst, socialism eats
democracy and is swiftly transmuted
into tyranny and deprivation. But, at
best, socialism stamps out individual
agency, places civil society into a
straight jacket of uniform size, and
turns representative government into a
chimera.
The U.S. Constitution is crystal clear
on the appropriate role of government.
And government that it permits is in-
compatible with and insufficient to
sustain socialism.
Just as the individual right to free
speech is widely comprehended as part
of what we mean by democracy rather
than as an unacceptable abridgement
of majority rule, so the individual
rights protected in property and by
markets are necessary to the mainte-
nance of a democratic order in this
deeper sense of the word.
In the West, choosing to trade with a
person in another country is, itself, a
democratic act.
Electing to start a company in your
garage with no need for another’s im-
primatur is, itself, a democratic act.
Banding together to establish a coop-
erative is, in itself, a democratic act.
Selecting the vendor from which you
source your goods and services and
choosing which to buy from, it is,
itself, a democratic act.
Keeping the lion’s share of the fruits
of your labor is, itself, a democratic
act.
So, when the government steps in
with their bayonets and say no, they
are, in effect, keeping your choices off
the ballot.
Democratic socialism, to me, is
about democratic control of every sin-
gle facet of our life. That is one way of
putting it; certainly, another is tyr-
anny.
b 1815
So during the last 3 years through
tax cuts, deregulation, unleashing
America’s energy and easing restric-
tions on credit markets by rolling back
Dodd-Frank’s one-size-fits-all rules, we
have witnessed a rebirth of freedom
and free enterprise. We have witnessed
a reinvigoration of America’s first
principles and a very fortunate move
away from socialism. The result has
been an American worker boom, but if
we retreat from these hard-fought
gains, we will return to the road to
serfdom.
The socialist policies of today with
populous names like: Medicare For All,
the Green New Deal, the Lower Drug
Costs Now Act, the Wall Street Tax
Act, the Stop Wall Street Looting Act,
these pieces of legislation are all a dan-
ger to a free society. They are nothing
more than central planning schemes
that accumulate power in the govern-
ment at the expense of the people, and
in ways that rely on administrative co-
ercion, force and discrimination, and
through measures which are entirely
incompatible with a free society.
If you think that a transition to so-
cialist policies won’t pose a danger to
our economy, I would urge you to re-
view the so-called Accountable Cap-
italism Act, offered by Senator and
candidate-for-President, ELIZABETH
WARREN.
The bill is a wish list of socialist
ideas aimed to shackle government en-
terprise with government control. The
bill would require any company over $1
billion in revenue to be chartered by
the Federal Government and allow the
Federal Government to relinquish that
charter at any time through opaque
rules. The bill gives control to the gov-
ernment to determine who serves on a
company’s board and whose interests
that board must satisfy.
Senator WARREN went so far as to
send letters to CEOs of some of Amer-
ica’s largest and most successful busi-
nesses stating that she, ‘‘expects them
to support her bill.’’ With this burden
of government control over its oper-
ations, where is the incentive for busi-
ness to expand? Where is the incentive
for Americans to innovate? Where is
the incentive for Americans to risk
their capital in entrepreneurship?
Where is the incentive to increase rev-
enue or create new jobs?
Presidential candidate, BERNIE SAND-
ERS, said that we should wage a moral
and political war against corporate
leaders.
The gentlewoman from New York,
our colleague, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ,
called capitalism, ‘‘irredeemable.’’
These arrogant attitudes of our Na-
tion’s elected representatives threaten
the very principles of limited govern-
ment and individual freedom on which
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.097 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10008 December 10, 2019
our country was founded, and they
compromise the path to prosperity
that a capitalist system creates.
Tonight, Mr. Speaker, we will explore
the extent to which socialism destroys
freedom and crushes the human soul,
and we will examine how socialism, far
from delivering on its promise to help
people struggling in poverty, that so-
cialism itself produces poverty. It pro-
duces famine and misery and corrup-
tion.
And we will also, on the flip side, in
contrast, we will examine capitalism
and how free enterprise and the bene-
fits that it creates helps individuals
and businesses thrive, how it is the
American Dream and how pro-growth,
free and fair market policies beget in-
novation, opportunity, and prosperity.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to my col-
leagues, beginning with the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. JOHNSON), my
friend and the chairman of the Repub-
lican Study Committee, a champion of
free enterprise and a proud opponent of
socialism.
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. I truly
thank my friend, Congressman BARR,
for hosting this Special Order. I ap-
plaud the sentiments that he just
shared. I associate myself with them
and the conviction that he has. I cer-
tainly share it, and I know so many of
my colleagues, at least on this side of
the aisle, do as well.
In 1923, there was an average, middle-
class family man named Roy Otis Mar-
tin, who bought a rundown lumber mill
in Alexandria, Louisiana. He worked
hard. He established it, he expanded it.
He ultimately transformed it into one
of the largest economic generators for
our State.
This is what makes America great.
This is true freedom. This is real op-
portunity. And it is a story that has
been repeated so many countless times
throughout our Nation’s rich history.
However, many Americans, particu-
larly our younger generation, seem to
be losing hold of these values.
There was a survey that just came
out this past March; we all lamented
the findings: 49.6 percent—almost 50
percent—of millennials and members of
Generation Z responded to this poll and
said that they would, ‘‘prefer living in
a socialist country.’’ It is shocking.
Just last month, there was another
poll that came out. It found that 70
percent of millennials say they are
likely to vote socialist; 15 percent of
millennials think the world would be a
better place if the Soviet Union still
existed. Only 57 percent of millennials
believe the Declaration of Independ-
ence better guarantees freedom and
equality over the Communist Mani-
festo. These are just shocking numbers,
and they are really frightening, be-
cause it is this mindset that is the an-
tithesis of everything that our Found-
ers fought for.
What do we stand for in America? We
stand for core American principles, the
principles of individual freedom and
limited government and the rule of
law; things like peace through
strength, fiscal responsibility, free
markets, and human dignity. And
those are all of the values that social-
ism steamrolls. Those are the ideals
that this country was founded on, and
they have to remain the foundation for
everything we do because it is central
to our identity.
Unfortunately, now more than ever,
there is this false message that has
taken root, one that says government
is better, that more government is
even greater. Most of those running for
President in 2020 on the Democrat side
of the aisle are promising free
healthcare and free education, and
some are going as far as actually prom-
ising free money to every American on
a monthly basis for those who put their
trust in the government.
The problem is, the government was
never intended to be our savior. Our
Founding Fathers built this Republic
on strong convictions that every Amer-
ican is entitled to individual freedom
and they should never be controlled or
owned or dictated to by the govern-
ment. In fact, Thomas Jefferson said
the following during his first inaugural
address:
‘‘What more is necessary to make us
happy and a prosperous people? Still
one thing more, fellow citizens—a wise
and frugal government, which shall re-
strain men from injuring one another,
shall leave them otherwise free to reg-
ulate their own pursuits of industry
and improvement, and shall not take
from the mouth of labor the bread it
has earned.’’
There are two competing visions for
America today, and that is the bottom
line. The contrast is becoming ever
more crystal clear. You simply cannot
be for individual freedom and liberty
and also be for socialism. Those are
mutually exclusive pursuits. You sim-
ply can’t have both.
Socialism is the antithesis of every-
thing we stand for in America, begin-
ning with our national motto, in-
scribed right there above the Speaker’s
head.
Do you know that socialists sneer at
the motto ‘‘In God we trust?’’ You
know why? Because as social Demo-
crat-turned Communist hero and So-
viet Union Premier, Vladimir Lenin,
explained in 1905, this is what he wrote:
‘‘There is nothing more abominable
than religion.’’ Every socialist is, as a
rule, an atheist.
But now is the time for us to articu-
late with clarity, conviction, and con-
sistency exactly what our Founders
stood for, what America is for, who we
are, and why we are exceptional.
I close by just thanking, again, the
gentleman from Kentucky for putting
this Special Order together at such a
critical hour in our Nation’s history.
And we will continue to fight whole-
heartedly against socialism, so that all
Americans can have the same oppor-
tunity that our forefathers had to turn
lumber mills into legacies.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend, the gentleman from Louisiana
for that stirring story, and I appreciate
what he had to say. Every generation
in America has had to fight for freedom
and fight for free enterprise.
And I am reminded by a couple gen-
erations after the Founding Fathers
when our 16th President, Abraham Lin-
coln, in fighting for capitalism freedom
said this:
You cannot help the poor by destroying the
rich. You cannot strengthen the weak by
weakening the strong. You cannot bring
about prosperity by discouraging thrift. You
cannot lift the wage earner up by pulling the
wage payer down. You cannot further the
brotherhood of man by inciting class hatred.
You cannot build character and courage by
taking away people’s initiative and inde-
pendence. You cannot help people perma-
nently by doing for them what they could
and should do for themselves. Abraham Lin-
coln.
And now, I yield to the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. WITTMAN), my
friend from the Commonwealth and a
great patriot.
Mr. WITTMAN. I thank the gen-
tleman from Kentucky for his stout
and devout effort to highlight the dif-
ferences between socialism and cap-
italism.
Just as you have heard, this really is
a stark difference. It really is about
what was this Nation founded upon.
What was it that our Founding Fathers
had in mind that was so important to
who we are? What were they doing to
escape other systems of government to
come here to create what has been and
will continue to be the most accommo-
dating and perfect form of government
ever created? And why has it survived
longer than any other form of govern-
ment?
It is because it highlights and allows
the human spirit to prevail in all situa-
tions. And if you look at just what the
definition of socialism is, it does, I
think—for anybody out there who
looks at this—it does give them pause.
If you look at Merriam-Webster, the
definition of socialism is: ‘‘Any of var-
ious economic and political theories
advocating collective or governmental
ownership and administration of the
means of production and distribution
of goods.’’
So rather than an individual saying:
Hey, listen, I have got an idea. I am
willing to risk my resources. I am will-
ing to put everything I have into this
to succeed under a system of cap-
italism. Under a system of socialism it
would be: No, no, no, sorry. The gov-
ernment is going to be in control of
this, and if the government sees this as
a good thing, then it will allow it to go
forward.
Another definition: ‘‘A system of so-
ciety or group living in which there is
no private property.’’
Think about that. I want everybody
out there to think about this,
millennials and otherwise, a system
where there is no private property.
Think about what your life would be
if there were no private property—your
home, your automobile, all this idea of
collectivism is the underpinnings of so-
cialism.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.099 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10009
December 10, 2019
Another definition: ‘‘A system or
condition of society in which the
means of production are owned and
controlled by the State.’’
So if you have a business and you are
very good at what you do, just as Mr.
JOHNSON pointed out, that business in
Louisiana that the man was very good
at building a company that met the
needs of folks that needed building sup-
plies. Sorry, if it is under socialism,
the production there at that company
is going to be controlled and owned by
the State.
Now, think about that. Think about
those elements and what has made this
Nation great. This Nation has not been
made great by having things under
government control. It is the innova-
tion, it is the creation, it is the will-
ingness to take risks by individuals
across this Nation that have provided
for the Nation we are today, and I be-
lieve it is the greatest provider of
human needs. In fact, our system of
capitalism which operates in a free
market system, in what we know as
the free enterprise system, is the most
productive supplier of human needs and
economic justice.
You hear a lot today about economic
justice. Oh, my gosh, there has to be
economic justice. Economic justice is
provided by the will and creativity of
individuals in being able to pursue
what falls within their realm of tal-
ents. How can they take what they
have as individuals, whether it is re-
sources or talents and make the most
of those? That is what has made our
Nation great. That is the system of
government that beyond all others has
shown through history to be extraor-
dinarily successful.
It has made us the Nation we are
today. And it is our job as legislators
to point that out, to make sure we en-
able this system of government to do
even more. We look at our economy
today, and we understand that govern-
ment needs to get out of the way. Gov-
ernment needs to be an enabler, gov-
ernment needs to make sure that we
allow for the creativity and innovation
that again makes this Nation great. It
is our job to encourage those busi-
nesses to thrive instead of subjecting
them to additional regulations.
You know the element of deregula-
tion has been phenomenal. And if you
talk to businesses today, they love it
because they say, Listen, you unleash
that entrepreneurial spirit. You un-
leash the willingness for us to take a
risk. You unleash us being innovators
and creators and doing things that oth-
erwise wouldn’t be possible under a
system of socialism.
We just saw here recently the jobs re-
port. We have a record unemployment
rate being at record low levels. We look
at employment in all sectors of our so-
ciety being at record highs. We look at
wage growth increasing—all of those
things happening under our system of
free enterprise.
I will go to Virginia and look at what
is happening in Virginia. Virginia was
named as one of the top places to do
business in 2019, and it is because the
State legislature has enabled busi-
nesses to prosper.
b 1830
They have created the right mix of
leveling the playing field through regu-
lation for businesses, not being over
regulatory but making sure that we
create a fair and level playing field.
That is, indeed, the role of government.
That will not happen under a system
of socialism where a government is in
complete control. That is counter to
what made our Nation great.
We know that the proposals being
made by the other side that espouse
these elements and underpinnings of
socialism include things like Medicare
for All, which is a taxpayer-funded,
government-run healthcare system
that, by conservative estimate, would
cost tens of trillions of dollars and
would force 158 million Americans off
their private or employer-based
healthcare plans.
As I talked to folks, they said, ‘‘Lis-
ten, give me the choice. I want that in-
dividual liberty and freedom,’’ that
which comes to them under our Con-
stitution. They want to be able to
choose. They don’t want the govern-
ment in control. Yet, under socialism,
the government is in control.
Other measures that include the
Green New Deal and a plan to require
taxpayers to subsidize Federal elec-
tions put the government in control,
the government in the driver’s seat.
So, the ability to self-determine, the
ability to say, ‘‘Listen, there are some
things that I can do if the government
would just make sure that, in the regu-
latory realm, they level the playing
field, make sure they don’t take too
much of what I earn in order to run the
government,’’ so that they can, indeed,
be successful.
Those are the underpinnings of a suc-
cessful government, a successful sys-
tem of free enterprise, a system of cap-
italism that provides for the needs of
citizens of our Nation.
The Green New Deal would dictate
what Americans can eat and where
they can travel and how they can
power their homes and what they can
do to make a living and what they can
buy and so much more. It controls
that.
Again, the idea under the Green New
Deal is the government is in control.
Let me tell you, if we are going to be
a nation where we have energy inde-
pendence, where we look at having
cleaner air, where we look at making
sure that we do things that are envi-
ronmentally responsible, it is
unleashing the innovation and creation
that comes to us under a system of free
enterprise that will do more than, I
argue, any government-dictated sys-
tem.
So the Green New Deal, saying gov-
ernment is going to mandate this and
mandate that, actually, I think, takes
us longer to get to the place where we
need to be to make sure that our envi-
ronment is clean and we are doing the
best job possible in using our energy
resources.
In total, the cost to the taxpayer is
unbelievable: $93 trillion, or $600,000 per
family, across the Nation. That is not
the highest and best provider of human
needs, and I understand human needs.
Socialism threatens to destroy the
very foundation of our great Republic,
the foundation that men and women,
since our birth, have fought and died
for, that idea. That idea that has made
our Nation great and will continue to
make our Nation great is an idea about
individual liberties and freedoms, that
is, unleashing the power of individuals
to pursue their dreams, to take their
innovative and creative skills and do
more.
And they have made this Nation
what it is today. It is through this cap-
italist idea of limited government, of
limited regulation, of unlimited oppor-
tunity that creates economic pros-
perity.
As all of us look at where this Nation
goes, we ought to be looking at ena-
bling individuals, and the system of
capitalism does that.
Our Constitution, the greatest gov-
erning document ever put together, is
the roadmap for that continued great-
ness. You won’t find anywhere in the
Declaration of Independence, anywhere
in our U.S. Constitution any mention
of any principle of socialism.
You will find throughout that,
though, preserving individual liberties
and freedoms, making sure that we are
meeting the needs of individuals and
making sure the government is there
to protect those individual liberties
and freedoms that we received from our
Creator.
That is what has made our Nation
great. That is what will continue to
make it great. That is what we all need
to make sure that we communicate so
that we can continue what is and will
continue to be the greatest Nation the
world has ever known.
I thank Mr. BARR so much for the op-
portunity this evening to speak about
what truly is a contrast between the
principles of our Republic that oper-
ates within a democracy, that system
of capitalism versus socialism, and why
we know it has made and will continue
to make this Nation great.
Mr. BARR. I thank my friend from
Virginia for his passionate defense of
free enterprise and illuminating the
true cost of socialism, and not just the
$93 trillion price tag that he men-
tioned, but the true cost, which is the
cost of our very freedom by empow-
ering government at the expense of the
people.
At this time, to continue our discus-
sion, Mr. Speaker, I would like to rec-
ognize a true capitalist. Who better to
defend the system of capitalism than a
man who is, himself, a businessman, an
entrepreneur, a risk-taker, a capitalist:
my good friend and a terrific member
of the Financial Services Committee,
Congressman ROGER WILLIAMS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.100 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10010 December 10, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. WILLIAMS).
Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Mr. BARR for yielding time to me and
for being here today with us so we can
talk about what really makes this
country so great.
I rise today to make the case against
socialism because it is not compatible
with freedom. If you have got it, they
want it. Socialists want the free stuff;
capitalists want the good stuff.
Let’s look back in history at the di-
vide between those who destroyed
human potential and those who em-
powered others to stand on their own
feet and make a difference.
I have created an all-star team to-
night. On the socialist all-star team,
you will recognize names like Vladimir
Lenin, Karl Marx, Hugo Chavez, and
Fidel Castro, all proponents of social-
ism who promised their people would
be provided for if small amounts of in-
dividual liberty were forfeited.
Instead, they left men, women, and
children starving in the streets and
stuffed their pockets with money from
other people. These failed socialist re-
gimes drove their countries into the
ground, some of which have never re-
covered.
On the capitalist all-star team, you
will recognize names like Adam Smith,
Ronald Reagan, George Bush, Jack
Kemp, Henry Ford, and Donald Trump,
all proponents of capitalism who pro-
moted the ideas of individual responsi-
bility and free enterprise.
Now, this team recognized that what
sets America apart from the rest of the
world is the drive to reach our fullest
potential, coupled with a free-market
economy.
Risk and reward are a big deal to
capitalists. They want a hand up.
Guarantees are a big deal to socialists.
They want a handout.
Capitalism is about taking responsi-
bility for what you create and making
it even greater. We are a nation of op-
portunity and incentive, and because of
those principles, we are a nation of
hope, where everyone can benefit.
Capitalists believe in individual in-
tegrity and the dignity of reaping re-
ward from hard work. It is the greatest
force in the history of our world for
lifting people out of poverty, and we
must instill this value in future gen-
erations.
Now, the version of shiny, progres-
sive socialism that we see touted by
Democrats promises equality and pros-
perity. They sell these lies to everyone,
that everyone can succeed if there is a
central power regulating fairness. Well,
that central power, remember, runs
Amtrak and it runs the post office.
Now, fairness could not be further
from the truth. The government should
never, ever be in the business of pick-
ing winners and picking losers.
I serve on the Financial Services
Committee, and I ask most witnesses
who testify before us if they are a so-
cialist or a capitalist.
Mr. Speaker, can you guess the re-
sults?
They are, overwhelmingly, capital-
ists because, under capitalism, individ-
uals own their work because they are
incentivized by greater gain. It is a
system that rewards innovation be-
cause it maintains demand for the best
products and demand for the best price.
These ideals translate into the core of
the American economy.
Capitalism is the American Dream;
socialism is the American scheme.
Neighbor-owned businesses like bak-
eries, coffee shops, florists, auto repair
stores, and boutiques are the lifeblood
of our communities. In short, they are
simply called Main Street America.
And it was built by men and women
who wanted to reach for more because,
at the end of the day, we inherently
possess a desire to dream bigger and to
dream bolder.
Socialism doesn’t work in our small
towns. What is happening in Caracas,
Venezuela, is not what we want in
Cleburne, Texas.
In the end, socialism fails because it
is based on the false promise of cer-
tainty. It is a failed system because it
is unable to excite the human spirit.
The bottom line is it is a downer. It
is a total loser. America will never be
a socialist country because the fabric
of our Nation is soaked in the moral
imperatives of responsibility, pride,
and discipline.
In closing, I want to ask this body
and the millions of people we rep-
resent: Which team do you want to be
on? Do you want to be on Ronald Rea-
gan’s team, or do you want to be on
Fidel Castro’s team?
Let’s take the days on, not take the
days off.
May God bless Texas, my State, and
may God continue to bless the land of
opportunity, the greatest land in the
world, the one we love to call home,
the United States of America.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from Texas for his terrific state-
ment in defense of the American
Dream and capitalism and freedom.
Mr. Speaker, if I could inquire how
much time I have remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Kentucky has 25 minutes
remaining.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, at this time,
I would like to recommend a true pa-
triot to his country; a veteran who has
served his country; a man, quite frank-
ly, who has fought communism and so-
cialism in Southeast Asia; a great
American hero from the great Hoosier
State of Indiana, Congressman JIM
BAIRD.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. BAIRD).
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for the opportunity to ex-
press my thoughts about the rising
trend in socialism.
We have seen the effects of socialism,
and you need not look very far to see
the disastrous results that socialism
has brought to countries across the
globe.
From the collapse of the Soviet
Union in 1991 to the political and hu-
manitarian crisis unfolding in Ven-
ezuela, socialism has brought about
mass suffering, human rights viola-
tions, and rampant corruption. No
other form of government has brought
about such tragic results.
Capitalism has stood the test of time,
fueled by individual freedom and free
market competition. The United States
has flourished because of capitalism,
becoming the world’s largest economy
and providing economic opportunity
for hundreds of millions of citizens.
We must stand for capitalism. With-
out it, humanity will recede and our
progress will slow.
I call your attention to the thou-
sands of men and women who have
served in uniform and some who gave
all in an effort to protect the freedoms
that we enjoy.
Mr. Speaker, I never thought that I
would feel the need to speak out
against socialism before this great
body, but I will do so so that genera-
tions to come will enjoy the same op-
portunities for prosperity that my gen-
eration was afforded.
I thank the gentleman again for this
opportunity.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I want to
personally thank the Congressman and
millions of Americans of his generation
and those servicemen and -women who
answered the call and served their
country and fought to defend our free-
dom. Future generations of Americans
are eternally grateful for his service
and sacrifice.
Mr. Speaker, at this time, I look for-
ward to hearing from my good friend
from the State of Texas, Congressman
JODEY ARRINGTON, who, once again,
joins us in defense of freedom and tra-
ditional American values of limited
government and free enterprise and
stands firmly in opposition to the
bankruptcy of socialism.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. ARRINGTON).
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my dear friend from the Com-
monwealth of Kentucky, a stalwart
when it comes to freedom, a champion
of free people, free States, and free
markets. And I appreciate my dear
friend for hosting this very important
and timely discussion to articulate the
virtue and the values of freedom.
It is hard to believe we can stand in
this great Chamber with any need to
distinguish between a free system and
a free country and what happens when
you lose those freedoms.
b 1845
America is the most powerful, most
prosperous, and most generous nation
in the world, and it is because America
is the freest nation in the history of
the world and on the face of the planet.
The quickest way for America to lose
her shine, her brilliance, her
exceptionalism is for her to lose her
freedoms.
Mr. Speaker, when our Founding Fa-
thers were framing the more perfect
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.102 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10011
December 10, 2019
union, they made the central deter-
mination that our constitutional Re-
public would limit the Federal Govern-
ment’s role in our lives. They believed
that if they limited government, they
would unleash the limitless potential
of the American people, free people cre-
ated in the image of God.
While we recognize the challenges of
our fallen human condition in any sys-
tem of government, nothing has been a
greater force for good, save and except
the love of God, than freedom. Indeed,
nothing has elevated and empowered
the human spirit in this country and
across the globe like the free enter-
prise system. Over the course of the
20th century, we can see the profound
impact of free markets on the lives of
Americans.
In 1900, the average life expectancy of
Americans was 47 years. By the end of
the century, it was 78 years.
At the beginning of the 20th century,
56 percent of American families were
considered poor, but by 1967, before the
expansion of the American welfare
state through the Great Society pro-
grams, the number of American fami-
lies considered poor was only 13 per-
cent.
I would also insert there that we
have spent trillions of dollars since the
advent of Big Government welfare pro-
grams, well-intended, of course, over
$20 trillion since the 1960s. We spend 16
times today what we spent in the 1960s
on welfare programs, and we haven’t
moved the needle a bit. The poverty
rate is the same.
If we look at the 20th century alone,
we can see that free markets have
given Americans the most opportuni-
ties, the highest standard of living, and
the best quality of life anywhere in the
world.
Contrast this with Venezuela, pre-
viously one of the wealthiest nations in
the hemisphere, blessed with an abun-
dance of oil and gas reserves, which is
the basis of their economic prosperity.
Today, 82 percent of Venezuelans live
in poverty, thanks to the legacy of so-
cialist policies implemented by the
late dictator Hugo Chavez and his suc-
cessor Nicolas Maduro.
Contrast that with what we have
been doing recently with President
Trump over the last few years and in
my first term in the 115th Congress. We
have promoted freedom, freer markets,
and fairer trade. We have put in place
progrowth, free market policies that
have unleashed even greater economic
potential of these United States. We
have seen historic unemployment
rates, historic wage increases. We have
seen trillions of dollars in wealth cre-
ated in the stock markets for those
who need pensions and 401(k)’s, for
folks saving for retirement.
The list is long, but the message is
that if you get off the backs and out of
the way of our entrepreneurs, our
innovators, our risk-takers, they will
do what they do best, and that is create
opportunities.
But all of these opportunities, this
record growth, and these benefits for
American families are at risk. Our
country, my dear friend, Mr. BARR, is
at an ideological inflection point. We
can continue to build on the success
and prosperity from free markets, or
we can go down the road to serfdom
that you mentioned.
I don’t think we need to look any fur-
ther than the poll that Mr. JOHNSON
mentioned where 7 in 10 millennials are
‘‘somewhat or extremely likely to vote
for a socialist candidate.’’ Eighty mil-
lion strong, and 70 percent of the gen-
eration that will make up the largest
voting bloc in the next election is lean-
ing toward voting for a socialist, not in
Cuba or in Venezuela, right here in the
United States of America.
John Adams told us: You will never
know how much it cost my generation
to preserve your freedom. I hope you
will make good use of it.
Folks, right now, we are in grave
danger of forsaking the freedoms for
which our Founders fought if we go
down this ruinous road of socialism.
The choice we make as Americans will
determine our Nation’s identity for the
remainder of the 21st century. It is a
choice between whether our future will
be forged by freedom and faith both in
God and in our founding principles, or
whether we are going to submit to the
rise of socialism and the tyranny of Big
Government.
We have to be vigilant and do every-
thing in our power to ensure the arc of
the future bends toward freedom, not
government control over every aspect
of our lives. Only if we do this, only if
we protect these precious freedoms,
will we give our children and grand-
children the freedoms and opportuni-
ties that every generation of Ameri-
cans has enjoyed.
I thank Mr. BARR for the opportunity
to join in this Special Order. I thank
him for his intentionality to bring this
topic for discussion and for including
me.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from the great State of Texas for
his vigorous defense of freedom, lim-
ited government, and capitalism. I cer-
tainly appreciate his words and his
friendship.
Mr. Speaker, may I inquire as to how
much remaining time I have.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Kentucky has 16 minutes.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, in the re-
maining time I have, I want to address
a couple of additional topics, one of
which is that the defenders of socialism
and those who are trying to infect a
new generation with the lie of social-
ism, that it is somehow good for the
poor and that it is a system that is tar-
geted to help the poor, this is the
greatest, perhaps, of all the lies of so-
cialism.
We talked about the lie of socialism,
that it could possibly be democratic.
We talked about how it is totally in-
compatible with democracy. We talked
about how it is incompatible with a
free society. But so many of the pro-
ponents of socialism and central plan-
ning say that we need to address in-
come inequality, that we need more
equality, more social justice.
As an author recently pointed out,
socialism has been terrible at helping
the poor. It has been terrible at helping
women advance. It has been terrible for
civil liberties. It has been terrible at
helping the environment. It has been
terrible at attracting immigrants. It
has been terrible at tolerating and pro-
tecting minorities. It has been terrible
at fostering technology, architecture,
and art. It has been terrible at pro-
ducing agriculture. Worst of all, it has
been terrible at sharing power and re-
sources.
Indeed, it has done precisely the op-
posite, creating new ruling classes that
are far less adept, far less responsive,
and far less responsible than the ones
they replaced.
Socialism is good at distributing pov-
erty, sharing poverty, creating and
producing poverty. It is the worst pos-
sible solution to curing poverty.
My friend from Texas made an allu-
sion to Venezuela and how good of an
example that is to illustrate the moral
bankruptcy of socialism when actually
put into practice.
The Venezuelan President is now a
ruthless dictator who has cracked
down on free speech, prohibited mass
political protests, and confiscated fire-
arms from anyone who is even re-
motely critical of him. Thirteen per-
cent of the country’s population has
now fled. Those who have remained
have been left so degraded by the gov-
ernment’s price controls that they
have gone years without toilet paper,
meat, and other basic necessities and,
as a consequence, have taken to eating
zoo animals for sustenance and scour-
ing garbage bags for supplies.
According to the Pharmaceutical
Federation of Venezuela, the country is
suffering through an 85 percent medi-
cine shortage and a 90 percent shortage
of basic medical supplies. The child
mortality rate has increased 140 per-
cent.
Ninety percent of Venezuelans now
live in poverty. This year, the IMF pre-
dicts inflation will hit 10 million per-
cent. All of this is in a country with
the world’s largest oil supplies, re-
serves greater than those of the United
States by a factor of 10.
Mr. Speaker, Venezuela is the classic
example of how socialism doesn’t cure
poverty. Socialism produces gut-
wrenching poverty, misery, depriva-
tion, and shortages, in addition to the
lack of liberty that it affords its sub-
jects.
I am certain that my colleagues on
the other side, even those who profess
an allegiance to socialism, share our
goal of lifting up those who are strug-
gling and providing them with security
and with an opportunity to live happy,
healthy, and prosperous lives.
Those who say they want Medicare
for All because they care about the
health of people or they want the
Green New Deal because they believe in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.105 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10012 December 10, 2019
an environment worthy of our children,
I don’t question the sincerity. What I
fear from my colleagues who advocate
these disastrous policies is that they
do not fully comprehend that the
means they are asking the government
to employ to achieve those goals will
produce the deprivation, the environ-
mental degradation, and the poverty
which they believe can be cured by dis-
rupting market forces.
Indeed, the central planners believe
prosperity is best achieved through
government intrusion into the market,
socialization of industries, and a redis-
tributive model that disincentivizes
personal achievement and responsi-
bility.
But tonight, we, the Republican
Study Committee, come together in
this debate to express that we believe
that the best way to achieve economic
security and prosperity is to expand
opportunities, allow innovation to
thrive, and create an environment
where hard work pays off. It is not
about giving each person an equal piece
of the pie. It is about growing the pie
as much possible so that more people
may partake.
A growing economy that produces a
strong labor market is the best way to
lift up people. This administration’s
current progrowth economic policies
continue to produce blockbuster job
creation, higher wages, strong eco-
nomic growth, and upward mobility,
the American Dream.
Last week, we saw another string of
positive jobs reports, with unemploy-
ment falling to 3.5 percent, a 50-year
low. Unemployment for African Amer-
ican males is at a 50-year low of 5.1 per-
cent, and wages continue to grow.
In every category of demographics,
people are doing better because they
have been liberated through policies
that unleash the creative spirit of the
American people and free enterprise.
If you care about the poor, if you
really care about solving poverty, con-
sider the words of Catholic Priest Rob-
ert Sirico, the president and cofounder
of the Acton Institute. He sums it up
nicely in his book ‘‘Defending the Free
Market: The Moral Case for a Free
Economy.’’ If you want to help the
poor, he says, start a business.
Employ people. Give them a job.
Allow them to achieve their God-given
potential by learning that work means
an opportunity for them to realize
their God-given potential and help
other people through their own labor
and their own creativity.
Free markets not only increase eco-
nomic prosperity in general, but they
also provide better standards of living.
This concept applies in the United
States and in jurisdictions around the
world.
There is data to support this idea.
Each year, the Cato Institute and the
Fraser Institute in Canada copublish,
in coordination with 70 think thanks
across the world, the ‘‘Economic Free-
dom of the World’’ report. The report
measures economic freedom via five
metrics: the size of government, the
legal system and property rights, the
soundness of money, the freedom to
trade internationally, and the amount
of regulation.
The United States ranks in the top
five countries for economic freedom
while Venezuela ranks dead last. The
most recent report finds that the na-
tions in the top quartile of economic
freedom had an average per capita GDP
of $36,000 in 2017, compared to $6,000 for
bottom quartile nations.
The poorest 10 percent of citizens in
the most economically free nations ac-
tually have an income that is two-
thirds higher than the average income
in the least free nations. In the top
quartile of economically free nations,
1.8 percent of the population experi-
ences extreme poverty, compared to
27.2 percent in the least free nations.
If you want to cure poverty, unleash
free enterprise.
The benefits of economic freedom do
not just apply to wage and employment
metrics. Life expectancy in the most
economically free nations is 14 years
longer than the least economically free
nations, and infant mortality is signifi-
cantly lower.
Medicare for All, is that what you
are for? Because if you are for health,
you should be for capitalism.
b 1900
The report also finds that gender
equality and political and civil lib-
erties are much higher in nations with
high economic freedom than in nations
with low economic freedom.
The ill effects of socialism and their
impact on the people subjected to it
are evident in country after country.
Venezuela is the example that I just
gave, but there are other examples as
well.
We probably don’t have time to go
through all of these examples, but I do
want to just say that it was Winston
Churchill who famously said: ‘‘Those
who fail to learn from history are con-
demned to repeat it.’’
That is why, as we debate the merits
of capitalism versus socialism in our
political discourse today, it is impor-
tant that we remember history, that
we look to past actions of other coun-
tries and study their results.
I wanted to get to three case exam-
ples—the United Kingdom, India, and
Israel—to show their experience with
socialism and how disastrous it was for
their people, and, when they changed
course and they embraced capitalism
and freedom, the prosperity that it de-
livered. We will get to that on another
evening.
But suffice it to say that, when you
have market-based incentives where
you have, by and large, free trade,
where you have low regulation, where
you have less taxes, where you have
people who are able to achieve their po-
tential without undue interference
from the government, where you have
market forces, you produce more, you
become more productive, and you pro-
vide for people who need assistance.
The U.S. economy today remains a
shining example of how opportunity
and ingenuity in a market-based econ-
omy with appropriately tailored regu-
lation can drive prosperity for its citi-
zens.
As we said before, unemployment is
at a 50-year low. Why would we want to
abandon free market economics at a
time when the country is benefiting
from it?
Industries from technology to en-
ergy, to manufacturing, to services,
they are booming. We are the leaders
in innovation. We have an economy
that draws people from around the
world who hope to make a better life
for themselves.
I will return to the wisdom of Aus-
trian-British economist F. A. Hayek
when he said, in a famous warning,
that political liberty is not enough:
‘‘Even a strong tradition of political
liberty is no safeguard if the danger is
precisely that new institutions and
policies will gradually undermine and
destroy that spirit. The consequences
can of course be averted if that spirit
reasserts itself in time and the people
not only throw out the party which has
been leading them further and further
in the dangerous direction but also rec-
ognize the nature of the danger and
resolutely change their course.’’
What that warning says, what he
means by that warning is it may not
come in the full-on proposal of social-
ism; it may come in incremental form.
But we must abandon those parties
that are leading us further and further
down the road of serfdom in the dan-
gerous direction away from freedom
and more towards central planning, re-
ject it and move back towards freedom.
Alexis de Tocqueville, when he ob-
served early America, warned of the
modern welfare state: In a nation that
prides itself upon the idea that the peo-
ple are sovereign, isn’t it sad that the
modern American left wishes to de-
prive the people of that very sov-
ereignty—of that very self-government
upon which this Nation was founded—
and instead impose upon the people an
insidious form of servitude to bureau-
cratic rules upon rules governing their
every action and behavior, so much so
until the will of the individual is shat-
tered, constantly restrained from act-
ing as he or she normally would in a
free state, until the people are reduced
to ‘‘a flock of timid and industrial ani-
mals, of which the government is the
shepherd.’’
Mr. Speaker, I don’t think any of us
want to go down that road to serfdom.
I don’t think any of us want to stamp
out the freedom and the self-govern-
ment, the idea that we remain and
must continue to be a government only
through the consent of the governed.
Tonight, my colleagues and I are de-
fending freedom, defending capitalism,
defending free enterprise, defending en-
trepreneurship, and opposing, vigor-
ously, the corrupt and immoral idea of
socialism.
Mr. Speaker, we appeal to the good
sense of the American people at this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.106 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10013
December 10, 2019
time in our Nation’s history. We appeal
to the people that now is the time to
reassert the spirit of liberty; to throw
out the party of socialism and central
planning, the party which is leading
America further and further in a dan-
gerous direction with policies like
Medicare for All and the Green New
Deal; to recognize the danger, and to
resolutely change their course to em-
brace the cause of freedom and free en-
terprise.
And, Mr. Speaker, for anyone who
knows any American who is tempted
by the lies of socialism, I ask that they
share with them this debate tonight,
share with them the truth, share with
them the truth that freedom and cap-
italism is the answer to democracy; it
is the answer to upward mobility; it is
the answer to poverty; it is the answer
to soul-crushing deprivation and short-
ages, that the true way to care for
those who are less fortunate is to give
people opportunity and freedom to
achieve their God-given potential.
Mr. Speaker, with that, we contend
that we will continue this debate until
we secure for our children and our pos-
terity the blessings of liberty.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
SOCIALISM IS ABOUT ABSOLUTE
GOVERNMENT CONTROL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) for 30 minutes.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to talk a little bit about the
border, which is probably the most im-
portant issue facing America today as
we determine what kind of country we
have 10 or 15 years down the road, but
I am going to lead off by talking a lit-
tle bit about the past topic of cap-
italism versus socialism, because I
don’t think a lot of people realize ex-
actly what socialism is about.
Socialism is about absolute govern-
ment control.
People who are socialists want every-
body to have to work for the govern-
ment. Because they control the means
of production, they want to determine
what we have the right to buy, and
they want to determine what we have
the ability to invest in.
Obviously, if you have to work for
the government, which you have to in
socialism, they can determine who gets
hired, who gets promoted, what job you
get. In other words, they will eventu-
ally use that absolute power that
comes with being everybody’s employer
or everybody’s regulator to promote
you or hire you based upon your feel-
ings, based upon your ideas.
Not long ago, I went to Berlin and I
saw the StasiMuseum, where, in the
wonderful socialist country of East
Germany, the government kept track
of how you thought—kind of the way
they do in China today—how you
thought and if maybe you didn’t say
the right things. And maybe if the gov-
ernment becomes anti-Christian or
doesn’t like your other beliefs, they
will miraculously fire you, you can’t
get the key job, you can’t get promoted
or whatever. That is why people who
like to control lives more frequently
become socialists.
You look at the red flags under so-
cialism that existed in the 1930s, and
you will see those red flags—at the
time, red meant socialism—all were
adapted by leaders who liked absolute
control of their populations.
So, if anybody out there wants to
vote socialism, what they are voting
for is to get rid of their freedoms. They
are saying: I turn my life over to the
government. I want the government to
tell me where I can work and what I
can do when I am working. I want the
government to tell me what I can buy.
And if anybody accumulates wealth,
they are saying: I want the government
to be able to tell me where I can invest.
That is the mindset of the socialist.
There are fears that someday Amer-
ica may go socialist. Actually, that
shouldn’t happen, because socialism is
unconstitutional under the U.S. Con-
stitution, and any academic who
pushes socialism should be aware of
that.
If you want to be, I guess it would
amount to being a real serf. If you
want to be a serf and have the govern-
ment tell you where you have to work,
tell you whether you can be promoted
or not, tell you what you can invest in,
and tell you what you can buy, you
should go to another country, because
the people who put together our Con-
stitution, a goal was that we would
never become anything like socialism.
IMMIGRATION
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, now,
let’s talk a little bit about what was a
major issue that used to be covered by
the press, including the conservative
press, before we started down the path
to this impeachment, and that was the
issue that was the primary reason why
President Trump was elected: That
issue is immigration and who we are
going to let in this country.
I don’t think it has been well pub-
licized, but just yesterday, we got the
information from Border Patrol that
they processed 42,000 people trying to
come in this country either under asy-
lum or inappropriately during the
month of November.
That is down from 45,000 in October,
so I suppose you could say we are mov-
ing the ball in the right direction. It is
down from 145,000 in May.
Of those 42,000, under 5,000 actually
got to come in the country. The vast
majority who were not let in imme-
diately, thanks to the work of Presi-
dent Trump, are currently being held
in Mexico pending hearings.
This is something President Trump
has done without any help from the
people in this body. He has done it by
negotiating with Mexico and negoti-
ating with the triangle countries in
Central America. He has reached agree-
ments or is receiving help from Guate-
mala, from Honduras, from El Sal-
vador, and from Mexico itself.
To a certain extent, through threat
of tariffs, he has the Mexican Govern-
ment patrolling its southern border—
not doing that great a job, but they are
patrolling their southern border.
He has Central American countries
doing what they can to hold on to their
current population and allowing coun-
tries from which people are seeking
asylum to settle in their country,
which only makes sense. If you wanted
to leave Venezuela, you speak Spanish.
It doesn’t make any sense that you
would come to an English-speaking
country. It makes more sense, if you
really feel threatened at home, to go to
countries like Guatemala and El Sal-
vador and Honduras and Mexico.
So these efforts by President Trump
have dropped the number processed
from 145,000 down to 42,000 and the
number of people being let in our coun-
try from over 100,000 to under 5,000 a
month.
But it is always possible we are going
to have a court decision undoing some
of the efforts of President Trump, and,
God forbid, it is possible we might have
an election and a future President may
not agree with the efforts made by
President Trump.
So what should this body be doing?
We have to remind this body that,
right now, we are only two of the 40
wealthiest countries on the globe to
allow birthright citizenship.
If somebody went down to the border,
it is obvious that women who are near
having birth are coming into this coun-
try to have children, which would
make their children U.S. citizens and
would create a situation in which, as a
practical matter, they would stay
there with them.
We have a situation of chain migra-
tion in which people are coming here
not because they are qualified to work
here, but because they have relatives
who are here, and we may be taking
people who are not necessarily a good
economic bargain for the United
States.
We need more ICE beds for single
adults to be held right now. It is very
difficult for ICE to do their job without
these beds. As we are working through
appropriations bills, it is time to pass a
bill with that in there.
We need more Border Patrol agents.
Can you imagine what it is like at
night doing the border patrol, finding
20 or 40 or 50 people coming across the
border at once, and it is 2 o’clock in
the morning and you are the one ex-
pected to bring people in? We have to
respect our Border Patrol.
We have a huge problem that, under
current law, we are encouraging sepa-
ration of families, and that is not
President Trump’s fault. He would be
happy to change it.
Right now, we have a law in which, if
a child comes here from Canada or
Mexico, they could be sent back, but
children coming from Central America,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.107 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10014 December 10, 2019
Africa, other places in Latin America,
we have to let them in the country.
That is a horrible thing.
We wouldn’t like it if a 15-year-old
child left the United States and wound
up in Nicaragua or Honduras. We would
expect them to be returned to their
parents.
We are asking this body to pass a law
allowing the United States to return
single children to their parents and
other countries. The other countries
would like it.
It is very arrogant of the United
States and arrogant of this body to
continue the current system in which a
child, unaccompanied by their parents,
comes here and we have to keep them.
Right now, under the Flores settle-
ment, we have to stop holding people
after 20 days near the border, families
with children. It is time that we statu-
torily change that and allow the hold-
ing of people for a longer period of
time.
We have to do something with sanc-
tuary cities. We have to do something
so that, if people break the law and are
being held in prisons and being held in
jails, the Federal Government has the
ability to remove these people from the
country.
For whatever motivation, there are
people in this country going down the
path of having their city—and includ-
ing people in this House encouraging
cities—not ask people about immigra-
tion status and forbidding our immi-
gration service from removing crimi-
nals from this country. That is another
thing that we ought to be doing now.
b 1915
Other things that President Trump is
trying to do—but he needs a little bit
of help here—we currently have illegals
in low-income housing. I am not sure
we need more low-income housing in
this country, but a lot of people feel we
do. Right now we have the rather bi-
zarre situation in which people who are
here illegally are sitting in low-income
housing, while American citizens are
on a waiting list, including people like
homeless veterans.
I want to point out that President
Trump and myself are not anti-immi-
grant to say this. It recently came to
my attention that the number of immi-
grants sworn in in this country in the
last year available is 830,000. Two years
prior to that we were under 700,000.
So President Trump has presided
over a dramatic increase in the number
of people who are coming in this coun-
try legally, showing his compassion
and understanding that we do need im-
migrants in this country.
However, it is time Congress stepped
to the plate and did what was nec-
essary to rein in out-of-control illegal
immigration. So I encourage my col-
leagues not to forget about this crisis.
I encourage the media, particularly the
conservative media, not to take their
eye off this ball, which will determine
what the United States looks like 5 and
10 and 25 years from now.
I realize there are a lot of people who
want the media to only focus on immi-
gration, but we cannot forget what is
going on in the immigration front.
I yield back the remainder of my
time.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 7 o’clock and 16 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 2104
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. MORELLE) at 9 o’clock
and 4 minutes p.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 3, LOWER DRUG COSTS NOW
ACT OF 2019; PROVIDING FOR
CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 5038,
FARM WORKFORCE MODERNIZA-
TION ACT OF 2019; AND PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
THE CONFERENCE REPORT TO
ACCOMPANY S. 1790, NATIONAL
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Ms. SHALALA, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–334) on the resolution (H.
Res. 758) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 3) to establish a fair price
negotiation program, protect the Medi-
care program from excessive price in-
creases, and establish an out-of-pocket
maximum for Medicare part D enroll-
ees, and for other purposes; providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 5038)
to amend the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act to provide for terms and con-
ditions for nonimmigrant workers per-
forming agricultural labor or services,
and for other purposes; and providing
for consideration of the conference re-
port to accompany the bill (S. 1790) to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes,
which was referred to the House Cal-
endar and ordered to be printed.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. ADERHOLT (at the request of Mr.
MCCARTHY) for December 9 and today
on account of an illness.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 5 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Wednesday,
December 11, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
3241. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, transmitting a report
of a violation of the Antideficiency Act, pur-
suant to 31 U.S.C. 1351; Public Law 97-258; (96
Stat. 926); to the Committee on Appropria-
tions.
3242. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Defense, transmitting a letter on the
approved retirement of Vice Admiral Bruce
H. Lindsey, United States Navy, and his ad-
vancement to the grade of vice admiral on
the retired list, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
1370(c)(1); Public Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as
amended by Public Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b));
(110 Stat. 293); to the Committee on Armed
Services.
3243. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Acquisition, Department of Defense, trans-
mitting a letter stating that due to late
Service certification memos from the Army,
as required by Sec. 2430(d)(4)(A) of title 10,
U.S.C. the September 2019 Selected Acquisi-
tion Reports have missed the deadline; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
3244. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s final rule — Removal of Transferred
OTS Regulations Regarding Deposits (RIN:
3064-AF07) received December 4, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Financial Services.
3245. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting the Department’s report
covering the period from July 11 to Sep-
tember 9, 2019 on the Authorization for Use
of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution,
pursuant to 50 U.S.C. 1541 note; Public Law
107-243, Sec. 4(a); (116 Stat. 1501) and 50 U.S.C.
1541 note; Public Law 102-1, Sec. 3 (as amend-
ed by Public Law 106-113, Sec. 1000(a)(7)); (113
Stat. 1501A-422); to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
3246. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to the stabilization of
Iraq that was declared in Executive Order
13303 of May 22, 2003, pursuant to 50 U.S.C.
1641(c); Public Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c); (90
Stat. 1257) and 50 U.S.C. 1703(c); Public Law
95-223, Sec 204(c); (91 Stat. 1627); to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
3247. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting a report on Burma’s
Non-Compliance with the Chemical Weapons
Convention, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
3248. A letter from the Deputy Assistant to
the President, Director, White House Man-
agement and Administration, Acting Direc-
tor, Office of Management, Executive Office
of the President, transmitting the account-
ing of transactions from the Unanticipated
Needs Account for fiscal year 2019, pursuant
to 3 U.S.C. 108(b); Public Law 95-570, Sec.
2(a); (92 Stat. 2449); to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
3249. A letter from the Senior Advisor, Of-
fice of the Secretary, Department of Health
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10DE7.109 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10015
December 10, 2019
and Human Services, transmitting a notifi-
cation of a designation of acting officer and
a nomination, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a);
Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614);
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
3250. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel for General Law, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting two (2) no-
tifications of a designation of acting officer
and discontinuation of service in acting role,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-
277, 151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614); to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
3251. A letter from the Deputy Chief Finan-
cial Officer, Department of Transportation,
transmitting the Department’s Agency Fi-
nancial Report for FY 2019, pursuant to 31
U.S.C. 3515(a)(1); Public Law 101-576, Sec.
303(a)(1) (as amended by Public Law 107-289,
Sec. 2(a)); (116 Stat. 2049) and 31 U.S.C.
1115(b); Public Law 111-352, Sec. 3; (124 Stat.
3867); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
3252. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs, transmitting the
Department’s FY 2019 Office of Inspector
General Semiannual Report to Congress cov-
ering the period April 1, 2019 through, Sep-
tember 30, 2019; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
3253. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel for General Law, Management Di-
rectorate, Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, transmitting notification of a dis-
continuation of service in acting role, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277,
151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
3254. A letter from the Inspector General,
Office of Inspector General, Department of
Agriculture, transmitting the Department’s
Office of Inspector Generals Five-Year Stra-
tegic Mission and Diversity and Inclusion
Plan for Fiscal Years 2020-2024; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
3255. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel for General Law, Office of Strategy,
Policy, and Plans, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting a notification of an
action on nomination, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat.
2681-614); to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
3256. A letter from the Chairman, Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission, transmitting
the Commission’s Inspector General’s Semi-
annual Report to Congress, covering the pe-
riod from April 1, 2019, through September
30, 2019; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
3257. A letter from the Acting Adminis-
trator, Small Business Administration,
transmitting the Administration’s Office of
Inspector General’s Semiannual Report to
Congress covering the period April 1, 2019,
through, September 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
3258. A letter from the Staff Director, U.S.
Commission on Civil Rights, transmitting
the Commission’s annual Performance and
Accountability Report for FY 2019, pursuant
to 31 U.S.C. 3515(a)(1); Public Law 101-576,
Sec. 303(a)(1) (as amended by Public Law 107-
289, Sec. 2(a)); (116 Stat. 2049); to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
3259. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel for General Law, U.S. Customs and
Border Protection, transmitting three (3) no-
tifications of a vacancy, a designation of act-
ing officer, and a discontinuation of service
in acting role, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3349(a);
Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112 Stat. 2681-614);
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
3260. A letter from the Chair, United States
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board,
transmitting the Board’s Fiscal Year 2109
Agency Financial Report; to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
3261. A letter from the Director, Office of
Worker’s Compensation Programs, Depart-
ment of Labor, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s Annual Report to Congress on the FY
2016, FY 2017, and FY 2018 operations of the
Office of Workers’ Compensation Programs,
pursuant to 30 U.S.C. 936(b); Public Law 91-
173, Sec. 426(b) (as amended by Public Law
107-275, Sec. 2(b)(4)); (116 Stat. 1926) and 33
U.S.C. 942; Mar. 4, 1927, ch. 509, Sec. 42 (as
amended by Public Law 104-66, Sec.
1102(b)(1)); (109 Stat. 722); to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
3262. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s final rule — Regulatory Capital Rule:
Simplifications to the Capital Rule Pursuant
to the Economic Growth and Regulatory Pa-
perwork Reduction Act of 1996; Revised Ef-
fective Date (RIN: 3064-AF18) received De-
cember 4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
3263. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Transportation, transmitting a re-
port titled The U.S. Department of Transpor-
tation’s Status of Actions Addressing the
Safety Issue Areas on the NTSB’s Most
Wanted List, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 1135(e)(1);
Public Law 103-272, Sec. 1(d) (as amended by
Public Law 111-216, Sec. 202(b)); (124 Stat.
2351); to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. SHALALA: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 758. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3) to estab-
lish a fair price negotiation program, protect
the Medicare program from excessive price
increases, and establish an out-of-pocket
maximum for Medicare part D enrollees, and
for other purposes; providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 5038) to amend the Im-
migration and Nationality Act to provide for
terms and conditions for nonimmigrant
workers performing agricultural labor or
services, and for other purposes; and pro-
viding for consideration of the conference re-
port to accompany the bill (S. 1790) to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department of De-
fense, for military construction, and for de-
fense activities of the Department of Energy,
to prescribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other purposes
(Rept. 116–334). Referred to the House Cal-
endar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. LUCAS (for himself and Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas):
H.R. 5374. A bill to establish and support
advanced geothermal research and develop-
ment programs at the Department of En-
ergy, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology,
and in addition to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. GABBARD (for herself and Mr.
CASE):
H.R. 5375. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow the energy credit
for certain ocean thermal energy equipment;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio (for him-
self, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. RESCHENTHALER, and Mrs.
MCBATH):
H.R. 5376. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require a provider of a report
to the CyberTipline related to online sexual
exploitation of children to preserve the con-
tents of such report for 180 days, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. SUOZZI (for himself, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Mr. PANETTA,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr.
CORREA, Ms. CRAIG, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. KIM, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. LOWEY, Mr. MALINOWSKI,
Mr. MEEKS, Ms. MENG, Mr. MORELLE,
Mr. NADLER, Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms. POR-
TER, Mr. RASKIN, Miss RICE of New
York, Mr. ROSE of New York, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. SIRES, Mr. TRONE, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. ESPAILLAT, and
Mr. HARDER of California):
H.R. 5377. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the limitation on
deduction of State and local taxes, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Mr. HOYER, and Mr. BACON):
H.R. 5378. A bill to extend the death gra-
tuity and casualty assistance to survivors of
certain deceased graduates of the Reserve Of-
ficers’ Training Corps; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 5379. A bill to reauthorize the United
States Commission on International Reli-
gious Freedom, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CRIST (for himself, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, and Mr. SOTO):
H.R. 5380. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to require the Commis-
sioner of Social Security to enter into agree-
ments with States to share data related to
individuals subject to guardianship, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. DESJARLAIS:
H.R. 5381. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to require the
label of a drug to list the country of origin
of each of the drug’s active ingredients; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 5382. A bill to create a mechanism
whereby insulin manufacturers may sell di-
rectly to consumers at current net prices; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois (for himself,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. BASS, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. TLAIB,
Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. OMAR, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10DE7.000 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H10016 December 10, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. RUSH, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. MENG,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY,
Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr. SERRANO,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. CORREA, and Mr. MEEKS):
H.R. 5383. A bill to reform the process for
enforcing the immigration laws of the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana (for
himself, Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana,
Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr. GRAVES of Lou-
isiana, Mr. SCALISE, and Mr. RICH-
MOND):
H.R. 5384. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
100 Crosby Street in Mansfield, Louisiana, as
the ‘‘Dr. C.O. Simpkins, Sr., Post Office’’; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois (for herself
and Mr. SENSENBRENNER):
H.R. 5385. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
authorize the Attorney General to make
grants to States and units of local govern-
ment to deploy and implement gunfire detec-
tion and location technology, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. MCNERNEY (for himself and
Mr. BUCSHON):
H.R. 5386. A bill to amend the Health Infor-
mation Technology for Economic and Clin-
ical Health Act to require consideration, in
certain circumstances, of whether a covered
entity or business associate has adequately
demonstrated that it had recognized security
practices, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 5387. A bill to require congressional
approval for civilian nuclear cooperation
under certain circumstances, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Ms. SLOTKIN (for herself, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, and Ms. SPEIER):
H.R. 5388. A bill to provide that the Sec-
retary of Education may not issue or enforce
certain rules that weaken the enforcement of
the prohibition of sex discrimination appli-
cable under title IX of the Education Amend-
ments of 1972; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. NADLER:
H. Res. 755. A resolution impeaching Don-
ald John Trump, President of the United
States, for high crimes and misdemeanors; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr.
GRAVES of Georgia, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. WOODALL, Ms.
DELBENE, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Ms. SCAN-
LON, and Mr. TIMMONS):
H. Res. 756. A resolution implementing the
recommendations adopted by the Select
Committee on the Modernization of Con-
gress; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration, and in addition to the Committees
on Transportation and Infrastructure, and
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. RUSH:
H. Res. 757. A resolution calling for the res-
ignation and disbarment of United States
Attorney General William P. Barr, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. KEATING:
H. Res. 759. A resolution expressing that it
is the sense of the House of Representatives
that the Russian Federation interfered in
the 2016 United States Presidential election
and deliberately spread false information to
implicate the Republic of Ukraine; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Intelligence (Per-
manent Select), for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
150. The SPEAKER presented a memorial
of the House of Representatives of the State
of Illinois, relative to House Resolution 577,
condemning President Donald J. Trump’s
Migrant Protection Protocols denying entry
to refugees at the Southern border and call-
ing on him to immediately rescind this ab-
horrent policy that is placing vulnerable
people at further risk of harm, and calling on
the U.S. Congress to put an end to the Mi-
grant Protection Protocols by defunding the
program in its upcoming budget vote before
the end of this calendar year; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. LUCAS:
H.R. 5374.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8,
Clause 18:
‘‘The Congress shall have Power . . . To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 5375.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The United States Constitution including
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio:
H.R. 5376.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion to ‘‘make all laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers, and all other powers
vested by this constitution.’’
By Mr. SUOZZI:
H.R. 5377.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress enacts this bill pursuant to
Sections 7 & 8 of Article I of the United
States Constitution and Amendment XVI of
the United States Constitution.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 5378.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 5379.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8
By Mr. CRIST:
H.R. 5380.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. DESJARLAIS:
H.R. 5381.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 5382.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority for this bill is
pursuant to Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of
the United States Constitution.
By Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois:
H.R. 5383.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 and 9
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
H.R. 5384.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 5385.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
‘‘To make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States or in any
Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. MCNERNEY:
H.R. 5386.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States grants Congress the au-
thority to enact this bill.
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 5387.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. SLOTKIN:
H.R. 5388.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution,
Congress has the power ‘‘to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or any Department or Officer thereof’’
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 19: Mr. BACON, Mr. HARRIS, Mr. DUN-
CAN, Mr. BOST, Mr. BARR, Mr. WEBSTER of
Florida, Mr. BYRNE, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr.
WOMACK, Ms. GRANGER, Mr. MEUSER, Mr.
ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr. DUNN, Mr. KATKO,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10DE7.100 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H10017
December 10, 2019
Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. KING of New York, and Mr.
SPANO.
H.R. 230: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 372: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 571: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
H.R. 584: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 587: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr. ADER-
HOLT, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. HORSFORD, and Mr.
KEATING.
H.R. 660: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 816: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 837: Mr. COMER.
H.R. 838: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. KIND, and Mrs.
WAGNER.
H.R. 906: Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. BANKS,
Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, and Mr.
CHABOT.
H.R. 913: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 961: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 991: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 997: Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 1011: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1013: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1042: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Mr.
PALLONE.
H.R. 1140: Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. STEVENS,
Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. CISNEROS, and Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia.
H.R. 1161: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 1173: Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. WRIGHT, and
Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H.R. 1185: Ms. PLASKETT.
H.R. 1195: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1367: Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. CUELLAR, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. RYAN, and Mr.
COHEN.
H.R. 1370: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 1379: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mr.
HIMES.
H.R. 1380: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 1479: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1488: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1493: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1531: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1570: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina.
H.R. 1597: Mr. LEVIN of California, Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas, and Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.R. 1605: Mr. WALTZ.
H.R. 1611: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1643: Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 1730: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1762: Mr. MEEKS and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1840: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 1878: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 1978: Mr. NADLER, Mr. VARGAS, and
Mr. LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 2074: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2079: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 2167: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2168: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2214: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2261: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2463: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Mr.
PAPPAS.
H.R. 2466: Mr. SARBANES and Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 2501: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 2733: Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 2747: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 2836: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2850: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mrs. DAVIS
of California, and Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 2867: Mr. LYNCH.
H.R. 2953: Mr. VAN DREW and Mr. RUTHER-
FORD.
H.R. 2986: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 3068: Mr. NEGUSE and Ms. Velázquez.
H.R. 3114: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 3121: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3214: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3218: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 3248: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 3328: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 3414: Mr. SARBANES, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3446: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 3489: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 3522: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 3570: Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 3644: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 3762: Mr. NORCROSS, Mr. VELA, Mr.
GOODEN, Ms. LEE of California, Mr. FOSTER,
and Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 3775: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3794: Mr. KIND and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 3799: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 3879: Mr. RASKIN and Ms. TORRES
SMALL of New Mexico.
H.R. 3911: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3937: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 3957: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 4056: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 4084: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 4086: Mr. BARR.
H.R. 4092: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 4113: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 4180: Mr. SMITH of Missouri.
H.R. 4189: Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky and Mr.
PAYNE.
H.R. 4229: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 4236: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 4265: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 4283: Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH.
H.R. 4326: Mr. DIAZ-BALART and Mr. BISHOP
of Georgia.
H.R. 4341: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 4399: Mr. STEIL and Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 4436: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 4438: Mr. FOSTER.
H.R. 4482: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 4691: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 4811: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 4820: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 4864: Mr. TRONE, Mr. CUELLAR, and
Ms. BASS.
H.R. 4881: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4892: Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 4907: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mr. LIPIN-
SKI.
H.R. 4913: Mr. RUSH, Ms. MATSUI, and Mr.
RUIZ.
H.R. 4919: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mr. SMITH of
Nebraska.
H.R. 4945: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 4953: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 4968: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 4980: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 4996: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 5041: Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Ms. NORTON, Mr. YOUNG,
Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. RICHMOND,
Mr. NORCROSS, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. RASKIN, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Mr. COHEN, Mr. SARBANES, and
Ms. KELLY of Illinois.
H.R. 5050: Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Mr. SHERMAN, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 5068: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 5092: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 5117: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. BUDD, and Mr.
GALLEGO.
H.R. 5141: Mr. VISCLOSKY and Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 5151: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 5173: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas and Mr.
BYRNE.
H.R. 5175: Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana.
H.R. 5200: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 5213: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 5224: Mr. BAIRD and Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 5231: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
HUFFMAN, and Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 5234: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas.
H.R. 5248: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 5255: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 5259: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 5260: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 5266: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 5289: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 5297: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 5306: Mr. PASCRELL, Mrs. MURPHY of
Florida, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 5342: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 5346: Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. VARGAS, Ms.
ESCOBAR, and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 5349: Mr. ENGEL, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. POCAN, and
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 5354: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 5363: Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and
Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 5372: Mr. KILMER.
H. Con. Res. 52: Ms. WILSON of Florida and
Mr. LANGEVIN.
H. Res. 33: Ms. PLASKETT.
H. Res. 69: Mr. COSTA.
H. Res. 189: Mr. BRINDISI.
H. Res. 374: Mr. BIGGS and Mr. VAN DREW.
H. Res. 400: Mr. CICILLINE and Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 452: Mr. BERA and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H. Res. 641: Mr. VARGAS and Mr. LUJÁN.
H. Res. 678: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H. Res. 686: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H. Res. 698: Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 720: Ms. NORTON.
H. Res. 752: Mr. MCCAUL and Mr. ENGEL.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions
and papers were laid on the clerk’s
desk and referred as follows:
69. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of Austin,
TX, relative to a resolution requesting that
Congress enact legislation which would pro-
hibit a potential employer from asking an
employment applicant to disclose in advance
what salary that applicant expects to receive
if hired; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
70. Also, a petition of the City Council of
Honolulu, HI, relative to Resolution No. 19-
209, urging the President of the United
States, the United States Congress, and the
United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity to retain the Filipino World War II
Veterans Parole Program; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on the Judiciary.
71. Also, a petition of the City Council of
Honolulu, HI, relative to Resolution No. 19-
262, supporting the United Nations treaty on
the prohibition of nuclear weapons and wel-
coming the Golden Rule Peace Boat to Ha-
waii; which was referred jointly to the Com-
mittees on Foreign Affairs and Armed Serv-
ices.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE7.004 H10DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6909
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2019 No. 197
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable CINDY
HYDE-SMITH, a Senator from the State
of Mississippi.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal Father, the center of our joy,
bless our lawmakers with the peace
and wisdom needed to lead in our chal-
lenging world. Give them eyes to dis-
cern and understand the intricate com-
plexity of this turbulent season. Lord,
guide our Senators to the right paths.
Lead them beside still waters. Restore
their souls. Let them lack nothing, for
You can keep them whole. Overflow
their cups with gentleness, care, and
understanding for the people they rep-
resent. Let them fear no evil and take
courage in adversity, for You continue
to lead them with Your all-knowing
right hand.
We pray in Your everlasting Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, December 10, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable CINDY HYDE-SMITH, a
Senator from the State of Mississippi, to per-
form the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH thereupon as-
sumed the Chair as Acting President
pro tempore.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
as we enter the final weeks of 2019, two
things seem to be true here in Con-
gress. No. 1, our Democratic col-
leagues, particularly over in the House,
seem eager to pour the vast majority of
their time and energy into their 3-year-
long journey to impeach the President
the American people elected. As a con-
sequence, No. 2, Congress has yet to
fulfill a number of its core governing
responsibilities for this year.
At this late date, several crucial,
must-pass bills remain undone. For
months, my fellow Republicans and I
have been stressing the need for pro-
ductive, bipartisan cooperation on
these pressing subjects: funding for the
Federal Government, Defense appro-
priations—the money for our troops—
and the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act. Yet, for months, our calls for
the Democrats to join us in serious ne-
gotiations have gone largely unan-
swered as the Democratic leadership
has opted for a different political play-
book—to obsess over impeachment and
obstruct this core business that we
must do every year.
Earlier this year, the House Demo-
crats pushed through what we believe
was their first purely party-line NDAA
that either Chamber has ever passed in
the 58-year history of the legislation.
This is the legislation that puts for-
ward Congress’s priorities for equip-
ping, training, and maintaining the
greatest fighting forces in the world. It
has never been used before as a purely
partisan weapon—that is, not until this
year. Reassuringly, the past few days
have finally brought an end to bipar-
tisan talks and produced a compromise
NDAA. The end result should be able to
pass both Chambers and earn the Presi-
dent’s signature. Believe me, it will not
come a moment too soon.
The NDAA authorizes resources to
keep crucial military installations—
like Fort Campbell, Fort Knox, and the
Blue Grass Army Depot in Kentucky—
running smoothly. It is similarly im-
portant to facilities in many of our col-
leagues’ home States as well. Nation-
ally, of course, it directs readiness ef-
forts, prioritizes research and develop-
ment programs, and enacts vital re-
forms at the Pentagon.
I look forward to sending the final,
bipartisan product by the conference
committee to the President for his sig-
nature soon. In addition to that au-
thorizing legislation, Congress, of
course, needs to actually appropriate
funds for our national defense and for
all other functions of our Federal Gov-
ernment.
Just a few months ago, when leaders
on both sides put their names to a bi-
partisan-bicameral roadmap for the ap-
propriations process, it looked as
though we might keep partisan dis-
putes out of this process and finish up
the appropriations with time to spare.
Unfortunately, our Democratic col-
leagues decided that picking fights
with the White House was a higher pri-
ority, and we spent the autumn being
mired in disputes over exactly the
kinds of poison pills and Presidential
authorities the Speaker and the Demo-
cratic leader had previously promised
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.000 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6910 December 10, 2019
would be off limits. Yet, as we speak,
Chairman SHELBY and appropriators in
both Chambers are trying to bring
months of near stalemate to a close.
Last month, a bipartisan-bicameral
agreement was reached on sub-
committee allocations, and talks con-
tinue this week on outstanding issues.
Thanks to the months of delay, we
have a long way to go and a very short
time in which to do it. I hope that our
Democratic colleagues can finally
stick to the terms of the budget agree-
ment and keep partisan policy fights
out of this process. That is the only
way both Chambers will have a chance
of being able to vote on funding bills
before the end of this year.
That brings us to the USMCA. For
the better part of the past year, Presi-
dent Trump’s landmark agreement to
update North American trade policy
has been languishing as Speaker
PELOSI and the House Democrats have
indulged further and further in im-
peachment. There are 176,000 new
Americans jobs that have sat waiting
on ice as the Speaker has offered luke-
warm assurances month after month
that her caucus is hoping to be ‘‘on a
path to yes.’’ This week, at long last, it
appears that the House Democrats may
finally be willing to take action for
American workers and job creators and
let the House vote on the President’s
deal. I was pleased to hear that U.S.
negotiators, led by Robert Lighthizer,
were to head to Mexico today to final-
ize the details on this important win
for the American economy. I hope this
forward momentum continues.
So that is the state of play. There is
a lot left to do for the American fami-
lies we represent if our Democratic col-
leagues will simply allow it, and it will
certainly take a great deal of coopera-
tion and consent right here in the Sen-
ate if we intend to consider and pass
these measures before the end of the
year.
Obstruction and stalemate have
brought us to the eleventh hour. I hope
that, now that we are here, both Cham-
bers will be able to set aside the Demo-
crats’ impeachment parade long
enough to get the people’s business fi-
nally finished.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Morning business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will proceed to executive ses-
sion to resume consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination, which the clerk
will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Patrick J. Bumatay, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Democratic leader is recog-
nized.
INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
for years, President Trump has specu-
lated wildly about a ‘‘deep state’’ con-
spiracy against his Presidency based on
the claim that the FBI opened an in-
vestigation into the President’s cam-
paign with political bias, with the ex-
plicit purpose that they were out to get
him.
Yesterday, the Department of Justice
inspector general released a report that
puts this conspiracy theory to bed. The
report conclusively debunks the base-
less conspiracy that the investigation
into Mr. Trump’s campaign and its ties
to Russia originated with political
bias. In fact, the report quotes the FBI
Deputy General Counsel as saying that
‘‘the FBI would have been derelict in
our responsibility had we not opened
the case.’’
Let me repeat that from the No. 2
counsel at the FBI. ‘‘The FBI would
have been derelict in our responsibility
had we not opened the case.’’
Donald Trump commits so many
wrongs, and when people call him on it,
he blames somebody and comes up with
a conspiracy. And the most amazing
thing is that not just his appointees
but these Senators in this Chamber—
almost too many of them—just echo
those crazy theories designed to divert
us from the truth.
The inspector general of the Depart-
ment of Justice, Michael Horowitz, has
been praised for years by Members on
both sides of the aisle for his integrity
and for his fairness. There is no reason
to doubt the report’s conclusion. He
has never been accused of bias before.
Attorney General Barr and LINDSEY
GRAHAM praised Mr. Horowitz, but all
of a sudden, they are casting aspersions
on him and his report. Only political
actors doubt this report—political ac-
tors like Attorney General Barr and
now, it seems, as well, his handpicked
Federal prosecutor, John Durham.
Attorney General Barr has all too
often acted on behalf of the President’s
interests rather than as a neutral law
enforcement officer. He almost seems a
hatchet man on a political campaign
rather than an Attorney General—an
august position—following the rule of
law and trying to shield that office
from politics whenever possible. In-
stead, Barr loves to jump into the po-
litical pool of muck.
I was skeptical when Mr. Barr ap-
pointed John Durham simply because
Attorney General Barr had picked him.
He does almost nothing in these sen-
sitive areas that are not political. But
you had some hope. Durham, some
said, had a good reputation. Well, yes-
terday, Durham’s statement confirmed
our suspicions that he is not a non-
political actor. No prosecutor worth
his salt would release a political state-
ment like he did while conducting an
investigation. Because of issuing that
statement, Durham has lost a great
deal of credibility even before he issues
his report. No one who is thinking of
these things down the middle is going
to think Durham is a dispassionate,
nonpolitical observer because he has
already shown himself to be, in a cer-
tain sense, a henchman of Mr. Barr and
his political activities.
To emphasize the broad acceptance of
the IG report, FBI Director Wray, ap-
pointed by President Trump, embraced
the report.
When Director Wray asked whether
he thought the FBI targeted the Trump
campaign, he said I do not. And for
that, not surprising, but still rather,
again, low, shallow, and disgusting,
President Trump lashed out this morn-
ing at the FBI Director, saying, ‘‘I do
not know what the current Director of
the FBI was reading, but it wasn’t the
one given to me.’’
President Trump, if you actually
read the report, you would understand
exactly what FBI Director Wray was
talking about, and you would under-
stand exactly why it was his duty to
defend his department when they be-
have on a nonpolitical rule of law
basis.
My friends, it is a sad state of affairs
when truth tellers have no place in
Trump’s Washington. Anyone inside
the Trump administration willing to
speak truth to power—Secretary
Mattis, DNI Director Coats, even Chief
of Staff Kelly towards the end, and so
many others—cannot survive the Presi-
dent’s insistence on blind loyalty, can-
not survive the fact that the President
makes them tell lies and mistruths to
continue to serve him.
If you do not act in febrile obeisance
to President Trump, he will turn on
you, so this quality of people in this
administration is getting lower and
lower and lower. Top-notch people and
the ability to govern and make smart
decisions and the ability to care about
the truth often go hand in hand, but if
you care about the truth, you are out,
and so Trump loses quality people in
his administration. And the only peo-
ple who survive are willing to bow
down to Donald, who will do just what
he wants and says, even when they
know it is false.
And that is why this administration
is so erratic, so disjointed, so ineffec-
tive, and, at this time, so unpopular
with the majority of the American peo-
ple. The American people know that
Mattis is a fine man. They know that
Wray is a fine man. They know that
they are the kind of people that, if
Trump says tell a lie, they won’t. But,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.001 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6911
December 10, 2019
unfortunately, the people in this ad-
ministration who remain are willing to
do just that. And that said, as I said, it
is a very sad state of affairs and one of
the reasons this administration has
such a difficult relationship with the
truth.
The President conjures fictions, buys
into baseless conspiracy theories told
by known buyers on FOX News or
somewhere else, and then anyone who
contradicts him earns his scorn. Con-
tradict him enough, if you are in the
administration, you lose your job.
Now, more worry. Amazingly, this
afternoon, the President and Secretary
of State Pompeo will meet in secret
with Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov. It shows a blinding disregard
with what is going on in Congress and
the world right now. Russian intel-
ligence has been pushing the baseless
theory that Ukraine interfered in the
2016 elections, not just Putin, as a way
to divide the West and defend Putin.
Certain Republican Senators have
stunningly repeated that falsehood
around these corridors, and now, Presi-
dent Trump and Secretary of State
Pompeo are meeting with the Russian
Foreign Minister in secret. What new
conspiracies are they cooking up with
Lavrov today? I worry. The President
has been so unable to articulate a de-
fense of the facts uncovered in the
House impeachment inquiry that he
has resorted to one conspiracy after
the next to explain his conduct. His al-
lies, including Members of the Senate
Republican Caucus, have elevated sev-
eral of these theories.
Here in the Senate, certain members
of the Grand Old Party are forming
their own conspiracy caucus. Any
crazy conspiracy, whether launched by
Putin or some wild-eyed crazy con-
spiracy theorist, who manages, of
course, all the time to get on FOX
News and have his story or her story
repeated, it is something that my col-
leagues just repeat even though it is
clear they are false, and they know
they are false.
ANGUS KING had a great op-ed last
week in USA Today, which I commend
to every one of my colleagues. It basi-
cally said, if what the impeachment
proceeding has found is false, then
where are the Trump people to refute
it? Not to come up with some irrele-
vant conspiracy theory and bring this
one and that one into it that has noth-
ing to do with it, but actually refute
the facts, where is that?
President Trump has not refuted a
single fact that the impeachment in-
quiry has found. None of his people
have been willing to come forward who
would have knowledge to refute those
facts if those facts were false. And so
they try to create a shiny object, a di-
version, and, unfortunately, too many
of the news media on the right will
spend time on that diversion and re-
peat Trump’s claim that the actual
facts are false.
This is the beginning of the end of
the democracy, when we can’t have
truth—we can disagree on the outcome
of those facts, but we can’t have truth
of the fact—and everything is fake
news, particularly those from the right
who don’t like the truth. When con-
spiracy theories that have no basis in
fact govern, our democracy is at risk.
It is one of the main reasons I think so
many Americans believe, whatever
their ideology, that President Trump
should not be President.
The conspiracy theories are not
harmless. They are sinister. They are
insidious. They erode the democratic
fabric of this country. They erode our
fidelity of truth which is at the basis of
democracy, and they help Putin sow
discord in our country. Conspiracies
need to stop. If the White House would
like to submit evidence or offer wit-
nesses to make the President’s case,
please do so. They haven’t done it once.
Instead, the White House is blocking
documents and withholding witnesses
who could potentially defend the Presi-
dent’s action, a surefire sign, as ANGUS
KING said in his op-ed, that the Presi-
dent has something to hide.
Given that the House announced it
would write two Articles of Impeach-
ment this morning, the White House’s
refusal to rebut the evidence under
oath is something not lost on the Mem-
bers of the U.S. Senate who could soon
be judges and jurors in a Senate trial.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION ACT
Madam President, on another happier
subject, over the weekend, negotiations
on the annual defense bill concluded.
There are lots of things missing in that
bill, things that should have been in-
cluded but were blocked by the Repub-
lican majority in the Senate. But there
is one very good thing, among a few
others. I am proud that the bill will
now provide all Federal employees
with 12 weeks of paid parental leave,
something Democrats have pursued for
a long time.
Once the NDAA is passed—hopefully
in the coming week—1 million Federal
employees will no longer have to
choose between caring for a newborn
and putting food on the table. This is
huge, huge news. It will make the lives
of millions of families better if you
have a newborn baby that needs care,
he or she. I just had a grandson who
turned 1. I know just exactly what it is
like. If both mom and dad work or it is
a single-parent family, what is that
family going to do?
It is one of the nerve-racking deci-
sions that impedes on the joy of the
new birth. Well, in many other coun-
tries, there is something called paid
family leave where you can take off 3
months and raise the child in those
early days when he or she is helpless.
In the United States, some private
companies are progressively doing it,
but not enough. Well, now all Federal
employees will get that opportunity
with parental leave. It recognizes the
changes in the world.
When I was growing up, my mom
stayed at home while my dad went to
work, who was an exterminator. That
is not the norm anymore. Most fami-
lies have two working parents, and we
have lots of single parents who bear
the load of raising a family. All it
takes is one serious illness, complica-
tion, or accident to wreak financial
havoc on that family.
It is no surprise that paid family
leave ranks near the top of voters’ con-
cerns. The United States is the only de-
veloped nation in the world that does
not guarantee paid leave for parents of
newborns or newly adopted. I hope
that, after we pass parental leave for
Federal employees, employees in the
private sector will take notice and
they will act as well. If this spreads
throughout America, as often Federal
policies do, it will be a great thing for
our parents and our children.
Today, only 16 percent of workers in
the private sector have access to paid
leave. Studies overwhelmingly show
that, when working parents can take
care of their families without the fear
of losing jobs, families are better off,
and the economy is better off as well.
So I am glad that the long push we
have made on this side of the aisle for
parental leave has been secured for all
family workers. I hope it will become a
reality soon for all workers, and I want
to thank my colleagues who helped
make this a reality.
NET NEUTRALITY
Madam President, on net neutrality,
this Saturday marks the second anni-
versary of the FCC’s party-line deci-
sion to repeal the net neutrality rules.
To restore the safeguards of a free and
open net that those rules protected,
today my colleagues Senators MARKEY,
CANTWELL, and WYDEN will ask the
Senate’s consent to pass the Save the
Internet Act, which codifies net neu-
trality in a similar manner to last
year’s Congressional Review Act,
which passed the Senate with strong
bipartisan support.
I thank those Senators and so many
others for their leadership on this im-
portant and sometimes overlooked
issue. Net neutrality is based on a very
simple idea, that the internet, just like
our phones, our highways, our power
sources, is a public good that all Amer-
icans should have access to without
discrimination, whether you are a big
company or a startup, a rural school or
an individual consumer just like water
companies can’t discriminate if they
come to their customers and say, oh, I
am going to charge you $10 for a day’s
use of water, but I am going to charge
your neighbor down the street $100.
That would be unfair. We would not
allow it. The same thing should be true
with the internet.
Under the Obama administration, net
neutrality rules prevented moneyed
groups from getting preferential treat-
ment. We should return to it. The ad-
ministration has, unfortunately, sided
with big special interests and repealed
it. Senator MARKEY’s legislation would
restore the rules of the world that pro-
tect a free and open internet.
I thank my colleagues for bringing
this to the Senate’s attention today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.003 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6912 December 10, 2019
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The majority whip.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, it
should come as no surprise that I
might have a different point of view
than the Democrat leader when it
comes to the issue of net neutrality. If
you look at what has happened since
the FCC ruled on this, there were all
these terrible apocalyptic predictions
that were made about how speeds were
going to slow down, the internet was
going to slow to a crawl, and you
wouldn’t be able to do basic applica-
tions anymore, none of which have
happened.
Obviously, we all believe—I certainly
do, and I think most of my colleagues
on this side believe—that if you want
to have an open and free internet, that
is a good thing, and if there are con-
cerns about blocking or throttling or
slowing speeds in some way, the Con-
gress should be heard from on that be-
cause what we have had now for several
years is this ping-pong effect. When
one party is in power, they change the
rules to suit their desires, and then the
other party comes to power and
changes it. Then you have all this liti-
gation that goes on in the courts,
which doesn’t help anybody. All that
does is bog things down and generates
a tremendous amount of cost, and no-
body’s interests are served by that.
So if there is a concern, and I have
articulated this on many occasions to
my colleagues on the other side, to
work with us on a legislative solution
where Congress can step in and put
clear rules of the road in place when it
comes to the internet—making sure we
have an open and free internet—we are
prepared to do that, but that is not
something the Democrats have been in-
terested in doing.
They would rather have this heavy
hand of government that slows this in-
novation down, all these wonderful
things that are happening in our econ-
omy right now—the race to 5G, which
obviously is critically important to so
many sectors of our economy—could be
dramatically impeded if you had the
heavy hand of government, the heavy
hand of regulation, which has been ad-
vocated by our colleagues on the
Democratic side for some time, if that
became the norm.
When President Trump was elected,
and Chairman Pai was made Chairman
of the FCC, and we had a Republican
FCC which did away with the heavy-
handed regulations of the previous ad-
ministration, we heard all these apoca-
lyptic predictions coming from the
Democrats about all of the horrible
things that were going to happen to the
internet. I can tell you that my experi-
ence, I think, is like most Americans. I
can continue to download applications.
I can continue to scroll and to see the
things I want to see and to toggle back
and forth between different websites in
a way that I did before. It just flat
hasn’t happened. So they are trying to
come up with a solution for a problem
that does not exist.
That said, we would be happy to work
with them. We want to put clear rules
of the road in place, but that is not
what they want. They want the heavy
hand of government and the heavy
hand of regulation strangling what has
been one of the most remarkable eco-
nomic miracles of the last half cen-
tury, if you look at what the internet
has done in terms of productivity in
this country.
APPROPRIATIONS
Madam President, I am very pleased
to hear that a deal has been reached to
finally advance the 2020 fiscal year Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act.
Every year, Congress takes up the
National Defense Authorization Act to
authorize funding for our military and
our national defense. Like last year’s
NDAA, this year’s bill focuses on re-
building our military and ensuring
that we are prepared to meet 21st cen-
tury threats.
While many take it for granted that
we have the strongest military in the
world, in recent years, our military ad-
vantage over near-peer adversaries has
eroded. Budgetary impasses, combined
with increased operational demands,
left our military undermanned, under-
equipped, and ill-prepared for the con-
flicts of the 21st century.
In November of 2018, the bipartisan
National Defense Strategy Commission
released a report warning that our
readiness had eroded to the point
where we might struggle to win a war
against a major power like Russia or
China, and the Commission noted that
we would be especially vulnerable if we
were ever called on to fight a war on
two fronts. That is not a good position
to be in. Restoring our readiness has
been and must continue to be our top
priority.
This year’s National Defense Author-
ization Act continues our efforts to re-
build our military. It invests in the
planes, the combat vehicles, and the
ships of the future, including the Joint
Strike Fighter and the future B–21
bomber, which will be based at Ells-
worth Air Force Base in my home
State of South Dakota. It authorizes
funding for research and development
and advanced technology. It also fo-
cuses on ensuring that we are equipped
to meet new threats on new fronts, in-
cluding in the space and cyber do-
mains. Of course, this bill invests in
our most valuable resource—our men
and women in uniform.
The National Defense Authorization
Act authorizes a 3.1-percent pay in-
crease for our troops, which is the larg-
est increase in a decade. This is not
only something our troops have earned,
it is also an important way to increase
retention in an All-Volunteer Force.
This year’s National Defense Author-
ization Act also focuses on addressing
the recent significant health and safety
issues with private on-base housing. It
contains measures to support military
spouses seeking employment and in-
creased access to childcare on military
installations.
I am glad we are finally on track to
get this important legislation done.
The final bill, of course, like most leg-
islation, is not perfect, but it will help
ensure that our military receives the
resources it needs to meet current
threats and to prepare for the threats
of the future.
I am also encouraged by the fact that
it looks like Democrats have decided
to work with us to get fiscal year 2020
Defense appropriations passed before
Christmas.
Needless to say, the 2020 Defense ap-
propriations bill, like the authoriza-
tion bill which I just referenced, is crit-
ical legislation that authorizes the
funding for current and future military
priorities. It provides funding to sup-
port that pay increase for the men and
women who keep us safe. It provides
the funding for the weapons and equip-
ment our troops need right now to
carry out their missions, and it pro-
vides funding for the equipment and
technology our military would need to
defeat the threats of the future.
It provides funding for missile de-
fense, for research and development,
for ships, for planes, and for combat ve-
hicles to update our aging fleets. It
also provides funding for our allies, in-
cluding $250 million in military assist-
ance for Ukraine. This is a critical na-
tional security bill, and it needs to be
enacted as soon as possible.
It is unfortunate that we couldn’t get
this legislation done sooner, before the
start of the new fiscal year in October.
Delaying defense funding has left our
military short of the resources it needs
and unable to start important new
projects. So I am glad that, at long
last, the Democrats are finally willing
to work with us on this important leg-
islation. It is time to get this bill done
so we can get our men and women in
uniform the resources they need with-
out further delay, as well as uphold our
national security commitments to our
friends and to our allies.
I hope negotiations will continue to
move forward and that we can get this
legislation to the President’s desk
within the next 2 weeks, before the
Christmas holiday.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
WYOMING WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE DAY
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
come to the floor as we celebrate
today, in Wyoming, the 150th anniver-
sary of Wyoming’s women’s right to
vote—150 years. Before we even became
a State, women were voting in Wyo-
ming. Today, at our State capital
building in Cheyenne, there is a huge
celebration of people from around the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.004 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6913
December 10, 2019
State and around the country cele-
brating this historic day.
Many people watching today may not
know the history of what happened 150
years ago. Yesterday afternoon, Sen-
ator ENZI spoke on the Senate floor
and outlined some of that history. I am
so proud of my home State’s amazing
record in advancing this entire issue
and concern and allowance of women’s
voting.
Women in Wyoming were the first in
the Nation to use the right to vote.
That is a fact. Wyoming women have
been voting for 150 years. On December
10, 1869, Wyoming took a giant leap for-
ward for women’s equality. We are
called the Equality State. This is a lot
of the reason why.
Wyoming Governor Mark Gordon, in
a ceremony this morning at our State
capital in Cheyenne, is proclaiming
today Wyoming Women’s Suffrage Day.
Wyoming is the first place in the coun-
try to pass a law securing women’s
right to vote, as well as the right not
just to vote but to hold public office.
The people of Wyoming spoke loud
and clear 150 years ago today. We stood
with women 50 years ahead of the rest
of the Nation. Wyoming was a territory
back then. Our State had not yet
joined the Union. That didn’t happen
until 1890. Still, that is when we earned
the proud name of the Equality State.
Wyoming earned far more than the
name. By leading the fight for women’s
rights, Wyoming has forever earned a
hallowed place in the books of history.
Nobody embodies that legacy more
than Wyoming’s Louisa Ann Swain. On
September 6, 1870, Louisa Swain of Lar-
amie, WY, became the first woman in
the United States to vote in the gen-
eral election. By casting her historic
ballot, she claimed a great victory for
women everywhere.
It is a tremendous heritage that we
celebrate today. Wyoming truly is the
Nation’s trailblazer for women’s equal-
ity. In fact, ‘‘Equal Rights’’ is our
State motto.
On November 19, the Senate unani-
mously passed the Wyoming Women’s
Suffrage Day resolution. Senator ENZI
and I cosponsored the resolution to
commemorate today’s 150th anniver-
sary. Now the entire Nation can join in
celebrating Wyoming’s groundbreaking
law.
Then, 20 years after the law’s pas-
sage, Wyoming refused to enter the
Union as a State unless we had equal
voting rights, men and women. There
was a big fight about it in Wyoming
and in the Nation’s Capital. When
standing on principle became a major
sticking point, Wyoming stuck to its
guns on women’s equality and actually
ended up delaying becoming a State
over this very issue.
On March 26 of 1890, Wyoming state-
hood legislation narrowly passed the
U.S. House of Representatives. The
measure passed the Senate a few
months later, but part of the debate on
the floor of the House of Representa-
tives had to do with Wyoming women
actually voting in our then territory
and now State.
President Benjamin Harrison signed
Wyoming’s statehood into law on July
10, 1890, upholding women’s rights. Wy-
oming was technically the 44th State
to enter the Union, but Wyoming real-
ly is the first State when it comes to
women’s equality. Wyoming put
women first even before statehood.
Back home, 2019 is the ‘‘Year of Wyo-
ming Women.’’ Our State is paying
tribute to our strong women leaders.
We had the great honor of electing the
first woman Governor, Wyoming’s 14th
Governor, Nellie Tayloe Ross. Wyo-
ming boasts many more female firsts.
These include the first woman to serve
on a jury and the first female justice of
the peace, Esther Hobart Morris. Wyo-
ming also claims the first all-female
city government. These pioneering
women leaders were elected in 1920 in
Jackson, WY. The Jackson press
dubbed them ‘‘the petticoat govern-
ment.’’ So we celebrate 150 years of
equal rights in Wyoming and 100 years
for women nationwide.
In 1919, Congress passed the 19th
Amendment to the Constitution, grant-
ing women’s suffrage. This hard-fought
legislative victory would ensure wom-
en’s full participation in our democ-
racy.
To mark this 100th anniversary,
President Trump recently signed into
law the Women’s Suffrage Centennial
Commemorative Coin Act. I had the
privilege of cosponsoring this legisla-
tion that was introduced by Senator
MARSHA BLACKBURN from Tennessee.
The bill passed unanimously in the
Senate. I made sure that Wyoming’s
Esther Hobart Morris was among the
suffragettes honored in this legislation.
All Americans owe an enormous debt
of gratitude to the Nation’s extraor-
dinary women leaders of the past, the
present, and today as we pause to re-
member where it all started 150 years
ago in the trailblazing State of Wyo-
ming, the Equality State.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. President, now I would like to
turn to a different topic. I come to the
floor today as the Democrats in the
House and in the Senate are obsessed
with obstruction because they are ob-
sessed over impeachment and are ob-
structing everything else.
We have only a week left to fund the
government, to pass ‘‘America First’’
trade deals, and to support our mili-
tary. Still, there is another priority
issue that we need to address. We must
provide relief, in my opinion, from
costly ObamaCare taxes. There are sev-
eral of those that are impacting our
citizens around the country.
Last week, the Centers for Medicaid
and Medicare released a report on
healthcare spending. The report finds
that health insurance costs grew in
2018 by a larger number than they had
the year before.
Why does CMS believe that the rates
of insurance actually have gone up ad-
ditionally? Well, it is because of a cou-
ple of taxes.
One is the health insurance tax, or
the HIT tax. It is in the Obama
healthcare law. It is an unfair tax that
has increased insurance premiums for
small business owners and for seniors.
That is why I have been a longtime op-
ponent of this health insurance tax.
Democrats need to help us get rid of
the tax. They need to end it.
The second ObamaCare tax we must
repeal is the so-called Cadillac health
plan tax. The Cadillac tax affects mil-
lions of Americans who are covered
through work, especially union work-
ers. On December 5, a broad group of
unions and employers wrote the Senate
leaders urging a repeal.
This is what they said. The union
leaders and supporters urged the re-
peal, and this is what they wrote to the
Senate leaders:
The consequences of inaction are serious.
Many millions of working Americans will
pay more out of pocket . . . or face reduced
health coverage.
We need to end this Cadillac tax now.
The third tax we need to repeal is the
medical device tax. Really, it is a tax
on innovation. The medical device tax
is going to restrict patients’ access to
new lifesaving technologies.
Without congressional action, the
health insurance tax and the medical
device tax are going to take effect
again in 2020 and the Cadillac tax in
2022. It is time to repeal these pun-
ishing taxes. We need to do this to pro-
tect patients and working families all
across the country.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
AGRICULTURE
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I
come before the Senate today to recog-
nize a historic milestone in the Colo-
rado agricultural community. The Col-
orado farm bureau is celebrating 100
years of representing farmers, ranch-
ers, rural communities, and every as-
pect of agriculture in Colorado.
I grew up in the Eastern Plains, the
very heart of agriculture. In fact, the
county I grew up in is one of the larg-
est corn-producing counties in the
country and, certainly, economically
speaking, one of the top agricultural
communities in the State.
Our livelihood, our neighbors—every-
thing—depend on agriculture. In fact,
when there is a downturn in agri-
culture, it is not just the next day that
our community feels that. It is that
next hour that the community feels
the impact. It is the same with a good
agriculture economy. It is not just to-
morrow that we will feel the impact,
but immediately we will feel the im-
pact.
I grew up working in a family farm
equipment dealership where you got to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.006 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6914 December 10, 2019
know everybody in the community, not
because of the kind of operation they
had but because of the kind of person
they were, the kind of relationships
you built, and then, of course, the op-
portunities to do business in those
communities.
There are ebbs and flows, good times
and bad times, times of prosperity and
times of difficult predicaments in rural
America, in agriculture. In the 1980s, I
grew up watching one of the hardest
times agriculture faced—watching a
number of banks face foreclosures, a
number of farmers face foreclosures. I
watched as people I knew my whole life
sold their farms, gave up farming, and
closed their businesses.
It wasn’t that long ago—in fact, just
a few years ago—that we saw some of
the highest priced commodities this
country had ever seen for a very long
time. The golden years of agriculture
occurred just a couple of years ago be-
cause of all-time high prices. That is
not the situation we are facing today.
Once you have worked in the agri-
culture industry, I think you develop a
very deep understanding and apprecia-
tion for the men and women who have
our farmers’ backs through the good
times and the bad times, like the Colo-
rado Farm Bureau. The Farm Bureau
plays a vital role in the wellbeing of all
aspects of agriculture. It gives rural
communities a prominent voice when
the government is debating policies
that impact their farms, their finances,
and their families.
The Colorado Farm Bureau began in
1919, when a group of farmers, ranchers,
veterinarians, rural doctors, shop-
keepers, and tradesmen in 10 local
counties met to form what was termed
a ‘‘Farm Bureau.’’ Their goal was to
make the business of farming more
profitable and the community a better
place to live. The organization strug-
gled through the years and almost died
out in the 1930s.
In the late 1930s and early 1940s, a
group of people across Colorado orga-
nized to breathe new life into that
Farm Bureau in Colorado. Ezra
Alishouse, C.J. Phillips, Arthur Ander-
sen, and others sold memberships to re-
build the organization.
As a group of farmers naturally
would, the Farm Bureau persisted and
grew. They grew the Farm Bureau to
become the largest farm organization
in the State of Colorado and expanded
the support they provided to ag com-
munities throughout the State.
In the 1940s, farmers and ranchers
were having a difficult time insuring
their operations. So the Colorado Farm
Bureau created a farm insurance cas-
ualty company. They began offering
farm insurance in 1948. Later in the
1950s, they began offering life insurance
for those in the agriculture commu-
nity.
Today, the Colorado Farm Bureau
represents 23,000 member families, 45
local county Farm Bureaus, and is one
of the largest farmer-led organizations
in the State of Colorado. The Colorado
Farm Bureau has a simple mission: to
promote and protect the future of agri-
culture and rural values.
They show people the agriculture in-
dustry up close, why it is important to
all of us, and the success of our rural
communities.
The Farm Bureau offers leadership
training for young professionals, schol-
arships, college programs, health and
safety trainings, helpful resources to
farmers, and support when it is needed
the most. Through the Colorado Farm
Bureau Foundation, the Farm Bureau
has raised hundreds of thousands of
dollars to support victims of natural
disasters in Colorado, whether that is a
drought or whether that is severe bliz-
zards.
They represent, improve, and pro-
mote all aspects of agriculture in Colo-
rado and have helped to develop the in-
dustry into the economic powerhouse
it is and one of the strongest drivers of
Colorado’s economy.
Every year I have been honored to
join the Colorado Farm Bureau and
have the Colorado Farm Bureau join
me on our annual farm tour. That is a
tradition I first started when I came to
the House of Representatives. Every
fall we would go to the Eastern Plains
of Colorado and the Western Slope of
Colorado and talk to everyone from
peach growers in Palisade to corn
growers in Kiowa and beyond, and we
had opportunities to learn how we can
help every nook and cranny of the
State when it comes to agriculture.
This year, we have traveled to 15 dif-
ferent counties across Colorado, vis-
iting family farms, ranches, and agri-
cultural businesses. We held
roundtables with locally elected offi-
cials. We went to a wind farm and
talked about the impact that renew-
able energy is having in positive as-
pects for our farmers and ranchers.
This farm tour wouldn’t be possible
without the Farm Bureau and the oth-
ers who helped put it together and
make sure we see these important
issues that we are facing. In the past,
we have turned to them for their exper-
tise in policy, their insights, experi-
ence, and their partnerships as we
champion efforts that will help and
benefit rural Colorado. They have been
a great partner in providing agricul-
tural producers with the resources and
certainty they need to protect private
property rights, to protect our water-
ways, to ensure that farmers are treat-
ed fairly in the Tax Code, and, re-
cently, in helping to relocate the head-
quarters of the Bureau of Land Man-
agement to Grand Junction.
The Farm Bureau is a regular pres-
ence in Washington. I think all of us
know that. Colorado Farm Bureau
members have played an important
role in developing policy. They are not
afraid to get their hands dirty and of
the hard work it takes to get good leg-
islation passed.
The Colorado Farm Bureau takes on
difficult issues and has a real impact
on people’s lives. Their dedicated work
and their willingness to take on dif-
ficult issues has also earned them na-
tional recognition. In 2005, the Colo-
rado Farm Bureau was recognized by
the Department of the Interior in
Washington for their work at the Colo-
rado Department of Natural Resources
to protect the mountain plover.
This created a win-win partnership
that the government and the private
sector could work in together to pre-
emptively protect the species without
listing it on the Endangered Species
Act.
The Colorado Farm Bureau was in-
strumental in opening up 300,000 acres
of land for data collection and research
on the mountain plover’s nesting and
population status. Through that effort,
they were able to avoid listing, develop
better management practices, and help
to grow the mountain plover popu-
lation.
I look forward to continuing to hear
from Colorado Farm Bureau members
and farmers and ranchers across our
State, as this Chamber—this body—de-
bates new trade opportunities, new ag-
ricultural policies, and anything that
could impact farmers back home.
Their contributions will be especially
valuable as we continue to open up new
markets for Colorado producers, invest
in rural communities, and manage our
public lands.
Last month, the Senate passed a res-
olution I introduced with my col-
league, Senator BENNET, celebrating
this historic 100th anniversary, recog-
nizing all of the Colorado Farm Bu-
reau’s past, present, and future efforts
to promote and advocate farm and
ranch interests.
I ask my colleagues in the Senate to
join me today in celebrating the Colo-
rado Farm Bureaus’s rich history and
contributions to the ag industry, not
just in Colorado but across the United
States. Congratulations to the Colo-
rado Farm Bureau for your 100 years of
being a strong voice for farmers, ranch-
ers, and our rural communities in the
‘‘Centennial State’’ and for all your
work to protect the Colorado way of
life. I look forward to continuing our
work together with the Farm Bureau
in seeing what we can accomplish for
the next 100 years of agriculture in Col-
orado.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
NOMINATION OF LAWRENCE VANDYKE
Mr. TESTER. Mr. President, it is no
secret that the Senate doesn’t do much
around here, except for confirming
judges. But looking at the records of
the folks we are confirming to the Fed-
eral bench, it is clear we have forgot-
ten even how to do that.
The Founding Fathers were incred-
ibly visionary. When they set up the
Federal judiciary, they hoped to insu-
late it from political influence. How?
By giving them lifetime appointments,
with the advice and consent of the Sen-
ate. In doing so, they gave the Sen-
ators the most solemn of responsibil-
ities we have in this body: evaluating
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.007 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6915
December 10, 2019
judicial nominees on their independ-
ence, their fairness, their tempera-
ment, and their judgment.
Unfortunately, these days, the Re-
publican majority seems to have
thrown qualifications out the window.
Instead, they give out lifetime appoint-
ments to the court like candy. This
doesn’t prevent partisanship from in-
fluencing our judicial system; it en-
sures partisanship. The latest example
is Lawrence VanDyke’s nomination to
the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals,
which has jurisdiction over Montana.
Mr. VanDyke is a familiar face to
Montanans because he grew up and at-
tended school in the great State of
Montana. He also served as Montana’s
solicitor general before resigning to
run an unsuccessful race for the State
supreme court.
Montanans can separate the wheat
from the chaff pretty well, and after
examining his record and judgment,
they found Mr. VanDyke unqualified to
serve on the State’s highest court.
Montanans rejected him overwhelm-
ingly at the ballot box, but now the
majority leader wants to give him a
lifetime seat on the bench.
Once you start to dig into Mr.
VanDyke’s extreme record, it is not
hard to see why folks in my State were
concerned about his ability to be fair
and independent. This is a man who be-
lieves a government should insert itself
between a woman and her doctor when
she is trying to make private
healthcare decisions. This is a man
who, as Montana’s solicitor general,
worked to oppose same-sex marriage
and questioned the ability of same-sex
partners to properly raise children.
This is a man who supports opening our
public lands to mining and drilling.
By the way, our public lands con-
tribute more than $7 billion to our
economy. Nonetheless, open it up, drill
it, and mine it. And this is a man who
ridiculed Montana’s deep belief that
corporations are not people. He argued
in favor of unchecked money flowing
into our elections. He believed that
corporations were people and, in fact,
his race for supreme court in Montana
received over $600,000 in outside spend-
ing—$170,000 from the Koch brothers
alone.
My guess is that some of my friends
on the other side of the aisle view Mr.
VanDyke’s extreme positions as an
asset, not an issue. They may point to
the fact that he claimed he would be
objective during his confirmation hear-
ing.
The fact is, we cannot trust Mr. Van-
Dyke to put aside his past positions
and give everyone who comes before his
court a fair shake, to be fair and im-
partial.
Mr. VanDyke has never been a judge,
and he was rated as ‘‘not qualified’’ by
the nonpartisan, nonpolitical American
Bar Association.
By the way, this isn’t the first nomi-
nee who has come up who has been
rated as ‘‘not qualified.’’ I asked a law-
yer friend of mine what that means,
and he said, basically, if you can’t
achieve a ‘‘qualified’’ rating by the
American Bar Association, you are a
train wreck. That is what Mr. VanDyke
is.
His nomination is opposed by over 200
conservation, education, civil rights,
and other organizations. He is also op-
posed by six former Montana Supreme
Court justices, folks that Montanans
did elect to sit on the highest court in
our State. They wrote of Mr. VanDyke:
It is doubtful that he understands that ju-
dicial decisions must be based solely on the
facts of the case and on the law. . . . We
strongly believe that Mr. VanDyke has dem-
onstrated that he has neither the qualifica-
tions nor the temperament to serve as a fed-
eral court of appeals judge.
His coworkers from his time as Mon-
tana’s solicitor general seem to agree.
A former assistant attorney general
who worked with VanDyke wrote pri-
vately to his colleagues:
Ever since he has arrived, Mr. VanDyke
has been arrogant and disrespectful to oth-
ers, both in and outside of this office. He
avoids work. He does not have the skills to
perform, nor desire to learn how to perform,
the work of a lawyer. Now that he has re-
signed—
That was when he resigned to run for
the supreme court—
and refuses to work on cases assigned to
him, while remaining on the payroll for the
next several months.
In fact, even Mr. VanDyke doesn’t
consider himself qualified to perform
the basic duties of a lawyer. He once
explained in an email that he has no
experience in discovery, experts, stipu-
lations, or in meeting and conferring
with opposing counsel.
I am no lawyer, but those sound like
the tasks that someone up for a life-
time judicial appointment should know
how to do.
Let me put it this way. If I were
looking for a contractor to do work on
my farm and the contractor had these
kinds of qualifications, I would not
hire him for 1 minute, much less give
him a job for a lifetime.
I spend more time in Washington,
DC, than I would like, which is how I
know there is no shortage of lawyers
around here and around the country.
There is absolutely no reason that we
can’t find someone better suited to this
position than Lawrence VanDyke.
I know it is too much to hope that
the Senate will act with as much com-
mon sense as the folks in Montana do,
but I do expect us to have the decency
to respect the will of Montana voters
and reject Mr. VanDyke for a seat on
the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.
I urge my colleagues to take a look
at the record, to take a look at what he
has done, to know it will not be a fair
and impartial court if he is put on it,
and I urge my colleagues to oppose his
nomination.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
OVER-THE-COUNTER MONOGRAPH SAFETY,
INNOVATION, AND REFORM ACT
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, last
week, when I joined my colleagues to
recognize Senator ISAKSON, I men-
tioned that when Johnny says he is
going to get something done, you know
it will get done. The bill we are getting
ready to pass today in a few hours, the
Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety,
Innovation, and Reform Act, which he
has worked on with Senator CASEY,
proves it once again.
Every day, people head to their local
pharmacy or retail store for over-the-
counter medications to deal with a
cough or a sore throat or a stomach
ache. Every day, parents across the
country turn to the medicine cabinet
after someone comes home with a
scrape or a bug bite or poison ivy.
Every day, there are countless other
health concerns people look to treat
quickly, safely, and effectively with
over-the-counter drugs. That is why
this legislation is so important.
The pace of scientific discovery
seems to speed up every day, but the
over-the-counter monograph system—
the system for how these drugs are reg-
ulated and brought to market—has not
kept pace. The current system has not
changed, actually, since 1972, and it
sorely needs to. Right now, even after
the science has made clear that small
changes to the monograph, or recipe,
for an over-the-counter drug might
make it safer or more effective, it can
take years for those changes to be ap-
proved under the current outdated
process. Even small changes to a drug
label, including changes regarding im-
portant new safety information, can be
held up for years.
The Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act
takes long-needed steps to address this
problem and streamline the way over-
the-counter drugs are regulated and
brought to market. These changes will
allow the Food and Drug Administra-
tion to do more to protect public
health and make sure over-the-counter
drugs, ingredients, and labels reflect
the latest science. It will also encour-
age the development of new products to
better meet the needs of patients. The
legislation allows the FDA to collect
user fees for reviewing over-the-
counter drugs to make sure it has the
resources it needs to do this important
job.
Many families rely on over-the-
counter drugs each day for a lot of dif-
ferent reasons. It is very important
that these medications and the labels
we turn to for information about them
are safe, that they are effective, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.009 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6916 December 10, 2019
that they are as up-to-date with the
latest science as possible. Thanks to
the efforts of Senator ISAKSON and Sen-
ator CASEY, this bill we will vote on
this afternoon will help accomplish
that by updating the over-the-counter
monograph system for the first time in
decades. I know how important this
bill has been to Senator ISAKSON and
how he has worked so hard on it for
many years. I want to tell him how
grateful I am. I want him to know that
I am particularly grateful for his com-
mitment to getting this done for fami-
lies back in Georgia and across the
country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 682
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, today I
rise in defense of net neutrality. This
week marks the 2-year anniversary of
the Trump FCC’s wrongheaded decision
to repeal net neutrality.
First, let’s be clear about what we
are discussing today. Net neutrality is
just another way of saying non-
discrimination. That is what it is all
about. It is just another way of saying
that big companies online can’t dis-
criminate against individual con-
sumers; that large companies can’t dis-
criminate against smaller companies
and startups; that corporations can’t
stifle speech online; that once you pay
your monthly internet service bill, you
can go anywhere you want on the
internet without Charter or Comcast
or AT&T or Verizon slowing down or
blocking your path to a website of your
choosing.
Despite all this, 2 years ago this
week, the Trump Federal Communica-
tions Commission voted to throw out
net neutrality at the behest of the
broadband barons. Since then, we have
watched as countless citizens, compa-
nies, and activists have continued to
stand up and demand that net neu-
trality be restored.
This spring, the House of Representa-
tives took an important step in passing
the Save the Internet Act. My legisla-
tion in the Senate would overturn the
Trump administration FCC’s decision
and restore net neutrality protections.
In the Senate, we have already success-
fully passed the same proposal on a bi-
partisan basis.
In April of 2018, my Congressional
Review Act resolution passed in the
Senate by a bipartisan vote of 52 to 47.
We debated net neutrality, and the
Senate decided to join the majority of
Americans and support a free and open
internet. In that vote, we sent a mes-
sage to President Trump about what it
means to have an internet free of cor-
porate control and open to all who
want to communicate, engage, and in-
novate. We made clear that this Con-
gress won’t fall for President Trump’s
special interest agenda that just wants
to block, slow down, or discriminate
against content online just to charge
Americans more on their cable and
internet bills.
Unfortunately, the rules for a Con-
gressional Review Act that allow just
30 Senators to force the majority to
schedule a vote is not an option in this
Congress because the right to bring a
Congressional Review Act resolution to
the floor has a time limit on it, which
has now expired. So, instead, today we
once again call for an immediate vote
on the Save the Internet Act.
Already, in June, our Republican col-
leagues failed to listen to the voices of
their constituents and blocked a vote
from happening. Sadly, the Repub-
licans plan to stonewall us again and
to block this vote. This is yet another
example of the Republican Party refus-
ing to side with the ordinary people in
our country—families, small busi-
nesses, startups, entrepreneurs, anyone
with an idea who needs the internet to
get it off the ground.
Under Senator MCCONNELL’s leader-
ship, the Republicans have buried this
bill in their legislative graveyard. In-
stead of passing legislation, instead of
acting on legislation which already
passed in the Senate in 2018 and which
passed the House of Representatives
this April, Leader MCCONNELL has done
little but confirm unqualified, ex-
treme-right nominees for the Trump
administration.
Just listen to some of the bills that
Senate Republicans refuse to act on
that have already moved through the
House of Representatives this year: the
Violence Against Women’s Act, voting
and democracy reform, gun background
checks, paycheck fairness, and the
Paris climate agreement. The answer
from the Republican leadership is no,
no, no, no. That is what continues to
happen. Net neutrality is part of that
chorus of ‘‘noes’’ that the Republicans
aim at legislation the American people
want and need to have passed here in
the Senate.
But the Senate majority leader and
his Republican colleagues can keep
populating the legislative graveyard at
their political peril because this is the
agenda the American people want to
see the Senate debating. They want to
see these laws put on the books to pro-
tect families in this country. The
issues they are blocking are enor-
mously popular, and most have bipar-
tisan support. Net neutrality is one of
those issues.
The Save the Internet Act—the bill
we are debating today—does exactly
what the American people want. It re-
stores the rules that ensure families
aren’t subjected to higher prices, slow-
er internet speeds, and even blocked
websites because the big internet pro-
viders want to pump up their profits.
That is what today’s fight is all about.
It is a fight for innovation; for
entrepreneurialism; for the American
economy; a fight for free speech, which
is the cornerstone of our democracy;
and a fight for the most powerful plat-
form for commerce and communica-
tions in the history of the planet.
Some will argue that since the
Trump FCC ripped away the net neu-
trality rules, everything has been just
fine, but we are not falling for that. As
the legal challenges over this issue
have taken place over the last 2 years,
internet providers have had every in-
centive to keep a low profile, to keep
things as they were. But ultimately,
the question before the Senate today is
whether consumers trust their internet
companies to do the right thing with-
out being told they have to. We know
that consumers rightfully don’t trust
the broadband barons.
It is time we do the right thing for
the American people. We can start with
passing the Save the Internet Act and
protecting the internet as we know it.
The American people want action now.
The Democrats are committed to fight-
ing on their behalf. Net neutrality just
stands for nondiscrimination online.
You can’t be biased against a smaller
voice, a smaller company, a startup; it
is not allowed. That is what net neu-
trality says to all the big broadband gi-
ants—you cannot discriminate. Net
neutrality is something that is at the
heart of what the 21st century should
stand for in this internet age.
I urge my colleagues to support this
motion.
I yield to the great leader of the
State of Washington, Senator CANT-
WELL.
Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I
rise today to join my colleague from
Massachusetts, who has been a leader
on this important issue of net neu-
trality. I want to speak and back up
what he said today about why it is so
important and that we need to fight to
protect a free and open internet, before
I do, I would just like to mention that
yesterday we filed a bill dealing with
trade enforcement.
The reason I bring that up is because
today there is going to be a lot of dis-
cussion about trade writ large. It is
very important that in the trade dis-
cussion, we also have trade enforce-
ment. Much of what we filed yesterday
is what we hope to see in an agreement
that is now being unveiled, and this
builds on capacity building, which is
very important. We want to make sure
we have the enforcement capabilities
at USTR and now the capacity and en-
forcement in Mexico to make these
agreements work in the future. I look
forward to discussing that with my col-
leagues.
I am really here to talk about how 2
years ago, the Trump administration,
basically, with the FCC at the helm,
repealed net neutrality and put Big
Cable in charge of our internet future.
Despite 83 percent of all Americans and
a majority of Independents, Democrats,
and Republicans supporting a free and
open internet—that means making
sure they weren’t charged excessive
rates—the FCC chose to side with cable
companies.
Not long after, Verizon throttled the
broadband service of Santa Clara fire-
fighters in California when they were
in the midst of fighting the massive
Mendocino Complex Fire in 2018. De-
spite firefighters’ urgent pleas to stop
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.010 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6917
December 10, 2019
the throttling, Verizon refused to do
so.
For those who don’t understand what
throttling is, we are always concerned
that without rules of the road, compa-
nies would slow down some access to
internet sites. This is so important be-
cause we don’t want an internet that is
based on how much you pay for faster
broadband access.
We think that to slow down impor-
tant sites like public service sites or
any sites or to base an internet on how
much you pay is the wrong direction.
More importantly, we need to make
sure we are policing this. Even today,
as we have no Federal agency with
clear authority to adopt hard and fast
rules to keep that situation from hap-
pening again, we need to keep fighting.
Another example is that wireless car-
riers have been accused of potentially
throttling subscribers to Netflix,
YouTube, and Sprint and allegedly
interfering with Skype services. Again,
that is another example of why we
have to keep our message about a free
and open internet no matter where we
look, where we live, or where we are
accessing the internet.
It is long past time for the Senate to
vote on the Save the Internet Act—
something on which our colleague from
Massachusetts has been a leader.
Our bill would restore the protec-
tions for a free and open internet that
were had by the Obama FCC in 2015,
which would mean no blocking, throt-
tling, or paid prioritization would be
allowed. The FCC would have the flexi-
ble legal standards by which to address
concerns that would arise from these
big cable companies’ threats to a free
and open internet.
Again, I thank the Senator from
Massachusetts for his leadership—per-
sistent both in the House and the Sen-
ate—in stressing how important this is.
As my colleagues know, these issues
are going to be very important in the
future, not just with regard to privacy,
which the Senator has also been a lead-
er on—and I very much appreciate that
the hometown newspaper wrote a glow-
ing endorsement of the legislation he
and I have just recently introduced on
privacy—but in understanding that in
the information age, you have to give
consumers rights, that you have to
give them the right to privacy, and
that you have to give them the right to
a free and open internet that is not
controlled in speed and that is not con-
trolled by one’s saying, If you pay us
more, we will give you access. This is
going to be a key communication tool
for the 21st century, and it needs to be
open.
I thank my colleague for raising this
important issue, and I will continue to
work with him and our other col-
leagues to make it the law of the land.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, our
ranking member on the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation has always framed the issue of
net neutrality and consumer rights ap-
propriately.
I am going to speak for just a few
minutes. Then, on behalf of our side—
on behalf of the Democratic caucus—
Senator MARKEY, our friend from Mas-
sachusetts, will propound a unanimous
consent request. I note that the chair-
man of the committee is here, and we
will have a bit of discussion.
Let me give a bit of history on this.
Senator MARKEY introduced the first
net neutrality bill as a Member of the
other Chamber, and I introduced the
first net neutrality bill in the U.S. Sen-
ate. Right out of the gate, I think it is
important for people to understand
what this issue is all about. Real net
neutrality empowers consumers. After
they pay their internet access fees,
they get to go where they want, when
they want, and how they want. What
Ajit Pai and Donald Trump want is
something very different. They want
an internet policy that lets Big Cable
get what it wants, when Big Cable
wants it, and how Big Cable wants it.
That is the difference here.
Who is in the driver’s seat?
Senator MARKEY, Senator CANTWELL,
and I say that this is what the beauty
of the internet has always been about,
which is really simple. The consumer is
in the driver’s seat. We don’t have an
information aristocracy with lanes and
all kinds of favoritism for the powerful
and the influential. It is where the stu-
dent, the small business, and the per-
son without power and clout gets the
same fair shake as everybody else.
What we have said is we want to keep
the consumer in the driver’s seat, and
Mr. Pai and Donald Trump want a dif-
ferent notion of internet freedom.
What they really want to say is that
internet freedom is Big Cable freedom.
That is their idea about how we ought
to approach the internet. At the end of
the day, if the policy here is about let-
ting Big Cable rig the internet in favor
of those who can afford to pay more
and shake down everybody else, people
will have a choice to do that, but that
is not the choice Senator MARKEY and
I are going to make.
Cable companies are already tricking
people into buying so-called unlimited
service plans that limit their service.
People have uncovered the way they
have throttled service for particular
users, including for first responders in
times of emergency. Megamergers that
involve telecom and entertainment
companies also limit competition and
threaten to balkanize the internet.
We are talking about fracturing the
internet into small bundles that cost
big money. That is the vision the cable
companies have—not net neutrality—
by which you head in a direction
whereby consumers pay a lot more for
entertainment and information and
small businesses scratch their heads
and ask: How in the world am I going
to compete with the big guys online?
Fortunately, the courts recently said
the Trump administration can’t over-
rule States on net neutrality.
I look forward to being in my home
State of Oregon in a couple of days and
having town meetings. What I like the
most is when people speak up on issues
like fairness and net neutrality, and I
am going to hear about it this week-
end. Other States have policies like Or-
egon’s as well.
Here in Congress, on this side of the
aisle—and you will see it when Senator
MARKEY offers his proposal in a mo-
ment—we are going to keep up the
fight to protect consumers from Ajit
Pai and the Trump FCC. We still have
that vision of the original internet
that Senator MARKEY and I talked
about when he offered the first pro-
posal in the House and I offered the
first proposal in the Senate. What
could be more simple than putting the
consumer in the driver’s seat? You can
say where you want to go, when you
want, and how you want. Now we are
talking today—years later—about the
cable companies being able to say they
are going to decide those very issues.
I am very pleased—and I think it is
very appropriate—that after years of
leadership on this issue in both the
other body and in the U.S. Senate that
Senator MARKEY is going to speak for
our caucus on this issue and call for
the Senate to pass his legislation so as
to have a truly free and open internet
for the entire country.
If you don’t get the Markey proposal,
what you are going to see are big cable
companies that will, bit by bit, little
by little, keep ratcheting up the cost of
internet access. By the way, their
strategy is to do that little by little be-
cause they are hoping nobody will ever
complain and that nobody will notice.
Senator MARKEY and I and our caucus
have figured out that the cable compa-
nies are trying to disguise price hikes
and data limits in the end by flashing
discounts on bundles of content. What
the cable people are talking about is a
bad deal for consumers, and it is a bad
deal because Ajit Pai and Donald
Trump want to put Big Cable profits
over the interests of the typical Amer-
ican.
With my full support, I appreciate
Senator MARKEY’s offering this legisla-
tion today. In going forward, we are
going to be working with him to keep
up this fight, and I look forward to the
discussion.
I notice that my colleague from the
end of the alphabet and my friend, the
chairman of the committee, is here,
and we will have a little back-and-
forth.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I agree
with every word Senator WYDEN has
just spoken on the Senate floor, and I
thank him for his leadership in going
back to 2006, which was when we first
introduced into the U.S. Congress leg-
islation on net neutrality. We did it
then because it was important, and we
are doing it today because it is criti-
cally important.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.012 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6918 December 10, 2019
The question is really whether the
internet is going to be free and open or
whether it is going to have the prin-
ciples of nondiscrimination. Smaller
voices, smaller companies, startup
companies, and individuals in our soci-
ety must be protected on the internet
in the future. That is what net neu-
trality is all about.
We are on the right side of history on
this issue. Every day that goes by fur-
ther instructs us as to how central the
internet is in our country and on the
planet. Ultimately, it has to be open,
and it has to be free. It cannot have
nondiscrimination built into it because
a small handful of huge companies de-
cide they have a right to discriminate.
I thank the Senator from Oregon,
and I thank our leader on the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation, Senator CANTWELL of
Washington State, for their great lead-
ership on this issue.
Mr. President, as in legislative ses-
sion, I ask unanimous consent that the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. 682; further,
that the Senate proceed to its imme-
diate consideration, the bill be consid-
ered read a third time and passed, and
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, in re-
serving the right to object, let me dis-
agree fundamentally with my friends
on the other side of the aisle about who
is on the right side of history.
I would simply offer to my distin-
guished colleagues and to other Mem-
bers of the body that we need only to
look at what has happened during the
past 2 years under the Ajit Pai-Donald
Trump FCC and compare it to what
happened to the internet under the ap-
proach being advocated by my col-
leagues today.
In 2015, President Obama’s FCC or-
dered the imposition of title II regula-
tions to the internet. They called this
net neutrality. Basically, what it
amounted to was a Big Government,
Depression-era set of regulations that
gave bureaucrats control over virtually
every aspect of the internet. They im-
plemented this in 2015, and investment
decreased dramatically during the next
2 years. This was the first time in the
history of the internet that broadband
investment decreased outside of the
time of a recession. It was bad for the
internet, bad for the public, and bad for
small businesses and startups. I wonder
if it is from this that the Save the
Internet Act would save us. If they
want to save us from innovation and
growth, then perhaps the Save the
Internet Act would get the job done,
for we had no growth during that time
and less innovation.
Two years ago, the new FCC came in
and did away with some of these Big
Government, Depression-era regula-
tions that scared off investment, par-
ticularly the Depression-era title II
regulation, as if the internet were
going to be governed like a utility
company from the 1930s and 1940s. It
did away with them.
Since that time—in the 2 years of
America’s operating under what my
friends would end with this legisla-
tion—more Americans have been con-
nected to the internet than ever before.
We have faster internet speeds than
ever before. Now, in States like my
home State of Mississippi and all
across the great heartland of America,
more rural Americans get more inter-
net at faster speeds.
We have two choices today—the one
from 4 years ago that led to less
growth and a recession in the growth of
the internet or the one from the past 2
years, whereby we have been better off
than ever before.
I will agree with my colleagues in
one respect. We should have no dis-
crimination online, and we don’t have
discrimination online today. There are
no lanes, as my friends on the other
side of the aisle have said. There is no
favoritism in what we are doing. We
just have prosperity and huge growth
in the internet.
If my friends on the other side of the
aisle want to join us in enacting a per-
manent statute so we don’t go back
and forth between a regime of Demo-
cratic-controlled FCCs and Republican-
controlled FCCs, if they would like to
help us in that regard, statutorily
place nondiscrimination online in the
law, free and open internet in the law
outside of the regulation of something
that we have imposed on another part
of our economy half a century ago,
then I hope they will join in the bipar-
tisan effort that Senator SINEMA and I
are participating in—the Senate Net
Neutrality Bipartisan Working Group.
I would hope they would want to join
us in that regard.
We can make the statute better, but
I would certainly offer to my col-
leagues the facts, and the facts are
that the past 2 years have been a time
of great growth of the internet. The
previous 2 years, under depression-era
rules, were a time of dramatically de-
creased investment.
For that reason, I do object to the
unanimous consent request offered by
the distinguished Senator from Massa-
chusetts.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). Objection is heard.
The Senator from Massachusetts.
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, what
we just heard from the majority is, in
fact, a false narrative that contends
that we have to choose between
broadband deployment and net neu-
trality, and if we don’t put net neu-
trality back on the books, there will be
internet fast and slow lanes. That is
what is about to happen if we don’t act
out here on the Senate floor. Innova-
tion will be stifled, consumers will
have to pay higher prices, the internet
will not be as we have known it in the
past.
So I absolutely feel that what just
happened is a disservice to consumers
and innovators in our country; that
they should be allowed to have net neu-
trality as their protection, and I think,
again, that we are on the right side of
history in propounding this legislation
to be brought out here, and, ulti-
mately, today history was not served
well.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I would
simply say in response to my good
friend from Massachusetts: Where are
the fast and slow lanes? They may hap-
pen sometimes. We have been warned
for 2 years this is going to happen. It
hasn’t happened.
What has happened is the greatest
growth in the internet that we have
seen, as opposed to the stifled growth
we had during the 2 years of title II
regulation under the Obama adminis-
tration.
I want to work with them on non-
discrimination online. Everyone wants
a fair and open internet, but I think ev-
eryone also wants the great growth we
have had over the past 2 years, and we
can have it with a bipartisan bill like
the one Senator SINEMA and I are
working on and unlike the idea of put-
ting us under depression-era rules.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
OVER-THE-COUNTER MONOGRAPH SAFETY,
INNOVATION, AND REFORM ACT
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President,
every year, Americans make nearly 3
billion trips to the drugstore, phar-
macies, convenience stores to pick up
over-the-counter products such as al-
lergy medicines, children’s cough
syrup, or simple pain medicines such as
aspirin.
As the Senate Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions Committee was
working on the 21st Century Cures Act
in 2016, I asked Janet Woodcock, the
Director of the Center for Drug Evalua-
tion and Research at the Food and
Drug Administration: Are there any
changes that really need to be made in
the FDA’s law? This is a train—refer-
ring to the 21st century cures legisla-
tion—that is likely to get to the sta-
tion. If you have something that really
needs to be done for the benefit of
American consumers that you haven’t
been able to get done, tell us what it is,
and we will put it on the train.
Well, Ms. Woodcock, who has been at
the FDA for a while, came back to me
and said the over-the-counter mono-
graph.
Now, what that means is these are
the rules that govern how all drugs
sold in pharmacies, other than pre-
scription drugs, are approved—the al-
lergy medicines, the cough syrups, the
simple pain medicines. Those haven’t
been changed since the 1970s, nearly 50
years ago.
Today the Senate, after all that
time, nearly a half century, will mod-
ernize these rules by passing legisla-
tion proposed by Senator ISAKSON and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.014 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6919
December 10, 2019
Senator CASEY. It is called the Over-
the-Counter Monograph Safety, Inno-
vation and Reform Act.
I am sure it will get a big vote of ap-
proval, and like a lot of other very im-
portant things that are done in the
Senate that are very, very difficult to
do, it will look easy.
It hasn’t been easy. It has taken a
long time—nearly a half century. It
was the one thing that the FDA said we
just can’t get done. That was in 2016, 3
years ago, and now Senator ISAKSON
and Senator CASEY are getting it done.
It is the most important law affect-
ing the safety, innovation, and cost of
over-the-counter drugs since the 1970s.
It is a great testament to Senator
ISAKSON’s leadership and legislative
skill. He, of course, is leaving the Sen-
ate at the end of this year, and this is
a fitting tribute to his work.
In the same way, I thank Senator
CASEY of Pennsylvania for his excellent
work, in bipartisan fashion, with Sen-
ator ISAKSON on this bill. They both de-
serve great credit and thanks for get-
ting this update across the finish line.
It may look easy, but what they have
done is something that hasn’t been
changed for nearly a half century and
that the Food and Drug Administra-
tion said was the one thing that needed
to be done to help consumers to affect
the availability, the safety, the cost,
and the innovation of drugs that are
sold across the counter that are not
prescription drugs.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
HEALTHCARE
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I rise to
join my Democratic colleagues who
have come to the floor in recent weeks
to share stories from our constituents
about the need to protect and improve
healthcare.
Throughout the last 3 years, the
Trump administration and Republicans
in Congress have been relentless in
their attempts to undermine our
healthcare system, and their efforts
have increased costs and made it hard-
er for patients to access the care they
and their families need.
Instead of working to improve our
healthcare system and ensure that it is
actually working for patients, this ad-
ministration and some of my Repub-
lican colleagues have actively sought
to do the opposite, and that has very
real implications for the people we
serve.
Take, for example, Cassandra Van
Kuren of Manchester, NH. Cassandra is
a 26-year-old who is passionate about
fitness and staying healthy. That is
why it was so devastating that a week
before she turned 25, she got the news
that she had been diagnosed with type
1 diabetes.
Cassandra’s life had been turned up-
side down, and after her diagnosis, she
was immediately hit with another
shocking blow: the costs associated
with her condition.
Within the first week of her diag-
nosis, she was forced to max out her
credit card, and to this day she is still
paying back all of the bills she accu-
mulated within her first month of
being diagnosed.
Soon after, she lost her job because
she missed so much work. She then
went to work with her husband at the
gym they own in Manchester and was
able to get health insurance through
the business.
Still, the costs remain enormous. On
average, Cassandra has to spend $150 a
month on insulin costs alone after in-
surance. Her premium is over $400 per
month, and every 3 months she accu-
mulates bills of over $500 due to the
cost of appointments and equipment.
And, sadly, Cassandra and her husband
are nervous about starting a family be-
cause their costs for care would grow
even higher. The amount of insulin a
woman with type 1 diabetes needs in-
creases three times when she is preg-
nant.
Cassandra’s story is an example of
why we need to improve our healthcare
system and also why we can’t afford to
allow Washington Republicans to pull
us backward.
The administration is backing a par-
tisan lawsuit—the result of which we
will know soon—which would take
healthcare away from millions of
Americans, gut protections for pre-
existing conditions, end Medicaid ex-
pansion, and eliminate the requirement
that insurers must cover prescription
drugs, maternity care, mental
healthcare, substance abuse treatment,
and so much more.
With the support of Senate Repub-
licans, the administration has pro-
moted what are appropriately referred
to as junk health insurance plans.
These junk plans allow insurance com-
panies to discriminate against Ameri-
cans who experience preexisting condi-
tions, and they also leave patients with
higher healthcare costs and worse in-
surance coverage.
The administration has opposed cer-
tain efforts to lower the costs of pre-
scription drugs, in particular, allowing
Medicare to negotiate prices on life-
saving drugs, including insulin. These
actions are unacceptable.
Families in New Hampshire and all
across the country cannot afford these
reckless attacks on their healthcare,
and they want us to work together on
constructive bipartisan solutions that
improve their lives and lower their
costs, not this constant uncertainty
and sabotage.
The efforts of people like Cassandra,
who have shared their stories in an at-
tempt to shine a light on the chal-
lenges that patients are experiencing,
are incredibly important. No one
should have to share their most deeply
personal healthcare stories and plead
for lawmakers not to undermine their
health coverage, but that is where we
are. I am incredibly grateful for those
who have had the courage to speak out.
I will continue to share their stories,
and I will continue working with any-
one who is serious about actually im-
proving our healthcare system, not un-
dermining them.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
NOMINATION OF LAWRENCE VANDYKE
Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, I stand
here today in opposition to the nomi-
nation of Lawrence VanDyke to the
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in Ne-
vada, and I stand here today because I
think we can all agree—no matter
where you are from—that Federal
judges in our States should come from
our communities, and they should re-
flect our communities.
It is unfortunate to see this Chamber
disregard Nevada’s voice and move for-
ward with Mr. VanDyke’s nomination.
The State of Nevada has numerous
qualified lawyers and judges who have
done good work and have good reputa-
tions in our communities, who are non-
partisan, and who would make excel-
lent additions to the Ninth Circuit. But
the White House didn’t nominate any
of these qualified individuals for the
Ninth Circuit. Instead, the President
nominated Lawrence VanDyke, a man
who wasn’t born in Nevada, didn’t grow
up in Nevada, didn’t go to school in Ne-
vada, and doesn’t live in Nevada now.
He hasn’t even set foot in Nevada for
over a year.
This administration has nominated
someone to serve on the Nevada seat of
the Ninth Circuit who—and let me be
clear—is not a Nevadan. Mr. VanDyke
is, however, a Washington, DC, lawyer
and failed political candidate from
Montana who was nominated to further
his and this administration’s extreme
political views.
His nomination is being imposed on
the people of Nevada, despite the many
qualified individuals in our own
State—individuals who are respected
on both sides of the aisle.
As if Mr. VanDyke’s lack of any
meaningful connection to the State of
Nevada wasn’t enough, Mr. VanDyke is
not even qualified to hold this post, ac-
cording to the American Bar Associa-
tion. In reviewing this nominee and
speaking with dozens upon dozens of
his former colleagues, the ABA found
Mr. VanDyke specifically ‘‘not quali-
fied’’ to serve in this role. The ABA has
made that finding for only 3 percent of
President Trump’s judicial nominees,
and Mr. VanDyke is the first in a small
group whose nomination will move for-
ward without—let me repeat: without—
the support of either Senator rep-
resenting the State where he will sit on
the bench if confirmed. That we would
allow someone who is not qualified to
hold a lifetime position in such a criti-
cally important role is, frankly, ab-
surd, and it is something no Senator
should support, no matter the party of
the President who nominated them.
The ABA’s report found Mr. VanDyke
to be lacking in knowledge of day-to-
day practice, including procedural
rules. The report found Mr. VanDyke
to be lacking humility and an open
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.015 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6920 December 10, 2019
mind, and the ABA’s report found Mr.
VanDyke to be lacking a commitment
to the truth.
In order to see how the ABA came to
this conclusion, one only needs to look
at Mr. VanDyke’s record of pursuing an
ideological agenda instead of working
for the people and defending the law. In
his past role as attorney general of
Montana, he filed many politically
driven briefs, including one asking the
Supreme Court to strike down Roe v.
Wade altogether, a view that is out of
step with the views of Nevadans. He
even signed the State onto one brief
without reading it, by his own admis-
sion.
Mr. VanDyke has also made con-
troversial and appalling statements
about LGBTQ Americans, writing this:
‘‘[There is] ample reason for concern
that same-sex marriage will hurt fami-
lies, and consequentially children and
society.’’
Mr. VanDyke was given every oppor-
tunity to disavow this statement and
repeatedly declined to do so. Allowing
Mr. VanDyke to serve on the Ninth
Circuit would put at risk the rights of
thousands of LGBTQ Americans to em-
ployment, healthcare, housing, and
basic equal treatment in what is often
the court of last resort.
Surely you must agree, no matter
who is President or who controls the
Senate, you would want qualified
judges with connections to the State
who will be fair to your constituents
and not use cases to advance their per-
sonal ideological agenda.
I oppose the nomination of Mr. Van-
Dyke, and if it is withdrawn or voted
down, I will be ready at a moment’s no-
tice to work with this White House in
finding a fair, qualified, and non-
partisan nominee from Nevada. The
people of my home State and yours de-
serve nothing less.
I yield the floor.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:33 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Bumatay nomination?
Mr. HEINRICH. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNETT),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Sen-
ator from Virginia (Mr. WARNER), and
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 53,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 387 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warner
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, Tom Cotton, John
Boozman, Mike Crapo, Thom Tillis,
Chuck Grassley, Jerry Moran, Kevin
Cramer, John Barrasso, Mike Braun,
Joni Ernst, Pat Roberts, John Cornyn,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Lindsey
Graham, Roger F. Wicker.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Sen-
ator from Virginia (Mr. WARNER), and
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 40, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 388 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—40
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warner
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
are 53, the nays are 40.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Lawrence Van-
Dyke, of Nevada, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.017 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6921
December 10, 2019
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
OVER-THE-COUNTER MONOGRAPH
SAFETY, INNOVATION, AND RE-
FORM ACT OF 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to legislative session and the con-
sideration of S. 2740, which the clerk
will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 2740) to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the regu-
latory framework with respect to certain
nonprescription drugs that are marketed
without an approved new drug application,
and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, the
Senate is about to vote on the Over-
the-Counter Monograph Safety, Inno-
vation, and Reform Act of 2019.
I want to thank my friend and col-
league Senator ISAKSON for his good
work on this for many years, Chairman
ALEXANDER, and Ranking Member
PATTY MURRAY.
The current OTC monograph system
is broken, and what we are talking
about, in simple form, is literally what
is on your pill bottle, that kind of in-
formation.
It is a broken system. The FDA
doesn’t have the authority to move
swiftly when there is a threat to public
health; it doesn’t have the opportunity
to update existing monographs; and
there is no incentive for innovation.
This legislation is decades overdue. I
am grateful for the good work of so
many who made it possible. It is a com-
monsense bill, consumer group sup-
ported, industry stakeholder sup-
ported, and of course the FDA not only
supports it but needs it.
I will now yield to my friend and col-
league, Senator JOHNNY ISAKSON.
Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, I
thank the Senator from Pennsylvania.
If you want to go home on time, if
you want to take something home to
give to the American people that they
want and they need, then you will vote
with me and the other Members who
have spoken on the Over-the-Counter
Monograph bill today.
There are sunscreens on the market
in Europe that are 12 years short of
being on the market in America all be-
cause of an antiquated approval system
to make sure they are safe but to get
them to the market in time. It is about
time we ended melanoma, and it is
about time we got American consumers
what they want. It is about time we
settle the problem. It has been a prob-
lem for a long time.
So I ask you—in fact, I plead with
you—to vote for this bill, and you will
make everybody happy, nobody mad,
and you will save a life. There is noth-
ing better than that.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
Mr. BURR. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 1
minute in opposition.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BURR. Madam President, I reluc-
tantly rise in opposition to this legisla-
tion, and I have worked with Senator
ISAKSON over the years on FDA legisla-
tion.
I want to be perfectly clear that I
agree with all of the reforms that are
in this piece of legislation within the
over-the-counter division at FDA. I
simply disagree with the way in which
this legislation provides the resources
to achieve these reforms because I
don’t believe it will result in what the
expectations are of the authors.
When the drug industry first agreed
to user fees in 1993, the fee to file a new
drug application was $100,000. Today
that fee is $2.1 million. To that end, the
FDA has struggled to uphold its end of
the bargain, falling behind in its com-
mitment to hire the number of employ-
ees the agency needs to actually review
the applications that cost millions of
dollars to file.
The FDA continues to increase the
amount of user fee dollars it requires
to review applications, eroding the bal-
ance of congressional oversight pro-
vided by the appropriation of taxpayer
dollars.
I encourage my colleagues that what
JOHNNY is trying to do is the right
thing to do, but it is the wrong way to
pay for it.
I yield the floor.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Sen-
ator from Virginia (Mr. WARNER), and
the Senator from Massachusetts (Ms.
WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 91,
nays 2, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 389 Leg.]
YEAS—91
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Gillibrand
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—2
Burr
Scott (FL)
NOT VOTING—7
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warner
Warren
The bill (S. 2740) was passed, as fol-
lows:
S. 2740
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety,
Innovation, and Reform Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I—OTC DRUG REVIEW
Sec. 101. Regulation of certain nonprescrip-
tion drugs that are marketed
without an approved drug appli-
cation.
Sec. 102. Misbranding.
Sec. 103. Drugs excluded from the over-the-
counter drug review.
Sec. 104. Treatment of Sunscreen Innovation
Act.
Sec. 105. Annual update to Congress on ap-
propriate pediatric indication
for certain OTC cough and cold
drugs.
Sec. 106. Technical corrections.
TITLE II—USER FEES
Sec. 201. Short title; finding.
Sec. 202. Fees relating to over-the-counter
drugs.
TITLE I—OTC DRUG REVIEW
SEC. 101. REGULATION OF CERTAIN NON-
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS THAT ARE
MARKETED WITHOUT AN APPROVED
DRUG APPLICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Chapter V of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act is amended by
inserting after section 505F of such Act (21
U.S.C. 355g) the following:
‘‘SEC. 505G. REGULATION OF CERTAIN NON-
PRESCRIPTION DRUGS THAT ARE
MARKETED WITHOUT AN APPROVED
DRUG APPLICATION.
‘‘(a) NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS MARKETED
WITHOUT AN APPROVED APPLICATION.—Non-
prescription drugs marketed without an ap-
proved drug application under section 505, as
of the date of the enactment of this section,
shall be treated in accordance with this sub-
section.
‘‘(1) DRUGS SUBJECT TO A FINAL MONOGRAPH;
CATEGORY I DRUGS SUBJECT TO A TENTATIVE
FINAL MONOGRAPH.—A drug is deemed to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.028 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6922 December 10, 2019
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1), not a new drug under
section 201(p), and not subject to section
503(b)(1), if—
‘‘(A) the drug is—
‘‘(i) in conformity with the requirements
for nonprescription use of a final monograph
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (except as provided in para-
graph (2)), the general requirements for non-
prescription drugs, and conditions or re-
quirements under subsections (b), (c), and
(k); and
‘‘(ii) except as permitted by an order issued
under subsection (b) or, in the case of a
minor change in the drug, in conformity
with an order issued under subsection (c), in
a dosage form that, immediately prior to the
date of the enactment of this section, has
been used to a material extent and for a ma-
terial time under section 201(p)(2); or
‘‘(B) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category I for safety and
effectiveness under a tentative final mono-
graph that is the most recently applicable
proposal or determination issued under part
330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with the proposed re-
quirements for nonprescription use of such
tentative final monograph, any applicable
subsequent determination by the Secretary,
the general requirements for nonprescription
drugs, and conditions or requirements under
subsections (b), (c), and (k); and
‘‘(iii) except as permitted by an order
issued under subsection (b) or, in the case of
a minor change in the drug, in conformity
with an order issued under subsection (c), in
a dosage form that, immediately prior to the
date of the enactment of this section, has
been used to a material extent and for a ma-
terial time under section 201(p)(2).
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF SUNSCREEN DRUGS.—
With respect to sunscreen drugs subject to
this section, the applicable requirements in
terms of conformity with a final monograph,
for purposes of paragraph (1)(A)(i), shall be
the requirements specified in part 352 of title
21, Code of Federal Regulations, as published
on May 21, 1999, beginning on page 27687 of
volume 64 of the Federal Register, except
that the applicable requirements governing
effectiveness and labeling shall be those
specified in section 201.327 of title 21, Code of
Federal Regulations.
‘‘(3) CATEGORY III DRUGS SUBJECT TO A TEN-
TATIVE FINAL MONOGRAPH; CATEGORY I DRUGS
SUBJECT TO PROPOSED MONOGRAPH OR AD-
VANCE NOTICE OF PROPOSED RULEMAKING.—A
drug that is not described in paragraph (1),
(2), or (4) is not required to be the subject of
an application approved under section 505,
and is not subject to section 503(b)(1), if—
‘‘(A) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category III for safety or
effectiveness in the preamble of a proposed
rule establishing a tentative final mono-
graph that is the most recently applicable
proposal or determination for such drug
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with—
‘‘(I) the conditions of use, including indica-
tion and dosage strength, if any, described
for such category III drug in such preamble
or in an applicable subsequent proposed rule;
‘‘(II) the proposed requirements for drugs
classified in such tentative final monograph
in category I in the most recently proposed
rule establishing requirements related to
such tentative final monograph and in any
final rule establishing requirements that are
applicable to the drug; and
‘‘(III) the general requirements for non-
prescription drugs and conditions or require-
ments under subsection (b) or (k); and
‘‘(iii) in a dosage form that, immediately
prior to the date of the enactment of this
section, had been used to a material extent
and for a material time under section
201(p)(2); or
‘‘(B) the drug is—
‘‘(i) classified in category I for safety and
effectiveness under a proposed monograph or
advance notice of proposed rulemaking that
is the most recently applicable proposal or
determination for such drug issued under
part 330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions;
‘‘(ii) in conformity with the requirements
for nonprescription use of such proposed
monograph or advance notice of proposed
rulemaking, any applicable subsequent de-
termination by the Secretary, the general
requirements for nonprescription drugs, and
conditions or requirements under subsection
(b) or (k); and
‘‘(iii) in a dosage form that, immediately
prior to the date of the enactment of this
section, has been used to a material extent
and for a material time under section
201(p)(2).
‘‘(4) CATEGORY II DRUGS DEEMED NEW
DRUGS.—A drug that is classified in category
II for safety or effectiveness under a ten-
tative final monograph or that is subject to
a determination to be not generally recog-
nized as safe and effective in a proposed rule
that is the most recently applicable proposal
issued under part 330 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, shall be deemed to be a
new drug under section 201(p), misbranded
under section 502(ee), and subject to the re-
quirement for an approved new drug applica-
tion under section 505 beginning on the day
that is 180 calendar days after the date of the
enactment of this section, unless, before
such day, the Secretary determines that it is
in the interest of public health to extend the
period during which the drug may be mar-
keted without such an approved new drug ap-
plication.
‘‘(5) DRUGS NOT GRASE DEEMED NEW
DRUGS.—A drug that the Secretary has deter-
mined not to be generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1) under a
final determination issued under part 330 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, shall be
deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p),
misbranded under section 502(ee), and subject
to the requirement for an approved new drug
application under section 505.
‘‘(6) OTHER DRUGS DEEMED NEW DRUGS.—Ex-
cept as provided in subsection (m), a drug is
deemed to be a new drug under section 201(p)
and misbranded under section 502(ee) if the
drug—
‘‘(A) is not subject to section 503(b)(1); and
‘‘(B) is not described in paragraph (1), (2),
(3), (4), or (5), or subsection (b)(1)(B).
‘‘(b) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) DETERMINATION.—The Secretary may,
on the initiative of the Secretary or at the
request of one or more requestors, issue an
administrative order determining whether
there are conditions under which a specific
drug, a class of drugs, or a combination of
drugs, is determined to be—
‘‘(i) not subject to section 503(b)(1); and
‘‘(ii) generally recognized as safe and effec-
tive under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(B) EFFECT.—A drug or combination of
drugs shall be deemed to not require ap-
proval under section 505 if such drug or com-
bination of drugs—
‘‘(i) is determined by the Secretary to meet
the conditions specified in clauses (i) and (ii)
of subparagraph (A);
‘‘(ii) is marketed in conformity with an ad-
ministrative order under this subsection;
‘‘(iii) meets the general requirements for
nonprescription drugs; and
‘‘(iv) meets the requirements under sub-
sections (c) and (k).
‘‘(C) STANDARD.—The Secretary shall find
that a drug is not generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1) if—
‘‘(i) the evidence shows that the drug is not
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(ii) the evidence is inadequate to show
that the drug is generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(2) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS INITIATED BY
THE SECRETARY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In issuing an adminis-
trative order under paragraph (1) upon the
Secretary’s initiative, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) make reasonable efforts to notify in-
formally, not later than 2 business days be-
fore the issuance of the proposed order, the
sponsors of drugs who have a listing in effect
under section 510(j) for the drugs or combina-
tion of drugs that will be subject to the ad-
ministrative order;
‘‘(ii) after any such reasonable efforts of
notification—
‘‘(I) issue a proposed administrative order
by publishing it on the website of the Food
and Drug Administration and include in such
order the reasons for the issuance of such
order; and
‘‘(II) publish a notice of availability of
such proposed order in the Federal Register;
‘‘(iii) except as provided in subparagraph
(B), provide for a public comment period
with respect to such proposed order of not
less than 45 calendar days; and
‘‘(iv) if, after completion of the pro-
ceedings specified in clauses (i) through (iii),
the Secretary determines that it is appro-
priate to issue a final administrative order—
‘‘(I) issue the final administrative order,
together with a detailed statement of rea-
sons, which order shall not take effect until
the time for requesting judicial review under
paragraph (3)(D)(ii) has expired;
‘‘(II) publish a notice of such final adminis-
trative order in the Federal Register;
‘‘(III) afford requestors of drugs that will
be subject to such order the opportunity for
formal dispute resolution up to the level of
the Director of the Center for Drug Evalua-
tion and Research, which initially must be
requested within 45 calendar days of the
issuance of the order, and, for subsequent
levels of appeal, within 30 calendar days of
the prior decision; and
‘‘(IV) except with respect to drugs de-
scribed in paragraph (3)(B), upon completion
of the formal dispute resolution procedure,
inform the persons which sought such dis-
pute resolution of their right to request a
hearing.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—When issuing an admin-
istrative order under paragraph (1) on the
Secretary’s initiative proposing to deter-
mine that a drug described in subsection
(a)(3) is not generally recognized as safe and
effective under section 201(p)(1), the Sec-
retary shall follow the procedures in sub-
paragraph (A), except that—
‘‘(i) the proposed order shall include notice
of—
‘‘(I) the general categories of data the Sec-
retary has determined necessary to establish
that the drug is generally recognized as safe
and effective under section 201(p)(1); and
‘‘(II) the format for submissions by inter-
ested persons;
‘‘(ii) the Secretary shall provide for a pub-
lic comment period of no less than 180 cal-
endar days with respect to such proposed
order, except when the Secretary deter-
mines, for good cause, that a shorter period
is in the interest of public health; and
‘‘(iii) any person who submits data in such
comment period shall include a certification
that the person has submitted all evidence
created, obtained, or received by that person
that is both within the categories of data
identified in the proposed order and relevant
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6923
December 10, 2019
to a determination as to whether the drug is
generally recognized as safe and effective
under section 201(p)(1).
‘‘(3) HEARINGS; JUDICIAL REVIEW.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Only a person who par-
ticipated in each stage of formal dispute res-
olution under subclause (III) of paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) of an administrative order with re-
spect to a drug may request a hearing con-
cerning a final administrative order issued
under such paragraph with respect to such
drug. If a hearing is sought, such person
must submit a request for a hearing, which
shall be based solely on information in the
administrative record, to the Secretary not
later than 30 calendar days after receiving
notice of the final decision of the formal dis-
pute resolution procedure.
‘‘(B) NO HEARING REQUIRED WITH RESPECT TO
ORDERS RELATING TO CERTAIN DRUGS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall not
be required to provide notice and an oppor-
tunity for a hearing pursuant to paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) if the final administrative order in-
volved relates to a drug—
‘‘(I) that is described in subsection
(a)(3)(A); and
‘‘(II) with respect to which no human or
non-human data studies relevant to the safe-
ty or effectiveness of such drug have been
submitted to the administrative record since
the issuance of the most recent tentative
final monograph relating to such drug.
‘‘(ii) HUMAN DATA STUDIES AND NON-HUMAN
DATA DEFINED.—In this subparagraph:
‘‘(I) The term ‘human data studies’ means
clinical trials of safety or effectiveness (in-
cluding actual use studies), pharmaco-
kinetics studies, or bioavailability studies.
‘‘(II) The term ‘non-human data’ means
data from testing other than with human
subjects which provides information con-
cerning safety or effectiveness.
‘‘(C) HEARING PROCEDURES.—
‘‘(i) DENIAL OF REQUEST FOR HEARING.—If
the Secretary determines that information
submitted in a request for a hearing under
subparagraph (A) with respect to a final ad-
ministrative order issued under paragraph
(2)(A)(iv) does not identify the existence of a
genuine and substantial question of material
fact, the Secretary may deny such request.
In making such a determination, the Sec-
retary may consider only information and
data that are based on relevant and reliable
scientific principles and methodologies.
‘‘(ii) SINGLE HEARING FOR MULTIPLE RE-
LATED REQUESTS.—If more than one request
for a hearing is submitted with respect to
the same administrative order under sub-
paragraph (A), the Secretary may direct that
a single hearing be conducted in which all
persons whose hearing requests were granted
may participate.
‘‘(iii) PRESIDING OFFICER.—The presiding
officer of a hearing requested under subpara-
graph (A) shall—
‘‘(I) be designated by the Secretary;
‘‘(II) not be an employee of the Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research; and
‘‘(III) not have been previously involved in
the development of the administrative order
involved or proceedings relating to that ad-
ministrative order.
‘‘(iv) RIGHTS OF PARTIES TO HEARING.—The
parties to a hearing requested under sub-
paragraph (A) shall have the right to present
testimony, including testimony of expert
witnesses, and to cross-examine witnesses
presented by other parties. Where appro-
priate, the presiding officer may require that
cross-examination by parties representing
substantially the same interests be consoli-
dated to promote efficiency and avoid dupli-
cation.
‘‘(v) FINAL DECISION.—
‘‘(I) At the conclusion of a hearing re-
quested under subparagraph (A), the pre-
siding officer of the hearing shall issue a de-
cision containing findings of fact and conclu-
sions of law. The decision of the presiding of-
ficer shall be final.
‘‘(II) The final decision may not take effect
until the period under subparagraph (D)(ii)
for submitting a request for judicial review
of such decision expires.
‘‘(D) JUDICIAL REVIEW OF FINAL ADMINISTRA-
TIVE ORDER.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—The procedures described
in section 505(h) shall apply with respect to
judicial review of final administrative orders
issued under this subsection in the same
manner and to the same extent as such sec-
tion applies to an order described in such
section except that the judicial review shall
be taken by filing in an appropriate district
court of the United States in lieu of the ap-
pellate courts specified in such section.
‘‘(ii) PERIOD TO SUBMIT A REQUEST FOR JUDI-
CIAL REVIEW.—A person eligible to request a
hearing under this paragraph and seeking ju-
dicial review of a final administrative order
issued under this subsection shall file such
request for judicial review not later than 60
calendar days after the latest of—
‘‘(I) the date on which notice of such order
is published;
‘‘(II) the date on which a hearing with re-
spect to such order is denied under subpara-
graph (B) or (C)(i);
‘‘(III) the date on which a final decision is
made following a hearing under subpara-
graph (C)(v); or
‘‘(IV) if no hearing is requested, the date
on which the time for requesting a hearing
expires.
‘‘(4) EXPEDITED PROCEDURE WITH RESPECT
TO ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS INITIATED BY THE
SECRETARY.—
‘‘(A) IMMINENT HAZARD TO THE PUBLIC
HEALTH.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a deter-
mination by the Secretary that a drug, class
of drugs, or combination of drugs subject to
this section poses an imminent hazard to the
public health, the Secretary, after first mak-
ing reasonable efforts to notify, not later
than 48 hours before issuance of such order
under this subparagraph, sponsors who have
a listing in effect under section 510(j) for
such drug or combination of drugs—
‘‘(I) may issue an interim final administra-
tive order for such drug, class of drugs, or
combination of drugs under paragraph (1),
together with a detailed statement of the
reasons for such order;
‘‘(II) shall publish in the Federal Register
a notice of availability of any such order;
and
‘‘(III) shall provide for a public comment
period of at least 45 calendar days with re-
spect to such interim final order.
‘‘(ii) NONDELEGATION.—The Secretary may
not delegate the authority to issue an in-
terim final administrative order under this
subparagraph.
‘‘(B) SAFETY LABELING CHANGES.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a deter-
mination by the Secretary that a change in
the labeling of a drug, class of drugs, or com-
bination of drugs subject to this section is
reasonably expected to mitigate a signifi-
cant or unreasonable risk of a serious ad-
verse event associated with use of the drug,
the Secretary may—
‘‘(I) make reasonable efforts to notify in-
formally, not later than 48 hours before the
issuance of the interim final order, the spon-
sors of drugs who have a listing in effect
under section 510(j) for such drug or com-
bination of drugs;
‘‘(II) after reasonable efforts of notifica-
tion, issue an interim final administrative
order in accordance with paragraph (1) to re-
quire such change, together with a detailed
statement of the reasons for such order;
‘‘(III) publish in the Federal Register a no-
tice of availability of such order; and
‘‘(IV) provide for a public comment period
of at least 45 calendar days with respect to
such interim final order.
‘‘(ii) CONTENT OF ORDER.—An interim final
order issued under this subparagraph with
respect to the labeling of a drug may provide
for new warnings and other information re-
quired for safe use of the drug.
‘‘(C) EFFECTIVE DATE.—An order under sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) shall take effect on a
date specified by the Secretary.
‘‘(D) FINAL ORDER.—After the completion
of the proceedings in subparagraph (A) or
(B), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) issue a final order in accordance with
paragraph (1);
‘‘(ii) publish a notice of availability of such
final administrative order in the Federal
Register; and
‘‘(iii) afford sponsors of such drugs that
will be subject to such an order the oppor-
tunity for formal dispute resolution up to
the level of the Director of the Center for
Drug Evaluation and Research, which must
initially be within 45 calendar days of the
issuance of the order, and for subsequent lev-
els of appeal, within 30 calendar days of the
prior decision.
‘‘(E) HEARINGS.—A sponsor of a drug sub-
ject to a final order issued under subpara-
graph (D) and that participated in each stage
of formal dispute resolution under clause
(iii) of such subparagraph may request a
hearing on such order. The provisions of sub-
paragraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (3),
other than paragraph (3)(C)(v)(II), shall
apply with respect to a hearing on such order
in the same manner and to the same extent
as such provisions apply with respect to a
hearing on an administrative order issued
under paragraph (2)(A)(iv).
‘‘(F) TIMING.—
‘‘(i) FINAL ORDER AND HEARING.—The Sec-
retary shall—
‘‘(I) not later than 6 months after the date
on which the comment period closes under
subparagraph (A) or (B), issue a final order in
accordance with paragraph (1); and
‘‘(II) not later than 12 months after the
date on which such final order is issued,
complete any hearing under subparagraph
(E).
‘‘(ii) DISPUTE RESOLUTION REQUEST.—The
Secretary shall specify in an interim final
order issued under subparagraph (A) or (B)
such shorter periods for requesting dispute
resolution under subparagraph (D)(iii) as are
necessary to meet the requirements of this
subparagraph.
‘‘(G) JUDICIAL REVIEW.—A final order issued
pursuant to subparagraph (F) shall be sub-
ject to judicial review in accordance with
paragraph (3)(D).
‘‘(5) ADMINISTRATIVE ORDER INITIATED AT
THE REQUEST OF A REQUESTOR.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In issuing an adminis-
trative order under paragraph (1) at the re-
quest of a requestor with respect to certain
drugs, classes of drugs, or combinations of
drugs—
‘‘(i) the Secretary shall, after receiving a
request under this subparagraph, determine
whether the request is sufficiently complete
and formatted to permit a substantive re-
view;
‘‘(ii) if the Secretary determines that the
request is sufficiently complete and for-
matted to permit a substantive review, the
Secretary shall—
‘‘(I) file the request; and
‘‘(II) initiate proceedings with respect to
issuing an administrative order in accord-
ance with paragraphs (2) and (3); and
‘‘(iii) except as provided in paragraph (6), if
the Secretary determines that a request does
not meet the requirements for filing or is not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6924 December 10, 2019
sufficiently complete and formatted to per-
mit a substantive review, the requestor may
demand that the request be filed over pro-
test, and the Secretary shall initiate pro-
ceedings to review the request in accordance
with paragraph (2)(A).
‘‘(B) REQUEST TO INITIATE PROCEEDINGS.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A requestor seeking an
administrative order under paragraph (1)
with respect to certain drugs, classes of
drugs, or combinations of drugs, shall submit
to the Secretary a request to initiate pro-
ceedings for such order in the form and man-
ner as specified by the Secretary. Such re-
questor may submit a request under this
subparagraph for the issuance of an adminis-
trative order—
‘‘(I) determining whether a drug is gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective under
section 201(p)(1), exempt from section
503(b)(1), and not required to be the subject
of an approved application under section 505;
or
‘‘(II) determining whether a change to a
condition of use of a drug is generally recog-
nized as safe and effective under section
201(p)(1), exempt from section 503(b)(1), and
not required to be the subject of an approved
application under section 505, if, absent such
a changed condition of use, such drug is—
‘‘(aa) generally recognized as safe and ef-
fective under section 201(p)(1) in accordance
with subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or an order
under this subsection; or
‘‘(bb) subject to subsection (a)(3), but only
if such requestor initiates such request in
conjunction with a request for the Secretary
to determine whether such drug is generally
recognized as safe and effective under sec-
tion 201(p)(1), which is filed by the Secretary
under subparagraph (A)(ii).
‘‘(ii) EXCEPTION.—The Secretary is not re-
quired to complete review of a request for a
change described in clause (i)(II) if the Sec-
retary determines that there is an inad-
equate basis to find the drug is generally rec-
ognized as safe and effective under section
201(p)(1) under paragraph (1) and issues a
final order announcing that determination.
‘‘(iii) WITHDRAWAL.—The requestor may
withdraw a request under this paragraph, ac-
cording to the procedures set forth pursuant
to subsection (d)(2)(B). Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, if such re-
quest is withdrawn, the Secretary may cease
proceedings under this subparagraph.
‘‘(C) EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—A final administrative
order issued in response to a request under
this section shall have the effect of author-
izing solely the order requestor (or the li-
censees, assignees, or successors in interest
of such requestor with respect to the subject
of such order), for a period of 18 months fol-
lowing the effective date of such final order
and beginning on the date the requestor may
lawfully market such drugs pursuant to the
order, to market drugs—
‘‘(I) incorporating changes described in
clause (ii); and
‘‘(II) subject to the limitations under
clause (iv).
‘‘(ii) CHANGES DESCRIBED.—A change de-
scribed in this clause is a change subject to
an order specified in clause (i), which—
‘‘(I) provides for a drug to contain an ac-
tive ingredient (including any ester or salt of
the active ingredient) not previously incor-
porated in a drug described in clause (iii); or
‘‘(II) provides for a change in the condi-
tions of use of a drug, for which new human
data studies conducted or sponsored by the
requestor (or for which the requestor has an
exclusive right of reference) were essential
to the issuance of such order.
‘‘(iii) DRUGS DESCRIBED.—The drugs de-
scribed in this clause are drugs—
‘‘(I) specified in subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3);
‘‘(II) subject to a final order issued under
this section;
‘‘(III) subject to a final sunscreen order (as
defined in section 586(2)(A)); or
‘‘(IV) described in subsection (m)(1), other
than drugs subject to an active enforcement
action under chapter III of this Act.
‘‘(iv) LIMITATIONS ON EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(I) IN GENERAL.—Only one 18-month pe-
riod under this subparagraph shall be grant-
ed, under each order described in clause (i),
with respect to changes (to the drug subject
to such order) which are either—
‘‘(aa) changes described in clause (ii)(I), re-
lating to active ingredients; or
‘‘(bb) changes described in clause (ii)(II),
relating to conditions of use.
‘‘(II) NO EXCLUSIVITY ALLOWED.—No exclu-
sivity shall apply to changes to a drug which
are—
‘‘(aa) the subject of a Tier 2 OTC mono-
graph order request (as defined in section
744L);
‘‘(bb) safety-related changes, as defined by
the Secretary, or any other changes the Sec-
retary considers necessary to assure safe use;
or
‘‘(cc) changes related to methods of testing
safety or efficacy.
‘‘(v) NEW HUMAN DATA STUDIES DEFINED.—In
this subparagraph, the term ‘new human
data studies’ means clinical trials of safety
or effectiveness (including actual use stud-
ies), pharmacokinetics studies, or bio-
availability studies, the results of which—
‘‘(I) have not been relied on by the Sec-
retary to support—
‘‘(aa) a proposed or final determination
that a drug described in subclause (I), (II), or
(III) of clause (iii) is generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(bb) approval of a drug that was approved
under section 505; and
‘‘(II) do not duplicate the results of an-
other study that was relied on by the Sec-
retary to support—
‘‘(aa) a proposed or final determination
that a drug described in subclause (I), (II), or
(III) of clause (iii) is generally recognized as
safe and effective under section 201(p)(1); or
‘‘(bb) approval of a drug that was approved
under section 505.
‘‘(vi) NOTIFICATION OF DRUG NOT AVAILABLE
FOR SALE.—A requestor that is granted ex-
clusivity with respect to a drug under this
subparagraph shall notify the Secretary in
writing within 1 year of the issuance of the
final administrative order if the drug that is
the subject of such order will not be avail-
able for sale within 1 year of the date of
issuance of such order. The requestor shall
include with such notice the—
‘‘(I) identity of the drug by established
name and by proprietary name, if any;
‘‘(II) strength of the drug;
‘‘(III) date on which the drug will be avail-
able for sale, if known; and
‘‘(IV) reason for not marketing the drug
after issuance of the order.
‘‘(6) INFORMATION REGARDING SAFE NON-
PRESCRIPTION MARKETING AND USE AS CONDI-
TION FOR FILING A GENERALLY RECOGNIZED AS
SAFE AND EFFECTIVE REQUEST.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In response to a request
under this section that a drug described in
subparagraph (B) be generally recognized as
safe and effective, the Secretary—
‘‘(i) may file such request, if the request
includes information specified under sub-
paragraph (C) with respect to safe non-
prescription marketing and use of such drug;
or
‘‘(ii) if the request fails to include informa-
tion specified under subparagraph (C), shall
refuse to file such request and require that
nonprescription marketing of the drug be
pursuant to a new drug application as de-
scribed in subparagraph (D).
‘‘(B) DRUG DESCRIBED.—A drug described in
this subparagraph is a nonprescription drug
which contains an active ingredient not pre-
viously incorporated in a drug—
‘‘(i) specified in subsection (a)(1), (a)(2), or
(a)(3);
‘‘(ii) subject to a final order under this sec-
tion; or
‘‘(iii) subject to a final sunscreen order (as
defined in section 586(2)(A)).
‘‘(C) INFORMATION DEMONSTRATING PRIMA
FACIE SAFE NONPRESCRIPTION MARKETING AND
USE.—Information specified in this subpara-
graph, with respect to a request described in
subparagraph (A)(i), is—
‘‘(i) information sufficient for a prima
facie demonstration that the drug subject to
such request has a verifiable history of being
marketed and safely used by consumers in
the United States as a nonprescription drug
under comparable conditions of use;
‘‘(ii) if the drug has not been previously
marketed in the United States as a non-
prescription drug, information sufficient for
a prima facie demonstration that the drug
was marketed and safely used under com-
parable conditions of marketing and use in a
country listed in section 802(b)(1)(A) or des-
ignated by the Secretary in accordance with
section 802(b)(1)(B)—
‘‘(I) for such period as needed to provide
reasonable assurances concerning the safe
nonprescription use of the drug; and
‘‘(II) during such time was subject to suffi-
cient monitoring by a regulatory body con-
sidered acceptable by the Secretary for such
monitoring purposes, including for adverse
events associated with nonprescription use
of the drug; or
‘‘(iii) if the Secretary determines that in-
formation described in clause (i) or (ii) is not
needed to provide a prima facie demonstra-
tion that the drug can be safely marketed
and used as a nonprescription drug, such
other information the Secretary determines
is sufficient for such purposes.
‘‘(D) MARKETING PURSUANT TO NEW DRUG
APPLICATION.—In the case of a request de-
scribed in subparagraph (A)(ii), the drug sub-
ject to such request may be resubmitted for
filing only if—
‘‘(i) the drug is marketed as a nonprescrip-
tion drug, under conditions of use com-
parable to the conditions specified in the re-
quest, for such period as the Secretary deter-
mines appropriate (not to exceed 5 consecu-
tive years) pursuant to an application ap-
proved under section 505; and
‘‘(ii) during such period, 1,000,000 retail
packages of the drug, or an equivalent quan-
tity as determined by the Secretary, were
distributed for retail sale, as determined in
such manner as the Secretary finds appro-
priate.
‘‘(E) RULE OF APPLICATION.—Except in the
case of a request involving a drug described
in section 586(9), as in effect on January 1,
2017, if the Secretary refuses to file a request
under this paragraph, the requestor may not
file such request over protest under para-
graph (5)(A)(iii).
‘‘(7) PACKAGING.—An administrative order
issued under paragraph (2), (4)(A), or (5) may
include requirements for the packaging of a
drug to encourage use in accordance with la-
beling. Such requirements may include unit
dose packaging, requirements for products
intended for use by pediatric populations, re-
quirements to reduce risk of harm from un-
supervised ingestion, and other appropriate
requirements. This paragraph does not au-
thorize the Food and Drug Administration to
require standards or testing procedures as
described in part 1700 of title 16, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6925
December 10, 2019
‘‘(8) FINAL AND TENTATIVE FINAL MONO-
GRAPHS FOR CATEGORY I DRUGS DEEMED FINAL
ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A final monograph or
tentative final monograph described in sub-
paragraph (B) shall be deemed to be a final
administrative order under this subsection
and may be amended, revoked, or otherwise
modified in accordance with the procedures
of this subsection.
‘‘(B) MONOGRAPHS DESCRIBED.—For pur-
poses of subparagraph (A), a final monograph
or tentative final monograph is described in
this subparagraph if it—
‘‘(i) establishes conditions of use for a drug
described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection
(a); and
‘‘(ii) represents the most recently promul-
gated version of such conditions, including
as modified, in whole or in part, by any pro-
posed or final rule.
‘‘(C) DEEMED ORDERS INCLUDE HARMONIZING
TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS.—The deemed estab-
lishment of a final administrative order
under subparagraph (A) shall be construed to
include any technical amendments to such
order as the Secretary determines necessary
to ensure that such order is appropriately
harmonized, in terms of terminology or
cross-references, with the applicable provi-
sions of this Act (and regulations there-
under) and any other orders issued under this
section.
‘‘(c) PROCEDURE FOR MINOR CHANGES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Minor changes in the
dosage form of a drug that is described in
paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) or the
subject of an order issued under subsection
(b) may be made by a requestor without the
issuance of an order under subsection (b) if—
‘‘(A) the requestor maintains such infor-
mation as is necessary to demonstrate that
the change—
‘‘(i) will not affect the safety or effective-
ness of the drug; and
‘‘(ii) will not materially affect the extent
of absorption or other exposure to the active
ingredient in comparison to a suitable ref-
erence product; and
‘‘(B) the change is in conformity with the
requirements of an applicable administrative
order issued by the Secretary under para-
graph (3).
‘‘(2) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.—
‘‘(A) ACCESS TO RECORDS.—A sponsor shall
submit records requested by the Secretary
relating to such a minor change under sec-
tion 704(a)(4), within 15 business days of re-
ceiving such a request, or such longer period
as the Secretary may provide.
‘‘(B) INSUFFICIENT INFORMATION.—If the
Secretary determines that the information
contained in such records is not sufficient to
demonstrate that the change does not affect
the safety or effectiveness of the drug or ma-
terially affect the extent of absorption or
other exposure to the active ingredient, the
Secretary—
‘‘(i) may so inform the sponsor of the drug
in writing; and
‘‘(ii) if the Secretary so informs the spon-
sor, shall provide the sponsor of the drug
with a reasonable opportunity to provide ad-
ditional information.
‘‘(C) FAILURE TO SUBMIT SUFFICIENT INFOR-
MATION.—If the sponsor fails to provide such
additional information within a time pre-
scribed by the Secretary, or if the Secretary
determines that such additional information
does not demonstrate that the change does
not—
‘‘(i) affect the safety or effectiveness of the
drug; or
‘‘(ii) materially affect the extent of absorp-
tion or other exposure to the active ingre-
dient in comparison to a suitable reference
product,
the drug as modified is a new drug under sec-
tion 201(p) and shall be deemed to be mis-
branded under section 502(ee).
‘‘(3) DETERMINING WHETHER A CHANGE WILL
AFFECT SAFETY OR EFFECTIVENESS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall
issue one or more administrative orders
specifying requirements for determining
whether a minor change made by a sponsor
pursuant to this subsection will affect the
safety or effectiveness of a drug or materi-
ally affect the extent of absorption or other
exposure to an active ingredient in the drug
in comparison to a suitable reference prod-
uct, together with guidance for applying
those orders to specific dosage forms.
‘‘(B) STANDARD PRACTICES.—The orders and
guidance issued by the Secretary under sub-
paragraph (A) shall take into account rel-
evant public standards and standard prac-
tices for evaluating the quality of drugs, and
may take into account the special needs of
populations, including children.
‘‘(d) CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION SUB-
MITTED TO THE SECRETARY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
any information, including reports of testing
conducted on the drug or drugs involved,
that is submitted by a requestor in connec-
tion with proceedings on an order under this
section (including any minor change under
subsection (c)) and is a trade secret or con-
fidential information subject to section
552(b)(4) of title 5, United States Code, or sec-
tion 1905 of title 18, United States Code, shall
not be disclosed to the public unless the re-
questor consents to that disclosure.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall—
‘‘(i) make any information submitted by a
requestor in support of a request under sub-
section (b)(5)(A) available to the public not
later than the date on which the proposed
order is issued; and
‘‘(ii) make any information submitted by
any other person with respect to an order re-
quested (or initiated by the Secretary) under
subsection (b), available to the public upon
such submission.
‘‘(B) LIMITATIONS ON PUBLIC AVAIL-
ABILITY.—Information described in subpara-
graph (A) shall not be made public if—
‘‘(i) the information pertains to pharma-
ceutical quality information, unless such in-
formation is necessary to establish standards
under which a drug is generally recognized
as safe and effective under section 201(p)(1);
‘‘(ii) the information is submitted in a re-
questor-initiated request, but the requestor
withdraws such request, in accordance with
withdrawal procedures established by the
Secretary, before the Secretary issues the
proposed order;
‘‘(iii) the Secretary requests and obtains
the information under subsection (c) and
such information is not submitted in rela-
tion to an order under subsection (b); or
‘‘(iv) the information is of the type con-
tained in raw datasets.
‘‘(e) UPDATES TO DRUG LISTING INFORMA-
TION.—A sponsor who makes a change to a
drug subject to this section shall submit up-
dated drug listing information for the drug
in accordance with section 510(j) within 30
calendar days of the date when the drug is
first commercially marketed, except that a
sponsor who was the order requestor with re-
spect to an order subject to subsection
(b)(5)(C) (or a licensee, assignee, or successor
in interest of such requestor) shall submit
updated drug listing information on or be-
fore the date when the drug is first commer-
cially marketed.
‘‘(f) APPROVALS UNDER SECTION 505.—The
provisions of this section shall not be con-
strued to preclude a person from seeking or
maintaining the approval of an application
for a drug under sections 505(b)(1), 505(b)(2),
and 505(j). A determination under this sec-
tion that a drug is not subject to section
503(b)(1), is generally recognized as safe and
effective under section 201(p)(1), and is not a
new drug under section 201(p) shall con-
stitute a finding that the drug is safe and ef-
fective that may be relied upon for purposes
of an application under section 505(b)(2), so
that the applicant shall be required to sub-
mit for purposes of such application only in-
formation needed to support any modifica-
tion of the drug that is not covered by such
determination under this section.
‘‘(g) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY OF ADMINISTRA-
TIVE ORDERS.—The Secretary shall establish,
maintain, update (as determined necessary
by the Secretary but no less frequently than
annually), and make publicly available, with
respect to orders issued under this section—
‘‘(1) a repository of each final order and in-
terim final order in effect, including the
complete text of the order; and
‘‘(2) a listing of all orders proposed and
under development under subsection (b)(2),
including—
‘‘(A) a brief description of each such order;
and
‘‘(B) the Secretary’s expectations, if re-
sources permit, for issuance of proposed or-
ders over a 3-year period.
‘‘(h) DEVELOPMENT ADVICE TO SPONSORS OR
REQUESTORS.—The Secretary shall establish
procedures under which sponsors or reques-
tors may meet with appropriate officials of
the Food and Drug Administration to obtain
advice on the studies and other information
necessary to support submissions under this
section and other matters relevant to the
regulation of nonprescription drugs and the
development of new nonprescription drugs
under this section.
‘‘(i) PARTICIPATION OF MULTIPLE SPONSORS
OR REQUESTORS.—The Secretary shall estab-
lish procedures to facilitate efficient partici-
pation by multiple sponsors or requestors in
proceedings under this section, including
provision for joint meetings with multiple
sponsors or requestors or with organizations
nominated by sponsors or requestors to rep-
resent their interests in a proceeding.
‘‘(j) ELECTRONIC FORMAT.—All submissions
under this section shall be in electronic for-
mat.
‘‘(k) EFFECT ON EXISTING REGULATIONS
GOVERNING NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.—
‘‘(1) REGULATIONS OF GENERAL APPLICA-
BILITY TO NONPRESCRIPTION DRUGS.—Except
as provided in this subsection, nothing in
this section supersedes regulations estab-
lishing general requirements for non-
prescription drugs, including regulations of
general applicability contained in parts 201,
250, and 330 of title 21, Code of Federal Regu-
lations, or any successor regulations. The
Secretary shall establish or modify such reg-
ulations by means of rulemaking in accord-
ance with section 553 of title 5, United States
Code.
‘‘(2) REGULATIONS ESTABLISHING REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR SPECIFIC NONPRESCRIPTION
DRUGS.—
‘‘(A) The provisions of section 310.545 of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, as in
effect on the day before the date of the en-
actment of this section, shall be deemed to
be a final order under subsection (b).
‘‘(B) Regulations in effect on the day be-
fore the date of the enactment of this sec-
tion, establishing requirements for specific
nonprescription drugs marketed pursuant to
this section (including such requirements in
parts 201 and 250 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations), shall be deemed to be final or-
ders under subsection (b), only as they apply
to drugs—
‘‘(i) subject to paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4)
of subsection (a); or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6926 December 10, 2019
‘‘(ii) otherwise subject to an order under
this section.
‘‘(3) WITHDRAWAL OF REGULATIONS.—The
Secretary shall withdraw regulations estab-
lishing final monographs and the procedures
governing the over-the-counter drug review
under part 330 and other relevant parts of
title 21, Code of Federal Regulations (as in
effect on the day before the date of the en-
actment of this section), or make technical
changes to such regulations to ensure con-
formity with appropriate terminology and
cross references. Notwithstanding sub-
chapter II of chapter 5 of title 5, United
States Code, any such withdrawal or tech-
nical changes shall be made without public
notice and comment and shall be effective
upon publication through notice in the Fed-
eral Register (or upon such date as specified
in such notice).
‘‘(l) GUIDANCE.—The Secretary shall issue
guidance that specifies—
‘‘(1) the procedures and principles for for-
mal meetings between the Secretary and
sponsors or requestors for drugs subject to
this section;
‘‘(2) the format and content of data sub-
missions to the Secretary under this section;
‘‘(3) the format of electronic submissions
to the Secretary under this section;
‘‘(4) consolidated proceedings for appeal
and the procedures for such proceedings
where appropriate; and
‘‘(5) for minor changes in drugs, rec-
ommendations on how to comply with the
requirements in orders issued under sub-
section (c)(3).
‘‘(m) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—This section shall not af-
fect the treatment or status of a non-
prescription drug—
‘‘(A) that is marketed without an applica-
tion approved under section 505 as of the
date of the enactment of this section;
‘‘(B) that is not subject to an order issued
under this section; and
‘‘(C) to which paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), or
(5) of subsection (a) do not apply.
‘‘(2) TREATMENT OF PRODUCTS PREVIOUSLY
FOUND TO BE SUBJECT TO TIME AND EXTENT RE-
QUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) Notwithstanding subsection (a), a
drug described in subparagraph (B) may only
be lawfully marketed, without an applica-
tion approved under section 505, pursuant to
an order issued under this section.
‘‘(B) A drug described in this subparagraph
is a drug which, prior to the date of the en-
actment of this section, the Secretary deter-
mined in a proposed or final rule to be ineli-
gible for review under the OTC drug review
(as such phrase ‘OTC drug review’ was used
in section 330.14 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations, as in effect on the day before
the date of the enactment of this section).
‘‘(3) PRESERVATION OF AUTHORITY.—
‘‘(A) Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be con-
strued to preclude or limit the applicability
of any provision of this Act other than this
section.
‘‘(B) Nothing in subsection (a) shall be con-
strued to prohibit the Secretary from issuing
an order under this section finding a drug to
be not generally recognized as safe and effec-
tive under section 201(p)(1), as the Secretary
determines appropriate.
‘‘(n) INVESTIGATIONAL NEW DRUGS.—A drug
is not subject to this section if an exemption
for investigational use under section 505(i) is
in effect for such drug.
‘‘(o) INAPPLICABILITY OF PAPERWORK RE-
DUCTION ACT.—Chapter 35 of title 44, United
States Code, shall not apply to collections of
information made under this section.
‘‘(p) INAPPLICABILITY OF NOTICE AND COM-
MENT RULEMAKING AND OTHER REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The requirements of subsection (b)
shall apply with respect to orders issued
under this section instead of the require-
ments of subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 5,
United States Code.
‘‘(q) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘nonprescription drug’ refers
to a drug not subject to the requirements of
section 503(b)(1).
‘‘(2) The term ‘sponsor’ refers to any per-
son marketing, manufacturing, or processing
a drug that—
‘‘(A) is listed pursuant to section 510(j);
and
‘‘(B) is or will be subject to an administra-
tive order under this section of the Food and
Drug Administration.
‘‘(3) The term ‘requestor’ refers to any per-
son or group of persons marketing, manufac-
turing, processing, or developing a drug.’’.
(b) GAO STUDY.—Not later than 4 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States
shall submit a study to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate addressing the effectiveness and overall
impact of exclusivity under section 505G of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act,
as added by subsection (a), and section 586C
of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3), including the
impact of such exclusivity on consumer ac-
cess. Such study shall include—
(1) an analysis of the impact of exclusivity
under such section 505G for nonprescription
drug products, including—
(A) the number of nonprescription drug
products that were granted exclusivity and
the indication for which the nonprescription
drug products were determined to be gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective;
(B) whether the exclusivity for such drug
products was granted for—
(i) a new active ingredient (including any
ester or salt of the active ingredient); or
(ii) changes in the conditions of use of a
drug, for which new human data studies con-
ducted or sponsored by the requestor were
essential;
(C) whether, and to what extent, the exclu-
sivity impacted the requestor’s or sponsor’s
decision to develop the drug product;
(D) an analysis of the implementation of
the exclusivity provision in such section
505G, including—
(i) the resources used by the Food and Drug
Administration;
(ii) the impact of such provision on innova-
tion, as well as research and development in
the nonprescription drug market;
(iii) the impact of such provision on com-
petition in the nonprescription drug market;
(iv) the impact of such provision on con-
sumer access to nonprescription drug prod-
ucts;
(v) the impact of such provision on the
prices of nonprescription drug products; and
(vi) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been sufficient to encourage the devel-
opment of nonprescription drug products
that would likely not be otherwise devel-
oped, or developed in as timely a manner;
and
(E) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been sufficient incentive to encourage
innovation in the nonprescription drug mar-
ket; and
(2) an analysis of the impact of exclusivity
under such section 586C for sunscreen ingre-
dients, including—
(A) the number of sunscreen ingredients
that were granted exclusivity and the spe-
cific ingredient that was determined to be
generally recognized as safe and effective;
(B) whether, and to what extent, the exclu-
sivity impacted the requestor’s or sponsor’s
decision to develop the sunscreen ingredient;
(C) whether, and to what extent, the sun-
screen ingredient granted exclusivity had
previously been available outside of the
United States;
(D) an analysis of the implementation of
the exclusivity provision in such section
586C, including—
(i) the resources used by the Food and Drug
Administration;
(ii) the impact of such provision on innova-
tion, as well as research and development in
the sunscreen market;
(iii) the impact of such provision on com-
petition in the sunscreen market;
(iv) the impact of such provision on con-
sumer access to sunscreen products;
(v) the impact of such provision on the
prices of sunscreen products; and
(vi) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 505G
have been utilized by sunscreen ingredient
sponsors and whether such process has been
sufficient to encourage the development of
sunscreen ingredients that would likely not
be otherwise developed, or developed in as
timely a manner; and
(E) whether the administrative orders ini-
tiated by requestors under such section 586C
have been sufficient incentive to encourage
innovation in the sunscreen market.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section
751(d)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 379r(d)(1)) is amended—
(1) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘final regulation promul-
gated’’ and inserting ‘‘final order under sec-
tion 505G’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘and not misbranded’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘regu-
lation in effect’’ and inserting ‘‘regulation or
order in effect’’.
SEC. 102. MISBRANDING.
Section 502 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 352) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ee) If it is a nonprescription drug that is
subject to section 505G, is not the subject of
an application approved under section 505,
and does not comply with the requirements
under section 505G.
‘‘(ff) If it is a drug and it was manufac-
tured, prepared, propagated, compounded, or
processed in a facility for which fees have
not been paid as required by section 744M.’’.
SEC. 103. DRUGS EXCLUDED FROM THE OVER-
THE-COUNTER DRUG REVIEW.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this Act (or
the amendments made by this Act) shall
apply to any nonprescription drug (as de-
fined in section 505G(q) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by section
101 of this Act) which was excluded by the
Food and Drug Administration from the
Over-the-Counter Drug Review in accordance
with the paragraph numbered 25 on page 9466
of volume 37 of the Federal Register, pub-
lished on May 11, 1972.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to preclude or
limit the applicability of any other provision
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.).
SEC. 104. TREATMENT OF SUNSCREEN INNOVA-
TION ACT.
(a) REVIEW OF NONPRESCRIPTION SUNSCREEN
ACTIVE INGREDIENTS.—
(1) APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 505G FOR PEND-
ING SUBMISSIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—A sponsor of a non-
prescription sunscreen active ingredient or
combination of nonprescription sunscreen
active ingredients that, as of the date of en-
actment of this Act, is subject to a proposed
sunscreen order under section 586C of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 360fff–3) may elect, by means of giving
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6927
December 10, 2019
written notification to the Secretary of
Health and Human Services within 180 cal-
endar days of the enactment of this Act, to
transition into the review of such ingredient
or combination of ingredients pursuant to
the process set out in section 505G of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as
added by section 101 of this Act.
(B) ELECTION EXERCISED.—Upon receipt by
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
of a timely notification under subparagraph
(A)—
(i) the proposed sunscreen order involved is
deemed to be a request for an order under
subsection (b) of section 505G of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 101 of this Act; and
(ii) such order is deemed to have been ac-
cepted for filing under subsection (b)(6)(A)(i)
of such section 505G.
(C) ELECTION NOT EXERCISED.—If a notifica-
tion under subparagraph (A) is not received
by the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices within 180 calendar days of the date of
enactment of this Act, the review of the pro-
posed sunscreen order described in subpara-
graph (A)—
(i) shall continue under section 586C of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 360fff–3); and
(ii) shall not be eligible for review under
section 505G, added by section 101 of this
Act.
(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the
terms ‘‘sponsor’’, ‘‘nonprescription’’, ‘‘sun-
screen active ingredient’’, and ‘‘proposed
sunscreen order’’ have the meanings given to
those terms in section 586 of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
360fff).
(b) AMENDMENTS TO SUNSCREEN PROVI-
SIONS.—
(1) FINAL SUNSCREEN ORDERS.—Paragraph
(3) of section 586C(e) of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3(e))
is amended to read as follows:
‘‘(3) RELATIONSHIP TO ORDERS UNDER SEC-
TION 505G.—A final sunscreen order shall be
deemed to be a final order under section
505G.’’.
(2) MEETINGS.—Paragraph (7) of section
586C(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–3(b)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘A sponsor may request’’
and inserting the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A sponsor may request’’;
and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) CONFIDENTIAL MEETINGS.—A sponsor
may request one or more confidential meet-
ings with respect to a proposed sunscreen
order, including a letter deemed to be a pro-
posed sunscreen order under paragraph (3), to
discuss matters relating to data require-
ments to support a general recognition of
safety and effectiveness involving confiden-
tial information and public information re-
lated to such proposed sunscreen order, as
appropriate. The Secretary shall convene a
confidential meeting with such sponsor in a
reasonable time period. If a sponsor requests
more than one confidential meeting for the
same proposed sunscreen order, the Sec-
retary may refuse to grant an additional
confidential meeting request if the Secretary
determines that such additional confidential
meeting is not reasonably necessary for the
sponsor to advance its proposed sunscreen
order, or if the request for a confidential
meeting fails to include sufficient informa-
tion upon which to base a substantive discus-
sion. The Secretary shall publish a post-
meeting summary of each confidential meet-
ing under this subparagraph that does not
disclose confidential commercial informa-
tion or trade secrets. This subparagraph does
not authorize the disclosure of confidential
commercial information or trade secrets
subject to 552(b)(4) of title 5, United States
Code, or section 1905 of title 18, United
States Code.’’.
(3) EXCLUSIVITY.—Section 586C of the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
360fff–3) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(f) EXCLUSIVITY.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A final sunscreen order
shall have the effect of authorizing solely
the order requestor (or the licensees, assign-
ees, or successors in interest of such re-
questor with respect to the subject of such
request and listed under paragraph (5)) for a
period of 18 months, to market a sunscreen
ingredient under this section incorporating
changes described in paragraph (2) subject to
the limitations under paragraph (4), begin-
ning on the date the requestor (or any licens-
ees, assignees, or successors in interest of
such requestor with respect to the subject of
such request and listed under paragraph (5))
may lawfully market such sunscreen ingre-
dient pursuant to the order.
‘‘(2) CHANGES DESCRIBED.—A change de-
scribed in this paragraph is a change subject
to an order specified in paragraph (1) that
permits a sunscreen to contain an active
sunscreen ingredient not previously incor-
porated in a marketed sunscreen listed in
paragraph (3).
‘‘(3) MARKETED SUNSCREEN.—The marketed
sunscreen ingredients described in this para-
graph are sunscreen ingredients—
‘‘(A) marketed in accordance with a final
monograph for sunscreen drug products set
forth at part 352 of title 21, Code of Federal
Regulations (as published at 64 Fed. Reg.
27687); or
‘‘(B) marketed in accordance with a final
order issued under this section.
‘‘(4) LIMITATIONS ON EXCLUSIVITY.—Only
one 18-month period may be granted per in-
gredient under paragraph (1).
‘‘(5) LISTING OF LICENSEES, ASSIGNEES, OR
SUCCESSORS IN INTEREST.—Requestors shall
submit to the Secretary at the time when a
drug subject to such request is introduced or
delivered for introduction into interstate
commerce, a list of licensees, assignees, or
successors in interest under paragraph (1).’’.
(4) SUNSET PROVISION.—Subchapter I of
chapter V of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff et seq.) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘SEC. 586H. SUNSET.
‘‘This subchapter shall cease to be effec-
tive at the end of fiscal year 2022.’’.
(5) TREATMENT OF FINAL SUNSCREEN
ORDER.—The Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act is amended by striking section
586E of such Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–5).
(c) TREATMENT OF AUTHORITY REGARDING
FINALIZATION OF SUNSCREEN MONOGRAPH.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—
(A) REVISION OF FINAL SUNSCREEN ORDER.—
The Secretary of Health and Human Services
(referred to in this subsection as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) shall amend and revise the final ad-
ministrative order concerning nonprescrip-
tion sunscreen (referred to in this subsection
as the ‘‘sunscreen order’’) for which the con-
tent, prior to the date of enactment of this
Act, was represented by the final monograph
for sunscreen drug products set forth in part
352 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations
(as in effect on May 21, 1999).
(B) ISSUANCE OF REVISED SUNSCREEN ORDER;
EFFECTIVE DATE.—A revised sunscreen order
described in subparagraph (A) shall be—
(i) issued in accordance with the proce-
dures described in section 505G(b)(2) of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;
(ii) issued in proposed form not later than
18 months after the date of enactment of this
Act; and
(iii) issued by the Secretary at least 1 year
prior to the effective date of the revised
order.
(2) REPORTS.—If a revised sunscreen order
issued under paragraph (1) does not include
provisions related to the effectiveness of var-
ious sun protection factor levels, and does
not address all dosage forms known to the
Secretary to be used in sunscreens marketed
in the United States without a new drug ap-
plication approved under section 505 of the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21
U.S.C. 355), the Secretary shall submit a re-
port to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions of the Senate on the rationale
for omission of such provisions from such
order, and a plan and timeline to compile
any information necessary to address such
provisions through such order.
(d) TREATMENT OF NON-SUNSCREEN TIME
AND EXTENT APPLICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any application described
in section 586F of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 360fff–6) that was
submitted to the Secretary pursuant to sec-
tion 330.14 of title 21, Code of Federal Regula-
tions, as such provisions were in effect im-
mediately prior to the date of enactment
date of this Act, shall be extinguished as of
such date of enactment, subject to paragraph
(2).
(2) ORDER REQUEST.—Nothing in paragraph
(1) precludes the submission of an order re-
quest under section 505G(b) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 101 of this Act, with respect to a drug
that was the subject of an application extin-
guished under paragraph (1).
SEC. 105. ANNUAL UPDATE TO CONGRESS ON AP-
PROPRIATE PEDIATRIC INDICATION
FOR CERTAIN OTC COUGH AND
COLD DRUGS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subsection (c),
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall, beginning not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, annually
submit to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a letter
describing the progress of the Food and Drug
Administration—
(1) in evaluating the cough and cold mono-
graph described in subsection (b) with re-
spect to children under age 6; and
(2) as appropriate, revising such cough and
cold monograph to address such children
through the order process under section
505G(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cos-
metic Act, as added by section 101 of this
Act.
(b) COUGH AND COLD MONOGRAPH DE-
SCRIBED.—The cough and cold monograph de-
scribed in this subsection consists of the con-
ditions under which nonprescription drugs
containing antitussive, expectorant, nasal
decongestant, or antihistamine active ingre-
dients (or combinations thereof) are gen-
erally recognized as safe and effective, as
specified in part 341 of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect immediately
prior to the date of enactment of this Act),
and included in an order deemed to be estab-
lished under section 505G(b) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as added by
section 101 of this Act.
(c) DURATION OF AUTHORITY.—The require-
ment under subsection (a) shall terminate as
of the date of a letter submitted by the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services pursu-
ant to such subsection in which the Sec-
retary indicates that the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration has completed its evaluation
and revised, in a final order, as applicable,
the cough and cold monograph as described
in subsection (a)(2).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6928 December 10, 2019
SEC. 106. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS.
(a) IMPORTS AND EXPORTS.—Section
801(e)(4)(E)(iii) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 381(e)(4)(E)(iii))
is amended by striking ‘‘subparagraph’’ each
place such term appears and inserting ‘‘para-
graph’’.
(b) FDA REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2017.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 905(b)(4) of the
FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 (Public
Law 115–52) is amended by striking ‘‘Section
744H(e)(2)(B)’’ and inserting ‘‘Section
744H(f)(2)(B)’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by paragraph (1) shall take effect as of
the enactment of the FDA Reauthorization
Act of 2017 (Public Law 115–52).
TITLE II—USER FEES
SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE; FINDING.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This title may be cited
as the ‘‘Over-the-Counter Monograph User
Fee Act of 2019’’.
(b) FINDING.—The Congress finds that the
fees authorized by the amendments made in
this title will be dedicated to OTC mono-
graph drug activities, as set forth in the
goals identified for purposes of part 10 of sub-
chapter C of chapter VII of the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act, in the letters from
the Secretary of Health and Human Services
to the Chairman of the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate and the Chairman of the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives, as set forth in the
Congressional Record.
SEC. 202. FEES RELATING TO OVER-THE-
COUNTER DRUGS.
Subchapter C of chapter VII of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379f
et seq.) is amended by inserting after part 9
the following:
‘‘PART 10—FEES RELATING TO OVER-THE-
COUNTER DRUGS
‘‘SEC. 744L. DEFINITIONS.
‘‘In this part:
‘‘(1) The term ‘affiliate’ means a business
entity that has a relationship with a second
business entity if, directly or indirectly—
‘‘(A) one business entity controls, or has
the power to control, the other business enti-
ty; or
‘‘(B) a third party controls, or has power to
control, both of the business entities.
‘‘(2) The term ‘contract manufacturing or-
ganization facility’ means an OTC mono-
graph drug facility where neither the owner
of such manufacturing facility nor any affil-
iate of such owner or facility sells the OTC
monograph drug produced at such facility di-
rectly to wholesalers, retailers, or consumers
in the United States.
‘‘(3) The term ‘costs of resources allocated
for OTC monograph drug activities’ means
the expenses in connection with OTC mono-
graph drug activities for—
‘‘(A) officers and employees of the Food
and Drug Administration, contractors of the
Food and Drug Administration, advisory
committees, and costs related to such offi-
cers, employees, and committees and costs
related to contracts with such contractors;
‘‘(B) management of information, and the
acquisition, maintenance, and repair of com-
puter resources;
‘‘(C) leasing, maintenance, renovation, and
repair of facilities and acquisition, mainte-
nance, and repair of fixtures, furniture, sci-
entific equipment, and other necessary ma-
terials and supplies; and
‘‘(D) collecting fees under section 744M and
accounting for resources allocated for OTC
monograph drug activities.
‘‘(4) The term ‘FDA establishment identi-
fier’ is the unique number automatically
generated by Food and Drug Administra-
tion’s Field Accomplishments and Compli-
ance Tracking System (FACTS) (or any suc-
cessor system).
‘‘(5) The term ‘OTC monograph drug’
means a nonprescription drug without an ap-
proved new drug application which is gov-
erned by the provisions of section 505G.
‘‘(6) The term ‘OTC monograph drug activi-
ties’ means activities of the Secretary asso-
ciated with OTC monograph drugs and in-
spection of facilities associated with such
products, including the following activities:
‘‘(A) The activities necessary for review
and evaluation of OTC monographs and OTC
monograph order requests, including—
‘‘(i) orders proposing or finalizing applica-
ble conditions of use for OTC monograph
drugs;
‘‘(ii) orders affecting status regarding gen-
eral recognition of safety and effectiveness
of an OTC monograph ingredient or combina-
tion of ingredients under specified conditions
of use;
‘‘(iii) all OTC monograph drug develop-
ment and review activities, including intra-
agency collaboration;
‘‘(iv) regulation and policy development
activities related to OTC monograph drugs;
‘‘(v) development of product standards for
products subject to review and evaluation;
‘‘(vi) meetings referred to in section
505G(i);
‘‘(vii) review of labeling prior to issuance
of orders related to OTC monograph drugs or
conditions of use; and
‘‘(viii) regulatory science activities related
to OTC monograph drugs.
‘‘(B) Inspections related to OTC monograph
drugs.
‘‘(C) Monitoring of clinical and other re-
search conducted in connection with OTC
monograph drugs.
‘‘(D) Safety activities with respect to OTC
monograph drugs, including—
‘‘(i) collecting, developing, and reviewing
safety information on OTC monograph drugs,
including adverse event reports;
‘‘(ii) developing and using improved ad-
verse event data-collection systems, includ-
ing information technology systems; and
‘‘(iii) developing and using improved ana-
lytical tools to assess potential safety risks,
including access to external databases.
‘‘(E) Other activities necessary for imple-
mentation of section 505G.
‘‘(7) The term ‘OTC monograph order re-
quest’ means a request for an order sub-
mitted under section 505G(b)(5).
‘‘(8) The term ‘Tier 1 OTC monograph order
request’ means any OTC monograph order re-
quest not determined to be a Tier 2 OTC
monograph order request.
‘‘(9)(A) The term ‘Tier 2 OTC monograph
order request’ means, subject to subpara-
graph (B), an OTC monograph order request
for—
‘‘(i) the reordering of existing information
in the drug facts label of an OTC monograph
drug;
‘‘(ii) the addition of information to the
other information section of the drug facts
label of an OTC monograph drug, as limited
by section 201.66(c)(7) of title 21, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (or any successor regula-
tions);
‘‘(iii) modification to the directions for use
section of the drug facts label of an OTC
monograph drug, if such changes conform to
changes made pursuant to section
505G(c)(3)(A);
‘‘(iv) the standardization of the concentra-
tion or dose of a specific finalized ingredient
within a particular finalized monograph;
‘‘(v) a change to ingredient nomenclature
to align with nomenclature of a standards-
setting organization; or
‘‘(vi) addition of an interchangeable term
in accordance with section 330.1 of title 21,
Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulations).
‘‘(B) The Secretary may, based on program
implementation experience or other factors
found appropriate by the Secretary, charac-
terize any OTC monograph order request as a
Tier 2 OTC monograph order request (includ-
ing recharacterizing a request from Tier 1 to
Tier 2) and publish such determination in a
proposed order issued pursuant to section
505G.
‘‘(10)(A) The term ‘OTC monograph drug fa-
cility’ means a foreign or domestic business
or other entity that—
‘‘(i) is—
‘‘(I) under one management, either direct
or indirect; and
‘‘(II) at one geographic location or address
engaged in manufacturing or processing the
finished dosage form of an OTC monograph
drug;
‘‘(ii) includes a finished dosage form manu-
facturer facility in a contractual relation-
ship with the sponsor of one or more OTC
monograph drugs to manufacture or process
such drugs; and
‘‘(iii) does not include a business or other
entity whose only manufacturing or proc-
essing activities are one or more of the fol-
lowing: production of clinical research sup-
plies, testing, or placement of outer pack-
aging on packages containing multiple prod-
ucts, for such purposes as creating
multipacks, when each monograph drug
product contained within the overpackaging
is already in a final packaged form prior to
placement in the outer overpackaging.
‘‘(B) For purposes of subparagraph
(A)(i)(II), separate buildings or locations
within close proximity are considered to be
at one geographic location or address if the
activities conducted in such buildings or lo-
cations are—
‘‘(i) closely related to the same business
enterprise;
‘‘(ii) under the supervision of the same
local management; and
‘‘(iii) under a single FDA establishment
identifier and capable of being inspected by
the Food and Drug Administration during a
single inspection.
‘‘(C) If a business or other entity would
meet criteria specified in subparagraph (A),
but for being under multiple management,
the business or other entity is deemed to
constitute multiple facilities, one per man-
agement entity, for purposes of this para-
graph.
‘‘(11) The term ‘OTC monograph drug meet-
ing’ means any meeting regarding the con-
tent of a proposed OTC monograph order re-
quest.
‘‘(12) The term ‘person’ includes an affil-
iate of a person.
‘‘(13) The terms ‘requestor’ and ‘sponsor’
have the meanings given such terms in sec-
tion 505G.
‘‘SEC. 744M. AUTHORITY TO ASSESS AND USE OTC
MONOGRAPH FEES.
‘‘(a) TYPES OF FEES.—Beginning with fiscal
year 2021, the Secretary shall assess and col-
lect fees in accordance with this section as
follows:
‘‘(1) FACILITY FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each person that owns a
facility identified as an OTC monograph drug
facility on December 31 of the fiscal year or
at any time during the preceding 12-month
period shall be assessed an annual fee for
each such facility as determined under sub-
section (c).
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(i) FACILITIES THAT CEASE ACTIVITIES.—A
fee shall not be assessed under subparagraph
(A) if the identified OTC monograph drug fa-
cility—
‘‘(I) has ceased all activities related to
OTC monograph drugs prior to December 31
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6929
December 10, 2019
of the year immediately preceding the appli-
cable fiscal year; and
‘‘(II) has updated its registration to reflect
such change under the requirements for drug
establishment registration set forth in sec-
tion 510.
‘‘(ii) CONTRACT MANUFACTURING ORGANIZA-
TIONS.—The amount of the fee for a contract
manufacturing organization facility shall be
equal to two-thirds of the amount of the fee
for an OTC monograph drug facility that is
not a contract manufacturing organization
facility.
‘‘(C) AMOUNT.—The amount of fees estab-
lished under subparagraph (A) shall be estab-
lished under subsection (c).
‘‘(D) DUE DATE.—
‘‘(i) FOR FIRST PROGRAM YEAR.—For fiscal
year 2021, the facility fees required under
subparagraph (A) shall be due on the later
of—
‘‘(I) the first business day of June of 2020;
or
‘‘(II) 45 calendar days after publication of
the Federal Register notice provided for
under subsection (c)(4)(A).
‘‘(ii) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—For each
fiscal year after fiscal year 2021, the facility
fees required under subparagraph (A) shall be
due on the later of—
‘‘(I) the first business day of June of such
year; or
‘‘(II) the first business day after the enact-
ment of an appropriations Act providing for
the collection and obligation of fees under
this section for such year.
‘‘(2) OTC MONOGRAPH ORDER REQUEST FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Each person that sub-
mits an OTC monograph order request shall
be subject to a fee for an OTC monograph
order request. The amount of such fee shall
be—
‘‘(i) for a Tier 1 OTC monograph order re-
quest, $500,000, adjusted for inflation for the
fiscal year (as determined under subsection
(c)(1)(B)); and
‘‘(ii) for a Tier 2 OTC monograph order re-
quest, $100,000, adjusted for inflation for the
fiscal year (as determined under subsection
(c)(1)(B)).
‘‘(B) DUE DATE.—The OTC monograph order
request fees required under subparagraph (A)
shall be due on the date of submission of the
OTC monograph order request.
‘‘(C) EXCEPTION FOR CERTAIN SAFETY
CHANGES.—A person who is named as the re-
questor in an OTC monograph order shall not
be subject to a fee under subparagraph (A) if
the Secretary finds that the OTC monograph
order request seeks to change the drug facts
labeling of an OTC monograph drug in a way
that would add to or strengthen—
‘‘(i) a contraindication, warning, or pre-
caution;
‘‘(ii) a statement about risk associated
with misuse or abuse; or
‘‘(iii) an instruction about dosage and ad-
ministration that is intended to increase the
safe use of the OTC monograph drug.
‘‘(D) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST IS
RECATEGORIZED AS A TIER 2 OTC MONOGRAPH
ORDER REQUEST.—If the Secretary determines
that an OTC monograph request initially
characterized as Tier 1 shall be re-character-
ized as a Tier 2 OTC monograph order re-
quest, and the requestor has paid a Tier 1 fee
in accordance with subparagraph (A)(i), the
Secretary shall refund the requestor the dif-
ference between the Tier 1 and Tier 2 fees de-
termined under subparagraphs (A)(i) and
(A)(ii), respectively.
‘‘(E) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST RE-
FUSED FOR FILING OR WITHDRAWN BEFORE FIL-
ING.—The Secretary shall refund 75 percent
of the fee paid under subparagraph (B) for
any order request which is refused for filing
or was withdrawn before being accepted or
refused for filing.
‘‘(F) FEES FOR ORDER REQUESTS PREVIOUSLY
REFUSED FOR FILING OR WITHDRAWN BEFORE
FILING.—An OTC monograph order request
that was submitted but was refused for fil-
ing, or was withdrawn before being accepted
or refused for filing, shall be subject to the
full fee under subparagraph (A) upon being
resubmitted or filed over protest.
‘‘(G) REFUND OF FEE IF ORDER REQUEST
WITHDRAWN.—If an order request is with-
drawn after the order request was filed, the
Secretary may refund the fee or a portion of
the fee if no substantial work was performed
on the order request after the application
was filed. The Secretary shall have the sole
discretion to refund a fee or a portion of the
fee under this subparagraph. A determina-
tion by the Secretary concerning a refund
under this subparagraph shall not be review-
able.
‘‘(3) REFUNDS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Other than refunds pro-
vided pursuant to any of subparagraphs (D)
through (G) of paragraph (2), the Secretary
shall not refund any fee paid under para-
graph (1) except as provided in subparagraph
(B).
‘‘(B) DISPUTES CONCERNING FEES.—To qual-
ify for the return of a fee claimed to have
been paid in error under paragraph (1) or (2),
a person shall submit to the Secretary a
written request justifying such return within
180 calendar days after such fee was paid.
‘‘(4) NOTICE.—Within the timeframe speci-
fied in subsection (c), the Secretary shall
publish in the Federal Register the amount
of the fees under paragraph (1) for such fiscal
year.
‘‘(b) FEE REVENUE AMOUNTS.—
‘‘(1) FISCAL YEAR 2021.—For fiscal year 2021,
fees under subsection (a)(1) shall be estab-
lished to generate a total facility fee revenue
amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(A) the annual base revenue for fiscal
year 2021 (as determined under paragraph
(3));
‘‘(B) the dollar amount equal to the oper-
ating reserve adjustment for the fiscal year,
if applicable (as determined under subsection
(c)(2)); and
‘‘(C) additional direct cost adjustments (as
determined under subsection (c)(3)).
‘‘(2) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—For each
of the fiscal years 2022 through 2025, fees
under subsection (a)(1) shall be established
to generate a total facility fee revenue
amount equal to the sum of—
‘‘(A) the annual base revenue for the fiscal
year (as determined under paragraph (3));
‘‘(B) the dollar amount equal to the infla-
tion adjustment for the fiscal year (as deter-
mined under subsection (c)(1));
‘‘(C) the dollar amount equal to the oper-
ating reserve adjustment for the fiscal year,
if applicable (as determined under subsection
(c)(2));
‘‘(D) additional direct cost adjustments (as
determined under subsection (c)(3)); and
‘‘(E) additional dollar amounts for each fis-
cal year as follows:
‘‘(i) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.
‘‘(ii) $6,000,000 for fiscal year 2023.
‘‘(iii) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.
‘‘(iv) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2025.
‘‘(3) ANNUAL BASE REVENUE.—For purposes
of paragraphs (1)(A) and (2)(A), the dollar
amount of the annual base revenue for a fis-
cal year shall be—
‘‘(A) for fiscal year 2021, $8,000,000; and
‘‘(B) for fiscal years 2022 through 2025, the
dollar amount of the total revenue amount
established under this subsection for the pre-
vious fiscal year, not including any adjust-
ments made under subsection (c)(2) or (c)(3).
‘‘(c) ADJUSTMENTS; ANNUAL FEE SETTING.—
‘‘(1) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of sub-
section (b)(2)(B), the dollar amount of the in-
flation adjustment to the annual base rev-
enue for fiscal year 2022 and each subsequent
fiscal year shall be equal to the product of—
‘‘(i) such annual base revenue for the fiscal
year under subsection (b)(2); and
‘‘(ii) the inflation adjustment percentage
under subparagraph (C).
‘‘(B) OTC MONOGRAPH ORDER REQUEST
FEES.—For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the
dollar amount of the inflation adjustment to
the fee for OTC monograph order requests for
fiscal year 2022 and each subsequent fiscal
year shall be equal to the product of—
‘‘(i) the applicable fee under subsection
(a)(2) for the preceding fiscal year; and
‘‘(ii) the inflation adjustment percentage
under subparagraph (C).
‘‘(C) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT PERCENTAGE.—
The inflation adjustment percentage under
this subparagraph for a fiscal year is equal
to—
‘‘(i) for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023,
the average annual percent change that oc-
curred in the Consumer Price Index for
urban consumers (Washington-Baltimore,
DC–MD–VA–WV; Not Seasonally Adjusted;
All items; Annual Index) for the first 3 years
of the preceding 4 years of available data;
and
‘‘(ii) for each of fiscal years 2024 and 2025,
the sum of—
‘‘(I) the average annual percent change in
the cost, per full-time equivalent position of
the Food and Drug Administration, of all
personnel compensation and benefits paid
with respect to such positions for the first 3
years of the preceding 4 fiscal years, multi-
plied by the proportion of personnel com-
pensation and benefits costs to total costs of
OTC monograph drug activities for the first
3 years of the preceding 4 fiscal years; and
‘‘(II) the average annual percent change
that occurred in the Consumer Price Index
for urban consumers (Washington-Baltimore,
DC–MD–VA–WV; Not Seasonally Adjusted;
All items; Annual Index) for the first 3 years
of the preceding 4 years of available data
multiplied by the proportion of all costs
other than personnel compensation and ben-
efits costs to total costs of OTC monograph
drug activities for the first 3 years of the
preceding 4 fiscal years.
‘‘(2) OPERATING RESERVE ADJUSTMENT.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For fiscal year 2021 and
subsequent fiscal years, for purposes of sub-
sections (b)(1)(B) and (b)(2)(C), the Secretary
may, in addition to adjustments under para-
graph (1), further increase the fee revenue
and fees if such an adjustment is necessary
to provide operating reserves of carryover
user fees for OTC monograph drug activities
for not more than the number of weeks spec-
ified in subparagraph (B).
‘‘(B) NUMBER OF WEEKS.—The number of
weeks specified in this subparagraph is—
‘‘(i) 3 weeks for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(ii) 7 weeks for fiscal year 2022;
‘‘(iii) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2023;
‘‘(iv) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2024; and
‘‘(v) 10 weeks for fiscal year 2025.
‘‘(C) DECREASE.—If the Secretary has car-
ryover balances for such process in excess of
10 weeks of the operating reserves referred to
in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall de-
crease the fee revenue and fees referred to in
such subparagraph to provide for not more
than 10 weeks of such operating reserves.
‘‘(D) RATIONALE FOR ADJUSTMENT.—If an
adjustment under this paragraph is made,
the rationale for the amount of the increase
or decrease (as applicable) in fee revenue and
fees shall be contained in the annual Federal
Register notice under paragraph (4) estab-
lishing fee revenue and fees for the fiscal
year involved.
‘‘(3) ADDITIONAL DIRECT COST ADJUST-
MENT.—The Secretary shall, in addition to
adjustments under paragraphs (1) and (2),
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6930 December 10, 2019
further increase the fee revenue and fees for
purposes of subsection (b)(2)(D) by an
amount equal to—
‘‘(A) $14,000,000 for fiscal year 2021;
‘‘(B) $7,000,000 for fiscal year 2022;
‘‘(C) $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2023;
‘‘(D) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2024; and
‘‘(E) $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2025.
‘‘(4) ANNUAL FEE SETTING.—
‘‘(A) FISCAL YEAR 2021.—The Secretary
shall, not later than the second Monday in
March of 2020—
‘‘(i) establish OTC monograph drug facility
fees for fiscal year 2021 under subsection (a),
based on the revenue amount for such year
under subsection (b) and the adjustments
provided under this subsection; and
‘‘(ii) publish fee revenue, facility fees, and
OTC monograph order requests in the Fed-
eral Register.
‘‘(B) SUBSEQUENT FISCAL YEARS.—The Sec-
retary shall, for each fiscal year that begins
after September 30, 2021, not later than the
second Monday in March that precedes such
fiscal year—
‘‘(i) establish for such fiscal year, based on
the revenue amounts under subsection (b)
and the adjustments provided under this sub-
section—
‘‘(I) OTC monograph drug facility fees
under subsection (a)(1); and
‘‘(II) OTC monograph order request fees
under subsection (a)(2); and
‘‘(ii) publish such fee revenue amounts, fa-
cility fees, and OTC monograph order re-
quest fees in the Federal Register.
‘‘(d) IDENTIFICATION OF FACILITIES.—Each
person that owns an OTC monograph drug fa-
cility shall submit to the Secretary the in-
formation required under this subsection
each year. Such information shall, for each
fiscal year—
‘‘(1) be submitted as part of the require-
ments for drug establishment registration
set forth in section 510; and
‘‘(2) include for each such facility, at a
minimum, identification of the facility’s
business operation as that of an OTC mono-
graph drug facility.
‘‘(e) EFFECT OF FAILURE TO PAY FEES.—
‘‘(1) OTC MONOGRAPH DRUG FACILITY FEE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Failure to pay the fee
under subsection (a)(1) within 20 calendar
days of the due date as specified in subpara-
graph (D) of such subsection shall result in
the following:
‘‘(i) The Secretary shall place the facility
on a publicly available arrears list.
‘‘(ii) All OTC monograph drugs manufac-
tured in such a facility or containing an in-
gredient manufactured in such a facility
shall be deemed misbranded under section
502(ff).
‘‘(B) APPLICATION OF PENALTIES.—The pen-
alties under this paragraph shall apply until
the fee established by subsection (a)(1) is
paid.
‘‘(2) ORDER REQUESTS.—An OTC monograph
order request submitted by a person subject
to fees under subsection (a) shall be consid-
ered incomplete and shall not be accepted for
filing by the Secretary until all fees owed by
such person under this section have been
paid.
‘‘(3) MEETINGS.—A person subject to fees
under this section shall be considered ineli-
gible for OTC monograph drug meetings
until all such fees owed by such person have
been paid.
‘‘(f) CREDITING AND AVAILABILITY OF
FEES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Fees authorized under
subsection (a) shall be collected and avail-
able for obligation only to the extent and in
the amount provided in advance in appro-
priations Acts. Such fees are authorized to
remain available until expended. Such sums
as may be necessary may be transferred from
the Food and Drug Administration salaries
and expenses appropriation account without
fiscal year limitation to such appropriation
account for salaries and expenses with such
fiscal year limitation. The sums transferred
shall be available solely for OTC monograph
drug activities.
‘‘(2) COLLECTIONS AND APPROPRIATION
ACTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(C), the fees authorized by this section shall
be collected and available in each fiscal year
in an amount not to exceed the amount spec-
ified in appropriation Acts, or otherwise
made available for obligation, for such fiscal
year.
‘‘(B) USE OF FEES AND LIMITATION.—The
fees authorized by this section shall be avail-
able to defray increases in the costs of the
resources allocated for OTC monograph drug
activities (including increases in such costs
for an additional number of full-time equiva-
lent positions in the Department of Health
and Human Services to be engaged in such
activities), only if the Secretary allocates
for such purpose an amount for such fiscal
year (excluding amounts from fees collected
under this section) no less than $12,000,000,
multiplied by the adjustment factor applica-
ble to the fiscal year involved under sub-
section (c)(1).
‘‘(C) COMPLIANCE.—The Secretary shall be
considered to have met the requirements of
subparagraph (B) in any fiscal year if the
costs funded by appropriations and allocated
for OTC monograph drug activities are not
more than 15 percent below the level speci-
fied in such subparagraph.
‘‘(D) PROVISION FOR EARLY PAYMENTS IN
SUBSEQUENT YEARS.—Payment of fees author-
ized under this section for a fiscal year (after
fiscal year 2021), prior to the due date for
such fees, may be accepted by the Secretary
in accordance with authority provided in ad-
vance in a prior year appropriations Act.
‘‘(3) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
For each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2025,
there is authorized to be appropriated for
fees under this section an amount equal to
the total amount of fees assessed for such
fiscal year under this section.
‘‘(g) COLLECTION OF UNPAID FEES.—In any
case where the Secretary does not receive
payment of a fee assessed under subsection
(a) within 30 calendar days after it is due,
such fee shall be treated as a claim of the
United States Government subject to sub-
chapter II of chapter 37 of title 31, United
States Code.
‘‘(h) CONSTRUCTION.—This section may not
be construed to require that the number of
full-time equivalent positions in the Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, for offi-
cers, employers, and advisory committees
not engaged in OTC monograph drug activi-
ties, be reduced to offset the number of offi-
cers, employees, and advisory committees so
engaged.
‘‘SEC. 744N. REAUTHORIZATION; REPORTING RE-
QUIREMENTS.
‘‘(a) PERFORMANCE REPORT.—Beginning
with fiscal year 2021, and not later than 120
calendar days after the end of each fiscal
year thereafter for which fees are collected
under this part, the Secretary shall prepare
and submit to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report
concerning the progress of the Food and
Drug Administration in achieving the goals
identified in the letters described in section
201(b) of the Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act of 2019
during such fiscal year and the future plans
of the Food and Drug Administration for
meeting such goals.
‘‘(b) FISCAL REPORT.—Not later than 120
calendar days after the end of fiscal year 2021
and each subsequent fiscal year for which
fees are collected under this part, the Sec-
retary shall prepare and submit to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of
the Senate a report on the implementation
of the authority for such fees during such fis-
cal year and the use, by the Food and Drug
Administration, of the fees collected for such
fiscal year.
‘‘(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary
shall make the reports required under sub-
sections (a) and (b) available to the public on
the internet website of the Food and Drug
Administration.
‘‘(d) REAUTHORIZATION.—
‘‘(1) CONSULTATION.—In developing rec-
ommendations to present to the Congress
with respect to the goals described in sub-
section (a), and plans for meeting the goals,
for OTC monograph drug activities for the
first 5 fiscal years after fiscal year 2025, and
for the reauthorization of this part for such
fiscal years, the Secretary shall consult
with—
‘‘(A) the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce of the House of Representatives;
‘‘(B) the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate;
‘‘(C) scientific and academic experts;
‘‘(D) health care professionals;
‘‘(E) representatives of patient and con-
sumer advocacy groups; and
‘‘(F) the regulated industry.
‘‘(2) PUBLIC REVIEW OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—
After negotiations with the regulated indus-
try, the Secretary shall—
‘‘(A) present the recommendations devel-
oped under paragraph (1) to the congres-
sional committees specified in such para-
graph;
‘‘(B) publish such recommendations in the
Federal Register;
‘‘(C) provide for a period of 30 calendar
days for the public to provide written com-
ments on such recommendations;
‘‘(D) hold a meeting at which the public
may present its views on such recommenda-
tions; and
‘‘(E) after consideration of such public
views and comments, revise such rec-
ommendations as necessary.
‘‘(3) TRANSMITTAL OF RECOMMENDATIONS.—
Not later than January 15, 2025, the Sec-
retary shall transmit to the Congress the re-
vised recommendations under paragraph (2),
a summary of the views and comments re-
ceived under such paragraph, and any
changes made to the recommendations in re-
sponse to such views and comments.’’.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will resume executive session.
The Senator from Maryland.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1060
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, after a discussion that we will
have on the Senate floor, I intend to
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate pass S. 1060, which is a bipartisan
piece of legislation called the DETER
Act.
What is the DETER Act? The DETER
Act is legislation that I introduced
with Senator RUBIO. It has bipartisan
sponsorship, and it is designed to send
a very clear and simple message to
Russia or any other countries that are
thinking about interfering with our
elections and undermining our democ-
racy that, if we catch you, you will suf-
fer a severe penalty. It won’t be a few
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.005 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6931
December 10, 2019
sanctions against a few of the
oligarchs. It will hit big parts of your
economy. It will hit your banking sec-
tor. It will hit your energy sector. It
will hurt, so you better think before
you try to interfere in any future elec-
tion.
Now, Senator RUBIO and I introduced
this legislation a number of years ago,
and in response to concerns that were
raised, we made a number of important
changes, but despite those changes, we
are still here in the U.S. Senate with
less than 1 year to go before a national
election, and we have not passed this
bill to deter foreign interference in our
elections.
We know what Vladimir Putin’s am-
bitions are. He wants to sow division in
our electorate. He wants to make our
political process even more polarized.
He wants to undermine the public faith
in the democratic process. That is not
just my conclusion. That is the unani-
mous verdict of the U.S. Intelligence
Committee and the community after
the 2016 election, but it is not just
them.
Our own Senate Intelligence Com-
mittee, on a bipartisan basis, issued its
findings. It also found that those were
Putin’s intentions, and it found that,
in 2016, Russia interfered in all 50 of
the States, to a greater or lesser ex-
tent—all 50 of the States. And what
Vladimir Putin clearly has learned and
taken away from all of this is that he
can attack our democracy and attack
our elections with impunity because
the rewards are high. He creates divi-
sion. He accomplishes his objectives.
And the price is zero. There is cur-
rently no cost to Vladimir Putin from
interfering in our elections.
So what the DETER Act is designed
to do is to raise the costs for the com-
ing elections, to make it clear that, if
we catch you next time, there will be a
penalty to pay. We know that Putin
hasn’t gotten this message because
there is no penalty right now, and that
is why, on November 5, just a few
weeks ago, we got another unanimous
prediction from U.S. intelligence agen-
cies. All of them jointly stated:
Russia, China, Iran, and other foreign ma-
licious actors all will seek to interfere in the
voting process or influence voter percep-
tions. Adversaries may try to accomplish
their goals through a variety of means, in-
cluding social media campaigns, directing
disinformation operations or conducting dis-
ruptive or destructive cyber-attacks on state
and local infrastructure.
That was just a few weeks ago—
unanimously, from the intelligence
agencies. Clearly, Vladimir Putin
hasn’t gotten the message. What the
DETER Act is all about is sending that
message that he will now know that
there will be a penalty to pay upfront.
Look, there are only two ways we can
protect our elections, and we need to
do both. One is to harden our election
infrastructure here at home, which is
to try to make it harder for somebody
to use cyber attacks to get into our
election systems and make it harder
for them to abuse our social media
platforms. This is a case where the best
defense is a good offense because we
can harden our systems, but you can be
sure that the Russian Government
cyber security folks will always be
looking for a way around it, just like
the arms race. So just like the arms
race, deterrence is the best way to pro-
tect the integrity of our democracy by
letting them know upfront that there
will be this very tough price to pay.
We hoped and thought we could ad-
dress this issue in the National Defense
Authorization Act. What better place
is there to defend the integrity of our
democracy than in the legislation that
is designed to protect our national se-
curity? In fact, the U.S. Senate unani-
mously passed the resolution I have in
my hand, S. Res. 330, which says very
clearly that we wanted folks at the
NDAA conference to require the admin-
istration—any administration, future
administration—to promptly submit a
report on Russian interference or other
interference following every Federal
election, and that would include a de-
tailed assessment of the foreign gov-
ernments that were involved in that in-
terference. The Senate, as part of that
resolution, also voted to promptly im-
pose sanctions on any foreign govern-
ment determined to have interfered in
a future Federal election, including in-
dividuals and entities within that
country’s territories.
Let me emphasize that point. Every
Senator here supported that—or at
least nobody objected to that. We have
been working for over 2 years to get
this done, and we keep hearing that the
Trump administration doesn’t want to
do it. Of course, we haven’t been told
by the Trump administration why they
object. Even Secretary Pompeo, in tes-
timony before the Senate Foreign Re-
lations Committee, said he supported
the concept. In fact, every witness in
the Senate Banking Committee and
Senate Foreign Relations Committee
asked about this and supported this
legislation. You have to ask the ques-
tion why: Why is there such opposi-
tion? If it is because of President
Trump, we need to be doing our job
here in the legislature, not the bidding
of the White House.
I yield to the Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
thank my colleague from Maryland for
his diligence in this issue of utmost im-
portance to the integrity of our elec-
tions, to our national security, and ba-
sically for trust in government. If the
American people feel that a foreign
country can interfere in their elections
and, particularly, that their President
is OK with that, I worry and pray for
our democracy.
For the past few years, Senate Demo-
crats have sought to pass legislation to
improve the security of elections.
There are many ways to do this—hard-
ening our election infrastructure, shor-
ing up cyber defenses, and requiring
paper ballots. One of the most impor-
tant has been advocated with passion
and vigor by my colleague from Mary-
land, and that is deterring foreign ad-
versaries from trying to interfere with
elections in the first place.
For the past year, Democrats have
been pushing legislation that would do
just that by instituting mandatory
crosscutting sanctions against any ad-
versary—Russia, China, Iran, North
Korea—that even dared to attempt to
meddle in our democracy. It is a bipar-
tisan idea. Senator VAN HOLLEN has
legislation that is cosponsored by Sen-
ator RUBIO. We tried hard to pass this
measure in the annual defense bill.
Senate Republicans and Leader MCCON-
NELL blocked the provision from the
final agreement.
Here we are today, asking our Repub-
lican colleagues to relent and allow
this bipartisan legislation to pass the
Senate on its own. Our top national se-
curity officials have warned us that
our adversaries are right now—right
now, as we speak—working on ever
more sophisticated methods to meddle
in our elections. That is what Putin
does. He doesn’t have the military
power or the economic power, but he
has long tentacles and clever ways to
undermine our democracy. Are we
going to stand there benignly and let it
happen? That is outrageous.
Why have Leader MCCONNELL and
Senate Republicans opposed it? I hope
it is not because the Russian Foreign
Minister is in town this week. I hope it
is not because anyone wants to invite
foreign interference.
I am worried that it is just as my col-
league from Maryland said: Donald
Trump, who has shown no regard for
the rule of law, for fairness, for de-
cency, or for honor, if he thinks Rus-
sian interference will help him, he
says: Let’s do it. What is bothersome is
that my colleagues on the Republican
side of the aisle move forward on his
wishes, right to the undermining of our
democracy.
I guarantee that if Leader MCCON-
NELL would allow the vote on this leg-
islation, it would pass almost unani-
mously. Remember, the motion to in-
struct conferees on NDAA to include
this legislation passed nearly unani-
mously. I would plead with my good
friend—he is a good man from Idaho,
Senator CRAPO—and I would plead with
Leader MCCONNELL: Stop this now. If
Trump is getting you to do this or if
the White House is, which I suspect is
true, that is not your duty to this
country, and you must put that higher
than your duty to President Trump.
I yield back to my friend.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, I thank the minority leader. As
he indicated, the Russian Foreign Min-
ister, Foreign Minister Lavrov, is in
town. There is a report saying that
Secretary Pompeo said to the Rus-
sians: Don’t interfere in our elections.
Wagging your finger is not enough to
scare off Vladimir Putin. That is why
you need the DETER Act.
Of course, saying that is a big ad-
vance over the President of the United
States, who has been denying Russian
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.029 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6932 December 10, 2019
interference in our elections. It is not
enough to scold the Russians. It is not
enough to scold Foreign Ministers. It is
not enough to scold Vladimir Putin.
You have to raise the price for inter-
ference, and they need to do it upfront.
Madam President, as in legislative
session, I ask unanimous consent that
the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs be discharged from
further consideration of S. 1060 and the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration. I further ask that the bill
be considered read a third time and
passed and that the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, re-
serving the right to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, I
think the record really needs to be set
straight. The picture that is being
painted here is that the Republicans or
President Trump or both don’t care
about the fact that Russia is and has
been trying to interfere in our elec-
tions and that, for some reason, our re-
fusal to allow this specific act to move
forward until it is fixed is evidence of
that.
In support of that, he said that there
is no penalty on the Russians because
of their actions. I will remind my col-
leagues that I am the chairman of the
committee that has jurisdiction over
economic sanctions. On this floor, last
Congress, we had this very debate. I
was making the case then that we
needed a broad, strong sanctions law
against Russia for its election inter-
ference and not only for its election in-
terference but also for its invasion of
Crimea and for its cyber security at-
tacks on the United States.
What happened then? We passed what
I believe is probably the strongest,
most extensive legislation putting into
effect sanctions on Russia for election
interference, for cyber security viola-
tions, for invasion of Crimea, and other
malign conduct. Under that legislation,
the administration has been active.
I want to read you just a little—I
think that President Trump has prob-
ably put more sanctions on the Rus-
sians than any other President in our
history. The Treasury’s Russia sanc-
tions program is among the most ac-
tive of the sanctions programs that the
United States has. This administration
has sanctioned 335 Russian-related in-
dividuals and entities, 317 of which
were sanctioned under Treasury au-
thority.
By the way, the bill I referred to has
an acronym. It is the Countering
America’s Adversaries Through Sanc-
tions Act, or CAATSA. That is the leg-
islation that the administration is
using to deter Russian election inter-
ference and other activities in addition
to other malign conduct.
Now, I want to state again, as my
colleague knows, I agree and have
agreed that we can work on further
legislation, but we need to get it right
because economic sanctions legislation
is a two-edged sword. It hurts the
United States and our allies often as
much as it hurts the entities sanc-
tioned, and because of that, we have to
have the ability to be flexible in when
to apply, how to apply, and how to ad-
just the impact of our sanctions; other-
wise, we will see that we will do more
damage to ourselves and our allies
than to Russia.
By the way, we don’t just need legis-
lation dealing with Russia. We need
legislation dealing with the same types
of activities from Iran and China and
North Korea, to name just a few of the
others. We need to do it with the ap-
propriate mechanisms.
The mechanisms in this bill have
been designed more to attack the
Trump administration and Republicans
than to attack the Russians and those
who would attack our country and our
elections. I have said again and again
and again that if we can fix the mecha-
nisms so that they will work effec-
tively to work against our enemies and
protect America and our allies, as our
current sanctions regimes do, then we
can move forward with legislation that
will even enhance what we did in
CAATSA.
I will also remind my colleague that
in addition to CAATSA, one of the rea-
sons we have been so active in the
United States is that we have passed
significant additional legislation. I re-
mind my colleagues and everyone that
in addition to CAATSA and the already
existing IEEPA legislation, which are
very broad and powerful international
emergency economic authorities that
have previously existed in the United
States to help our administrations
push back against malign conduct from
our enemies, we have also passed the
Ukraine Freedom Support Act. I ref-
erenced Crimea earlier. We have passed
the Magnitsky Act. President Obama,
President Trump, and I believe Presi-
dent Bush, before them, have issued
significant Executive orders on their
own with their Executive order author-
ity to expand sanctioning authority.
To create the picture that there is no
deterrent is false. To create the picture
that the Trump administration is try-
ing to turn a blind eye to Russia’s ma-
lign conduct is false. To create the pic-
ture that the Republicans, because
they want to get a mechanism that
works properly, are therefore willing to
turn a blind eye to Russia is false.
When we can finally stop trying to
play politics with this issue, when we
can stop trying to make it anti-Trump
or anti-Republican or make politics
out of the problems that Russia truly
is creating for us, maybe we can come
together and pass yet another strong
piece of legislation to move forward—
but not as long as it is done with mech-
anisms and with lack of flexibility that
actually undermine our own economic
security and our system in applying
the sanctions. Because of that, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, I want to address some of the
comments made by the chairman of the
Banking Committee and start by say-
ing that I have appreciated the con-
versations he and I have had on this
legislation over the years. Let me just
address some of the comments that
were made.
One is to say that, currently, the
CAATSA scheme is enough to deter fu-
ture Russian interference in our elec-
tions. If that were true, you would not
have had every single one of our intel-
ligence agencies just a few weeks ago
predict that Russia will interfere in
our elections again, along with other
foreign malign actors.
If the laws on the books could deter
that interference, why did they predict
just a few weeks ago that they are
coming for us in the upcoming elec-
tions?
Second, this is not a partisan attack
on President Trump. This is a bipar-
tisan bill. This bill not only has Sen-
ator RUBIO as the chief author, co-
author of the legislation, there are a
number of other Republican and Demo-
cratic Senators on this bill as cospon-
sors. In fact, they are evenly matched
on this legislation.
This has nothing to with President
Trump. In fact, this determination and
this law would not even kick in until
after the 2020 elections. I don’t know
who is going to be President then. This
has nothing to do with President
Trump. This has to do with protecting
our elections. Is it informed by what
happened in 2016? You bet it is. We
know—again, from all our intelligence
committees and community agencies,
every one of them headed by somebody
nominated by President Trump—that
the Russians attacked us in 2016. A few
weeks ago they said the same thing
will happen in 2020, and that will hap-
pen especially if we don’t raise the
price.
The CAATSA legislation, as the Sen-
ator knows, was put in place by an
overwhelming veto-proof vote in the
U.S. Senate. It was required because
the Russians interfered, but it was ret-
rospective. So, yes, we punished some
of the oligarchs who were close to
Vladimir Putin, but that is not enough,
clearly, to raise the price to Vladimir
Putin from deterring him from doing it
again.
Again, we just heard that from our
own intelligence agencies. If you want
to raise the price for future inter-
ference, you need to not just hit a few
oligarchs, you need to let them know,
some of those Russian Government
banks are going to get hit; their energy
sector is going to get hit.
By the way, there is actually more
flexibility in this bill than I would
like. As the chairman of the committee
knows, the original bill Senator RUBIO
and I introduced did not have waiver
authority for the President of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.030 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6933
December 10, 2019
United States. The version that is be-
fore us right now contains waiver au-
thority for every single one of the
sanctions if the President makes a na-
tional determination and says the
waiver will not hurt our national secu-
rity.
It has more flexibility than I would
like because my view is you need to set
up a machine that is almost automatic.
If we catch you interfering, there will
be a price to pay. Under this bill, if we
catch them, yes, there will be sanc-
tions, but the reality is, the President
can decide to waive those sanctions.
We have come a long way. This is a
bipartisan bill. This is about protecting
our democracy. It is not about any par-
ticular individual or any particular
President. It wouldn’t even kick in
until after the next elections, and
those sanctions will only kick in if
there is interference. The whole pur-
pose of this bill is to have sanctions
that are tough enough so Putin doesn’t
interfere or another foreign govern-
ment doesn’t interfere and so they
don’t go off the sanctions. That is the
whole purpose.
I hope we will vote on this. The clock
is ticking. I am going to be on this
floor week after week until we come
together and pass something that actu-
ally has some teeth and will deter that
very foreign interference that every in-
telligence agency predicted will happen
as recently as 5 weeks ago. That will
happen unless we act.
I yield floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
Mr. CRAPO. Madam President, not to
belabor the point, but I just want to re-
spond briefly. Yes, there are Repub-
licans and Democrats on this bill, but
many of the Members who are on this
bill have told me they are ready and
willing to amend and make it work.
I have offered and have tried now for
months to get that done. I am willing
to continue trying to improve and
strengthen this bill, but the notion
that this is just somehow trying to pro-
tect the President from having to
make tough choices is simply false.
I will read today—as has been indi-
cated, we have leaders from Russia in
America today, and in response to
that, our Secretary of State Pompeo
said:
The Trump administration will always
work to protect the integrity of our elec-
tions, period. . . . Should Russia or any for-
eign actor take steps to undermine our
Democratic processes, we will take action in
response.
All of the authorities in this legisla-
tion we are debating right now exists
already under CAATSA. I guess the ar-
gument is that President Trump will
not use them. Well, the reality is he
will. Secondly, I have indicated my
willingness to work on this legislation.
Rather than continuing to stand on
the floor and debate why we like or
don’t like what President Trump is
doing, I think we ought to get down to
the serious business of legislating.
I yield the floor.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, I hope we will get down to the se-
rious business of legislating. As I indi-
cated in the hearings that have been
held in the Senate Banking Committee
and Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee, there was overwhelming sup-
port for moving forward with the
DETER Act; that is, deter Russian in-
terference in our elections.
I will say it again. This authority,
this sanction, if there is interference,
does not kick in until after the next
Presidential election. It is not designed
to focus on any particular President. It
is designed together on a bipartisan
basis—and this is a bipartisan bill—to
set up a mechanism in advance to let
Vladimir Putin or other malign foreign
actors know, if they interfere, there
will be a price to pay. Not maybe, not
let’s just guess about it, there will be a
price to pay unless a President decides
to waive it, which, as I said, was a con-
cession we made to address people’s
concerns about some flexibility, but we
need to send the upfront message that
at least initially these sanctions will
take effect, and they will hurt. That is
the only way to deter someone like
Vladimir Putin and the Russians from
interfering in our elections: raise the
price and make it clear they will pay
it.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
NOMINATION OF LAWRENCE VANDYKE
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam Presi-
dent, I rise today because of my firm
opposition to Lawrence VanDyke’s
nomination to the Ninth Circuit Court
of Appeals, which has jurisdiction over
my home State of Nevada. Mr. Van-
Dyke lacks the support of both his
home State Senators, JACKY ROSEN and
I. His qualifications are inadequate and
his ties to Nevada are minimal.
His nomination sets a dangerous
precedent for the Senate and would
allow future administrations to nomi-
nate virtual outsiders to communities
across the country over Senators’ ob-
jections.
The President could have chosen a
better nominee. Senator ROSEN and I
tried to work with the administration
to identify well-respected attorneys
from Nevada as potential appeals court
judges. Instead, the President decided
to nominate someone with no current
ties to our State, someone whom the
American Bar Association has rated as
‘‘not qualified’’ for the Federal bench,
someone who holds extreme beliefs
about reproductive rights, LGBTQ
rights, gun violence prevention, and
environmental protection.
The American Bar Association inter-
viewed 60 of Mr. VanDyke’s former col-
leagues, and those colleagues charac-
terized him as arrogant, lazy, an ideo-
logue, and lacking in knowledge of the
day-to-day practice, including proce-
dural rules.
Mr. VanDyke’s nomination is unprec-
edented for all of these reasons. If con-
firmed to the Ninth Circuit, Lawrence
VanDyke would be the first judicial
nominee appointed to the bench with-
out the support of his home State Sen-
ators, with a ‘‘not qualified’’ rating
from the American Bar Association,
and without ties to the community
whose appeals court seat he would oc-
cupy.
I would like to ask my colleagues:
What kind of message are we sending
when we confirm individuals who don’t
have the support of their local commu-
nities?
We need judges with the knowledge,
the maturity, and experience to under-
stand the impact their decisions will
have on the States over which they
preside. How will my colleagues feel
when a future administration attempts
to do the same thing to their State,
when a Democratic President, perhaps,
nominates a Californian to sit on a dis-
trict court in Kentucky or a lifelong
DC resident is sent to a court in Texas?
Mr. VanDyke’s qualifications and
connections to Nevada are just one
part of my objection to his confirma-
tion. I also believe Mr. VanDyke’s
views are just too extreme to promote
to the Federal bench. He signed the
State of Montana on to a brief in an
Arizona case that argued that Roe v.
Wade ‘‘should . . . be revisited.’’
On LGBTQ protections, Mr. VanDyke
at his confirmation hearings broke
down in tears of frustration at the very
idea that he might be unfair to LGBTQ
litigants. He insisted that he believes
in treating ‘‘all people . . . with dig-
nity and respect,’’ but he didn’t treat
LGBTQ people with dignity and respect
when he wrote in a 2004 article that
same-sex marriage hurts families, chil-
dren, and society. It certainly doesn’t
reflect an attitude of dignity and re-
spect to support extreme groups like
the Family Research Council and the
Alliance Defending Freedom, both of
which have been designated as anti-
LGBTQ hate groups by the Southern
Poverty Law Center.
The people who can legitimately shed
tears about Lawrence VanDyke’s
record on LGBTQ rights are those who
are still shunned because of whom they
love.
On the issue of preventing gun vio-
lence, Mr. VanDyke made his stance
clear in a questionnaire the NRA sent
to him when he was running for the Su-
preme Court of Montana. In his an-
swers to the NRA’s questions, Mr. Van-
Dyke said he believed that ‘‘all gun
control laws are misdirected.’’ In Ne-
vada, we believe in Second Amendment
rights, but we also agree—as almost all
Americans do—that commonsense
measures like background checks keep
us safer.
Finally, Mr. VanDyke has done his
best to erode environmental standards
and protections. As solicitor general of
Nevada, he signed on to a lawsuit that
threatened the critical sage grouse pro-
tections. Governor Sandoval, the Re-
publican Governor at the time, said
that lawsuit ‘‘did not represent the
State of Nevada, the governor, or any
state agencies.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.034 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6934 December 10, 2019
The Western United States has some
of the most fragile and iconic public
lands in the Nation. I object to letting
Mr. VanDyke oversee them when he
seems to care so little for their values.
Mr. VanDyke’s record shows that he is
not a neutral arbiter of the law. Be-
cause of his poor qualifications and be-
cause of his extreme activist approach
to the law, I will vote against his con-
firmation, and I urge my colleagues to
do the same.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
USMCA
Ms. ERNST. Madam President, there
are just 21 days left in 2019. With the
days dwindling, Congress has made lit-
tle progress on its to-do list that with-
out question must be addressed before
going home for the holidays. This is
largely due to the distractions and
delays caused by the Democrats in this
body and especially by those across the
Capitol.
Let’s take the United States-Mexico-
Canada trade agreement. President
Trump signed it over 1 year ago. If ap-
proved, USMCA would create 176,000
new jobs by expanding access to mar-
kets and providing much needed cer-
tainty for American businesses and
farmers. Literally, everyone benefits.
Yet here we are still waiting for the
House Democrats to bring it up for a
vote—a vote that would be broadly bi-
partisan.
Speaker PELOSI even admitted today
that there is no question that USMCA
is much better than NAFTA. I am
hopeful the House will finally vote on
the measure next week before leaving
town. This would be a great Christmas
gift for American workers, farmers,
and businesses.
But it is not just on trade deals. We
are now over 2 months into the new
Federal fiscal year. Yet Congress still
has not approved the annual funding
bills for this fiscal year. These bills
will actually fund the government. Yet
Democrats are stalling and throwing
up roadblocks at every turn. They are
failing to support our servicemembers,
including providing them with the
largest pay raise in a decade.
Just recently, I was on the ground in
Kuwait and Afghanistan to meet with
our U.S. troops, including Iowans of
the Des Moines-based 103rd
Sustainment Command. These service-
members are relying on Congress to do
their job so that our military men and
women can carry out their job of pro-
tecting our homeland. As a former
company commander in Kuwait, I real-
ize just how vital resources are to our
troops.
Let’s not forget that Democrats
agreed to a framework months ago on
all of these bills. Yet they have repeat-
edly blocked consideration of these
bills.
Similarly, the authorization for the
Violence Against Women Act—a law
that is deeply personal to me—expired
a year ago and remains in limbo. For
months, the ranking member of the Ju-
diciary Committee and I worked to de-
velop a bipartisan bill to renew the
law, which provides desperately needed
resources to prevent domestic and sex-
ual abuse and care for our survivors.
We were making real progress, but all
of a sudden, Senate Democrats walked
away from the progress we made in an
apparent attempt to make violence
against women an election issue.
Folks, we cannot allow our political
differences to keep us from performing
our most basic constitutional duties:
to provide for the common defense,
fund the operations of the Federal Gov-
ernment, and support women and chil-
dren across this country facing sexual
and domestic abuse. I plan on con-
tinuing to work with Senator FEIN-
STEIN without regard to the political
winds because we have to stop playing
politics with women’s lives and our Na-
tion’s defense.
At a time when Democrats and Re-
publicans in Washington can’t find
many areas of agreement, these are all
issues on which we should and abso-
lutely can find common ground. I im-
plore my Democratic colleagues to end
the obstruction and delay. Work with
us to fund the government and support
our servicemembers. Pass the USMCA
and provide resources for my fellow
survivors of domestic and sexual abuse.
The American people are counting on
us.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mrs. CAPITO. Madam President, I
am privileged to be on the floor today
with the Senator from Iowa, Ms.
ERNST. I am here to join in a chorus of
voices to ask this Congress to do bet-
ter, to do our to-do list, and to do the
things people sent us here to do. I am
going to highlight some of the critical
items Congress still needs to get done.
Senator ERNST talked about them very
eloquently.
When I am home in West Virginia,
people ask me about policies that im-
pact their everyday lives. They ask
about healthcare. They ask about the
pensions and healthcare for our retired
miners. They ask about surprise med-
ical bills. I have certainly received
them, and many people in this country
every day, 2 or 3 months after an oper-
ation or a visit to the hospital, may re-
ceive a bill in the mail they had no
idea was coming their way.
The high cost of prescription drugs is
an issue that hits many of us in our
pocketbooks, and particularly for those
who suffer from disease or who are el-
derly, it is a particular strain on their
wallets. They ask about national secu-
rity and caring for our veterans. Here
is one everybody complains about, in-
cluding all of us here—robocalls. Can
somebody please stop the onslaught of
robocalls?
We have legislation, but we are not
getting the action on it that we need.
We need better trade deals that will
help grow our economy and support our
American workers.
Do you know what they are not ask-
ing me about? My constituents are not
asking me about the latest impeach-
ment headline. They are not asking me
about witnesses in front of a House
committee or the newest ‘‘breaking
news’’ over on the House side. In their
minds—it is just a bunch of Wash-
ington hoopla to most people.
A few days ago, I ran into some con-
stituents while I was running errands,
and they said to me: Just stop this.
Stop this. Something similar happened
while I was grocery shopping. The
butcher said to me: Aren’t you just
tired of it?
Well, yes, I am.
We have 2 weeks until Congress
leaves for Christmas break and 21 days
until the end of the month, and we still
have so much to do. Our sole focus
should be on legislating and making
life better for people across the coun-
try.
I can tell you, as somebody who has
been in this body and in the House for
several years, when you rush to judg-
ment and when you rush to legislate,
that is when things that you don’t
know get into bills and things that you
want in bills don’t get into bills. So
rushing into legislating is not the fair-
est way to do it.
I am pleased that at long last, we are
going to pass the National Defense Au-
thorization Act that protects our na-
tional security and supports our men
and women in uniform. We still need to
pass appropriations bills that fund
much of our Federal Government. I am
the chairman of the Homeland Secu-
rity Subcommittee, so I very much
want to see us enact a bill that will
provide critical resources to protect
this country.
Homeland Security. Sure, we have
Border Patrol, we have the wall, and
we have ICE. Do you know what else
we have? We have the Coast Guard,
TSA, the Secret Service, FEMA—abso-
lutely essential services. This includes
funding for our immigration laws and
also continuing to fund the work on
the border wall system. I want to see
us pass all 11 of these bills, as well as
provide funding for our troops and our
veterans. Funding medical research. I
am committed to funding Alzheimer’s
research, addressing the opioid epi-
demic, infrastructure, and many other
priorities.
I also have a priority that really af-
fects just part of the country but deep-
ly affects those of us in West Virginia.
We need to enact the Bipartisan Amer-
ican Miners Act this year. Congress
must act to save the healthcare of
13,000 retired miners and protect the
pension benefits of about 92,000 people.
More than 25,000 retired miners re-
ceived benefits in West Virginia last
year. We have a bipartisan bill to ad-
dress this critical issue for our mining
families and for West Virginia commu-
nities. It is critical that we pass this
bill before the end of the year because
this situation is getting more dire
every single day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.035 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6935
December 10, 2019
The USMCA—United States-Mexico-
Canada trade agreement—has been
waiting for action all year, as Senator
ERNST said. I am glad to see that
Speaker PELOSI is finally moving on
this. It is an agreement that will grow
our economy and includes robust pro-
tections for American workers. We
have to get this across the finish line.
I am especially proud of the work we
are doing on the Environment and Pub-
lic Works Committee. We passed a bi-
partisan 5-year highway bill. It had a
unanimous vote, 21 to 0. It would help
improve roads, highways, and bridges
that Americans count on every day to
travel safely, whether they are going
to church, going to the job, or going on
a family trip. Reauthorization of the
Federal Surface Transportation Pro-
gram is a top priority for the coming
year.
We have a lot to do in the coming
days, but we also have lots to do in the
coming year. I hope we will work to-
gether and not practice the past prac-
tices of this year. I hope we will work
together to get the job done.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Madam Presi-
dent, I rise to speak today about the
things Congress is failing to accom-
plish while Democrats in the House
continue their obsession with impeach-
ing this President to overturn the re-
sults of the 2016 election. Let’s be
clear. That is what is happening here.
Democrats lost the election in 2016 and
realized they are going to lose again in
2020. They are trying to use the im-
peachment process to hurt the Presi-
dent.
That is shameful enough, but let’s
think about what Congress is not
doing. Congress is not passing a budg-
et. Congress is not funding our mili-
tary. Congress is not securing our bor-
der. Congress is not lowering the cost
of prescription drugs. Congress is not
doing the things the American people
sent us to Washington to do.
I won’t accept that. I have a back-
ground in business, and in the real
world, if you don’t do your job, you
don’t get paid. It is that simple. If Con-
gress can’t accomplish even the most
basic tasks—passing a budget and ap-
propriations bills in an orderly fash-
ion—lawmakers shouldn’t get a pay-
check, period.
The current system is broken. No one
takes responsibility, and there are no
consequences. That should change.
That is why we need to pass my No
Budget, No Pay proposal now. With-
holding paychecks from Members of
Congress who fail to pass the budget
will help prevent government shut-
downs, which hurt the economy and
millions of everyday Americans. It is
also an important step to promote fis-
cal responsibility in the face of our
staggering national debt, which stands
at over $23 trillion.
No Budget, No Pay is moving
through Congress with bipartisan sup-
port. It was approved by the Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee in June, and it is in-
cluded as part of the Prevent Govern-
ment Shutdowns Act. We need to pass
No Budget, No Pay now to show we are
serious about the future of this Nation.
Members of Congress make $174,000 a
year. All we are asking them to do is
the most basic function of govern-
ment—pass the budget. It is not com-
plicated. If you are a Member of Con-
gress, rich or poor, and you don’t be-
lieve Congress can or should pass a
budget every year, then go home.
There are lots of other competent peo-
ple who can have your job. When the
American people don’t do their job,
there are consequences.
It is time we make Washington just a
little bit more like the real world, so I
ask all my colleagues to join with me
to pass No Budget, No Pay.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CASSIDY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
NOMINATION OF LAWRENCE VANDYKE
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
in the midst of all of the historic and
profoundly significant events hap-
pening these days in Congress, there
may be a temptation to overlook some
of the judicial nominations that are
coming to the floor of the Senate, some
of them almost a caricature of the un-
qualified nominees that we have seen
all too often. One is before us today,
Lawrence VanDyke, who has been nom-
inated to the Ninth Circuit.
Over the past 3 years, we have
watched the Trump administration
march ceaselessly to degrade the judi-
ciary. Yet, even in having witnessed
this travesty firsthand, I find Mr.
VanDyke’s nomination truly aston-
ishing and alarming. Once again, we
are faced with a nominee who lacks the
support of his home State Senators,
who is not even from the State for
which this seat is designated, and who
was rated ‘‘not qualified’’ by the Amer-
ican Bar Association. That is a pretty
tough set of qualifications—or lack of
them—to match, but Lawrence Van-
Dyke has done it.
These departures from bedrock prin-
ciples that once guided the exercise of
the Senate’s constitutional duty to ad-
vise and consent should disturb all of
us, but even more disturbing is Mr.
VanDyke’s record as an unrelenting
ideologue who has spent his entire
legal career promoting an extreme po-
litical agenda. Unfortunately, that is
exactly what we can expect of him if he
is confirmed to the Ninth Circuit Court
of Appeals. That ideological, rightwing,
extremist image and record are exactly
why he has been nominated by the
President, who has outsourced many of
these decisions about nominations to
the far-right groups that he feels, evi-
dently, he has to follow.
Mr. VanDyke has already made it
abundantly clear how he will rule on
gun violence prevention issues. In an
NRA questionnaire that he completed
when he ran for the Montana Supreme
Court in 2014, Mr. VanDyke stated that
he would not support any legislation
that would regulate firearms and am-
munition; any restrictions on the pos-
session, ownership, purchase, sale, or
transfer of semiautomatic firearms; or
legislation mandating the use of lock-
ing devices and safe storage proce-
dures.
There are currently bills before Con-
gress that would do each of these
things. I should know, for I sponsored
them. None of these proposals—none—
would get a fair hearing in Mr.
VanDyke’s court. That predilection
never disavowed, never refuted, never
denied should be disqualifying.
Worse still, in the same question-
naire, Mr. VanDyke stated that the
only reason he was not currently a
member of the NRA was that he didn’t
‘‘want to risk recusal if a lawsuit came
before me where the NRA was in-
volved.’’ In other words, he would join
the NRA; he supports the NRA; he feels
like he should be a member of the
NRA; and he wants to rule in favor of
the NRA, but he might have to recuse
himself if he were to join the NRA.
That statement alone should be dis-
qualifying.
Remember, we are talking about a
life-tenured position on the Federal ju-
diciary, not just for a few years. This is
not an elected position on a State
court. This is a Federal nomination to
the second highest, appellate-level
court in the United States, second only
to the U.S. Supreme Court.
Mr. VanDyke’s hostility to common-
sense gun violence prevention also led
him to challenge a law passed by the
voters of a State he was charged with
serving. In 2016—now we are talking
about Nevada, not Montana—the vot-
ers of Nevada approved a ballot meas-
ure to expand background checks to
cover the private sale of firearms. This
closed a critical loophole in that
State’s laws. I have repeatedly empha-
sized that we must address this loop-
hole at the Federal level. Nevada ad-
dressed it at the State level, but Mr.
VanDyke, who was at the time that
State’s solicitor general, took the very
unusual step of working to undermine
the voter-approved law.
Meanwhile, when he worked for the
Montana attorney general, he was all
too happy to defend an extreme and
poorly drafted State law that sought to
exempt from all Federal regulation the
firearms and ammunition that were
made in Montana. Don’t take my word
for it, as Yogi Berra said. You can look
it up. Mr. VanDyke himself stated in
an email to the Federalist Society that
this statute was ‘‘ill-advised’’ and that
he could not come up with ‘‘any plau-
sible (much less good arguments)’’ to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.037 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6936 December 10, 2019
defend that State’s law. That didn’t
stop Mr. VanDyke from defending the
law nor did it stop the Federalist Soci-
ety from providing him with the help
he had requested in contriving argu-
ments and concocting ill-founded
claims to support the law.
When Mr. VanDyke wants a par-
ticular outcome but can’t figure it out
himself or he can’t find the legal path
to it, he turns to the Federalist Soci-
ety for answers. There is no great mys-
tery here about how he will act when
he is faced with similar situations if he
is confirmed as a judge for the Federal
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.
Unfortunately, Mr. VanDyke’s pro-
motion of the NRA’s extreme positions
is far from the only plank of his far-
right agenda. He has made many state-
ments that are hostile to LGBTQ
rights, including questioning the abil-
ity of gay parents to raise children and
suggesting that protecting LGBTQ
rights is an affront to religious liberty.
He has fought tirelessly to uphold
State bans on gay marriage, and he has
fought to allow discrimination against
LGBTQ people in public accommoda-
tions. His open hostility to LGBTQ
people was one of the main reasons the
ABA rated him ‘‘not qualified.’’ Not
only is it clear how he would rule on
issues relating to those rights, but the
ABA was not even confident that he
could treat LGBTQ litigants fairly re-
gardless of the issue before him. That
is disqualifying.
Mr. VanDyke is also an ideologue on
reproductive rights issues. His adher-
ence to his extremist positions against
women’s healthcare and reproductive
rights has blinded him to the need
about these rights. In 2013, he signed an
amicus brief that stated: ‘‘A growing
body of scientific literature shows that
a fetus can suffer physical pain at 20-
weeks’ gestation.’’ That view was re-
jected emphatically by the American
College of Obstetricians and Gyne-
cologists, which felt compelled to put
out a statement that laid this dan-
gerous ‘‘fetal pain’’ myth to rest.
Whether he cannot tell the difference
between fact and fiction or simply feels
comfortable misleading the court, this
kind of behavior is disturbing for a
Federal judicial nominee. Ordinarily,
this kind of indifference to the truth
would be disqualifying for a Federal
nominee. Ordinarily, blind adherence
to ideology would be disqualifying for
any nominee to an important position
of trust and respect. Ordinarily, the
fact that a nominee is unqualified
would be disqualifying itself. Yet, for
Mr. Trump, these are not disqualifying
flaws. They are, in fact, the reasons for
his nomination.
So let’s send the White House a mes-
sage that we will insist on qualified
nominees. They may have views that
are different from ours, but they
should be qualified to hold these life-
time positions of trust on our Nation’s
highest courts. I hope that we will re-
ject Mr. VanDyke’s nomination.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I join
my colleague from Connecticut, Sen-
ator BLUMENTHAL, and others in urging
my colleagues to oppose the nomina-
tion of Lawrence VanDyke.
I may risk repeating some of the
ground that has been covered by Sen-
ator BLUMENTHAL, but I think it is im-
portant enough that we reiterate over
and over the dangerous nature of this
particular nomination.
I have come down to speak on the
floor in opposition to maybe only a
handful of the President’s judicial
nominees. In fact, if you look up the
voting record, I probably am amongst a
very small handful of Democrats who
have routinely voted for the Presi-
dent’s nominees—not just judicial
nominees but also his appointments to
positions in his administration.
Often in committee, I am the only
Democrat supporting some of the
President’s nominees and appoint-
ments, and that is because I have come
to the conclusion that this body should
give deference to the administration
and to the President when it comes
particularly to filling the positions of
those who work for him in political ap-
pointments but to a degree as well in
the judiciary.
So I put my votes where my test is,
and probably with only two or three
exceptions in the Democratic caucus, I
have voted for more of the President’s
nominees than the rest of my col-
leagues on this side of the aisle. My
test is pretty simple. One, I want indi-
viduals who are qualified. Obviously
qualifications are sometimes in the eye
of the beholder, but I want folks who
know something about the job they are
about to undertake or have some set of
skills that will be relevant. Second, I
want to make sure the candidates we
are reviewing for judgeships or admin-
istration posts are not out of the main-
stream—I mean the conservative main-
stream. I don’t want folks who have
radical points of view.
Mr. VanDyke doesn’t pass that test
as far as I am concerned, and that is
why I chose to come down to the floor
and express my opposition to his nomi-
nation. In particular, I do not believe
Mr. VanDyke is within the mainstream
when it comes to his positions on the
issue of gun violence.
Obviously this is a personal issue not
just to me but to everybody in this
Chamber, and we have a lot of disagree-
ment—maybe a narrowing set of dis-
agreements on the policy surrounding
what we should do to better protect
this country against the growing
scourge of gun violence. But Mr. Van-
Dyke has held a position that would
take away from this body the ability to
keep our friends and our neighbors and
our constituents safe. Mr. VanDyke’s
record as a candidate for the supreme
court and as solicitor general was to
endorse views outside of the main-
stream that would take away from us
the ability to pass laws to keep people
safe. Let me tell you what I am talking
about.
First and foremost, he was a vocal
proponent of something called the
Firearms Freedom Act. As solicitor
general of Montana, he argued that the
Federal Government should not have
the power to regulate gun ownership in
his State of Montana.
This is a political cause that is pick-
ing up steam in some conservative cir-
cles around the country, but it is still
a radical notion, the idea that the Con-
gress can pass a law restricting who
can own a gun or what kinds of guns
can be owned and that a State can just
claim those laws are not valid in that
State. That is what Montana was at-
tempting to do, and that is what Mr.
VanDyke was pushing—the idea that
that State was just going to conven-
iently avoid enforcing Federal firearms
acts and laws.
That position is unconstitutional,
and Federal courts have held that it is
unconstitutional, but that didn’t stop
Mr. VanDyke from pushing what is es-
sentially a political cause—the idea
that one of the ways to stymie Federal
action on guns is to just convince
States to pass laws saying they won’t
enforce Federal laws. That is a very
slippery slope to go down—certainly on
the issue of enforcement of firearms
laws, but it is a slippery slope to go
down with respect to any Federal laws
that States may want to ignore or in-
validate.
Second, Mr. VanDyke has taken a po-
sition opposing the constitutionality of
restrictions on the sales of certain
types of weapons.
We have big disagreements here as to
which kinds of weapons should be sold
commercially and which kinds of weap-
ons should be reserved for law enforce-
ment and the military. I believe that
semiautomatic, assault-style weapons
like the AR–15 are best left in the
hands of those they were designed for—
soldiers and law enforcement. Many of
my Republican colleagues don’t agree.
But that should be a debate we have
here, and I simply do not believe our
Founding Fathers would accept the
premise that the Constitution restricts
our ability to decide what kinds of
weapons should be in civilian hands
and what kinds of weapons should be in
the hands of the military. There was
all sorts of gun regulation happening
at the time of the passage of the U.S.
Constitution. They were not unfamiliar
with the idea that government was
going to have a hand to play in regu-
lating firearms, and I reject the idea
that the Constitution bars us from hav-
ing those debates.
Mr. VanDyke has spent a lot of time
arguing that the Constitution prohibits
Congress from acting to keep dan-
gerous weapons out of the hands of ci-
vilians. It is one thing to have a policy
objection; it is another thing to put
somebody into the Federal court sys-
tem who doesn’t think we should have
ownership as a political body of a ques-
tion that is inherently political, not
constitutional.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.038 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6937
December 10, 2019
I come to the floor to point out just
a handful of ways in which Mr.
VanDyke’s record, I believe, is outside
of the conservative mainstream when
it comes to guns. I think he holds posi-
tions that would make even NRA-en-
dorsed Republicans in this body a little
uncomfortable, especially this idea
that States can nullify Federal fire-
arms laws.
Although I think there are many rea-
sons to draw issue with this particular
nominee, I put this set of issues at the
top of the list. Again, this is coming
from someone who has spent a lot of
time supporting the President’s nomi-
nees with whom I have big policy dis-
agreements. I think this is beyond a
question of policy disagreements. This
is someone who is going to bring some
pretty radical ideas on what the Con-
stitution allows States to do and what
the Constitution allows this body to do
when it comes to keeping our constitu-
ents safe.
I would urge us to oppose Lawrence
VanDyke’s nomination.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
(The remarks of Mr. LANKFORD per-
taining to the introduction of S. 3009
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. LANKFORD. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, let me
begin by commending our friend from
Oklahoma for his patience. It takes a
lot of patience to get things done
around here. It also takes a lot of per-
severance. Sometimes I think that if
you can’t convince people, maybe you
can just wear down their resistance
over time. But this is an idea whose
time has come, and I congratulate our
friend from Oklahoma and Senator
HASSAN and would love to join them in
supporting their effort. Thank you.
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. President, as you heard from the
Senator from Oklahoma, this has been
another wild week in Washington, DC.
It looks like the House is working to
remove the President of the United
States and that their work is nearing
the finish line.
This morning, the House Democrats
unveiled articles of impeachment, and
it looks like the Judiciary Committee
is headed for a vote later this week. I
assume that means it will come to the
floor of the House next week before
they leave.
On top of that, this morning, Speaker
PELOSI announced that House Demo-
crats and the Trump administration
had reached an agreement on the
USMCA—the United States-Mexico-
Canada trade agreement—which would
be the successor to NAFTA.
In my State, NAFTA is not a dirty
word, and indeed, I believe, by the
Chamber of Commerce figures, which
indicate that NAFTA and trades be-
tween Mexico, United States, and Can-
ada supports about 13 million jobs in
the United States alone, and the
USMCA will improve that NAFTA
trade agreement, create more jobs and
more prosperity. I will be looking to
see what this looks like in writing.
We had Ambassador Lighthizer, the
Trade Representative, on the con-
ference call this morning trying to go
through some of the top lines, but I am
still reviewing the details of this agree-
ment to ensure that it is in the best in-
terest of my constituents, Texas farm-
ers and ranchers, manufacturers, and
consumers.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. President, as you heard from the
Senator from Oklahoma, we are just 10
days away from a complete govern-
ment shutdown unless we reach some
sort of agreement on spending bills. We
thought we had taken care of this last
August when Democrats and Repub-
lican Senators and House Members
agreed to a top line of spending, but
unfortunately, after the August recess,
our Democratic colleagues walked that
back and led us now up to the precipice
of, yes, another government shutdown.
RUSSIA INVESTIGATION
Mr. President, on top of all of this,
the Justice Department Inspector Gen-
eral, Michael Horowitz, yesterday re-
leased his report on the counterintel-
ligence investigation of the Trumbull
campaign and any potential contacts
with Russia.
We know Director Mueller, Special
Counsel, has concluded after about 2
years that there was no collusion, no
obstruction, but this was an investiga-
tion of something called Crossfire Hur-
ricane, which is a counterintelligence
investigation by the FBI that ulti-
mately led to the appointment of the
special counsel.
I want to talk a little bit in advance
of Inspector Horowitz’s appearance be-
fore the Judiciary Committee tomor-
row because it is very, very important.
We may recall that this process started
about a year and a half ago after specu-
lation over the motivation and the
methods of the FBI in opening up an
investigation on President Trump
when he was still Candidate Trump.
The 2016 election was historic in many
ways, but one of the ways in which it
was historic in not a positive way was
the fact that both Presidential can-
didates were under active FBI inves-
tigations leading up to the election—
Hillary Clinton, for her use of a private
email server.
We saw the press conference held by
Director Comey on July 5, I believe it
was, only to reopen the investigation
publicly days before the election. You
can imagine how Secretary Clinton felt
about Director Comey’s actions and
what potential influence it had on the
outcome of the election, but now, de-
pending on which TV channel you
watch or what sort of social media feed
that you subscribe to, there are vastly
different narratives about what this in-
spector general report that spans 400-
plus pages does or does not prove. But
when you take away all the spin, there
are some key findings in this report
that should be of grave concern to
every American—Republicans, Demo-
crats, unaffiliated. If you are an Amer-
ican citizen and you care about civil
liberties, you should care about what is
in this report.
First of all, there are errors and inac-
curacies in something called a foreign
intelligence surveillance warrant. Peo-
ple may not realize it, but the intel-
ligence community cannot open up an
investigation on an American citizen
unless they get a warrant issued by a
judge upon the showing of probable
cause to believe that a crime has been
committed.
Now, the law is different when it
comes to non-citizens overseas, and
that is what the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act purports to cover, the
procedures and the protocol and the
oversight of that very delicate yet very
important process.
One of the things that gives me as-
surance that our intelligence commu-
nity is operating within its guidelines
and the law is the oversight that Con-
gress provides on a regular basis. It is
the laws we pass, like the Foreign In-
telligence Surveillance Act. It is the
work being done by the committees,
the Select Committee on Intelligence.
I see Senator WYDEN from Oregon
who serves and served with distinction
on that committee for a long time, but
those intelligence committees, both in
the House and the Senate, provide es-
sential oversight of our intelligence
agencies to make sure they stay within
the hashmarks, to stay within the
guardrails that Congress prescribes
under the law.
Then there are the internal rules
used at the FBI, the National Security
Agency, the Central Intelligence Agen-
cy, that they have to comply with,
their own internal guidelines derived
from the authorities Congress provides.
Then there is a very important court
called the Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Court. When the FBI believes
they have to open an investigation into
a potential intelligence matter, they
can apply for a foreign intelligence sur-
veillance warrant, which opens up au-
thorities they can use to gather intel-
ligence to investigate this threat to na-
tional security of the United States,
but it is a very laborious and detailed
process.
They have to apply to the court, and
the court relies on the representations
made in that application. That is why
you have heard so much discussion in
recent months and even years about
the foreign intelligence surveillance
application issued on some of the peo-
ple affiliated with the Trump cam-
paign, including a man named Carter
Page. These documents are submitted
to a Federal court to determine wheth-
er the government should have access
to what would otherwise be private
communications.
In this instance, the question was:
Was there any indication Mr. Page was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.039 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6938 December 10, 2019
an agent of a foreign power and im-
properly using his relationship with
the Russian Government and the Rus-
sian intelligence services to become a
threat to the national security of the
United States?
I would think we would all agree, as
a fundamental matter, that spying on
an American citizen is no small thing,
but that is what we are talking about
here. There are strong and exhaustive
processes in place to prevent the gov-
ernment from abusing the powers pro-
vided under the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act, and that supports
where the Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Court comes into play.
This court, like most courts, relies
on the honesty and the accuracy and
the completeness of the information
provided to do its job properly, but we
know in the case of the Carter Page ap-
plication, there were a multitude of er-
rors. In fact, the inspector general has
identified 17 errors in the four different
applications for a warrant under the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act.
One of them jumps out at me because
it involves a lawyer in the general
counsel’s office at the FBI altering a
government record and intentionally
deceiving the FISA court about Carter
Page’s involvement with the intel-
ligence community—in this case an-
other member of the intelligence com-
munity, a Federal agency. But this
lawyer with the FBI Office of General
Counsel intentionally altered that
record so that, in the application for
the FISA warrant, the FBI would lit-
erally be relying and deceiving the
FISA court about the facts. That is a
grave and serious and profound prob-
lem.
We know there are a number of other
errors. That is hardly an error. That is
an intentional act for which I under-
stand the gentleman who made that
doctored email has now been referred
for a criminal investigation and per-
haps prosecution for intentionally vio-
lating the FBI’s policy and providing a
deceptive piece of information to the
FISA court.
Willingly, I know Mr. Horowitz is
going to be asked about political bias,
and he says there is no documentary or
testamentary indication of political
bias, but I think what this report dem-
onstrates is something a lot more seri-
ous than political bias. It demonstrates
an abuse of power that ought to con-
cern every American citizen because, if
these rogue agents at the FBI—pri-
marily the leadership of the FBI—can
do this to a Presidential candidate,
Donald Trump, or the President of the
United States, they can do it to any
one of us. What sort of power would we
have if the might of the Federal Gov-
ernment was concentrated in a raid
against us in this sort of investigation?
That is why we must take these sorts
of failures and intentional deceptions
very, very seriously.
Well, to make matters worse, we
know this application relied on the
deeply flawed Steele dossier. Well, the
Steele dossier was a piece of opposition
research produced by the Hillary Clin-
ton campaign against Donald Trump.
What they did is they hired a former
intelligence agent from the United
Kingdom, Mr. Steele, to generate what
has now been called a dossier. I want to
remind my colleagues that, when At-
torney General Barr testified before
the Judiciary Committee earlier this
year, I asked him if he could state with
confidence that the Steele dossier was
not a part of a Russian disinformation
campaign, and the Attorney General
said, no, he could not make that state-
ment with confidence.
He told the committee that this is
one of the areas he was reviewing as
part of his investigation, but he said,
‘‘I don’t think it’s entirely specula-
tive.’’
The inspector general touched on
this in his report but noted that an in-
vestigation of this dossier falls outside
the scope of the inspector general’s
oversight role. His job is primarily to
do oversight of the FBI and the Depart-
ment of Justice and not to investigate
these outside matters. But we need to
know with confidence whether this
Steele dossier was part of a Russian
disinformation campaign. We are all
profoundly concerned about foreign
countries becoming involved in our
elections, and there was no more intru-
sive means of getting involved in the
2016 election than the generation of
this dossier. We need to know its provi-
dence. We need to know whether this
was planted by our adversaries in order
to create distension and discord, which
has been obviously the result of this in-
vestigation for the last 3 years. So I
hope Attorney General Barr or U.S. At-
torney John Durham will be able to
provide clarity on this topic.
This is especially important consid-
ering we learned from this 400-page-
plus report that the dossier played a
central and essential role in the FISA
process. As time went on, a new and
even exculpatory or innocent informa-
tion was discovered. We know that the
information provided by the FBI in
these renewal applications for this
FISA warrant were not correct.
Well, the inspector general failed to
resolve whether the FISA was improp-
erly issued, but the report suggested
the FISA board is considering this
question, as well it should. I have never
sat on a FISA court, but I have spent 13
years as a State court judge. When you
lie to a judge, that judge takes it seri-
ously, and they have contempt powers
and other recourse when that happens.
So it is essential that the FISA court
weigh in.
Let me say once again, no American
should be subjected to this kind of
abuse of power by their own govern-
ment. That is why we need to restore
the public confidence in the FBI. I be-
lieve Director Chris Wray has begun
that process and make sure that these
types of egregious errors and inten-
tional acts do not become the norm.
Director Wray sent a letter to the
Department of Justice’s Office of In-
spector General, detailing actions his
agency will take to strengthen the
FISA processes and make these docu-
ments less susceptible to errors or in-
tentional alterations. I appreciate the
Director’s acknowledgement of these
problems under the agency’s previous
leadership and his commitment to pre-
venting similar errors and alterations.
That brings me to another concern.
This has to do with something called
the defensive briefings. This is some-
thing that Loretta Lynch, the former
Attorney General, said was routine in
counterintelligence matters. Let me
explain for a minute.
The FBI provides many different
functions. We are most familiar with
its law enforcement investigation func-
tion. They investigate potential crimes
and present that to the Department of
Justice, which then decides whether to
charge a person with a crime. That is
one of the most important roles the
FBI plays. But it also plays a very im-
portant role when it comes to counter-
intelligence; that is, countering the
malign activities of foreign nations
like Russia and China and the threats
they pose to our national security.
What Loretta Lynch told us is that
these defensive briefings are fairly
standard. It is an opportunity for the
FBI to advise the target of these
threats by a foreign influence so that
they can take steps to protect them-
selves. We know that both candidates,
Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump, re-
ceived something called the defensive
briefings in August of 2015.
The defensive briefing for the Trump
campaign lasted 13 minutes, according
to this report. It was a check-the-box,
perfunctory defensive briefing. I am
confident the FBI did not come in to
tell President Trump, then-Candidate
Trump: The Russians are checking the
doors and the windows, and they are
trying to break into your campaign.
You need to tell these people who are
affiliated with your campaign to keep
their eyes open and to knock off their
association with these likely Russian
intelligence officers.
At the time, the FBI believed the
Russians were infiltrating the Trump
campaign. The FBI should have told
them, but they didn’t. So this is dif-
ferent from a criminal investigation,
as I said.
The FBI was presented with a couple
of options when it came to advising the
Trump campaign. One was to provide
as much information as possible so
that they could have given a real, con-
structive briefing about known threats
and sufficient information to help the
Trump campaign mitigate the threat.
But that is not what the FBI did.
Option two was to provide a generic
briefing—no specifics, no names, no
real details, just a generic warning
that foreign governments are actively
working to interfere with the election
and maybe a little lecture about cyber
hygiene and why you should change
your passwords, maybe get dual au-
thentication when it comes to access-
ing websites and email, and not to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.041 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6939
December 10, 2019
click on those phishing emails that we
all get from time to time that could
unload a Trojan horse or some other
malware onto your computer. But that
is not what FBI did here either.
Somehow, the FBI managed to come
up with a third option, as documented
in this report. They used this briefing
not as a way to alert the Trump cam-
paign of potential threats from Russian
intelligence services; they used it as an
opportunity to conduct an investiga-
tion against General Flynn, who
worked on President Trump’s cam-
paign. They were even so bold as to in-
sert one of those investigatory
agents—part of the Crossfire Hurricane
investigative team—into that briefing
with President Trump and his cam-
paign.
Knowing that the FBI did that in this
case, I can’t imagine many campaigns
that would want a defensive briefing
because you, frankly, couldn’t trust
the intentions of these officials. Would
you believe that they were there to
share intelligence and help you protect
American national security or conduct
an investigation, unbeknownst to you?
When we talk about the need to se-
cure our elections from foreign inter-
ference, you can’t, in the process, de-
stroy public confidence in all of our in-
stitutions, including the FBI.
I want to be clear. I am glad Director
Wray addressed these defensive brief-
ings yesterday, among other matters. I
have confidence in Director Wray, and
I think a new leadership in the FBI
since all of this terrible period oc-
curred has been encouraging.
Director Wray has clarified what his
predecessors clearly missed, saying:
‘‘The FBI’s role in these briefings
should be for national security pur-
poses and not for investigative pur-
poses.’’
This report has left me with a num-
ber of questions and a lot of concerns,
and I am glad we will have the oppor-
tunity to ask Inspector General Horo-
witz more about this report tomorrow
in the Judiciary Committee.
It is important that we get to the
bottom of concerted efforts to deceive
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance
Court and the use of salacious and
unverified materials in order to justify
the issuance of these very sensitive
FISA warrants.
I believe some of the actions the in-
spector general has identified under-
mine public confidence in our public
safety and national security measures,
and that is something we should all be
willing to fight for.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, when the
Trump administration comes to an
end, it is going to leave behind a host
of sad and, I would consider, shameful
legacies, and right near the top of the
list will be the shocking number of
children who have lost healthcare cov-
erage under this administration.
I am sure folks can’t really see the
specific numbers here, but this trend
line is what is important, taking fig-
ures from the Census Department—peo-
ple who are not political; they are not
Democrats or Republicans. What this
chart, based on census data shows, is
that, for year after year after year, we
saw the number of uninsured kids in
America go down. That is something I
think was important for our country.
It said a lot about our values, and it
certainly said a lot about our
healthcare system.
Sure, we are going to spend more
than $3.5 trillion on healthcare. If you
were to divide that up into 320 million
Americans, you can send every family
of four a check for $40,000. So we are
spending enough on healthcare, but we
are not spending it in the right places.
In particular, I wanted to come to
the floor—and I am glad to see my
friend, the Presiding Officer, who has
worked with me on a variety of
healthcare issues; we have some areas
we are going to be talking about in the
days ahead. To me, one of the areas of
healthcare, until recently, we could all
take pride in was this chart, which no-
body could really see, but it showed
this trend line in which the number of
uninsured kids was going down.
Unfortunately, in the Trump admin-
istration, that trend line of years and
years and years of more kids getting
healthcare coverage has been reversed,
and now more kids are uninsured.
How did the Trump people do it?
They are not going to stand up in front
of a government agency and say: Oh,
we just don’t like kids. But what they
did is hurt those kids and their parents
by keeping them in the dark for years
while there were efforts, bipartisan
ones—my friend, who joined the Fi-
nance Committee recently, knows that
our previous chairman, Senator Hatch,
worked with me for a record-setting ex-
tension for the Children’s Health Insur-
ance Program. The efforts to expand
coverage for kids were all bipartisan—
always—going back, really, for decades
now, particularly on the Finance Com-
mittee.
I think of the late Senator John
Chafee and the late Senator John
Heinz—people whom I admire so
much—and they always wanted to find
common ground, Democrats and Re-
publicans, working for children. But
now the Trump administration, in the
dark, has come up with proposals that
have made it harder for parents to sign
up their kids, harder for them to stay
enrolled, and harder for these fami-
lies—parents with young kids—to even
know about their rights, their rights to
healthcare.
So now, as a result of the Trump ad-
ministration’s reversing this trend of
years and years of expanded coverage
for kids, we have hundreds of thou-
sands of parents clinging to the hope
that their kids don’t get hurt on the
playground, catch flu in the classroom,
or worse.
We know that this falls hardest on
the families walking an economic
tightrope. Every month they are bal-
ancing their food against their fuel
bill, their fuel bill against their
healthcare. One injury, one illness,
could be financially devastating for
these kids and their families, and it
can be a major setback for kids for
years, if not for the rest of their lives.
How is a sick kid supposed to succeed
in school and get ahead if they are un-
able to see a doctor when they have se-
rious illnesses?
I have mentioned that I know the
two sides—this side of the aisle and
that side of the aisle—can work to-
gether to find common ground on chil-
dren’s healthcare.
At the end of his service, Chairman
Hatch—who, as my colleague the dis-
tinguished Presiding Officer knows,
cared greatly about kids; he was very
involved with the late Senator Ted
Kennedy and others in coming up with
the children’s health plan—said: We
want to set a record. We want to get a
10-year extension of the Children’s
Health Insurance Program.
We managed to do it. But if you cut
the services for people to find out how
to get enrolled, stay enrolled, and if
there are changes in programs, those
changes in policy, which took place
when the Trump administration came
to Washington, rippled through very
quickly to communities across the
country where vulnerable Americans
depend on getting good quality
healthcare. I just think it is uncon-
scionable.
As I mentioned earlier in my re-
marks, for a country with the re-
sources America has, you wouldn’t step
in if you saw this trend of progress—
fewer uninsured kids—suddenly be re-
versed. And it really happened very
quickly. When the Trump administra-
tion took over, you would say: Hey,
let’s get Democrats and Republicans
together, pull out all the stops to fix it,
and get the trend line going in the
right direction again with more kids
getting healthcare coverage. We would
have had to take on the Trump admin-
istration here in the Congress. We
would have had to take on all of those
programs in which the Trump adminis-
tration made it harder for kids to get
enrolled and to stay enrolled, but it
would have been the right thing. It
would have been the right thing for
Democrats and Republicans in the Con-
gress to step in and take on the Trump
administration and say: Look, we un-
derstand there can be debates and dif-
ferences of opinion, but you don’t score
points by attacking the services for
children available under the Affordable
Care Act.
I am going to keep working to re-
verse this crisis. My colleagues have
been coming from this side of the aisle
all through the day to talk about this
scourge: the reversal of the trend in
this country with respect to healthcare
coverage. We used to be expanding it
for kids. Now it is going the other way.
The amount of coverage is being re-
duced.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.043 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6940 December 10, 2019
I just want to say, as the ranking
Democrat on the Senate Finance Com-
mittee, which has jurisdiction over
many of the healthcare programs that
are most important for kids and fami-
lies on an economic tightrope, I and I
know my colleagues on the Finance
Committee—several of whom have spo-
ken over the last few days on this sub-
ject—would be glad to work with any
Republican in this Senate who wants
to turn this around. If any Republican
is listening to this and wants to come
to the floor and say: I am interested. I
am interested in turning around this
ominous trend. I am interested in turn-
ing around this trend where healthcare
coverage for kids is going down, and I
want to work with Democrats to do it,
I will commit, as the ranking Demo-
crat on the Finance Committee, to say:
Thank goodness. We have to get on
this. This is too important to our coun-
try and to our future to just sit idly by
and say we are going to reduce the
number of kids who are getting
healthcare coverage because we are not
going to give parents the opportunity
to find out how to get enrolled and
stay enrolled and know what their
rights are.
A country as strong and good and
rich as ours ought to be looking for
every possible opportunity to help kids
get ahead in life. That, in my view,
starts with access to healthcare. Right
up at the top of the list, it starts, in
my view, by saying that this trend
line, which after years and years of
showing more kids were getting cov-
ered, is now going the other way, and
fewer kids are getting covered. We are
going to say, as a body in the U.S. Sen-
ate: We are going to change that, and
in a country that is as strong and good
and rich as ours, those vulnerable fami-
lies are going to be able to get
healthcare again.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
order for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
LEGISLATIVE WORK
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, it has been so interesting today
to hear my colleagues talk about the
things we have done this year, the
things we have to get done before the
end of the year that haven’t been ad-
dressed yet, and then things that need
to be addressed this next year in 2020.
I will tell you, 2019, for me, I look at
it as, I would say, successes and stalls
and then some forward motion on some
really important pieces of legislation.
To get there, we really have had some
fairly intense debates, which have
prompted our constituents and those
back in Tennessee to have their own
discussions about what they think is or
is not happening here in Washington,
DC.
My hope is that their debates around
the kitchen table are sometimes less
heated than ours, and certainly I hope
that their Thanksgiving table debates
were less heated than some of these
that you see taking place here.
Tennesseans, like a lot of Americans,
when they end up talking about what
we are or are not doing here in Con-
gress, they revert back to first prin-
ciples. I cannot tell you the number of
times over this past holiday that I
heard people say: Look, for me, it is all
about freedom. It is all about defending
the freedoms that we have—protecting
that life, liberty, and pursuit of happi-
ness.
They are looking at that. It is fair to
say they think in the long term. While
many times I think the media here in
DC just follows that shiny object story
of the day, whatever is generating
clicks and likes and headlines, that is
where they are, but Tennesseans are
not focused that way. What they would
like to see is for our actions here in
Washington to be taken in a way that
are going to keep them and their
neighborhoods and their friends safe
and secure and healthy and free and
keep them out of the reach of govern-
ment overreach, if you will.
As someone said to me last weekend,
‘‘I just want the Federal Government
off my back and out of my pocketbook.
I want to be able to keep working and
keep growing my business.’’ A lot of
people are there.
Now, we have seen movement this
week. A very good thing that has hap-
pened is the National Defense Author-
ization Act. I know that Madam Presi-
dent has worked tirelessly on this, as
have I, for all of our military commu-
nity members in Tennessee. We have
been very pleased that we are going to
see Fort Campbell and the divisions
that call Fort Campbell home getting
the funds and the equipment they need
in order to protect themselves and to
do their jobs—whether it is Chinooks
or more training capacity or equip-
ment and also an emphasis on making
certain that we are keeping their
homes safe so those families are safe in
that military on-post housing, that
privatized housing, while their loved
ones are deployed.
While we are looking at other compo-
nents of the NDAA, Tennesseans have
been very concerned and are very
pleased, I will say, about what has
transpired with Oak Ridge National
Labs and Y–12. Oak Ridge is a treasure
for our Nation, and much of the re-
search in supercomputing and
hypersonics is being done there.
Also, in the Senate this year, we are
paying attention to the implementa-
tion of legislation very important to
our songwriters. I know you have heard
me say, time and again, that Middle
Tennessee, Nashville, is one of the
most creative communities on the face
of the Earth and home to more song-
writers than anywhere else on the face
of the Earth, and the Music Moderniza-
tion Act is going to make certain that
Nashville artists and songwriters are
being paid fairly for the work they are
creating. We are pleased that these are
all things we have worked hard on, and
we see these as priorities.
When it comes to a legislative agen-
da that has taken much of my time, I
started this term in the Senate work-
ing on some things that protect the un-
born, much as I had done in my service
in the House. The first bill I introduced
over here was the Title X Abortion
Provider Prohibition Act, and this is
something Tennesseans wanted to see
done to make certain that tax dollars
would not be used to fund or support
abortion providers, and it would not go
to those clinics.
What Tennesseans wanted to see was
those tax dollars being put to work in
rural healthcare and enable access to
healthcare for women and for individ-
uals who did not have access to basic
healthcare needs. Our State has been
hit hard by rural hospital closures, and
thousands of Tennesseans are now
forced to drive miles out of their way
to seek basic care. I will tell you, this
is concerning, especially for the people
living in the most remote areas of the
State for whom there is no such thing
as a quick ride or a quick ambulance
trip to the hospital. It is miles of trav-
el sometimes, when those minutes are
very precious and they feel that time is
passing quickly and it is critical to get
to that care.
As part of my work this year, I have
worked on and developed a rural health
agenda, which has earned bipartisan
support here. I thank Senator DURBIN
for his work with me on this. I will tell
you, this is legislation that, yes, it has
bipartisan support here, but it has a lot
of support scattered around the coun-
try.
What this will do is support the es-
tablishment and expansion of medical
facilities in rural areas. It will help
doctors and other medical practi-
tioners set up shop outside of the more
convenient and lucrative urban bub-
bles. It also will enable telemedicine so
that you are taking healthcare out to
these areas that have a difficult time
getting in.
Speaking of the urban bubble, a lack
of access to healthcare isn’t the only
thing that is causing headaches right
now in rural America. Here, in Wash-
ington, we don’t have to worry about
having a reliable phone signal or an
internet connection. We are really for-
tunate in that regard. We know when
we click on, it is just going to work,
but outside of America’s metropolitan
areas, communities that lack these re-
sources are falling behind. My Internet
Exchange Act will ensure that rural
areas are able to build and maintain
the infrastructure needed to support
high-speed internet connections, which
will in turn support business growth
and e-commerce and encourage invest-
ment from outside corporations look-
ing to expand.
You cannot have 21st century edu-
cation, economic development,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:17 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.045 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6941
December 10, 2019
healthcare, or law enforcement with-
out access to high-speed internet. Con-
tinuing to close that digital divide is a
priority, and I thank my colleagues for
the good progress we have made this
year.
Of course, that connectivity comes
with a price. Opening ourselves up to
the online world means opening our-
selves up to the possibilities of cyber
attacks. This is a problem we have to
approach as a matter of national secu-
rity, as well as on the corporate side
and in our homes.
In addition to funding for military
pay raises and upgraded equipment,
this year’s NDAA, or the National De-
fense Authorization Act, includes sup-
port for the assessment and expansion
of our cyber warfighting capabilities.
As I said, that is only one very impor-
tant part of the equation. While I was
serving in the House and before I came
to the Senate, I worked on legislation
that will get consumers all the infor-
mation they need in order to make a
decision about how they want to share
their private information and to whom
they want to give access to that infor-
mation.
Once passed, my bipartisan BROWS-
ER Act will give consumers more con-
trol over how big tech uses their per-
sonal data. You, the consumer, should
be able to own your virtual you. You
should be able to protect your presence
online, just as you are able to protect
your being yourself in the physical
space.
In return, tech companies will be free
to innovate and use that data to build
their platforms, and that is what helps
make them profitable—new innova-
tions. They can do that as long as they
respect your wishes on how you want
them to use your data.
As head of the Judiciary Committee’s
tech task force—and I do thank Sen-
ator FEINSTEIN for her leadership in
leading this group at the Judiciary
Committee—I have had the privilege of
bringing both sides together on this de-
bate and to the table to have produc-
tive discussions on how to responsibly
regulate big tech. I look forward to
continuing that in the New Year.
As we draw to a close, I remind my
colleagues that in Tennessee people re-
mind me regularly that we are a gov-
ernment of the people, by the people,
and for the people. As we talk about
things that have been done this year
and things that we need to do before
the end of the year—things like getting
VAWA passed—we need to remember
that for all of the shiny-object stories
that circulate around here every single
day, the people back home are saying:
Your responsibility is to care for the
issues that are important to me. That
is where they would like to see us
spending our time.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
have one very short remark that I want
to make and then longer remarks to
my colleagues.
IMPEACHMENT
Madam President, House Democrats
announced that they are moving to im-
peach President Trump for—in their
words—abuse of power. When all of this
started, Democrats said the President
committed a quid pro quo, but that
didn’t poll very well among the Amer-
ican people. At that point, the House
Democrats switched to an accusation
of bribery against the President.
Maybe that didn’t poll well either or
maybe they discovered that history
doesn’t support their definition. Fi-
nally, they settled on abuse of power.
It is kind of like a Goldilocks im-
peachment. The ‘‘quid pro quo’’ bowl
was too cold, and the bribery bowl was
too hot. But, apparently, abuse of
power tastes just right, while the
American people are increasingly get-
ting a bad taste in their mouth about
the Democrats’ partisan impeachment
story.
RUSSIA INVESTIGATION
Madam President, I want to com-
ment on the Horowitz report, out yes-
terday. On Monday of this week, the
Justice Department inspector general
released his report on the Justice De-
partment and the FBI investigation
into the debunked theory that the
Trump campaign colluded with the
Russian Government. I have pushed to
shine a light on the origins of the FBI
Russia investigation for more than 21⁄2
years. You can see that it has been a
long road.
When information is embarrassing,
the FBI has a way of fighting tooth and
nail to keep it all secret, to keep it
heavily classified. The FBI is hiding
behind vague procedural excuses about
protecting the integrity of ongoing in-
vestigations and all kinds of excuses
not to come forth and not to let public
information come forward that might
embarrass them.
In this case, they put up a wall. You
have to keep swinging in order to crack
that wall. I started looking into the
origins of the FBI’s corrupt Russia in-
vestigation way back in March of 2017.
At that time, it became clear that the
FBI had used Christopher Steele’s work
to investigate then-Candidate Donald
Trump. This was all done even though
the FBI knew that Steele was working
for an organization called Fusion GPS.
Fusion GPS is an opposition research
firm paid for by the Democratic Na-
tional Committee and the Clinton cam-
paign. The FBI knew that.
When the FBI didn’t answer my ques-
tions, I used my authority as chairman
of the Senate Judiciary Committee to
hold up the nomination of Deputy At-
torney General Rosenstein. That got
the Judiciary Committee a briefing
from the FBI. It consisted of a lot of
veiled half answers and assertions that
somehow Christopher Steele was reli-
able. We all know that he wasn’t reli-
able. I will give details on that shortly.
In June of 2017, I asked the FBI to
produce all the FISA applications re-
lated to its Russia investigation. After
6 months of wrangling, in December
2017, Senator GRAHAM, Senator FEIN-
STEIN, and I were permitted to review
the four FISA applications in which
the FBI sought authority to surveil
former Trump campaign staffer Carter
Page, as well as a number of classified
documents relating to Mr. Steele.
I also directed my staff to look in
public places that others were ignor-
ing. That led us to Mr. Steele’s court
filings in London. What my staff found
was that Mr. Steele had admitted to
passing some of the contents of his dos-
sier far and wide to media organiza-
tions. That raised a very important
question about whether information
Steele gathered was open to manipula-
tion or just part of one big feedback
loop.
We also learned that, according to
the FBI, Steele had told the FBI he had
not spoken to the media about his find-
ings, and that was in direct contradic-
tion to what he said in court in Lon-
don.
After reviewing all of this informa-
tion, Senator GRAHAM and I wrote a
letter referring Mr. Steele to the FBI
for potential violation of 18 USC 1001.
That section of the code makes charges
of lying to the FBI. At the heart of our
referral was an 8-page memorandum
that laid out much of what we had
learned from my investigative efforts
at that point.
We now know from the IG report that
the FBI top brass was aware of Mr.
Steele’s statements to the British
court in spring 2017, but the FBI never
accessed those filings and never consid-
ered telling the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court that its assurances
about Steele’s third party contacts
were in fact wrong.
As soon as the referral went out, I
began pushing the FBI to declassify as
much of those referrals as possible. The
FBI resisted my efforts every step of
the way because this is probably going
to be very embarrassing to them.
My fight to make information in the
referral memo public was helped along
very directly by President Trump, who
declassified a memo prepared by the
House Intelligence Committee that
touched a number of the same topics.
In February 2018, Senator GRAHAM
and I also wrote Inspector General
Horowitz to call his attention to every-
thing we had learned and request that
he conduct a comprehensive review of
improper political influence, mis-
conduct, and mismanagement of the
FBI’s Russia investigation.
My efforts have been based on my in-
vestigative activity and also the over-
riding need for more transparency from
the American Government because
transparency brings accountability.
After the release of the Russia re-
port, there had better be account-
ability. The inspector general’s find-
ings ought to concern every single
Member of this Chamber because it
concerns the American people. We the
people have a profound, deep, and abid-
ing respect for fundamental constitu-
tional rights. These fundamental rights
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.046 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6942 December 10, 2019
have not been granted or created by
the government. Our rights are God-
given. Our rights are inalienable, and
our rights are self-evident. The inspec-
tor general’s report shows that despite
all the checks we put in place to ensure
the government will not infringe on
those rights without proper cause, it is
still possible for bad actors to lie, for
bad actors to withhold information,
and for bad actors to doctor documents
in order to get around those safeguards
to achieve their own goals.
The inspector general’s report has fi-
nally let some light shine on the
wrongdoing that occurred with the
Justice Department and the FBI during
this infamous Russia investigation.
Let’s start then with that Steele dos-
sier. The Steele dossier played a very
‘‘central’’ and ‘‘essential’’ role in the
Russia investigation, according to the
inspector general’s report. Those
words, ‘‘central’’ and ‘‘essential,’’ come
from the report.
Before the FBI got it, they tried to
open a FISA on Carter Page, and there
wasn’t enough evidence, but once the
dossier was acquired, that was the tip-
ping point for the FBI to tell the FISA
Court that it had probable cause that
an American citizen was an agent of a
foreign government.
We now know that this central and
essential document was not even a fin-
ished product. The dossier was based on
single-source reporting, and Steele
wasn’t even the original source. He had
a primary subsource who used multiple
sources who, we now know, didn’t even
have direct access to the people they
were reporting on. Some of these
sources were Russian Government offi-
cials. We are talking about many,
many levels of hearsay.
Well, the FBI got around to inter-
viewing that primary subsource but
only after the FBI opened a FISA war-
rant on Carter Page. Think about that,
will you? The FBI used one of the most
powerful and invasive investigative
tools without first verifying the infor-
mation it provided the court. The pri-
mary subsource raised the following
issues: One, Steele had reliability
issues; two, the primary subsource had
not seen the dossier until it was made
public; three, Steele misstated and ex-
aggerated claims; four, the primary
subsource didn’t think his or her mate-
rial would be in the report; five, much
of the information in the dossier was
based on rumors, including conversa-
tions over beers, we are told, or some
of those conversations were made in
jest; and lastly, six, none of this mate-
rial in the dossier had been corrobo-
rated.
After the FBI acquired this informa-
tion, subsequent FISA renewals contin-
ued to rely on this same document that
had lost all credibility, and everybody
knew it. They had relied on the Steele
information with no revision or notice
to the court that the primary sub-
source contradicted Steele. Simply
said, that is a fraud on the court. So
the FBI couldn’t get a FISA warrant
until they got the dossier, and then
they kept renewing the warrant despite
very clear evidence that the dossier
was faulty.
It looks to me as though the FBI
couldn’t get their way, so they used
whatever information they could,
whether it was false or not, all to ac-
complish their goal. Their goal was
pursuing an inquiry into the Trump
campaign.
We all know about one of Strzok’s in-
famous text exchanges. Page said this
in the text: ‘‘[Trump’s] not ever going
to become President, right? Right?!’’
Strzok said: ‘‘No. No he’s not. We’ll
stop it.’’
These are people involved with the
FBI with a very anti-Trump agenda.
So we go back. The FBI had a plan,
and they would do anything. The FBI
would do anything to keep that plan
going. The information loop was con-
taminated from the start, and nobody
at the FBI seemed to give a rip about
it. They just wanted to continue the
investigation into Trump. A part of
that investigation included using de-
fensive briefings for the Trump cam-
paign—Can you believe this?—as a
means to collect information relative
to the Russia investigation and the
General Flynn investigation. Would
you believe that the FBI decided not to
defensively brief the Trump campaign
on alleged Russian attempts to inter-
fere with the election—information
that served as a predicate to opening
this inquiry? But the FBI did decide to
use the briefings as an intelligence-
gathering operation.
Why wouldn’t the FBI simply give
the Trump campaign a heads-up on any
and all threats? They were looking out
for his safety. Why would they hide the
ball? We know that they did so for
prior Presidential campaigns, so if they
did it for every Presidential campaign,
why wouldn’t they do it for Trump?
Again, the FBI had a plan, and they
would do anything to keep that plan
going.
Another disturbing finding in the re-
port is that the FBI recorded Page and
Papadopoulos before the FISA warrant
was issued. But it is unclear who the
FBI used to record them. Did they
work for another government? Was it a
spy?
Both of these recordings offered ex-
culpatory evidence that was withheld
from the FISA Court. The FISA Court
should have known this information,
but it didn’t. Included were denials
that anyone associated with the Trump
campaign was collaborating with Rus-
sia or with outside groups like
WikiLeaks in the release of emails and,
No. 2, that Page had never met or said
one word to Paul Manafort and that
Manafort never responded to Page’s
emails. To that second point, the dos-
sier said that Page participated in a
conspiracy with Russia to act as an
intermediary for Manafort on behalf of
the Trump campaign. None of that in-
formation is accurate.
The Steele dossier served as a—again,
these words—‘‘central and essential
role’’ in the FBI’s investigation, yet it
was filled with inaccurate and very
false statements. It is important to re-
member that the FBI knew all of this.
They knew about those faults all the
time, and they did nothing to apprise
the FISA Court, and they had a respon-
sibility to do that. In fact, as it turns
out, the FBI actively altered docu-
ments to make a better case for them-
selves.
The FBI altered documents. One FBI
official altered an email from another
government agency to say that Page
‘‘was not a source’’ for that agency,
when, in fact, Page was with that agen-
cy.
The FBI relied on the false state-
ments to renew the FISA warrant.
That means that the FBI used Page’s
work, apparently, for the American
Government as evidence that he was a
Russian agent. The FBI couldn’t get
their way unless they literally falsified
documents to the court to spy on an
American citizen working for the
Trump campaign. That ought to shock
everybody in this country. The con-
science of every citizen ought to be
bothered that the FBI can do that. If it
can happen to Carter Page, it can hap-
pen to any one of us.
The inspector general report also spe-
cifically identified 17 errors and omis-
sions during the Carter Page FISA
process and additional errors in the
Woods procedures. Wrong and incom-
plete information was passed through
the chain of command for those ap-
proving the FISA warrants. After the
inspector general interviewed within
the FBI chain of command, the inspec-
tor general had this to say:
In most instances, the agents and super-
visors told us that they either did not know
or recall why the information was not shared
with the [Office of Intelligence], that the
failure to do so may have been an oversight,
that they did not recognize at the time the
relevance of the information to the FISA ap-
plication, or that they did not believe the
missing information to be significant.
Regarding that last point, that they
did not believe the missing information
to be significant, the inspector general
noted that ‘‘we believe that case agents
may have improperly substituted their
own judgments in place of the judg-
ment of [the Office of Intelligence] . . .
or in place of the court to weigh the
probative value of the information.’’
That is a very extraordinary finding.
We all know about the politically
charged anti-Trump texts that were ex-
changed among FBI officials who didn’t
want Trump elected, and they probably
hate him to this very day, including an
FBI lawyer who altered documents—an
FBI agent did this—to support the
FISA application. Clearly, that bias af-
fected the decision-making process. In-
deed, the inspector general noted that
in light of the substantial and funda-
mental errors in the FISA process,
there are ‘‘significant questions regard-
ing the FBI’s chain of command man-
agement and supervision of the FISA
process.’’
Really, it is quite obvious that some-
thing was terribly wrong. For example,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.048 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6943
December 10, 2019
Stu Evans, the DOJ National Security
Division official with oversight of the
FISA process, did not even know that
Bruce Ohr, another DOJ official, had
been in communication with the FBI
about the Russia investigation. He
didn’t know that Ohr had been inter-
viewed by the FBI until he saw the
Grassley-Graham referral.
Ultimately, the inspector general
was not able to interview everyone in-
volved in the chain of command to the
extent that the inspector general want-
ed to do that. For example, James
Comey and Jim Baker, the former FBI
general counsel, did not request that
their clearances be reinstated for the
interviews. Quite obviously, they
didn’t want to be interviewed. That
means the inspector general was un-
able to ask them classified questions
related to their conduct.
Comey claims that he is transparent,
but he clearly wasn’t in this case.
Moreover, Glenn Simpson and Jona-
than Winer—the latter a former State
Department official—refused to sit for
any interviews at all. These individuals
played key roles in the Russia inves-
tigation. It is a shame that they didn’t
want to speak up. So can’t we legiti-
mately ask: What are they trying to
hide? From what I have seen, they are
trying to hide an awful lot.
With all that said, the FBI’s FISA-re-
lated behavior has been so bad that the
inspector general has initiated a com-
prehensive audit that will fully exam-
ine the FBI’s compliance with the
Woods procedures. In the past, when
there has been evidence of our govern-
ment improperly infringing on the civil
liberties of American citizens, we as a
nation have firmly rejected that course
of action. We have taken those mo-
ments as real opportunities to
strengthen our resolve and to renew
our commitment to the values that we
all share about our God-given liberties
and freedoms.
Under the leadership of J. Edgar Hoo-
ver, from about 1920 to 1969, which was
when he died, the FBI would wiretap,
recruit secret informants, and fix the
paperwork in ways that trampled on
the rights of ordinary Americans as a
matter of practice. In those times of
the FBI, it was business as usual. Let’s
hope it doesn’t become business as
usual now. That is why, during the
1970s, because of the abuse of J. Edgar
Hoover, this Chamber undertook vig-
orous oversight efforts, under the lead-
ership of the late Senator Frank
Church, to shine a light on the excesses
and abuses of our intelligence bureauc-
racy.
Based on what we learned from that
inquiry 40 years ago, Congress passed
FISA. This legislation establishes pro-
tections to ensure that government bu-
reaucrats can’t just spy on American
citizens willy-nilly, whenever they feel
like it. In order to surveil an American
citizen, the FBI must acquire a lawful
order and do it from a court of law. We
give those in the FBI that power along
with an expectation that they will do
their due diligence in using it.
We have found out now, during this
Russia investigation, that those in the
FBI—in this decade—did not do that
due diligence. We give this with the ex-
pectation that they will provide the
court full and accurate information,
which they didn’t provide to the FISA
court in regard to the Russia investiga-
tion; that they will follow the rule of
law and their own internal guidelines;
and that they will respect the bound-
aries Congress has set for them, in-
stead of reverting to the freewheeling
and very heavy-handed tactics that
they embraced in the past.
Most of the hard-working men and
women in our Department of Justice
and in our FBI today understand and
truly respect these boundaries. How-
ever, it seems old habits really die very
hard. Politics has crept back into the
FBI’s work, at least at the highest lev-
els. The actions that were taken by
Obama and Comey’s FBI sound an
awful lot like the ones taken under
Hoover.
Where do we go from here? We have
to learn from our past mistakes. I have
said it before, and I will say it again:
Sunlight is the best disinfectant.
Transparency brings accountability. It
helps us take reasoned steps to ensure
that the mistakes of the past will not
be repeated in the future.
After what I believe was far too long
a wait, I am happy to have finally re-
ceived this Horowitz report that we
call the inspector general’s report. I
thank IG Horowitz and his staff for all
of their hard work. I am pleased to see
that much of the inspector general’s
report is publicly available. Once
again, this is due in no small part to
President Trump’s unprecedented com-
mitment to transparency.
I appreciate the President’s willing-
ness to grant Attorney General Barr
broad declassification authority, and I
appreciate Attorney General Barr’s
willingness to use that authority to
bring much of what happened out into
the open. It is an important first step
towards ensuring accountability. Of
course, there are still many, many un-
answered questions.
In going forward, I eagerly await Mr.
Durham’s findings with respect to how
the intelligence community handled its
part of the corrupted Russia investiga-
tion. Mr. Durham is the U.S. attorney
in Connecticut, but he has been award-
ed by Mr. Barr the responsibility of
getting to the bottom of all of these
problems that I am talking about now
and a lot of other problems. Unlike
Horowitz, Mr. Durham has authority to
prosecute, and he has already opened
criminal investigations.
In the sense of Mr. Durham’s work, I
view this most recent inspector gen-
eral’s report as just one part in a
multi-part act. Durham’s public com-
ments make clear that he finds issue
with whether the opening of the Russia
investigation was properly predicated.
His findings may prove critical to fi-
nally and fully understanding what
happened during the Obama adminis-
tration’s fabricated investigation into
Trump.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
KENTUCKY NEW ERA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
it is with great pride that I pay tribute
to a long-standing community institu-
tion in southwestern Kentucky. The
Kentucky New Era newspaper recently
marked 150 years of quality journalism
and community engagement, and I
would like to take a moment today to
review the paper’s distinguished his-
tory and celebrate its many achieve-
ments.
Prominent Kentucky newsman Chip
Hutcheson, whom I am proud to call a
dear friend, spent years working for
the New Era, and he summed up the
reason it has thrived for so long. Chip
recalled a paper-wide culture of writing
‘‘columns that cemented readers’ rela-
tionships to the writer and the paper.’’
I think it is that commitment to read-
ers and to what matters in their lives
and community that has helped make
the New Era the oldest business in
Hopkinsville, KY.
Since the paper was launched as a
weekly publication in the winter of
1869, the New Era has certainly under-
gone some change to solidify its rela-
tionship with readers. To meet a de-
mand for local, State, and national
news, the New Era added a daily issue,
and delivered the news and com-
mentary its subscribers wanted to
read. Part of that frequent change dur-
ing the early years came in the form of
different owners, but in 1873, Hunter
Wood took charge, and his family
would steer the New Era as majority
owners for the following 130-plus years.
Under their direction, the paper cov-
ered a wide range of issues affecting
life in Christian County. From politics
to agriculture, mixed with lighter com-
munity-interest pieces and extensive
coverage of high school sports, the New
Era has served as a important source of
information for its readers. Its staff
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.050 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6944 December 10, 2019
would attract several award-winning
journalists, including my friend Mary
D. Ferguson, who held a high standard
on its pages.
Adapting to changing markets, the
New Era expanded its operations. To
serve the nearby U.S. Army installa-
tion, the paper’s media group began
publishing the Fort Campbell Courier.
Other respected local papers, including
the Princeton Times Leader, the Provi-
dence Journal Enterprise, and Dawson
Springs Progress, joined the New Era’s
organization to further stretch the
reach of its community journalism. In
whatever form subscribers want to re-
ceive their news—in print, online, or
even listening to a podcast—the New
Era is committed to reporting on the
stories that must be told.
Just last year, the paper joined an-
other well-respected Kentucky news in-
stitution, the Paxton Media Group.
With this partnership, the Kentucky
New Era has the ability to continue
thriving into the future. Through the
years, I have enjoyed reading the paper
and speaking with its top-tier profes-
sionals, and I look forward to many
more accomplishments to come.
It is a privilege to congratulate the
Kentucky New Era on its celebration of
150 years of journalistic success, and I
hope my Senate colleagues will join me
in saluting this community institution
on its anniversary. I would like to ex-
tend my best wishes to the reporters,
editors, and staff who have made the
New Era a vital resource in west Ken-
tucky.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHN CULLERTON
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, this
January, it will be 12 years since Illi-
nois banned smoking in businesses. In
2008, the Smoke-Free Illinois Act went
into effect and changed the lives of
people throughout the State. There has
been a 20-percent decrease in hos-
pitalizations for conditions aggravated
by secondhand smoke, like asthma,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease,
and heart attacks. High school smok-
ing rates have fallen more than 53 per-
cent since then. This is real change.
My friend, Illinois Senate President
John Cullerton, led that fight to save
lives. His storied career is one of work-
ing for good government and the safety
of people. In January, he will be retir-
ing, and I want to take this time to
honor him.
John grew up in the village of Win-
field in DuPage County. His family has
deep roots in Illinois as one of the
original settlers in Chicago in 1835. If
you are wandering Chicago, you might
come across Cullerton Street, which
used to be 20th Street. It was named
after John’s great-grandfather’s broth-
er, Edward ‘‘Foxy’’ Cullerton. Edward,
originally elected to Chicago city
council in 1871, served one of the long-
est tenures as a Chicago alderman in
the city’s history. The Cullertons have
been a staple of Illinois politics ever
since.
Though it may seem like the
Cullerton family is just filled with
politicians, John’s father and paternal
grandfather were electricians. In fact,
most of his immediate family was not
political. John’s role model was his
maternal grandfather, Tom Tyrell, a
real-estate lawyer in Chicago. At 12
years old, John wanted to be a lawyer
because of him. His grandfather would
give legal lessons at the dinner table.
He would cut cherry pie and explain
how corporations have shares.
John went to Loyola University Chi-
cago and earned a bachelor’s degree in
political science. He stayed at Loyola
to study law. John also served in the
Illinois National Guard from 1970 to
1976. In law school, John experienced
firsthand how litigation can bring
change. As president of the Loyola Uni-
versity Chicago Student Bar Associa-
tion, he saw his fellow students draft a
complaint against the school for not
providing adequate facilities for the
law school. The students hired a lawyer
and actually negotiated a deal without
filing a lawsuit. A few years after John
and his classmates graduated, a brand-
new law school was built at the corner
of Pearson and State in Chicago, which
still stands today.
John’s first job was working as a Chi-
cago assistant public defender. For 5
years, he was on the frontlines of law
defending people. In 1976, John earned
his first political experience by being
elected to be a delegate to the Demo-
cratic National Convention. Though
John’s immediate family was not very
political, his cousin Parky Cullerton
was Cook County tax assessor at the
time. Parky’s influence convinced him
that he could run for the Illinois House
of Representatives, and he won in 1978.
In 1988, John joined Fagel Haber,
which later became Thompson Coburn
Fagel Haber, where he still is a partner
today. In 1990, John was appointed to
fill then-State Senator Dawn Clark
Netsch’s seat. John won the seat on his
own right in 1992, representing the Chi-
cago Cubs’ neighborhood of
Wrigleyville, but he remained a loyal
White Sox fan.
John thrived in the Senate. Between
2003 and 2006, he sponsored more bills
and had more bills signed by the Gov-
ernor than any other legislator. John
dedicated himself to things like traffic
safety, gun control, reforming the
criminal justice system, and tobacco
regulation. John would work with any-
one for a greater good. He always made
it a point of going out to dinner not
just with Democratic State senators
but with Republican ones too.
In 2008, the senate Democratic caucus
chose John to be senate president. Im-
mediately, John prioritized an infra-
structure bill that had not passed in 10
years at the time. John has steered the
senate through many tough times. He
can proudly say that, during his time,
Illinois passed two capital funding
bills, marriage equality, an abolish-
ment of the death penalty, school fund-
ing reform, and immigration reform.
John has encouraged bipartisanship
and cooperation through all of it.
For 41 years, John has served with a
sense of justice, friendship, and even
comedy. He regularly performed at an
annual event at the legendary Second
City Chicago Theater. His imperson-
ation of then-Mayor Richard J. Daley
earned him the crown of Mr. Wonderful
from the Conference of Women Legisla-
tors in 1979.
John retiring from the senate will
allow him to spend more time with his
wife Pam and his kids Maggie, Garritt,
Carroll, John III, and Josephine, and
his three grandchildren. I am privi-
leged to call him a friend and look for-
ward to all the new things he will take
on in the future.
(At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
following statement was ordered to be
printed in the RECORD.)
∑ Ms. HARRIS. Madam President, I
was absent but had I been present, I
would have voted no on rollcall vote
No. 383 the confirmation of Executive
Calendar No. 479, Richard Ernest Myers
II, of North Carolina, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of North Carolina.
Madam President, I was absent but
had I been present, I would have voted
no on rollcall vote No. 384, the con-
firmation of Executive Calendar No.
489, Sherri A. Lydon, of South Caro-
lina, to be United States District Judge
for the District of South Carolina.
Madam President, I was absent but
had I been present I would have voted
no on rollcall vote No. 386, the motion
to invoke cloture on Executive Cal-
endar No. 533, Patrick J. Bumatay, of
California, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
f
THE OVER-THE-COUNTER MONO-
GRAPH SAFETY, INNOVATION,
AND REFORM ACT
Mr. CASEY. Madam President,
today, the Senate passed S. 2740, the
Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety,
Innovation, and Reform Act of 2019,
which will completely overhaul and
improve how the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration—FDA—regulates over-
the-counter—OTC—or nonprescription,
drugs. These medicines are used by
Americans every day, but our regu-
latory system has been stuck in the
1970s and has not kept pace with inno-
vation or the need to ensure appro-
priate consumer protections. Senator
JOHNNY ISAKSON and I have been work-
ing on this legislation since 2016.
This legislation creates a modern
regulatory system for OTC drugs, pro-
viding the FDA with new resources to
be able to review changes to existing
OTC drugs and allow the marketing of
new OTC drugs. FDA will have the au-
thority to take swift action to protect
the American public if a serious prob-
lem arises and to make changes to how
OTC drugs are allowed to be sold if the
science indicates that the steps are
necessary to ensure that these prod-
ucts are used safely.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:17 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.025 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6945
December 10, 2019
The Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act of
2019 establishes a streamlined adminis-
trative process which allows the FDA
to modify a drug’s safety labeling to
address new health risks. The act is in-
tended to modernize and accelerate
regulatory procedures applicable to
OTC drugs and will also allow for in-
creased innovation. However, patient
safety and manufacturer account-
ability are of equal importance. As
such, nothing in this act is intended to
change, diminish, or prohibit a manu-
facturer from performing any duty or
complying with any requirement to
warn consumers that exists under
State or Federal law or to prevent any
labeling changes pursuant to any other
applicable provision of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or FDA
regulation. It is imperative that con-
sumers have accurate information re-
garding the safety of over-the-counter
drugs, and this bill is intended to im-
prove that process while maintaining
the existing rights of consumers to ac-
cess the courts and hold manufacturers
accountable when harmed.
This legislation has bipartisan sup-
port and also broad support from key
stakeholders in public health,
healthcare, and industry. I am deeply
grateful for the work of my colleagues,
notably Senator JOHNNY ISAKSON—the
bill’s sponsor; and the chairman and
ranking Member of the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions, Senator LAMAR ALEXANDER and
Senator PATTY MURRAY, and their
staffs for their continued support for
this important effort. As a result of our
work, American consumers will be able
to have greater confidence in their
over-the-counter drugs and will benefit
from new innovation in the years to
come.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I
thank Senator CASEY for his leadership
on this important issue and agree
wholeheartedly with his statement on
S. 2740, the Over-the-Counter Mono-
graph Safety, Innovation, and Reform
Act of 2019.
Mr. BURR. Madam President, I want
to take a few moments to explain why
I am opposed to the OTC reform legis-
lation offered by Senator ISAKSON. Sen-
ator ISAKSON and I worked together on
many pieces of FDA legislation, and I
have no doubt that he worked tire-
lessly to draft this bill in the best in-
terest of patients. I will miss working
closely with my colleague from Geor-
gia to improve the lives of the millions
of Americans touched by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration’s work each
day.
I want to be clear that I agree re-
forms are needed within the over-the-
counter drug division at the FDA. I
simply disagree on the way in which
this legislation provides the resources
to achieve these reforms because I do
not believe it will result in my col-
league’s desired outcome. Here is why.
I reformed the FDA in 1997 with the
passage of the FDA Modernization Act,
which I like to call FDAMA. One of the
foundational principles of that legisla-
tion was to bring more certainty, pre-
dictability, and accountability to an
agency that had lost its way, failing to
bring new drugs and medical devices to
market in the United States in a time-
ly manner. Twenty-two years later, I
am starting to see the implementation
of major provisions of this law. Two
decades after its passage, the FDA is fi-
nally putting key policies into practice
that Congress demanded. Two decades
is an unacceptable amount of time for
Americans to wait.
One of the components of FDAMA
was the reauthorization of certain user
fee programs. Over these past two dec-
ades, we have seen FDA’s user fee
agreements increase with each 5-year
cycle, bringing more resources into the
agency to review drug, biologic and de-
vice applications.
When the drug industry first agreed
to user fees in 1993, the fee to file a new
drug application with the FDA was
$100,000. Today, that fee is $2.1 million.
To that end, FDA has struggled to up-
hold its end of the deal, falling behind
in its commitment to hire the number
of individuals the agency needs to ac-
tually review the applications that
cost millions of dollars to file. The
FDA continues to increase the amount
of user fee dollars it requires to review
applications, eroding the balance of
congressional oversight provided by
the appropriation of taxpayer dollars
to the agency.
I would caution my colleagues that
we are currently experiencing the ef-
fects of a center at the FDA that re-
ceives 100 percent of its funds from user
fees, the Center for Tobacco Products.
The CTP has had 10 years and received
over $5 billion in user fee resources. It
has yet to finalize a single governing
regulation for the products Congress
tasked the CTP with regulating. Mean-
while, youth rates of vapor product use
continue to increase and 2,000 Ameri-
cans have fallen ill from the use of un-
regulated products. I have spoken
many times on my concerns with the
growth and development of FDA user
fee programs because they have not re-
sulted in the development of an FDA
that keeps its promises. I promise my
colleagues that the user fee program
included in this bill will not be any dif-
ferent.
While the Senate has wrestled with
solutions to high drug costs for the last
18 months, we are voting to approve a
bill that increases the development
costs for one of Americans’ cheapest
options for care. The over-the-counter
user fee bill provides millions of dollars
in new industry funds to reform the
OTC system at FDA, and the agency is
asking for tens of millions of dollars to
deal with a backlog of OTC mono-
graphs or recipes to create over the
counter medications.
User fee dollars are intended to go to-
ward the review of applications, but I
can assure my colleagues this is not
the full story at the Agency today.
Last year alone, $133 million in drug
user fees went toward administrative
expenses at the FDA, funds that may
otherwise help to invest in new treat-
ments or cures for Americans. This is
very simple math, the more user fee
programs we provide to the FDA, the
less the FDA is accountable and re-
sponsive to Congress.
Through FDAMA and more recently
in the 21st Century Cures Act and the
2017 FDA user fee bill, I worked to re-
balance the focus of the FDA, to reaf-
firm its authorities to regulate the cut-
ting edge science facing the agency,
and to better leverage and strategi-
cally invest its existing resources. So I
cannot support legislation that de-
grades the progress we have made at
the FDA.
f
REMEMBERING RACHELLE
BERGERON HAMMERLING
Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, today,
I honor the life and work of Rachelle
Bergeron Hammerling, a human rights
lawyer who served as the acting Attor-
ney General of Yap in Micronesia when
she was murdered just a couple of
months ago. Rachelle was killed in
front of her home on October 14, 2019,
as a direct result of her courageous
fight against human trafficking, do-
mestic violence, and sexual abuse. She
was just 33 years old, but her legacy
will live on through her family and the
communities she made the ultimate
sacrifice to serve.
Rachelle was born in Waukesha, WI,
to parents Thomas and Tammy
Bergeron in 1986. After growing up in
Wisconsin, Rachelle went on to obtain
a juris doctorate from the University
of Florida College of Law in 2010, an ex-
perience her family says she loved.
When Rachelle graduated from law
school, her passion to help others led
her to volunteer with the International
Justice Mission in India, where she rep-
resented women and children who had
been trafficked. Rachelle spent her ca-
reer prosecuting criminals involved
with sex trafficking and worked tire-
lessly to protect the poor against vio-
lence. Rachelle’s work took her around
the United States, including New York
and Washington, DC. She was a mem-
ber of the New York State Bar and cre-
ated the ‘‘Not-So-Super’’ campaign
video as an effort to raise awareness re-
garding human trafficking during the
2014 Super Bowl. Her work took her to
Beijing, South Africa, India, and fi-
nally the Pacific island of Yap.
Rachelle fought to give a voice to the
voiceless and dedicated her life to em-
powering and uplifting others. About 4
years ago, Rachelle moved to Yap after
accepting a job as that community’s
assistant attorney general. Since Janu-
ary 2019, she had been serving as the is-
land’s only prosecutor and as the act-
ing attorney general, where her duties
included being a part of a human traf-
ficking task force. Rachelle was very
active in the community she served
and spent a lot of time in local schools
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.008 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6946 December 10, 2019
and community centers to warn
against the dangers of sex trafficking.
Rachelle also met her husband,
Simon Hammerling during her time in
Yap. The two were married in 2018 and
had planned to take in a young girl
they had found sleeping on their door-
step. Rachelle passed just before the
two were about to celebrate their 1-
year wedding anniversary and shortly
before she and her family were due to
move back to the United States for a
new job in Wyoming. Her passing is a
tremendous loss to her family, to the
community she fought to serve, and to
all who knew her.
We remember Rachelle with grati-
tude for her life, and we honor her for
her sacrifice. Scripture tells us that
the righteous will rest from their
labor, for their deeds will follow them.
As she now rests from her tireless and
courageous work on behalf of the most
vulnerable among us, we know
Rachelle’s deeds will follow her and
continue to inspire others to pursue
justice as fiercely as she did.
f
TRIBUTE TO CAROLYN EDWARDS
Mr. BARRASSO. Madam President,
together with Senator CARPER, I rise
today to recognize Carolyn Edwards for
her distinguished career and signifi-
cant accomplishments at the Federal
Highway Administration, FHWA.
After 46 years of exceptional Federal
service, Carolyn is retiring from FHWA
on January 3, 2020. She is a dedicated
public servant recognized as an unpar-
alleled national expert on Federal
Highway Programs and the highway
trust fund. Through her technical as-
sistance to Congress and her policy ad-
vice to departmental and agency offi-
cials, Carolyn has provided an invalu-
able contribution to the programs that
support our Nation’s roads and bridges.
She has helped to shape not only these
critical highway programs, but also, as
colleague and mentor, she has shaped
and guided a generation of highway
policy experts. Her work will have a
lasting legacy for many years to come.
Carolyn’s entire 46-year Federal ca-
reer has been with the U.S. Depart-
ment of Transportation, USDOT—44 of
these with FHWA. To put Carolyn’s re-
markable public service longevity in
perspective, FHWA was formed in 1966,
only 7 years prior to her arrival. She
joined FHWA in 1973 as an economist.
Over the ensuing four and a half dec-
ades, she has served in a range of high-
level analytical and leadership posi-
tions, including positions in FHWA’s
Office of Highway Policy Information
and Office of Legislative Affairs and
Policy Communications. She also
worked in the Office of the Secretary’s
Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Budget and Programs with a portfolio
that covered FHWA programs.
Carolyn is currently a member of
FHWA’s Legislative Analysis Team,
where she serves as the authoritative
expert on a wide range of highway-re-
lated topics, including Federal highway
legislation, the highway trust fund,
and the operations of the Federal-aid
highway program. Throughout her suc-
cessful and impressive career, she has
been a ‘‘go-to reference’’ on these top-
ics for both agency and departmental
leaders and staff.
Among her many exemplary accom-
plishments, Carolyn has been in the de-
velopment and implementation of
every Federal surface transportation
bill since the Transportation Equity
Act for the 21st Century—TEA–21—was
enacted in 1998. Additionally, she has
also been a recipient of several pres-
tigious honors and awards. Carolyn has
been recognized with a Secretary’s
Team Award, two Secretarial Awards
for Partnering for Excellence, and mul-
tiple FHWA Superior Achievement
Awards, FHWA’s highest honor award.
Carolyn exemplifies the highest
standards of public service and em-
bodies FHWA’s spirit of profes-
sionalism and customer service. Over
the years, the Senate Committee on
Environment and Public Works, along
with other congressional committees,
Members of Congress, and their staff
have relied on Carolyn’s legislative and
highway policy expertise, quick turn-
around technical assistance responses,
and wealth of information. Carolyn’s
colleagues at USDOT and FHWA have
depended on her tireless efforts, her
endless wealth of knowledge and will-
ingness to share and transfer it. They
will miss her indomitable spirit and
her purple sweaters, purple pens, and
love for everything purple to brighten
their days.
Carolyn has helped shape highway
policy discussions and implement new
programs. Her contributions will con-
tinue to make a difference on USDOT,
FHWA, and the surface transportation
community. Her retirement from the
Federal Government is a celebration of
her dedication to the American people.
It is a great honor to recognize this
exceptional public servant. Senator
CARPER joins me in extending our ap-
preciation and well wishes to Carolyn
on her retirement.
f
ADDITONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO ANDY PRADELLA
∑ Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President,
Gayle and I would like to extend our
warmest congratulations and very best
wishes to our very dear friend Andy
Pradella on his 70th birthday. What I
have always admired about Andy is his
unparalleled work ethic and deter-
mination to learn and serve, and to in-
spire those around him. I can’t tell him
how much his and Joanie’s friendship
has meant to me and Gayle throughout
the years. They are like family to us.
Together, they are both a match made
in ‘‘Almost Heaven.’’
While Andy wasn’t born in West Vir-
ginia, he certainly is a West Virginian
in his heart and soul. In West Virginia,
if you are hungry, you will be fed. If
you are lost, someone will not only
give you directions but will offer to
drive you to your destination. I am so
deeply proud of the people of my home
State and the values that make us
stand out from the rest of the Nation.
It is in that same spirit that I proud-
ly recognize Andy Pradella as an hon-
orary West Virginian. No one fits this
title better. He is one of the most gen-
erous, kindest, selfless people I have
had the privilege of calling my very
dear friend. He has provided so much
happiness and wisdom to the lives of
those around him throughout the
years, and it is my wish that the mem-
ory of this special day remains with
him just as his guidance and influence
will remain in all the lives he has
touched. Again, it is with the greatest
admiration that I send to him my best
wishes on his special day.
Andy, please always remember that
no matter where you are, you have a
home here in ‘‘Almost Heaven.’’∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MARY HULSMAN
ALLGEIER
∑ Mr. PAUL. Madam President, Mary
Hulsman Allgeier was selected as the
#1 Citizen of Schnitzelburg, a historic
neighborhood in Louisville, KY. Mary
has been a lifelong community advo-
cate and volunteer. She has given to
and supported those in need as a leader
in Holy Family Parish for many years.
In addition, Mary is a role model for
women in leadership and is instru-
mental in ensuring members of her
community understand their civic
rights and responsibilities. Mary has
served her community faithfully from
education to civic engagement and is
an example for us to follow. I am proud
to join the people of Schnitzelburg in
honoring Mary Allegeier as their #1
Citizen.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO COLONEL FRED
JOHNSON
∑ Mr. PAUL. Madam President, Col.
Fred Johnson, U.S. Army, Retired, was
honored as Kentucky’s 2019 Veteran of
the Year. Since his retirement from
the U.S. Army in 2014, Fred Johnson
has immersed himself in community
service in Louisville in both existing
programs, such as YouthBuild and Re-
storative Justice Louisville, and
through developing new, innovative
ways to use the arts and storytelling to
help connect veterans with the broader
community. His Veteran’s Writing
Workshop series and the innovative
Shakespeare with Veterans group that
he cofounded in 2016 are helping vet-
erans communicate their stories in cre-
ative and timeless ways. Colonel John-
son remains committed to our country
as is evident by his decision to teach
sixth grade Social studies class at
Thomas Jefferson Middle School. I am
proud to recognize Col. Fred Johnson
as a remarkable symbol of the rich vet-
eran heritage of Kentucky.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:17 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.010 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6947
December 10, 2019
TRIBUTE TO KAREN WEAVER
∑ Mr. PAUL. Madam President, Karen
Weaver, a Kentucky native and a vet-
eran of the U.S. Air Force, has been
recognized as the Kentucky Female
Veteran of the Year 2019. After serving
on Active Duty and in the Air Force
Reserve, Karen taught science at
Leestown Middle School in Lexington,
KY, where she began immersing herself
in volunteer work for veterans. She has
worked with Military Missions, an or-
ganization that sent care packages to
over 8,500 deployed U.S. men and
women last year. One of her current
passions is Lady Veterans Connect, a
nonprofit with a real heart for female
veterans, particularly those who are
homeless. Karen Weaver has been an
incredible role model to the children of
her classrooms and to the entire Com-
monwealth. I am honored to recognize
Karen in her service to our country and
our State.∑
f
RECOGNIZING GRANNY
CANTRELL’S RESTAURANT
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, as the
chairman of the Senate Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
each week I am privileged to honor an
American small business for its dedica-
tion to dignified work and its sur-
rounding community. This week, it is
my honor to recognize Granny
Cantrell’s Restaurant of Panama City,
FL, for its achievements.
Founded in 2002 by Doug Crosby and
his family, Granny Cantrell’s is well
known for its delicious southern com-
fort food and catering. Based on recipes
from friends, neighbors, family, and
local churches, Granny Cantrell’s food
consists of familiar items such as fried
chicken, pot roast, and macaroni and
cheese. Since opening more than 17
years ago, Granny Cantrell’s has expe-
rienced success and continued growth.
Their menu has expanded beyond com-
fort food to offer a variety of daily spe-
cials and health-conscious options.
Today, they are an important part of
the Panama City community, attract-
ing and retaining customers who enjoy
their food at the restaurant, as well as
at catered events.
Granny Cantrell’s dedication to the
greater Panama City community is un-
matched. In the days following the
landfall of Hurricane Michael in 2018,
Granny Cantrell’s worked tirelessly
with local authorities to ensure that
the city’s employees were fed. Addi-
tionally, with the help of likeminded
community partners, Granny
Cantrell’s restaurant was able to pro-
vide and hand-deliver more than 500
prepacked Thanksgiving meals and 400
cupcakes to those in need after the
hurricane. In recent years, Doug and
the Granny Cantrell’s team have also
opened the restaurant’s doors as a
drop-off location for Coats for Kids, a
Bay County program that collects and
distributes gently used coats to pre-
pare local children for the winter.
Their dedication to the Florida com-
munity, their fantastic homemade
dishes, and exemplary customer service
has certainly not gone unnoticed. For 9
years running, Granny Cantrell’s has
been awarded Panama City News Her-
ald’s Best of the Bay Award, high-
lighting its customers’ loyalty and in-
tegral place in the local economy. Fur-
thermore, Granny Cantrell’s has been
awarded the Reader’s Choice Award by
Panama City Living for several years
in a row to commemorate their out-
standing food and customer service.
Small businesses play an important
role in supporting and uplifting their
communities. Granny Cantrell’s is a
prime example of the bonds that small
businesses can create when such an in-
tegral role is bolstered. I am proud to
recognize this Florida business for its
reflection of America’s unique entre-
preneurial spirit and its dedication to
the common good of its community.
Congratulations to the entire Granny
Cantrell’s team. I look forward to
watching your continued success.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:36 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, without amend-
ment:
S. 256. An act to amend the Native Amer-
ican Programs Act of 1974 to provide flexi-
bility and reauthorization to ensure the sur-
vival and continuing vitality of Native
American languages.
S. 737. An act to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM edu-
cation research focused on early childhood.
The message also announced that the
House has passed the following bills, in
which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H.R. 2051. An act to provide for Federal co-
ordination of activities supporting sustain-
able chemistry, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3318. An act to require the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to establish
a task force to conduct an analysis of emerg-
ing and potential future threats to transpor-
tation security, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3469. An act to direct the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to carry out
covert testing and risk mitigation improve-
ment of aviation security operations, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 3669. An act to require the Secretary
of Homeland Security to conduct a collective
response to a terrorism exercise that in-
cludes the management of cascading effects
on critical infrastructure during times of ex-
treme cold weather, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4355. An act to direct the Director of
the National Science Foundation to support
research on the outputs that may be gen-
erated by generative adversarial networks,
otherwise known as deepfakes, and other
comparable techniques that may be devel-
oped in the future, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4372. An act to direct Federal science
agencies and the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy to undertake activities to im-
prove the quality of undergraduate STEM
education and enhance the research capacity
at the Nation’s HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 4373. An act to provide for a coordi-
nated Federal research initiative to ensure
continued United States leadership in engi-
neering biology.
H.R. 4402. An act to require the Secretary
of Homeland Security to conduct an inland
waters threat analysis, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 4566. An act to accelerate the income
tax benefits for charitable cash contribu-
tions for the relief of the families of victims
of the mass shooting in Virginia Beach, Vir-
ginia, on May 31, 2019.
H.R. 4713. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to make certain im-
provements in the Office for Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties of the Department of Home-
land Security, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4727. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a mentor-
protégé program, and for other purposes.
H.R. 4739. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to protect U.S. Customs
and Border Protection officers, agents, other
personnel, and canines against potential syn-
thetic opioid exposure, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 4761. An act to ensure U.S. Customs
and Border Protection officers, agents, and
other personnel have adequate synthetic
opioid detection equipment, that the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security has a process to
update synthetic opioid detection capability,
and for other purposes.
The message further announced that
pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 9455(a), and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Member on the part of the House of
Representatives to the Board of Visi-
tors to the United States Air Force
Academy: Ms. Speier of California.
At 5:40 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 5363. An act to reauthorize mandatory
funding programs for historically Black col-
leges and universities and other minority-
serving institutions, for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 2051. An act to provide for Federal co-
ordination of activities supporting sustain-
able chemistry, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
H.R. 3318. An act to require the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to establish
a task force to conduct an analysis of emerg-
ing and potential future threats to transpor-
tation security, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
H.R. 3469. An act to direct the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to carry out
covert testing and risk mitigation improve-
ment of aviation security operations, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 3669. An act to require the Secretary
of Homeland Security to conduct a collective
response to a terrorism exercise that in-
cludes the management of cascading effects
on critical infrastructure during times of ex-
treme cold weather, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 4355. An act to direct the Director of
the National Science Foundation to support
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:17 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.013 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6948 December 10, 2019
research on the outputs that may be gen-
erated by generative adversarial networks,
otherwise known as deepfakes, and other
comparable techniques that may be devel-
oped in the future, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
H.R. 4372. An act to direct Federal science
agencies and the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy to undertake activities to im-
prove the quality of undergraduate STEM
education and enhance the research capacity
at the Nation’s HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
H.R. 4373. An act to provide for a coordi-
nated Federal research initiative to ensure
continued United States leadership in engi-
neering biology; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 4402. An act to require the Secretary
of Homeland Security to conduct an inland
waters threat analysis, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 4713. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to make certain im-
provements in the Office for Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties of the Department of Home-
land Security, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
H.R. 4727. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a mentor-
protégé program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 4739. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to protect U.S. Customs
and Border Protection officers, agents, other
personnel, and canines against potential syn-
thetic opioid exposure, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 4761. An act to ensure U.S. Customs
and Border Protection officers, agents, and
other personnel have adequate synthetic
opioid detection equipment, that the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security has a process to
update synthetic opioid detection capability,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 3009. A bill to provide for a period of
continuing appropriations in the event of a
lapse in appropriations under the normal ap-
propriations process, and establish proce-
dures and consequences in the event of a fail-
ure to enact appropriations.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–3450. A communication from the Chief
of the Planning and Regulatory Affairs
Branch, Food and Nutrition Service, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Supple-
mental Nutrition Assistance Program: Re-
quirements for Able-Bodied Adults Without
Dependents’’ (RIN0584–AE57) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on De-
cember 9, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–3451. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Indiana
RACT SIP and Negative Declaration for the
Oil and Natural Gas Industry Control Tech-
niques Guidelines’’ (FRL No. 10003–02–Region
5) received in the Office of the President of
the Senate on December 9, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3452. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Tennessee; Knox
County Miscellaneous Revisions’’ (FRL No.
10002–97–Region 4) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on December 9,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–3453. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Delaware;
Amendments to the Regulatory Definition of
Volatile Organic Compounds’’ (FRL No.
10002–99–Region 3) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on December 9,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–3454. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Final Approval of the Indiana 1997
Ozone Second Full Maintenance Plans’’ (FRL
No. 10002–93–Region 5) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on December
9, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–3455. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘North Dakota Department of Envi-
ronmental Quality: Incorporation by Ref-
erence of State Hazardous Waste Manage-
ment Program’’ (FRL No. 10001–40–Region 8)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 9, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–3456. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Treasury Decision
(TD): Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax’’
(RIN1545–BO56) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 6, 2019; to the
Committee on Finance.
EC–3457. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Regulations and Reports Clear-
ance, Social Security Administration, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Extension of Expiration Dates of
Five Body Systems Listings’’ (RIN0960–AI45)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on December 6, 2019; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–3458. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘2019 Required
Amendments List for Qualified Retirement
Plans and section 403(b) Retirement Plans’’
(Notice 2019–64) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 6, 2019; to the
Committee on Finance.
EC–3459. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0115 - 2019–0117); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–3460. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions Lists of
automatic rifles to Qatar for end use by the
Ministry of the Interior in the amount of
$1,000,000 or more (Transmittal No. DDTC 18–
083); to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–3461. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of firearms abroad controlled under
Category I of the U.S. Munitions Lists of
5.56mm automatic rifles to Kuwait for end
use by the Ministry of the Interior in the
amount of $1,000,000 or more (Transmittal
No. DDTC 19–070); to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–3462. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to Australia
in support of the F135 propulsion system for
end use in the F–35 Lightning II Joint Strike
Fighter aircraft in the amount of $100,000,000
or more (Transmittal No. DDTC 19–056); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–3463. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Board of the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the Inspector General’s Semi-
annual Report to Congress for the period
from April 1, 2019, through September 30,
2019; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–3464. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Agriculture, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the Department of Agriculture’s
fiscal year 2019 Agency Financial Report; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–3465. A communication from the Acting
Chief Financial Officer and Associate Admin-
istrator for Performance Management,
Small Business Administration, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the Administration’s
fiscal year 2019 Agency Financial Report; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–3466. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Regulation Policy and Manage-
ment, Department of Veterans Affairs, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Veterans Healing Veterans Medical
Access and Scholarship’’ (RIN2900–AQ54) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
December 6, 2019; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
EC–3467. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator, National Ma-
rine Fisheries Service, Department of Com-
merce, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Pacific Halibut Fish-
eries; Revisions To Catch Sharing Plan and
Domestic Management Measures in Alaska’’
(RIN0648–BH94) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 6, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3468. A communication from the Acting
Director, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Several Groundfish Species in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.017 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6949
December 10, 2019
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area’’ (RIN0648–XY55) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on December 6,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3469. A communication from the Acting
Director, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Atka Mackerel in the Bering Sea
and Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XY16) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 6, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3470. A communication from the Acting
Director, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Greater Than or Equal to 50 Feet Length
Overall Using Hook-and-Line Gear in the
Central Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alas-
ka’’ (RIN0648–XX25) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on December 6, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3471. A communication from the Acting
Director, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Atlantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlan-
tic Bluefin Tuna Fisheries’’ (RIN0648–XT27)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on December 6, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3472. A communication from the Acting
Director, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Coastal Migratory Pelagic Resources of the
Gulf of Mexico and Atlantic Region; 2019–2020
Commercial Quota Reduction for King Mack-
erel Run-Around Gillnet Fishery’’ (RIN0648–
XS008) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 6, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3473. A communication from the Acting
Director, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Atlantic Highly Migratory Species; 2020 At-
lantic Shark Commercial Fishing Year’’
(RIN0648–XP004) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on December 6, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3474. A communication from the Acting
Director, National Marine Fisheries Service,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Atlantic Herring Fishery; 2019 Man-
agement Area 1A Sub-Annual Catch Limit
Harvested’’ (RIN0648–XX033) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on December 6,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3475. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator, National Ma-
rine Fisheries Service, Department of Com-
merce, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Fisheries of the
Northeastern United States; Jonah Crab
Fishery; Interstate Fishery Management
Plan for Jonah Crab’’ (RIN0648–BF43) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
December 6, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3476. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator, National Ma-
rine Fisheries Service, Department of Com-
merce, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Atlantic Highly Mi-
gratory Species; 2020 Atlantic Shark Com-
mercial Fishing Year’’ (RIN0648–XT004) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
December 6, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. WICKER, from the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
with an amendment:
S. 1342. A bill to require the Under Sec-
retary for Oceans and Atmosphere to update
periodically the environmental sensitivity
index products of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration for each coastal
area of the Great Lakes, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 116–170).
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEE
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. CRAPO for the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
*Peter J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to be In-
spector General, Export-Import Bank.
*David Carey Woll, Jr., of Connecticut, to
be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development.
*Mitchell A. Silk, of New York, to be an
Assistant Secretary of the Treasury.
*John Bobbitt, of Texas, to be an Assistant
of Housing and Urban Development.
*Brian D. Montgomery, of Texas, to be
Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. INHOFE,
Mr. LEE, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
CORNYN, Mr. SASSE, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. 3003. A bill to provide requirements for
the appropriate Federal banking agencies
when requesting or ordering a depository in-
stitution to terminate a specific customer
account, to provide for additional require-
ments related to subpoenas issued under the
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr. CASEY):
S. 3004. A bill to protect human rights and
enhance opportunities for LGBTI people
around the world, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. 3005. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to promulgate standards and
regulations requiring all new commercial
motor vehicles to be equipped with tech-
nology to limit maximum operating speed,
to require existing speed-limiting tech-
nologies already installed in commercial
motor vehicles manufactured after 1992 to be
used while in operation, and to require that
the maximum safe operating speed of com-
mercial motor vehicles shall not exceed 65
miles per hour, or 70 miles per hour with cer-
tain safety technologies; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. KING, and Mr. GARDNER):
S. 3006. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to establish a program to im-
prove the identification, assessment, and
treatment of patients in the emergency de-
partment who are at risk or suicide, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself and
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 3007. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require a provider of a report
to the CyberTipline related to online sexual
exploitation of children to preserve the con-
tents of such report for 180 days, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH):
S. 3008. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to clarify the treatment of certain sur-
viving spouses under the definition of small
business concern owned and controlled by
service-disabled veterans; to the Committee
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. ENZI, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr.
KING, and Mr. KAINE):
S. 3009. A bill to provide for a period of
continuing appropriations in the event of a
lapse in appropriations under the normal ap-
propriations process, and establish proce-
dures and consequences in the event of a fail-
ure to enact appropriations; read the first
time.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
CASEY):
S. 3010. A bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to enable greater partici-
pation by seniors and Medicare beneficiaries
in State Medicaid programs for working peo-
ple with disabilities; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mrs. MURRAY:
S. 3011. A bill to authorize demonstration
projects to improve educational and housing
outcomes for children; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TOOMEY:
S. 3012. A bill to amend the Private Secu-
rity Officer Employment Authorization Act
of 2004 to establish a national criminal his-
tory background check system and criminal
history review program for private security
officers; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr.
CRAPO):
S. 3013. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to allow for the offering
of additional prescription drug plans under
Medicare part D; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. MARKEY:
S. 3014. A bill to require congressional ap-
proval for civilian nuclear cooperation under
certain circumstances, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.020 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6950 December 10, 2019
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. REED, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
CASEY, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. SMITH, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. DURBIN,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and
Mr. WHITEHOUSE):
S. Res. 449. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the Nation, States,
cities, Tribal nations, and businesses, insti-
tutions of higher education, and other insti-
tutions in the United States should work to-
ward achieving the goals of the Paris Agree-
ment; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. Res. 450. A resolution recognizing the
71st anniversary of the Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights and the celebration of
‘‘Human Rights Day’’; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. WARREN, Mrs. FISCH-
ER, Mrs. CAPITO, Ms. ERNST, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Ms. HASSAN, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. SMITH, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Ms. SINEMA, Ms.
MCSALLY, Ms. ROSEN, Ms. HIRONO,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. BALDWIN, and
Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. Res. 451. A resolution congratulating as-
tronauts Dr. Jessica U. Meir and Christina H.
Koch for the historic accomplishment of
completing the first all-female spacewalk;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. RISCH, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
SULLIVAN, and Mr. BOOKER):
S. Res. 452. A resolution commemorating
and supporting the goals of World AIDS Day;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 109
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
109, a bill to prohibit taxpayer funded
abortions.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 133, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal, collectively, to the United
States merchant mariners of World
War II, in recognition of their dedi-
cated and vital service during World
War II.
S. 182
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
182, a bill to prohibit discrimination
against the unborn on the basis of sex,
and for other purposes.
S. 251
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as
a cosponsor of S. 251, a bill to establish
the Interdiction for the Protection of
Child Victims of Exploitation and
Human Trafficking Program to train
law enforcement officers to identify
and assist victims of child exploitation
and human trafficking.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 500, a bill to amend title
54, United States Code, to establish,
fund, and provide for the use of
amounts in a National Park Service
Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the Na-
tional Park Service, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 505
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the names of the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. BROWN), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS) and the Sen-
ator from Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 505, a
bill to ensure due process protections
of individuals in the United States
against unlawful detention based solely
on a protected characteristic.
S. 510
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 510, a bill to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to provide
for certain requirements relating to
charges for internet, television, and
voice services, and for other purposes.
S. 511
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 511, a bill to promote and
protect from discrimination living
organ donors.
S. 580
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 580, a bill to amend the
Act of August 25, 1958, commonly
known as the ‘‘Former Presidents Act
of 1958’’, with respect to the monetary
allowance payable to a former Presi-
dent, and for other purposes.
S. 651
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 651, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to increase the
age requirement with respect to eligi-
bility for qualified ABLE programs.
S. 879
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 879, a bill to provide a
process for granting lawful permanent
resident status to aliens from certain
countries who meet specified eligibility
requirements, and for other purposes.
S. 995
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. REED) and the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 995, a bill to amend title
XXIX of the Public Health Service Act
to reauthorize the program under such
title relating to lifespan respite care.
S. 1130
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1130, a bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to improve the
health of children and help better un-
derstand and enhance awareness about
unexpected sudden death in early life.
S. 1254
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1254, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Transportation to review and
report on certain laws, safety meas-
ures, and technologies relating to the
illegal passing of school buses, and for
other purposes.
S. 1563
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Alabama (Mr.
JONES) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1563, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act with respect to the Agency
for Toxic Substances and Disease Reg-
istry’s review and publication of illness
and conditions relating to veterans sta-
tioned at Camp Lejeune, North Caro-
lina, and their family members, and for
other purposes.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 1820, a bill to im-
prove the integrity and safety of horse-
racing by requiring a uniform anti-
doping and medication control pro-
gram to be developed and enforced by
an independent Horseracing Anti-
Doping and Medication Control Au-
thority.
S. 1863
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1863, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Interior to conduct a
special resource study of the sites asso-
ciated with the life and legacy of the
noted American philanthropist and
business executive Julius Rosenwald,
with a special focus on the Rosenwald
Schools, and for other purposes.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1908, a bill to amend the Richard
B. Russell National School Lunch Act
to improve the efficiency of summer
meals.
S. 1989
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1989, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to provide for transparency of Medicare
secondary payer reporting information,
and for other purposes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.023 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6951
December 10, 2019
S. 2001
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) and the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2001, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to Willie
O’Ree, in recognition of his extraor-
dinary contributions and commitment
to hockey, inclusion, and recreational
opportunity.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2179, a bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to provide social serv-
ice agencies with the resources to pro-
vide services to meet the urgent needs
of Holocaust survivors to age in place
with dignity, comfort, security, and
quality of life.
S. 2365
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2365, a bill to amend the Indian
Health Care Improvement Act to au-
thorize urban Indian organizations to
enter into arrangements for the shar-
ing of medical services and facilities,
and for other purposes.
S. 2434
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2434, a bill to establish the National
Criminal Justice Commission.
S. 2539
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2539, a bill to modify and reauthorize
the Tibetan Policy Act of 2002, and for
other purposes.
S. 2546
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2546, a bill to amend the Employee Re-
tirement Income Security Act of 1974
to require a group health plan or
health insurance coverage offered in
connection with such a plan to provide
an exceptions process for any medica-
tion step therapy protocol, and for
other purposes.
S. 2561
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2561, a bill to amend the Lacey
Act Amendments of 1981 to clarify pro-
visions enacted by the Captive Wildlife
Safety Act, to further the conservation
of certain wildlife species, and for
other purposes.
S. 2570
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) and the Senator from
Michigan (Ms. STABENOW) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2570, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal to Greg
LeMond in recognition of his service to
the United States as an athlete, activ-
ist, role model, and community leader.
S. 2661
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA), the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG) and the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mrs. FISCHER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2661, a bill to amend
the Communications Act of 1934 to des-
ignate 9–8-8 as the universal telephone
number for the purpose of the national
suicide prevention and mental health
crisis hotline system operating
through the National Suicide Preven-
tion Lifeline and through the Veterans
Crisis Line, and for other purposes.
S. 2683
At the request of Mr. BURR, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. ISAKSON) and the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2683, a bill to establish
a task force to assist States in imple-
menting hiring requirements for child
care staff members to improve child
safety.
S. 2740
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2740, a bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the
regulatory framework with respect to
certain nonprescription drugs that are
marketed without an approved new
drug application, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2754
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2754, a bill to create
jobs and drive innovation and economic
growth in the United States by sup-
porting and promoting the manufac-
ture of next-generation technologies,
including refrigerants, solvents, fire
suppressants, foam blowing agents,
aerosols, and propellants.
S. 2772
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2772, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for
treatment of clinical psychologists as
physicians for purposes of furnishing
clinical psychologist services under the
Medicare program.
S. 2791
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2791, a bill to amend title
5, United States Code, to provide that
sums in the Thrift Savings Fund may
not be invested in securities that are
listed on certain foreign exchanges,
and for other purposes.
S. 2794
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2794, a bill to provide for
the creation of the Missing Armed
Forces Personnel Records Collection at
the National Archives, to require the
expeditious public transmission to the
Archivist and public disclosure of Miss-
ing Armed Forces Personnel records,
and for other purposes.
S. 2802
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN), the Senator from Alaska
(Ms. MURKOWSKI) and the Senator from
Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 2802, a bill to amend the
Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972
to reauthorize and modify the John H.
Prescott Marine Mammal Rescue and
Response Grant Program, and for other
purposes.
S. 2803
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2803, a bill to provide Federal housing
assistance on behalf of youths who are
aging out of foster care, and for other
purposes.
S. 2826
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2826, a bill to require a global
economic security strategy, and for
other purposes.
S. 2836
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2836, a bill to prohibit the Secretary
of Health and Human Services from
taking any action to implement, en-
force, or otherwise give effect to the
final rule, entitled ‘‘Protecting Statu-
tory Conscience Rights in Health Care;
Delegations of Authority’’.
S. 2871
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2871, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to exclude
from gross income payments under the
Indian Health Service Loan Repayment
Program and certain amounts received
under the Indian Health Professions
Scholarships Program.
S. 2881
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2881, a bill to require the Fed-
eral Communications Commission to
make not less than 280 megahertz of
spectrum available for terrestrial use,
and for other purposes.
S. 2898
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2898, a bill to amend title 5,
United States Code, to provide for a
full annuity supplement for certain air
traffic controllers.
S. 2944
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2944, a bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to include digital
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:17 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.025 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6952 December 10, 2019
breast tomosynthesis as a primary and
preventative health care service under
the military health system and the
TRICARE program.
S. 2953
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2953, a bill to provide congres-
sional oversight of United States talks
with Taliban officials and Afghani-
stan’s comprehensive peace process.
S. 2984
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2984, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow for certain
residential rental property to be depre-
ciated over a 30-year period.
S. RES. 142
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 142, a resolution condemning
the Government of the Philippines for
its continued detention of Senator
Leila De Lima, calling for her imme-
diate release, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 152
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 152, a resolution expressing
the importance of the United States al-
liance with the Republic of Korea and
the contributions of Korean Americans
in the United States.
S. RES. 215
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 215, a resolution calling for
greater religious and political freedoms
in Cuba, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 260
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 260, a resolution rec-
ognizing the importance of sustained
United States leadership to accel-
erating global progress against mater-
nal and child malnutrition and sup-
porting the commitment of the United
States Agency for International Devel-
opment to global nutrition through the
Multi-Sectoral Nutrition Strategy.
S. RES. 318
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 318, a resolution to
support the Global Fund to fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria, and the
Sixth Replenishment.
S. RES. 371
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 371, a resolution reaffirming the
support of the United States for the
people of the Republic of South Sudan
and calling on all parties to uphold
their commitments to peace and dia-
logue as outlined in the 2018 revitalized
peace agreement.
S. RES. 385
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 385, a resolution celebrating
the 30th anniversary of the fall of the
Berlin Wall, the reunification of both
Germany and Europe, and the spread of
democracy around the world.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTION
By Mr. LANKFORD (for himself,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. ENZI, Mr.
JOHNSON, Mr. KING, and Mr.
KAINE):
S. 3009. A bill to provide for a period
of continuing appropriations in the
event of a lapse in appropriations
under the normal appropriations proc-
ess, and establish procedures and con-
sequences in the event of a failure to
enact appropriations; read the first
time.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, 2019
is almost over, but there is a lot that
still has to be done on this floor.
A lot of bills have moved through
this year. In fact, we have had 78 bills
that have been signed into law so far
this year.
This year, as we worked through the
process, we have had quite a few judges
and nominations that the Senate has
actually worked through. In fact, by
the end of this week, we will have con-
firmed our 50th circuit court judge.
There is a lot of engagement, but
with a week and a half left on this
floor, we still have issues like the
United States-Mexico-Canada Trade
Agreement. That agreement, which is
called the USMCA, has been sitting
over in the House for 14 months. It
looks like the House is now going to
take it up this week or next week after
14 months of its being there. We are
pleased to see some movement there.
We have to see the final implementing
language on that.
We hope to move the national defense
authorization bill. That has been wait-
ing for months and months and months
under the capable leadership of Senator
INHOFE, who is trying to negotiate with
the House to get that done. Hopefully
that will get done either this week or
next week, but it is cramming into the
end of the year.
We have 12 appropriations bills that
are still unfinished, and we face a dead-
line of December 20, or we will run into
another government shutdown, which
brings me to a bill that Senator HAS-
SAN and I are dropping today, some-
thing we have negotiated for months
across party lines to be able to have a
nonpartisan solution to how we can
never ever again discuss government
shutdowns.
This past week when I was flying
back to DC from home, on the plane as
I was coming up, there was a Federal
employee who caught me in the aisle of
the plane and said: Hey, I hear you are
working on stopping government shut-
downs. Thank you.
Her next comment surprised me,
though. She said she has worked for a
Federal agency for years, but she is re-
tiring in January because she is so
tired of constantly having to prepare
for, get set for a government shutdown
that may be pending in the days ahead.
It has worn her out.
Someone who has great wisdom and
experience and is serving in one of our
Federal agencies is retiring in January,
and we will lose those years of experi-
ence because she is tired of dealing
with shutdowns. I don’t blame her,
quite frankly, although I wish she
wouldn’t leave. I don’t blame her be-
cause year after year we end up in this
same conversation: Are we going to
have another shutdown?
It seems like every year, as we ap-
proach Christmas, Federal families
across the country wonder if they are
about to be furloughed and won’t get a
check soon.
Federal agency leaders—those who
are Senate confirmed all the way
through the process of leadership—
aren’t spending their time on vision-
setting and on oversight; they are
spending their time in their office hav-
ing to figure out what to do in case
there is a government shutdown or
working through the process of a con-
tinuing resolution because they only
get funding a few days at a time.
All of us know this is bad, but for
years, we have discussed ending gov-
ernment shutdowns but have never
done it. Senator HASSAN and I have put
together a nonpartisan bill that is a
very straightforward approach that we
bring to this body and to the House to
say: Let’s take government shutdowns
off the table forever. Let’s make this so
that in the decades ahead, we will talk
about the way back days long ago when
we used to have government shut-
downs. In this body now, we have had
21 government shutdowns in the last 40
years. Let’s talk about the days that
used to happen but never happens
again.
We have a very straightforward, sim-
ple solution. Our simple solution is, if
we get to the end of the funding cycle—
at this point, it would be December
20—we will have an automatic con-
tinuing resolution that kicks in so that
Federal families don’t feel the effect of
that across the country. They are not
on furlough, but Members of Congress
and our staff work 7 days a week. We
have session here 7 days a week, and we
can’t move to bills other than appro-
priations for 30 days so that we are
locked into settling the appropriations
issue.
The simple resolution is, if we get to
the end of the fiscal year and our work
is not done, we keep working until it is
done. It is not that hard, but we have
never made the commitment to each
other that we will stay here and con-
tinue to work until it is done. What we
have done instead is one of two things.
We just punt a CR, a continuing resolu-
tion, for months at a time and say
‘‘OK. Let’s get back to this in 8
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.027 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6953
December 10, 2019
weeks,’’ which is what we did before,
and then before that, there was a 4-
week continuing resolution. So we just
punt it out and say, ‘‘We will keep
going, and we will try to figure this out
later,’’ which puts a lot of chaos in
agencies, or we do a government shut-
down while we argue. We go home, and
Federal workers are on furlough.
Let’s commit to each other that we
will never do that again. We will never
put Federal workers on furlough be-
cause we can’t resolve our differences.
Let’s also commit to each other that
when we get to the end of the fiscal
year, we will resolve the problem right
then. There is nothing different this
week than there was 7 weeks ago when
we first started a continuing resolu-
tion. There is nothing different about
it other than we have just decided to
go ahead and get it resolved.
When we get to the end of the prob-
lem, this Congress needs a deadline to
resolve it. Let’s make it, and let’s
make it very simple and straight-
forward: We will stay at it until we
solve it—that is our commitment—and
we will hold Federal workers harmless
through that process.
Senator HASSAN and I have worked
on this for months. We have three Re-
publicans and three Democrats as we
are putting this in front of this body
today. We have multiple folks who
have already contacted us and said
they want to be added as cosponsors as
soon as we drop it.
Well, today is the day we have intro-
duced that bill, and we would welcome
any of the 100 of us to join us in a non-
partisan bill to end government shut-
downs forever. Let’s keep working
until we solve the problem.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 449—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT THE NATION,
STATES, CITIES, TRIBAL NA-
TIONS, AND BUSINESSES, INSTI-
TUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION,
AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS IN
THE UNITED STATES SHOULD
WORK TOWARD ACHIEVING THE
GOALS OF THE PARIS AGREE-
MENT
Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr. CAR-
PER, Mr. REED, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. CASEY,
Ms. HASSAN, Ms. SMITH, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. BOOKER, Mr. DURBIN, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
WHITEHOUSE) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 449
Whereas all of the 197 parties to the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change have signed or acceded to the deci-
sion by the United Nations Framework Con-
vention on Climate Change’s 21st Conference
of Parties in Paris, France, adopted Decem-
ber 12, 2015 (referred to in this preamble as
the ‘‘Paris Agreement’’);
Whereas the ‘‘Special Report on Global
Warming of 1.5 °C’’ by the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change and the Fourth Na-
tional Climate Assessment report found
that—
(1) human activity is the dominant cause
of observed climate change over the past
century;
(2) a changing climate is causing sea levels
to rise and an increase in wildfires, severe
storms, droughts, and other extreme weather
events that threaten infrastructure and
human life;
(3) global warming at or above 2 degrees
Celsius beyond pre-industrialized levels will
cause—
(A) mass migration from regions most af-
fected by climate change;
(B) more than $500,000,000,000 in lost an-
nual economic output in the United States
by the year 2100;
(C) wildfires that, by 2050, will annually
burn at least twice as much forest area in
the western United States than was typi-
cally burned by wildfires in the years pre-
ceding 2019;
(D) a loss of greater than 99 percent of all
coral reefs on Earth;
(E) more than 350,000,000 more people to
be exposed globally to deadly heat stress
by 2050; and
(F) a risk of damage to public infrastruc-
ture and coastal real estate in the United
States valued at an estimated
$1,000,000,000,000;
(4) global temperatures must be kept below
1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrialized
levels to avoid the most severe impacts of a
changing climate; and
(5) limiting global warming will require
the extensive use of clean, renewable energy
sources, low-carbon-emitting vehicles, en-
ergy efficiency, reforestation, and account-
ing of carbon emissions equal to the social
and environmental costs of those emissions;
Whereas, in 2018, carbon dioxide emissions
from fossil fuel consumption in the United
States rose 2.8 percent after the economy of
the United States grew by 18.4 percent be-
tween 2005 and 2016, while net greenhouse gas
emissions decreased by 12.1 percent during
that period;
Whereas 37 States have set renewable en-
ergy goals;
Whereas 29 of the 37 States that have set
renewable energy goals, 3 territories of the
United States, and the District of Columbia
have adopted renewable electricity standard
requirements to demand clean energy pro-
duction;
Whereas 23 States and the District of Co-
lumbia have adopted greenhouse gas emis-
sions targets;
Whereas 27 States have adopted energy ef-
ficiency resource standards;
Whereas 10 States have adopted zero-emis-
sion vehicle targets;
Whereas 9 States have implemented the
Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative to con-
struct a market-based system that sets a cap
on emissions from the electric sector that
declines by—
(1) 2.5 percent per year through 2020; and
(2) 3 percent per year from 2021 through
2030;
Whereas the States of Virginia, New Jer-
sey, and Pennsylvania are making efforts to
join the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative
in 2020;
Whereas the State of California has a
strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions
to 40 percent below 1990 levels by 2030;
Whereas, in the United States, 90 cities, 11
counties, 2 States, and the District of Colum-
bia have adopted 100 percent clean and re-
newable energy goals, and 217 companies
have committed to 100 percent renewable en-
ergy;
Whereas more than 3,200,000 people in the
United States work in clean energy in all 50
States, including in industries relating to
wind energy, solar energy, energy efficiency,
clean vehicles, and energy storage;
Whereas, in 2017, approximately 457,000
people in the United States were working in
the solar and wind industries, including roof-
ers, electricians, and steel workers;
Whereas the majority of clean energy jobs
in the United States are blue collar jobs that
pay well;
Whereas the ‘‘2018 U.S. Energy and Em-
ployment Report’’ found that jobs in the en-
ergy efficiency and renewable energy sector
outnumber fossil fuel jobs in the United
States 3 to 1;
Whereas the establishment of the vehicle
fuel economy emissions standards agreed to
in 2012 for vehicle model years 2022 through
2025—
(1) is the single most significant action
that has been taken to reduce global warm-
ing pollution;
(2) has helped create more than 1,070,000
domestic jobs in the automobile industry of
the United States;
(3) will save consumers in the United
States nearly $100,000,000,000 at the gas
pump; and
(4) will reduce the reliance of the United
States on foreign oil by an estimated
2,500,000 barrels per day by 2030;
Whereas the 2019 report ‘‘Accelerating
America’s Pledge’’ found that the States,
cities, Tribal nations, businesses, and insti-
tutions of higher education of the United
States that support the objectives of the
Paris Agreement—
(1) represent more than 70 percent of the
United States economy and more than 50
percent of the emissions of the United
States;
(2) are already making significant con-
tributions to emissions reductions; and
(3) have the potential to reduce emissions
even further;
Whereas the We Are Still In coalition—
(1) has committed to uphold the Paris
Agreement and the commitment of the
United States to reduce emissions 26 to 28
percent below 2005 levels by 2025; and
(2) since the launch of the coalition in 2017,
has tripled in size to nearly 4,000 cities,
States, businesses, universities, healthcare
organizations, faith groups, and cultural in-
stitutions in all 50 States as of 2019; and
Whereas the United States needs both a
fully engaged Federal Government and cit-
ies, States, and businesses working together
to reduce emissions and avoid the worst im-
pacts of climate change: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that the United States—
(1) should remain a party to the Paris
Agreement;
(2) should support policies at the Federal,
State, and local level that promote the re-
duction of global warming pollution and aim
to meet the objectives of the Paris Agree-
ment; and
(3) should support the efforts of businesses
and investors to take action on climate
change.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 450—RECOG-
NIZING THE 71ST ANNIVERSARY
OF THE UNIVERSAL DECLARA-
TION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND
THE CELEBRATION OF ‘‘HUMAN
RIGHTS DAY’’
Mr. COONS (for himself and Mr.
TILLIS) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.033 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6954 December 10, 2019
S. RES. 450
Whereas the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, adopted by the United Na-
tions on December 10, 1948, represents the
first comprehensive agreement among coun-
tries as to the specific rights and freedoms of
all human beings;
Whereas the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights upholds the basic principles of
liberty and freedom enshrined in the Con-
stitution of the United States and the Bill of
Rights;
Whereas awareness of human rights—
(1) is essential to the realization of funda-
mental freedoms;
(2) promotes equality;
(3) contributes to preventing conflict and
human rights violations; and
(4) enhances participation in democratic
processes;
Whereas Congress has a proud history of
promoting human rights that are inter-
nationally recognized; and
Whereas December 10 of each year is cele-
brated around the world as ‘‘Human Rights
Day’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates December 10, 2019, as
‘‘Human Rights Day’’;
(2) recognizes the 71st anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights;
(3) reaffirms the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights;
(4) supports the right of human rights de-
fenders all over the world to promote the
fundamental freedoms enshrined in the Uni-
versal Declaration of Human Rights; and
(5) encourages the people of the United
States—
(A) to observe Human Rights Day; and
(B) to continue a commitment to uphold-
ing freedom, democracy, and human rights
around the globe.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 451—CON-
GRATULATING ASTRONAUTS DR.
JESSICA U. MEIR AND CHRIS-
TINA H. KOCH FOR THE HIS-
TORIC ACCOMPLISHMENT OF
COMPLETING THE FIRST ALL-FE-
MALE SPACEWALK
Ms. COLLINS (for herself, Ms.
STABENOW, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. MUR-
RAY, Ms. CANTWELL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
WARREN, Mrs. FISCHER, Mrs. CAPITO,
Ms. ERNST, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. SMITH, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Ms.
SINEMA, Ms. MCSALLY, Ms. ROSEN, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. BALD-
WIN, and Ms. MURKOWSKI) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 451
Whereas, on October 18, 2019, Dr. Jessica U.
Meir and Christina H. Koch became the first
astronauts to take part in an all-female
spacewalk;
Whereas, although the first spacewalk
took place in 1964, the first female spacewalk
did not take place until 1984, when Kathryn
Sullivan became the first woman of the
United States to perform a spacewalk with
male astronaut David Leestma;
Whereas the October 18, 2019 spacewalk was
the first spacewalk for Dr. Meir and the
fourth spacewalk for Ms. Koch;
Whereas, during the 7 hour and 7 minute
mission, the 2 astronauts successfully re-
placed a faulty 232-pound battery unit that
charges and discharges the solar power sys-
tem of the International Space Station;
Whereas Dr. Meir and Ms. Koch continue
to perform critical tasks in support of the
mission of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration (referred to in this
preamble as ‘‘NASA’’) and are conducting
numerous experiments to advance scientific
knowledge and the understanding of the
long-term effects of space on humans;
Whereas Ms. Koch is expected to break the
record for the longest single spaceflight by a
woman when she completes her mission to
the International Space Station, spending
328 total consecutive days in space;
Whereas Dr. Meir is a native of Caribou,
Maine, and her impressive academic creden-
tials include a bachelor of arts in Biology
from Brown University, a master of science
in Space Studies from the International
Space University, and a doctorate in Marine
Biology from the Scripps Institution of
Oceanography;
Whereas Ms. Koch is a native of Grand
Rapids, Michigan, and her superior academic
credentials include a bachelor of science in
Electrical Engineering, a bachelor of science
in Physics, and a master of science in Elec-
trical Engineering from North Carolina
State University;
Whereas NASA did not even admit women
into its astronaut program until 1978;
Whereas Dr. Meir and Ms. Koch were both
members of the 2013 Astronaut Candidate
Class of NASA, which was comprised of 8 as-
tronauts and was the first class to include
equal numbers of men and women;
Whereas Dr. Meir and Ms. Koch are an in-
spiration to girls and boys across the United
States and have spoken to hundreds of stu-
dents from the International Space Station
to answer their questions and to encourage
them to pursue their dreams;
Whereas developing the next generation of
women astronauts is a priority for the study
and exploration of space: Now, therefore, be
it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates and expresses pride in Dr.
Jessica U. Meir and Christina H. Koch for
successfully completing the first all-female
spacewalk in history; and
(2) supports the efforts of the National Aer-
onautics and Space Administration (referred
to in this resolving clause as ‘‘NASA’’) to—
(A) fully integrate women into the astro-
naut corps; and
(B) ensure that one of the next humans to
walk on the Moon will be a woman.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 452—COM-
MEMORATING AND SUPPORTING
THE GOALS OF WORLD AIDS DAY
Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Mr.
COONS, Mr. RISCH, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
SULLIVAN, and Mr. BOOKER) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. RES. 452
Whereas, as of the end of 2018, an estimated
37,900,000 people were living with human im-
munodeficiency virus (HIV) or acquired im-
munodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), including
1,700,000 children;
Whereas the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals established a global tar-
get to end AIDS as a public health threat by
2030;
Whereas the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis and Malaria was launched in
2002, and, as of 2018, has helped provide
antiretroviral therapy to approximately
18,900,000 people living with HIV/AIDS and to
719,000 pregnant women to prevent the trans-
mission of HIV/AIDS to their children, sav-
ing an estimated 32,000,000 lives;
Whereas the United States is the largest
donor to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tu-
berculosis and Malaria and, as of December
2019, every $1 contributed by the United
States has leveraged an additional $2 from
other donors;
Whereas the United States President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR)
program remains the largest commitment in
history by any country to combat a single
disease;
Whereas, as of 2018, PEPFAR has supported
treatment for approximately 14,600,000 peo-
ple, including by providing antiretroviral
drugs to 2,400,000 pregnant women living
with HIV to prevent the transmission of HIV
from mother to child during birth;
Whereas, in fiscal year 2018, PEPFAR di-
rectly supported HIV testing and counseling
for nearly 95,000,000 people;
Whereas considerable progress has been
made in the fight against HIV/AIDS, includ-
ing a 16-percent reduction in new HIV infec-
tions, a 41-percent reduction in new HIV in-
fections among children, and a 33-percent re-
duction in the number of AIDS-related
deaths between 2010 and 2018;
Whereas approximately 23,300,000 people
had access to antiretroviral therapy in 2018,
compared to only 7,700,000 people who had ac-
cess to such therapy in 2010;
Whereas it is estimated that, without
treatment, 1⁄2 of all infants living with HIV
will die before their second birthday;
Whereas, despite the remarkable progress
in combatting HIV/AIDS, significant chal-
lenges remain;
Whereas there were approximately 1,700,000
new HIV infections in 2018, structural bar-
riers continue to make testing and treat-
ment programs inaccessible to highly vul-
nerable populations, and an estimated
8,100,000 people living with HIV globally still
do not know their HIV status;
Whereas the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention estimates that more than
37,000 people are diagnosed with HIV in the
United States every year and 14 percent of
the 1,100,000 people in the United States liv-
ing with HIV are not aware of their HIV sta-
tus;
Whereas, in the United States, more than
675,000 people with AIDS have died since the
beginning of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, includ-
ing 15,807 deaths among people with diag-
nosed HIV in 2017, with the disease dis-
proportionately affecting minority commu-
nities;
Whereas December 1 of each year is inter-
nationally recognized as ‘‘World AIDS Day’’;
and
Whereas, in 2019, commemorations for
World AIDS Day focused on the vital role
that communities play in addressing the
HIV/AIDS epidemic: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the goals and ideals of World
AIDS Day, including the goal to achieve zero
new HIV infections, zero discrimination, and
zero AIDS-related deaths;
(2) commends the efforts and achievements
in combatting HIV/AIDS made by PEPFAR,
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis
and Malaria, and the Joint United Nations
Programme on HIV/AIDS;
(3) supports efforts to end the HIV epi-
demic in the United States by 2030;
(4) urges, in order to ensure that an AIDS-
free generation is achievable, rapid action by
all countries toward further expansion and
scale-up of antiretroviral treatment pro-
grams, including efforts to reduce disparities
and improve access for children to life-sav-
ing medications;
(5) encourages the scaling up of com-
prehensive prevention services, including
biomedical and structural interventions, to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.031 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6955
December 10, 2019
ensure inclusive access to programs and ap-
propriate protections for all people at risk of
contracting HIV/AIDS, especially hard-to-
reach populations;
(6) calls for greater focus on the HIV-re-
lated vulnerabilities of women and girls, in-
cluding women and girls at risk for or who
have survived violence or faced discrimina-
tion as a result of the disease;
(7) supports continued leadership by the
United States in domestic, bilateral, multi-
lateral, and private sector efforts to fight
HIV;
(8) encourages and supports greater degrees
of ownership and shared responsibility by de-
veloping countries in order to ensure the sus-
tainability of the domestic responses to HIV/
AIDS by those countries; and
(9) urges other members of the inter-
national community to sustain and scale up
their support for and financial contributions
to efforts around the world to combat HIV/
AIDS.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 5 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, December 10, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing on the fol-
lowing nominations: Mitchell A. Silk,
of New York, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of the Treasury, Brian D. Mont-
gomery, of Texas, to be Deputy Sec-
retary, and David Carey Woll, Jr., of
Connecticut, and John Bobbitt, of
Texas, both to be an Assistant Sec-
retary, all of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development, and Peter
J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to be Inspector
General, Export-Import Bank; to be
immediately followed by an oversight
hearing to examine the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Tuesday, December 10, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Tuesday, December 10,
2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Thursday,
November 21, 2019, at 2 p.m., to conduct
a closed hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
The Subcommittee on Intellectual
Property of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
December 10, 2019, at 2.30 p.m., to con-
duct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that an FDA
detailee on my HELP Committee staff,
Michael Varrone, be granted floor
privileges through August 2020.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that two members
of my team, Whitney Wagner and Brian
Webster, be granted floor privileges for
the remainder of the Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
SUPPORTING THE GLOBAL FUND
TO FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS
AND MALARIA, AND THE SIXTH
REPLENISHMENT
On Monday, December 2, 2019, the
Senate passed S. Res. 318, as follows:
S. RES. 318
Whereas the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria has been an effec-
tive partnership of governments, the private
sector, civil society, and affected commu-
nities to galvanize political and financial ef-
forts to improve the response to these
epidemics since 2002;
Whereas, in 2017, the Global Fund contrib-
uted to extraordinary improvements in glob-
al health that would otherwise not have oc-
curred, including a more than 50 percent re-
duction in the number of AIDS-related
deaths since the peak in 2005, a 37 percent de-
cline in tuberculosis (TB) deaths since 2000,
and a 60 percent decline in the number of
malaria deaths since 2000;
Whereas, since the Global Fund’s creation
in 2002, more than 27,000,000 lives have been
saved in the countries where it invests;
Whereas the Global Fund and its partners
work to maintain a steadfast commitment to
transparency and accountability and have
received high marks in multilateral aid re-
views and by independent watchdog groups;
Whereas a 2019 study published in the An-
nals of Global Health found evidence of asso-
ciated improvements in government ac-
countability, control of corruption, political
freedoms, regulatory quality, and rule of law
that are significant in countries where the
Global Fund invests;
Whereas, despite progress in combating
AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria, challenges
such as drug and insecticide resistance,
reaching marginalized and vulnerable popu-
lations, and complacency in the fight against
infectious diseases threaten further progress;
Whereas United States leadership has been
critical to the success of the Global Fund,
both as its largest donor and through its
oversight role on the Board of the Global
Fund;
Whereas Global Fund programs and activi-
ties support and complement United States
bilateral health programs, including the
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief,
the President’s Malaria Initiative, and the
United States Agency for International De-
velopment tuberculosis program;
Whereas the United States is limited by
law from contributing more than 33 percent
of the Global Fund budget, thereby encour-
aging other partners to significantly in-
crease their contributions;
Whereas the Global Fund’s requirements
for co-financing have spurred domestic in-
vestments, with recipient countries commit-
ting 41 percent more of their own funding to
fight AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria for
2018–2020 compared to 2015–2017;
Whereas the Global Fund has called on do-
nors to support its Sixth Replenishment by
mobilizing a minimum of $14,000,000,000 in
donor commitments for 2021–2023;
Whereas Canada, the European Union, Ger-
many, India, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg,
Japan, Portugal, Switzerland, and the
United Kingdom have responded to the call
by significantly increasing their respective
pledges for the Sixth Replenishment;
Whereas recipient countries also are ex-
pected to increase their co-financing by 48
percent, growing to $46,000,000,000 in 2021–
2023; and
Whereas, with these resources secured, the
Global Fund projects it will reduce the num-
ber of deaths due to AIDS, TB, and malaria
by nearly 50 percent, avert 234,000,000 infec-
tions or disease cases, and save an additional
16,000,000 lives: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commends the work of the Global Fund
and its partners for their contributions
aimed at ending the epidemics of AIDS, tu-
berculosis, and malaria;
(2) affirms the support of the United States
for the goal of securing a minimum of
$14,000,000,000 in donor commitments for the
Sixth Global Fund Replenishment, to be held
on October 10, 2019, in Lyon, France;
(3) supports United States contributions of
33 percent of the budget provided by the
Global Fund’s Sixth Replenishment, con-
sistent with section 202(d) of the United
States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS, Tuber-
culosis, and Malaria Act of 2003 (22 U.S.C.
7622(d)), and provided that the Fund con-
tinues to uphold its longstanding commit-
ment to transparency, accountability, and
results in combating AIDS, tuberculosis, and
malaria;
(4) urges donor countries to step up the
fight and increase their pledges for the Sixth
Global Fund Replenishment;
(5) urges Global Fund recipient countries
to continue to make and meet ambitious co-
financing commitments to sustain progress
in ending the epidemics of AIDS, tuber-
culosis, and malaria; and
(6) encourages United States bilateral aid
programs to continue their collaboration
with the Global Fund to maximize the life-
saving impact of global health investments.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—S. 3009
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk,
and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bill by title for the
first time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 3009) to provide for a period of
continuing appropriations in the event of a
lapse in appropriations under the normal ap-
propriations process, and establish proce-
dures and consequences in the event of a fail-
ure to enact appropriations.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I now ask for a second reading, and in
order to place the bill on the calendar
under the provisions of rule XIV, I ob-
ject to my own request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
read for the second time on the next
legislative day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10DE6.033 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6956 December 10, 2019
VIRGINIA BEACH STRONG ACT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to the order from November 21, 2019,
the Senate having received H.R. 4566
from the House, and the text being
identical to S. 2592, the House bill is
considered read a third time, and the
question is on the passage of the bill.
The bill was ordered to a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (H.R. 4566) was passed.
f
FOSTERING UNDERGRADUATE
TALENT BY UNLOCKING RE-
SOURCES FOR EDUCATION ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 5363.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 5363) to reauthorize mandatory
funding programs for historically Black col-
leges and universities and other minority-
serving institutions, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the bill be considered read
a third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to a third read-
ing and was read the third time.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the bill having been
read the third time, the question is,
Shall the bill pass?
The bill (H.R. 5363) was passed.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CONGRATULATING ASTRONAUTS
DR. JESSICA U. MEIR AND
CHRISTINA H. KOCH FOR THE
HISTORIC ACCOMPLISHMENT OF
COMPLETING THE FIRST ALL-FE-
MALE SPACEWALK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 451, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 451) congratulating
astronauts Dr. Jessica U. Meir and Christina
H. Koch for the historic accomplishment of
completing the first all-female spacewalk.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 451) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 11, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, Madam
President, I ask unanimous consent
that when the Senate completes its
business today, it adjourn until 9:30
a.m., Wednesday, December 11; further,
that following the prayer and pledge,
the morning hour be deemed expired,
the Journal of proceedings be approved
to date, the time for the two leaders be
reserved for their use later in the day,
morning business be closed, and the
Senate proceed to executive session
and resume consideration of the Van-
Dyke nomination; finally, that all time
during recess, adjournment, morning
business, and leader remarks count
postcloture on the VanDyke nomina-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:30 p.m., adjourned until Wednes-
day, December 11, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
DISCHARGED NOMINATION
The Senate Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs was
discharged from further consideration
of the following nomination under the
authority of the order of the Senate of
01/07/2009 and the nomination was
placed on the Executive Calendar:
*SEAN O’DONNELL, OF MARYLAND, TO BE INSPECTOR
GENERAL, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.
*Nominee has committed to respond
to requests to appear and testify before
any duly constituted committee of the
Senate.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate December 10, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
PATRICK J. BUMATAY, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:43 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G10DE6.052 S10DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1567
December 10, 2019
JUDY ALTENBERG
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and honor Judy Altenberg
for receiving the 2019 Golda Meir Award from
JEWISHColorado.
This award honors local Jewish women who
have exemplified extraordinary leadership,
community involvement and support of the
Federation, as well as has an outstanding abil-
ity to inspire others. Judy exemplifies the
qualities deserving of this recognition. She has
been active in the community for several dec-
ades through her volunteerism and nonprofit
work. She has tirelessly volunteered on sev-
eral boards, including as past chair, lifetime
board member and trustee of the Board of Na-
tional Women’s Philanthropy of the Jewish
Federations of North America (JFNA). She is
the past chair of the Jewish Women’s Philan-
thropy Center of JEWISHColorado, where she
has chaired several fundraising divisions, and
alumna of the United Jewish Communities’
National Young Leadership Cabinet. She is a
2010 graduate of the Wexner Heritage Pro-
gram, an intensive two-year program of Jew-
ish leadership and learning. Most recently, in
2019, Judy joined the Rose Community Foun-
dation as Director of Gift Planning and Advisor
Relations. She has been involved with the
Foundation since 2007 as a trustee and mem-
ber of the Education Committee and chair of
the Jewish Life Committee.
In addition to her work within the Jewish
community, Judy has been involved locally
and at the state level and helped at her chil-
dren’s K–12 schools, including as past Chair
of the Cherry Creek Schools Foundation.
Judy’s dedication to her community is out-
standing. I extend my deepest congratulations
to Judy Altenberg for her contribution to our
community and our state.
f
CELEBRATING MOTHER CLIFFORD
MASON’S 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
honor of Mother Clifford Mason, a long-time
resident of Detroit, Michigan, as she cele-
brates her one hundredth birthday on Decem-
ber 13, 2019.
Born in Macon, Georgia, Clifford Mason was
raised as an only child by her grandparents.
She was educated in Georgia public schools
before marrying Millard Mason in 1944. They
moved to Michigan in 1946 and established
their home, where she eventually became a
dedicated member on the Usher Board and
Mothers’ Board of Unity Baptist Church in De-
troit.
Mother Mason was employed at a clothing
factory and as a short order cook for a res-
taurant. She enjoyed cooking and baking—
cabbage and pound cakes are her specialties.
She has remained an active member of a
local social club for over 50 years and con-
tinues to enjoy their yearly celebrations and
birthday parties, dressing up, eating good
food, and playing cards. Still active in the
community, Mother Mason spends her time at
Patton Recreation Center in Southwest De-
troit, where she once worked and volunteered.
She received accolades from former Detroit
Mayor Coleman A. Young for her vol-
unteerism. The matriarch of her family, Mother
Mason treasures her time spent with family.
She is the proud parent to her grown son
Gregory Mason and loves her many grand-
children and great-grandchildren. Her compas-
sion and kindness towards others have had a
lasting impact on those around her. Her strong
family values are reflected in the life she
leads.
Please join me in celebrating the one hun-
dredth birthday of Mother Clifford Mason.
f
HONORING FATHER ALEXANDER
KARLOUTSOS
HON. LEE M. ZELDIN
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Father Alexander Karloutsos, the
leader of Dormition of the Virgin Mary Greek
Orthodox Church of the Hamptons in South-
ampton, New York.
Father Alex, as he’s known to so many in
our community, has served his church for over
40 years, guiding Long Islanders in a life cen-
tered in faith. However, his work goes beyond
the members of his faith community, and his
work has affected so many aspects of our
community and our nation.
In fact, Father Alex has met with and ad-
vised every U.S. President since President
Ronald Reagan on religious freedom and
many other issues and is well-known and re-
spected by many members of Congress and
policy-makers on both sides of the aisle.
While his reputation precedes him on the
national level, he has never turned his back
on the community he loves. Just last year, he
led his church in donating $100,000 to the
Southampton Town Police Department to help
fight the heroin and opioid abuse epidemic
that has taken its toll on our community.
For his extraordinary service to our commu-
nity and nation, he was recently appointed as
the Vicar General of the Holy Archdiocese of
America at the discretion of the Archbishop
himself. I congratulate Father Alex on his well-
deserved appointment and look forward to
continuing to work together to better the com-
munity we love.
RECOGNIZING THE RETIREMENT
OF COVESTRO LLC’S CHAIRMAN
AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER,
JERRY MACCLEARY
HON. GUY RESCHENTHALER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Madam Speaker, it
is a great honor to congratulate my con-
stituent, Jerry MacCleary, upon his retirement
after a distinguished forty-year career with
Covestro LLC. Mr. MacCleary truly embodies
the values that make southwestern Pennsyl-
vania a great place to live and work, and I am
proud to represent him in Congress.
In 1979, Mr. MacCleary began his career as
an accountant with the company. Mr.
MacCleary’s talent and work ethic were imme-
diately recognized, and he quickly rose
through the ranks, taking on positions in sales,
marketing, general management, and strategic
leadership. In 2004, Mr. MacCleary was
named head of the company’s North American
polyurethanes business. He retained this sig-
nificant responsibility even after becoming
president in 2012. In 2015, Mr. MacCleary led
the North American material science organiza-
tion through its separation from Bayer and es-
tablishment as an independent company,
called Covestro. In 2018, he was named
Chairman and CEO.
Mr. MacCleary’s dedication to the chemical
industry does not stop with his work at
Covestro. He serves on the Board of Directors
for the National Association of Manufacturers,
on the Executive Committee for the Society of
Chemical Manufacturers, and as Chairman of
the American Chemistry Council’s Board of Di-
rectors.
Mr. MacCleary is well known in the industry
for his commitment to advancing sustainability
efforts. He serves as Chair for the Board Sus-
tainability Committee under the American
Chemistry Council, as well as the Sustain-
ability Committee for the Allegheny Con-
ference on Community Development. He also
co-chairs ‘‘CEOs for Sustainability’’—a local
program sharing sustainable business prac-
tices with companies of all sizes.
Born and raised in Pittsburgh, Mr.
MacCleary is actively engaged in the south-
western Pennsylvania community. He serves
on the Board of Directors for the Allegheny
Conference on Community Development, the
United Way of Southwestern Pennsylvania,
and the Imani Christian Academy. He is also
a member of the Board of Trustees for the
Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh and co-chairs
The Advanced Leadership Initiative, which
aims to promote corporate diversity and build
a continuous pipeline of African American
leaders in Pittsburgh.
Madam Speaker, throughout his career,
Jerry MacCleary has demonstrated a remark-
able commitment to Covestro, the chemical in-
dustry, sustainability efforts, and the south-
western Pennsylvania community as a whole.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10DE8.001 E10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1568 December 10, 2019
Please join me in congratulating him on his
well-earned retirement after a distinguished
career. I know that he will remain active in the
next chapter of his life and continue to serve
as an exemplary citizen for our community
and the entire region.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF DO-
LORES PREKSTA SHOROKEY–
BRUNETTI
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Dolores Preksta Shorokey-
Brunetti, 84, who passed away peacefully on
Saturday, November 30, 2019, at her home
with her family by her side.
Dolores, who was known to all as ‘‘Dee,’’
was born August 28, 1935, in Cadogan, PA, a
daughter of the late John and Sadie
Wolsonovich Preksta, and came to the
Mahoning Valley with her family as a child.
Dee was a registered nurse for more than
40 years. She graduated from The Rayen
School, where she was a majorette, and
earned a degree in Nursing from the Youngs-
town Hospital Association School of Nursing.
Early in her career, she worked at the Stutt-
gart Army Hospital in Germany, and she later
worked at Northside Hospital in Youngstown
for many years, where she was instrumental in
the formation of the Nurses Union. Dee retired
from nursing in 2000.
She was a member of St. Anne Ukrainian
Catholic Church in Austintown, where she
proudly volunteered. Dolores enjoyed cooking,
golfing, gardening, and attending garage
sales. She was also known to enjoy casinos
and vacationing with her family to Nags Head,
North Carolina, which she did as recently as
August of 2019. Dee loved her family and
lived her life for her children. Compassionate
and caring, she also used her skills to serve
as a caregiver to elderly friends.
Dee is survived by four children, Debbie
Aloia (Christina Lyons), with whom she shared
her home for the past year, Joe (Jane)
Shorokey of Boardman, Christine Shorokey of
New Jersey, and Laurie (Brett) Stare of
Austintown; six grandchildren, Matt Price (Liz
Montelongo), Nikki (Daniel) Maloney, Holly
Kowal (Jason Poe), Sara Shorokey, Mimi
Shorokey, and Josie Shorokey; a great-grand-
daughter, Aria; a sister, Patricia Gergel of
Youngstown; two brothers, John Preksta of
Detroit and Ronald Preksta of Chicago; sev-
eral nieces and nephews; and her canine
companion, Donya. Her second husband, Jo-
seph ‘‘Peno’’ Brunetti, passed away February
3, 2014.
My staff and I have been blessed to work
closely on addiction and behavioral issues
with Dee’s son, Joe, who is the CEO of Alta
Behavioral Health in Youngstown. I have no
doubt that Joe got his passion for care from
his mother. My deepest condolences to all
whose lives were touched by Dee.
IN RECOGNITION OF NANCY
FATEMI FOR HER EXEMPLARY
CAREER IN SERVICE OF NEW
JERSEY
HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Nancy Blades Fatemi, someone
who has been a tireless public servant for the
great state of New Jersey throughout her en-
tire career. Nancy has announced her retire-
ment at the end of this year from her current
role as Executive Director to the New Jersey
State Society (NJSS).
For the last decade, Nancy has served as
executive director of the New Jersey State So-
ciety of Washington, D.C. State and Territory
societies are civic and social organizations
that are unique to the national capital region.
With roots that trace back to 1854, state soci-
eties have evolved as non-partisan booster
clubs that celebrate the history, culture, tradi-
tions, humor, politics and commerce of Amer-
ica’s 50 states. The societies provide those
who live in the greater-Washington area with
a special non-partisan venue that enables
them to share in a wide variety of events cele-
brating their home states. Since 1941, New
Jersey State Society has been serving as the
link between Washington, D.C. and New Jer-
sey. Under Nancy’s leadership, NJSS won the
top national Haines Award for ‘‘Outstanding
State Society,’’ in 2014–2015, as well as sev-
eral state society softball championships.
Prior to serving NJSS, she worked on Cap-
itol Hill in the personal offices of Rep. James
J. Howard, D–NJ, as legislative director and
press secretary, and later in my office as spe-
cial assistant and health care legislative as-
sistant. Nancy began her career as a reporter
at The Home News, New Brunswick, NJ, and
reporter and wire editor of the Bennington
Banner, Bennington, VT. She grew up in
Avon-by-the-Sea, NJ and is a graduate of Rut-
gers University’s Douglass College, New
Brunswick, NJ, and Columbia Graduate
School of Journalism, New York, NY.
Taking the steps to successfully continue a
long tradition of creating opportunities for New
Jerseyans living in Washington, D.C. to con-
nect and celebrate the Garden State is no
small task, and Nancy has more than risen to
the challenge. Madam Speaker, I hope all my
colleagues will join me in thanking Nancy
Blades Fatemi for her tireless advocacy on be-
half of the great state of New Jersey.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF WILLIAM
‘‘BILL’’ RYAN
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of the life of the William ‘‘Bill’’
Ryan, a veteran and public servant of thirty-six
years.
Born in Brighton, Massachusetts in 1938,
Bill graduated from Brighton High School and
Quincy College. After graduating, Bill began
his long career with the United States Postal
Service in 1956. During this time, he served
as both letter carrier and as an Army National
Guard Reservist working as a heavy equip-
ment operator. Continuing his career with the
U.S. Postal Service, he would eventually be
named U.S. Post Master in 1981. Bill served
multiple communities in his role as Post Mas-
ter including; Bedford, Waltham and Abington,
where he would retire in 1992.
Bill was a dedicated family man and a de-
vout follower of the Catholic faith. After his re-
tirement, Bill most enjoyed spending time with
his family and rooting for his beloved Boston
Red Sox.
Surrounded by family, Bill passed away on
November 30, 2019, at the age of eighty-one.
His dedication to serving both his country and
his community will long be remembered by his
growing family and all those who had the
great privilege of knowing Bill. In addition to
his wife Mary Sue, Bill is survived by his six
children Billy, John, Patrick, James, Mary Sue,
and Peggy, his twelve grandchildren, and two
great grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to honor the
life of the William ‘‘Bill’’ Ryan. I ask that my
colleagues join me in recognizing his commit-
ment to his local community and the people of
Massachusetts.
f
HONORING CHIEF DENNIS
COMPTON
HON. STENY H. HOYER
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Chief Dennis Compton, who earlier
this year stepped down as Chair of the Na-
tional Fallen Firefighters Foundation Board of
Directors after more than eleven years.
Since 1992, I have had the distinct honor of
serving as a Co-Chair of the Congressional
Fire Services Caucus. I have established
friendships with many members of our nation’s
fire and emergency services throughout those
years. I got to know Chief Compton well, at-
tending the memorial service for fallen fire-
fighters in Emmitsburg and the annual Con-
gressional Fire Services Dinner together with
him every year.
I know it was a difficult decision on his part
to step down as the Chairman of the National
Fallen Firefighters Board of Directors. Chief
Compton has always cared deeply about the
mission of the National Fallen Firefighters
Foundation to honor our fallen heroes, provide
support to their loved ones, and reduce the
number of firefighter injuries and deaths. Even
though he will no longer serve as Chairman,
I know he will remain steadfast in his commit-
ment to firefighter health and safety.
In his many different professional capacities,
Chief Compton has shared his thoughts and
knowledge with thousands of firefighters about
the attributes of leadership, character, and in-
tegrity. These attributes define who he is as a
friend and leader and have earned him many
well-deserved distinctions and honors from his
peers. Indeed, his legacy will be felt for many
years to come in the countless men and
women of the fire and emergency services
who will carry out their work aimed with the
lessons he imparted and will surely continue
to impart in the years ahead.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10DE8.004 E10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1569
December 10, 2019
I would also like to honor him for his dedica-
tion and commitment to our nation’s fire-
fighters, for his unwavering support for the
family members of our fallen heroes, and for
his many contributions to the bipartisan work
of the Congressional Fire Services Caucus.
Serving as a Co-Chair of the Congressional
Fire Services Caucus, I have seen Chief
Compton’s tireless efforts up close.
Prior to his role as Chairman of the National
Fallen Firefighters Board of Directors, Chief
Compton served in the Phoenix Fire Depart-
ment for twenty-eight years. He also served as
Fire Chief in Mesa, Arizona, for six years.
Chief Compton also served as Past Chairman
of the Congressional Fire Services Institute
(CFSI) National Advisory Council and Co-
Chairman of the Fire Service-Based EMS Ad-
vocates Steering Committee.
Our nation’s fire service owes Chief Comp-
ton a debt of gratitude. On behalf of my fellow
Co-Chairs of the Congressional Fire Services
Caucus, I extend my thanks and appreciation
to Chief Dennis Compton for his outstanding
leadership as Chairman of the National Fallen
Firefighters Foundation.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JENNIFER
SCHLECHT
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to Jen-
nifer Schlecht, a beloved and internationally
recognized public health expert. She worked
tirelessly to ensure that women and girls—es-
pecially those living in crisis situations—had
access to medical care, including comprehen-
sive sexual and reproductive health care. Ms.
Schlecht was an incredible mother and friend
in addition to being a true leader in the repro-
ductive health space.
Ms. Schlecht was committed to bringing
about a world where all women and girls could
exercise control over their bodies. She worked
in Africa before returning home to New York in
2001, where she earned a master’s degree
from Columbia University’s Mailman School of
Public Health. After graduating in 2004, she
began working at Harlem Hospital. Later, Ms.
Schlecht joined the Women’s Refugee Com-
mission; where she gained a reputation as
both a women’s health expert and as some-
one who was razor sharp, fun, and unfailingly
kind. Mrs. Schlecht joined the UN Foundation
(UNF) Family Planning 2020 team as Senior
Advisor for Emergency Preparedness and Re-
sponse and quickly became a go-to expert on
addressing the needs of women and girls in
crisis. Her leadership in the field was recog-
nized by her colleagues at UNF and profes-
sionals from partner organizations around the
world.
Beyond her expertise, she was a treasured
colleague, bringing her warmth and generosity
to work every day. Amidst all her commit-
ments, she somehow found time to also be-
come a certified counselor, get married, buy a
home in Harlem, and have a daughter,
Abaynesh. Her energy and her clear-eyed
drive to improve the world around her were
boundless.
The same warmth that engendered her
commitment to women and girls globally was
evident in her dedication to protecting and nur-
turing her much loved daughter. She worked
from New York to spend more time with
Abaynesh. This September, to Ms. Schlecht’s
immense pride, her daughter began kinder-
garten at Hunter College Elementary School.
Abaynesh was the center of her life.
On November 6th, Ms. Schlecht and
Abaynesh were killed by their husband and fa-
ther in a tragic act of domestic violence. There
are no words to express the profound devas-
tation faced by those who loved them; there is
no meaning to be found in this tragedy. One
out of every three women will experience vio-
lence in their lifetime, most likely at the hands
of someone they know. Ms. Schlecht’s cour-
age to leave an abusive situation should never
be forgotten. The best way to honor her mem-
ory is to keep fighting to realize Ms. Schlecht’s
dream of ensuring safety, dignity, and choices
for all women and girls. Ms. Schlecht, her
light, the way she cared for her daughter, and
all of the things that made her a beautiful
human being will be deeply missed. We can-
not rest until the violence stops.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the life of Jennifer Schlecht,
remembering her deep dedication to the rights
of women and girls around the world, and
mourning the unjust and tragic loss of her and
her daughter.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOHN H. RUTHERFORD
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I was
unavailable due to delays in travel and missed
Roll Call Vote 655 and 656.
Had I been present, I would have voted Aye
on Roll Call No. 655 and 656.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. SUSAN W. BROOKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana. Madam Speaker,
I was not present for the following Roll Call
votes. Had I been present for them, l would
have voted as follows:
Roll Call No. 655 on H.R. 4761–DHS Opioid
Detection Resilience Act of 2019–YEA, and
Roll Call No. 656 on H.R. 4739–Synthetic
Opioid Exposure Prevention and Training Act–
YEA.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, I
was unable to be present for votes on Mon-
day, December 9, 2019 due to an important
meeting with constituents in my District.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 655, and YEA on Roll
Call No. 656.
RECOGNIZING BRIAN LYONS ON
HIS 11TH BIRTHDAY AND FOR
HIS CONTRIBUTIONS TO OUR
COMMUNITY
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect that I rise today to recognize
Brian Lyons for his incredible dedication and
the many contributions he has made and con-
tinues to make to local first responders.
Upon discovering that his local fire com-
pany, Elm Hill Hose Company No. 3 in Plym-
outh, did not have a Jaws of Life, Brian
jumped into action and began selling lem-
onade to raise the necessary funds needed to
purchase the life saving equipment. After sell-
ing over 7,500 cups of lemonade and receiv-
ing a $2,000 donation, Brian purchased the
Jaws of Life and was on hand to donate the
equipment to his local fire company in August.
Brian’s dedication to supporting our commu-
nity’s first responders, especially his local fire
company, is a tremendous example to us all.
On behalf of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives and the citizens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth
Congressional District, I ask my colleagues to
join me in thanking Brian Lyons for his dedica-
tion to our first responders.
f
IN HONOR OF ROBERT M.
RECHNITZ
HON. FRANK PALLONE, JR.
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate the life of Mr. Robert M.
Rechnitz. Mr. Rechnitz, a longtime resident of
the Locust section of Middletown, New Jersey,
passed away on October 12, 2019 after a vi-
brant life filled with numerous professional and
personal accomplishments.
Robert (Bob) Rechnitz was a prominent
member of the community and a fixture of the
thriving arts and humanities landscape in Mon-
mouth County. As co-founder and executive
producer of Two River Theater, Bob was com-
mitted to providing an outlet for creative ex-
pression and a preeminent institution for the
public to enjoy. In addition to his extensive
background and work in theater, Bob was an
esteemed educator, stalwart preservationist
and dedicated philanthropist. He lived his life
in service to his community and his achieve-
ments and generosity have been recognized
by many awards and tributes over the years.
His love of nature and the theater and his
commitment to social and humanitarian
causes left an indelible impact on the commu-
nity. From his support of the Monmouth Con-
servation Foundation and Monmouth Univer-
sity to his contributions to Monmouth Medical
Center and Riverview Medical Center, to
name just a few, his philanthropic endeavors
will benefit generations to come.
Bob leaves behind a loving family, including
his devoted wife and partner Joan, their chil-
dren Emily, Adam and Joshua, son-in-law
John Paladino, daughter-in-law Elizabeth
Fordi, grandchildren Max and Flora Paladino
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10DE8.003 E10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1570 December 10, 2019
and Esme Rechnitz, as well as many dear
friends and colleagues.
Madam Speaker, I sincerely hope that my
colleagues will join me in honoring Robert M.
Rechnitz for his devotion to his family and his
immeasurable contributions to the greater
Monmouth County community.
f
RECOGNIZING CLEARLY LOVED
PETS AND BOCA KITCHENS &
BATHS
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Wayne and Julie Huthmaker of
Clearly Loved Pets and Gloria Duran and
Shuky Conroyd of Boca Kitchens & Baths.
These two small businesses have been se-
lected as this year’s SCORE of South Palm
Beach Small Businesses of the Year.
SCORE is a nationwide nonprofit organiza-
tion dedicated to helping small business get
started, grow, and achieve their goals. They
provide free mentoring and tools and offer
workshops on vital business issues. The
South Palm Beach Chapter has twice been
voted the No. 1 Chapter in America.
Clearly Loved Pets has created a patent-
pending clear enclosure for pets designed to
decrease stress and improve aesthetics in
your home. Boca Kitchens & Baths is a full in-
terior design-build team that offers numerous
professional services and designs. These two
businesses represent the myriad of high-qual-
ity products and services provided by small
businesses in our community.
Please join me in congratulating Clearly
Loved Pets and Boca Kitchens & Baths on
their success and well-deserved recognitions.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF ALAN
BARRY WOLF
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Alan ‘‘Big Al’’ Wolf, originally
of Malden, Massachusetts, who passed away
on October 26, 2019 at the age of 86.
Big Al’s family would describe him as a sim-
ple man—not in a small way, but in a grand
way. He was soft spoken, but you always
heard him clearly. He said few words, but he
always got his point across.
Alan grew up in the Boston suburb of
Malden, son to Joseph and Florence, and
brother to his sister Barbara. The family had a
house right on the beach near an amusement
park and boardwalk. It was here where his
family shared so many weekends, events, and
summer barbecues. Alan worked in the family
business at Wolf Syrup Corp. His family al-
ways took so much pride knowing their Dad’s
syrup was in the soda fountains at the local
lunch counters and pharmacies they went to
around Boston.
Big Al was never a materialistic guy and
only cared about a few things. He always had
to drive a nice car—never flashy, but classy.
His kids say he would brag about the Cadillac
convertible that he drove around when he first
started dating his wife, Dolly. He was similarly
forever sharply dressed and always had to
wear a nice tie, shoes buffed, and pocket
square peeking out.
The love Al had for his wife, Dolly, was in-
describable. Dolly was his soulmate and their
66 years together was as Dolly would say, ‘‘an
experience of love and life.’’ From the day
they met when she was 15 years old, there
was no one else for him. It is truly amazing
how much he loved her. In his eyes she was
the most beautiful woman in the world and he
never stopped thinking that until the day he
died.
Coaching was a big thing for Al. He loved
teaching the fundamentals of baseball and
football and instilling a winning attitude. One
thing that separated Al as a coach and person
was that he would always look after the more
disadvantaged kids. He felt that he could
make a difference.
Big Al loved his children and grandchildren.
Alan, or Pappy as he was fondly called, was
also known to give a few dollars each time he
saw his grandchildren. His grandkids always
knew that they had a friend and fan in Pappy
Alan—and that he was always ready to offer
a knuckle sandwich.
Alan had many loves and many opinions,
but above all, he loved his family. I am very
blessed to be a great friend of his son, Robert.
My deep condolences go out to Alan’s family
and to everyone whose lives he touched. We’ll
miss Alan.
f
MR. EDDIE ROBINSON BIRTHDAY
RECOGNITION
HON. KAY GRANGER
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Mr. Eddie Robinson who is
celebrating his 99th birthday on December 15,
2019.
Eddie was born William Edward Robinson in
Paris, Texas in 1920. He is best known for his
13-year Major League Baseball playing career
from 1942 to 1957. During that time, he also
served three years in the U.S. Navy, and mar-
ried the love of his life, Bette, in 1955.
Eddie has what is described as charisma. It
starts with an infectious smile that is always
there for every story he tells and those he
hears. He can remember the smallest detail
that makes everyone lean forward in their
chairs to make sure they hear every word.
Eddie is constantly telling stories from his
Major League Baseball days that thrill the
hearts and minds of his listeners. He is such
a gifted story teller it is as if we are all reliving
the times of his ‘‘Boys of Summer’’ baseball
days.
His more humorous side sometimes comes
out with stories that he would never tell in
public but shares with his close breakfast
group known as ‘‘The Eastside Mafia’’. Eddie
particularly loves telling stories of his days
playing golf at Woodhaven Country Club in
Fort Worth. It has been said that he was al-
ways so complimentary of a fellow’s drive by
saying, ‘‘Man what a beautiful drive!’’, only to
follow up with his famous baseball trajectory of
a line drive which would put his well past the
shot of his competitors.
Eddie is also a person that shares his good
fortunes in life. Besides taking his friends to
the Texas Rangers games, he was also instru-
mental in several projects around Fort Worth.
He established the Woodhaven Neighborhood
Golf Association’s annual golf tournament,
proving scholarships for local high school stu-
dents in Fort Worth. He also helped his wife
Bette raise funds to construct a clock tower
and research library—East Regional Library of
Fort Worth—which I had the pleasure of sup-
porting during my time as Mayor of Fort
Worth.
On behalf of Texas’ 12th Congressional Dis-
trict, I offer my congratulations and best wish-
es on this special occasion.
f
RECOGNIZING LIEUTENANT COM-
MANDER CHRISTOPHER
RAGSDALE
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize those men and women
who continue to serve this great Nation with
honor—men such as Lieutenant Commander
(LCDR) Christopher Ragsdale, United States
Navy.
For the past year, LCDR Ragsdale served
on my staff as a Congressional Defense Fel-
low. A 2007 graduate of the United States
Naval Academy, LCDR Flynn is a proud Sur-
face Warfare Officer who served in MCM
Crew BULWARK and onboard USS Comstock
(LSD–45) and USS Benfold (DDG–65). During
his assignment in my office, LCDR Ragsdale
provided senior-level input for defense, vet-
erans, foreign affairs and intelligence matters.
Additionally, he executed his work as a liaison
to the constituents ofVirginia’s First Congres-
sional District with distinction.
Furthermore, LCDR Ragsdale provided ex-
ceptional support to me as a staff liaison to
the House Armed Services Committee in my
role as the Seapower and Projection Forces
Subcommittee Ranking Member. LCDR
Ragsdale dutifully provided me with guidance
on what the Navy’s path forward should be in
critical areas such as training, readiness, and
manning. His recent experience in the surface
community was invaluable to my work in Con-
gress.
As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Ship-
building Caucus and the Co-Chair of the
Navy-Marine Corps Caucus, I relied on LCDR
Ragsdale to organize quarterly events with
government, military, and private sector lead-
ers. These events allowed key decisionmakers
to work together for the advancement of our
future Naval Officers as well as the construc-
tion and repair of the ships on which they will
serve.
LCDR Ragsdale also directly contributed to
my goal of providing excellent constituent
service to the people of the First District. He
was responsible for bringing numerous con-
stituent inquiries to a successful conclusion,
and he leveraged his personal and operational
experience in the Navy to respond to the most
challenging inquiries. In addition to his efforts
locally, LCDR Ragsdale took on projects with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10DE8.009 E10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1571
December 10, 2019
regional, state, and national implications, dem-
onstrating his ability to view a challenge from
many angles and develop innovative solutions.
LCDR Ragsdale’s work ethic, duty to mis-
sion, and commitment to servant leadership is
without equal. I believe that his personal drive
to achieve excellence in his work has and will
set a very high standard for his peers. I would
also like to thank LCDR Ragsdale for the serv-
ice and sacrifice he has made, and continues
to make, both for our Nation and our great
Navy. His impeccable integrity, boundless
work ethic, and loyal devotion to duty earned
him the respect and admiration of my staff and
the First District of Virginia. I have no doubt
that LCDR Ragsdale will continue to serve the
Navy honorably and with distinction.
I wish Chris and his wife Andrea the best of
luck as they continue their journey together as
a Navy family. It was an honor and a pleasure
having Chris serve on my staff. We all can
sleep soundly at night knowing that members
of our all-volunteer force like Chris stand
ready to defend our country and take the fight
to our enemies; far away from their families
and the comforts of the United States of
America.
I thank LCDR Christopher Ragsdale for
doing a fantastic job. Best of luck to him and
may God bless him, his family, and all the
Sailors he is charged with leading.
f
RECOGNIZING BEVERLY ‘‘BEV’’
MASON, USDA—RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT
HON. ANN M. KUSTER
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in recognition of Beverly
‘‘Bev’’ Mason’s nearly four decades of service
with the United States Department of Agri-
culture’s Rural Development Program (USDA–
RD). Bev will be retiring this month after 38
years of serving our Granite State commu-
nities.
Bev began her career as a technician with
the Farmers Home Administration (FHMA),
now known as USDA—Rural Development.
Later, she held the positions of County Super-
visor, Administrative Program Director, and re-
tires as the New Hampshire Area Director.
As Area Director, Bev has been responsible
for the Home Ownership Program and single-
family housing through USDA–RD. She has
worked with thousands of families, assisting
with developing and understanding an individ-
ual’s financial profile and developing budget
plans to enable hard-working Granite Staters
to realize the dream of home ownership.
In addition, Bev has worked directly with
many of our state’s communities and non-
profits to address the needs of rural New
Hampshire. She has assisted with Water and
Environmental Program Loans as well as
Community Facility Loans and Grants to ad-
vance infrastructure and economic develop-
ment profiles.
On behalf of my constituents across New
Hampshire’s Second Congressional District, I
commend Beverly Mason for her dedication to
our Granite State’s rural communities. We owe
her a debt of gratitude and express our heart-
felt thanks for her years of service. She should
look back proudly on her achievements and I
wish her all the best in the years to come.
f
SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY RE-
SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I in-
clude in the RECORD an exchange of cor-
respondence between myself and Chairman
JOHN YARMUTH acknowledging the Committee
on the Budget’s jurisdiction over provisions in
H.R. 2051, the Sustainable Chemistry Re-
search and Development Act of 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, COM-
MITTEE ON SCIENCE, SPACE, AND
TECHNOLOGY,
Washington, DC, November 25, 2019.
Chairman JOHN YARMUTH,
Committee on the Budget,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN YARMUTH: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 2051, the ‘‘Sustainable
Chemistry Research and Development Act of
2019,’’ which was referred to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology on April
3, 2019.
I appreciate your willingness to work coop-
eratively on this bill. I recognize that the
bill contains provisions that fall within the
jurisdiction of the Committee on the Budget.
I acknowledge that your Committee will
waive further consideration of H.R. 2051 and
that this action is not a waiver of future ju-
risdictional claims by the Committee on the
Budget over this subject matter.
I will make sure to include our exchange of
letters in the Congressional Record and leg-
islative reports. Thank you for your coopera-
tion on this legislation.
Sincerely,
EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON,
Chairwoman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET,
Washington, DC, November 26, 2019.
Chairwoman EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON,
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN JOHNSON: I write to con-
firm our mutual understanding regarding
H.R. 2051, the Sustainable Chemistry Re-
search and Development Act of 2019. H.R.
2051 contains provisions that fall within the
rule X jurisdiction of the Committee on the
Budget. However, the Committee agrees to
waive formal consideration of the bill.
The Committee on the Budget takes this
action with the mutual understanding that,
in doing so, we do not waive any jurisdiction
over the subject matter contained in this or
similar legislation, and that the Committee
will be appropriately consulted and involved
as the bill or similar legislation moves for-
ward so that we may address any remaining
issues within our jurisdiction. The Com-
mittee also reserves the right to seek ap-
pointment to any House-Senate conference
convened on this legislation or similar legis-
lation and requests your support if such a re-
quest is made.
Thank you for agreeing to include our ex-
change of letters in the Congressional
Record. I appreciate your cooperation re-
garding this legislation and look forward to
continuing to work with you as this measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
JOHN YARMUTH,
Chairman.
f
JUMP, LITTLE CHILDREN
HON. JOE CUNNINGHAM
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor one of the greatest musical
acts to ever come out of Charleston, South
Carolina, Jump, Little Children.
Since their early days busking on the corner
of Church and Market Streets twenty-five
years ago, Jump has earned a substantial and
loyal fan base that has followed them through-
out the country, supporting their nine records
and EPs, and literally thousands of energetic
concerts that keep us showing up whenever
they Come Around.
No matter where you hear a Jump song,
you can Close Your Eyes and picture yourself
back in the old Charleston Cathedrals of the
raucous Music Farm after Midnight or the
Quiet Dock Street Theater during the Holi-
days. Those were special days for so many of
us in Charleston.
After The Dim and the Dark of a nearly ten
year hiatus, Jump returned to the stage to re-
mind us all how much we love their music,
their personalities, and their shows. And how
grateful we are they did.
And before we all Say Goodnight to this
band, whenever that may be, the United
States Congress wishes many more years of
Jump, Little Children, along with the music
and memories they create. From Charleston,
South Carolina, to Washington, D.C., to the
Rains in Asia, and the Green Fields of Can-
ada, all the way to Mexico, Jump, Little Chil-
dren has left an indelible mark on this world,
one that will never be forgotten.
Because of them their music will forever be
a part of the soundtrack for the city we all
love.
Congratulations on 25 years. Here’s to 25
more.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE NEW WAY
FORWARD ACT
HON. JESÚS G. ‘‘CHUY’’ GARCÍA
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. GARCIA of Illinois. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to support the New Way Forward
Act.
For too long, unjust, anti-immigrant laws in-
cluding racialized laws dating back to the
1920s criminalizing migration and the 1996
laws that entangle our civil immigration system
with our broken criminal legal system have led
to overly harsh punishments and the mass
criminalization of immigrants.
These laws have resulted in mass incarcer-
ation and deportations, separation of families,
stripping people of due process and exacer-
bating racial animus in both our immigration
and criminal legal systems.
We must end the labels of the ‘good’ versus
‘bad’ immigrant used to dehumanize and di-
vide communities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10DE8.011 E10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1572 December 10, 2019
At this moment in history, we are called to
uphold our values of compassion, common
humanity, and racial justice.
I am proud to introduce the New Way For-
ward Act to disrupt the prison to deportation
pipeline, give all immigrants the dignity of due
process, and ensure America remains a nation
that welcomes all.
The bill corrects racial and anti-immigrant in-
justices embedded in our immigration laws,
many of which have enabled the Trump Ad-
ministration’s inhumane assault on non-citi-
zens in the United States and at our southern
border.
Our communities deserve dignity, restora-
tion and repair, not further criminalization.
It’s time for a new vision for the future and
for our immigration system. It’s time for a New
Way Forward.
I urge this body to support and pass this bill.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. VICKY HARTZLER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, on Mon-
day, December 9, 2019, I was unable to vote.
Had I been present, I would have voted as fol-
lows: on roll call no. 655: YEA, and on roll call
no. 656: YEA.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. STEVEN M. PALAZZO
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. PALAZZO. Madam Speaker, due to a
rescheduled flight I was unable to attend
votes.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 655, and YEA on Roll
Call No. 656.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. WILLIAM R. KEATING
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. KEATING. Madam Speaker, due to
flight delays, I was unable to participate during
Monday vote series, which included two crit-
ical pieces of legislation addressing opioid pre-
vention, detection, and resilience. With my ex-
tensive background addressing the opioid epi-
demic and as a member of the House Con-
gressional Caucus on Prescription Drug
Abuse, I believe H.R. 4761 and H.R. 4739
contain crucial mechanisms to further support
the U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s ef-
fort in analyzing synthetic opioids in a safe, ef-
fective, and efficient manner.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 656, and YEA on Roll
Call No. 655.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC A. ‘‘RICK’’ CRAWFORD
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, I was
absent on December 9, 2019, due to a family
matter. Had I been present, I would have
voted YES on Roll Call H.R. 655, H.R. 4761—
the DHS Opioid Detection Resilience Act, and
YES on Roll Call No. 656, H.R. 4739—the
Synthetic Opioid Exposure Prevention and
Training Act.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 150TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF WOMEN’S SUF-
FRAGE IN WYOMING
HON. LIZ CHENEY
OF WYOMING
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commemorate and celebrate the 150th an-
niversary of women securing the right to vote
in Wyoming.
Today marks the 150th anniversary of Wyo-
ming becoming the first in the nation to grant
women the right to vote and hold elected of-
fice. Nicknamed the Equality State, Wyoming
prides itself on being the first state to elect a
female governor. Wyoming was the first state
to appoint a woman to public office when Es-
ther Hobart Morris—whose statue can be
found here in the Capitol’s Statuary Hall Col-
lection—was appointed Justice of the Peace in
Sweetwater County. Wyoming was invited to
join the Union on the condition that women’s
suffrage was revoked, but in true Wyoming
fashion our legislature refused, waiting until
1890 to become the 44th state. I am incredibly
proud to call Wyoming home, and continue the
tradition of women holding elected office in our
state.
Again, Madam Speaker, I want to celebrate
the 150th anniversary of Women’s Suffrage in
Wyoming, and honor those Wyoming women
who paved the way for women across the na-
tion.
f
INTRODUCTION OF SENIOR GUARD-
IANSHIP SOCIAL SECURITY PRO-
TECTION ACT
HON. CHARLIE CRIST
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. CRIST. Madam Speaker, state courts
usually appoint a guardian for an individual
that a judge has determined lacks the capacity
to make important decisions regarding their
life or property. When state courts appoint
guardians, older adults often forfeit some or all
of their decision-making powers, including the
right to sign contracts, vote, marry or divorce,
buy or sell real estate, decide where to live, or
make basic decisions about their healthcare.
In recent years, state-based guardianship
programs, such as the one in Florida, have
been exposed as lacking the necessary con-
trols to prevent seniors from being exploited
and defrauded by bad actors preying on these
seniors. News reports have detailed shocking
cases of people being fleeced in my district,
and across the country.
I am committed to putting a stop to this
abuse. One step we can take at the federal
level today to help correct an aspect of this
problem is addressed through this legislation.
Under current law, when a guardian has a
ward removed from their care by a court for
cause, that information is not necessarily
transmitted to the Social Security Administra-
tion. In some cases, guardians removed for
cause may still be allowed to represent the
ward’s interests with the Social Security Ad-
ministration, and therefore be receiving and
administering their federal benefits in per-
petuity.
Today, I, along with my distinguished col-
leagues, the gentlemen from Florida (Mr.
SOTO and Mr. BILIRAKIS), are introducing the
‘‘Senior Guardianship Social Security Protec-
tion Act.’’ Under this bipartisan bill, state
courts would be required to notify the Social
Security Administration (SSA) when a guard-
ian has their adult ward removed for cause.
SSA would then remove the former guardian
as the ward’s representative payee, closing a
point of vulnerability for the ward. By directing
open lines of communication between state
courts and SSA, we can help better protect
our seniors from predatory actors.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DARREN SOTO
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. SOTO. Madam Speaker, due to unfore-
seen travel delays, I unfortunately missed the
votes for December 9, 2019.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 655 and ‘‘yea’’ on Roll
Call No. 656.
f
TAX COMPLEXITY ANALYSIS ON
H.R. 3
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Mr. NEAL. Madam Speaker, I would like to
include in the RECORD the following Tax Com-
plexity Analysis statement on the report to
H.R. 3 filed by the House Committee on Ways
and Means:
Section 4022(b) of Pub. L. No. 105–266, the
Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and
Reform Act of 1998 (the ‘‘RRA’’), requires the
staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation (in
consultation with the Internal Revenue
Service and the Treasury Department) to
provide a tax complexity analysis. The com-
plexity analysis is required for all legislation
reported by the Senate Committee on Fi-
nance, the House Committee on Ways and
Means, or any committee of conference if the
legislation includes a provision that directly
or indirectly amends the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 and has widespread applicability
to individuals or small businesses.
Pursuant to clause 3(h)(1) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the staff of the Joint Committee on Taxation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10DE8.015 E10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1573
December 10, 2019
has determined that a complexity analysis is
not required under section 4022(b) of the RRA
because the bill contains no provision that
amends the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
and has ‘‘widespread applicability’’ to indi-
viduals or small businesses within the mean-
ing of the rule.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:37 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10DE8.023 E10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1347
Tuesday, December 10, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Senate passed S. 2740, Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation,
and Reform Act.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6909–S6956
Measures Introduced: Twelve bills and four resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 3003–3014, and
S. Res. 449–452. Pages S6949–50
Measures Reported:
S. 1342, to require the Under Secretary for Oceans
and Atmosphere to update periodically the environ-
mental sensitivity index products of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for each
coastal area of the Great Lakes, with an amendment.
(S. Rept. No. 116–170) Page S6949
Measures Passed:
Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation,
and Reform Act: By 91 yeas to 2 nays (Vote No.
389), Senate passed S. 2740, to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to clarify the regu-
latory framework with respect to certain nonprescrip-
tion drugs that are marketed without an approved
new drug application. Pages S6921–30
Virginia Beach Strong Act: Pursuant to the order
of November 21, 2019, and the text being identical
to S. 2592, Senate passed H.R. 4566, to accelerate
the income tax benefits for charitable cash contribu-
tions for the relief of the families of victims of the
mass shooting in Virginia Beach, Virginia, on May
31, 2019. Page S6956
Historically Black colleges and universities and
other minority-serving institutions funding: Senate
passed H.R. 5363, to reauthorize mandatory funding
programs for historically Black colleges and univer-
sities and other minority-serving institutions.
Page S6956
Congratulating astronauts Dr. Jessica U. Meir
and Christina H. Koch: Senate agreed to S. Res.
451, congratulating astronauts Dr. Jessica U. Meir
and Christina H. Koch for the historic accomplish-
ment of completing the first all-female spacewalk.
Page S6956
VanDyke Nomination—Agreement: Senate re-
sumed consideration of the nomination of Lawrence
VanDyke, of Nevada, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit. Pages S6920, S6930–43
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. EX. 388), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6920
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 9:30 a.m., on
Wednesday, December 11, 2019; and that all time
during recess, adjournment, morning business, and
Leader remarks count post-cloture on the nomina-
tion. Page S6956
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 53 yeas to 40 nays (Vote No. EX. 387), Pat-
rick J. Bumatay, of California, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit. Pages S6910–20
Nomination Discharged: The following nomina-
tion were discharged from further committee consid-
eration and placed on the Executive Calendar:
Sean O’Donnell, of Maryland, to be Inspector
General, Environmental Protection Agency, which
was sent to the Senate on October 15, 2019, from
the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs. Page S6956
Messages from the House: Page S6947
Measures Referred: Pages S6947–48
Measures Read the First Time: Page S6948
Executive Communications: Pages S6948–49
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S6949
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6950–52
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1348 December 10, 2019
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6952–55
Additional Statements: Page S6946
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S6955
Privileges of the Floor: Page S6955
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—389) Pages S6920–21
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:30 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, December 11, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see
the remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record
on page S6956.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee ordered favorably reported the nomina-
tions of Mitchell A. Silk, of New York, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of the Treasury, Brian D. Mont-
gomery, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary, and David
Carey Woll, Jr., of Connecticut, and John Bobbitt,
of Texas, both to be an Assistant Secretary, all of the
Department of Housing and Urban Development,
and Peter J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to be Inspector
General, Export-Import Bank.
SEC OVERIGHT
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded an oversight hearing to exam-
ine the Securities and Exchange Commission, includ-
ing S. 945, to amend the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 to require certain issuers to disclose to the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission information re-
garding foreign jurisdictions that prevent the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board from per-
forming inspections under that Act, after receiving
testimony from Jay Clayton, Chairman, Securities
and Exchange Commission.
IMO 2020 MARINE SULFUR STANDARD
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the upcoming im-
plementation of the International Maritime Organi-
zation’s new global sulfur standard for marine fuels,
which is set to take effect on January 1, 2020, after
receiving testimony from Linda Capuano, Adminis-
trator, Energy Information Agency, Department of
Energy; and John W. Butler, World Shipping Coun-
cil, Derrick Morgan, American Fuel and Petro-
chemical Manufacturers, Neelesh Nerurkar,
ClearView Energy Partners, LLC, and Jamie Web-
ster, Boston Consulting Group, all of Washington,
D.C.
ENCRYPTION AND LAWFUL ACCESS
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine encryption and lawful access, fo-
cusing on evaluating benefits and risks to public
safety and privacy, after receiving testimony from
Cyrus R. Vance, Jr., New York County District At-
torney, New York, New York; Matt Tait, University
of Texas Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs,
Austin; Erik Neuenschwander, Apple Inc.,
Cupertino, California; and Jay Sullivan, Facebook,
Menlo Park, California.
U.S. COPYRIGHT OFFICE OVERSIGHT
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on Intellec-
tual Property concluded an oversight hearing to ex-
amine modernization of the United States Copyright
Office, after receiving testimony from Carla Hayden,
Librarian of Congress, and Bernard A. Barton, Jr.,
Chief Information Officer, both of the Library of
Congress; and Jody A. Harry, Chief Financial Officer
and Acting Chief of Operations, United States Copy-
right Office.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 15 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 5374–5388; and 4 resolutions, H.
Res. 755–757, 759 were introduced. Pages H10015–16
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H10016–17
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 758, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3) to establish a fair price negotiation pro-
gram, protect the Medicare program from excessive
price increases, and establish an out-of-pocket max-
imum for Medicare part D enrollees, and for other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1349
December 10, 2019
purposes; providing for consideration of the bill
(H.R. 5038) to amend the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act to provide for terms and conditions for
nonimmigrant workers performing agricultural labor
or services, and for other purposes; and providing for
consideration of the conference report to accompany
the bill (S. 1790) to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense, for military construction, and for
defense activities of the Department of Energy, to
prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–334).
Page H10014
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Cuellar to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H9953
Recess: The House recessed at 10:15 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H9954
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Television Viewer Protection Act of 2019: H.R.
5035, amended, to amend the Communications Act
of 1934 to extend expiring provisions relating to the
retransmission of signals of television broadcast sta-
tions; and Pages H9960–61
Fostering Undergraduate Talent by Unlocking
Resources for Education Act: H.R. 5363, amended,
to reauthorize mandatory funding programs for his-
torically Black colleges and universities and other
minority-serving institutions, by a 2/3 yea-and-nay
vote of 319 yeas to 96 nays, Roll No. 659.
Pages H9961–67, H9969
Recess: The House recessed at 12:51 p.m. and re-
convened at 12:59 p.m. Page H9961
Tribal Coastal Resiliency Act: The House passed
H.R. 729, to amend the Coastal Zone Management
Act of 1972 to authorize grants to Indian Tribes to
further achievement of Tribal coastal zone objectives,
by a yea-and-nay vote of 262 yeas to 151 nays, Roll
No. 667. Pages H9956–60, H9969–H10005
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–40 shall be considered as
adopted in the House and in the Committee of the
Whole. Pages H9978–89
Agreed to:
Huizenga amendment (No. 6 printed in H. Rept.
116–330) that requires no less than 10 percent of
the funds awarded under the Living Shoreline grant
program be available to projects located within the
Great Lakes; Pages H9993–94
Katko amendment (No. 8 printed in H. Rept.
116–330) that adds research on harmful algal bloom
development to U.S. Geological Survey research con-
ducted under H.R. 729; Page H9994
Katko amendment (No. 9 printed in H. Rept.
116–330) that provides grant eligibility under H.R.
729 to projects that assess the impact of water level
regulating practices on the Great Lakes on coastal re-
siliency; Pages H9994–95
Case en bloc amendment No. 1 consisting of the
following amendments printed in H. Rept.
116–330: Hastings (No. 1) that expands the list of
eligible activities for the award of Coastal Climate
Change Adaptation Project Implementation Grants
to include projects to address the immediate and
long-term degradation or loss of coral and coral reefs;
Hastings (No. 2) that includes coral reefs as eligible
under the National Fish Habitat Conservation
Through Partnerships program; Morelle (No. 3) that
ensure that up to 5 percent of the funds appro-
priated under this section will be used by the Sec-
retary to provide technical assistance, which will
help accelerate early-stage resources and planning as-
sistance for communities; McEachin (No. 5) that in-
cludes communities that may not have the resources
necessary to prepare for or respond to coastal hazards
to the list of priority areas the NOAA Administrator
shall consider when determining living shoreline
projects to receive federal grants; these communities
include low-income communities, communities of
color, Tribal communities, and rural communities;
Lipinski (No. 7) that requires that climate change
adaptation plans for Great Lakes coastal states shall
include adaptive management strategies for Great
Lakes ecosystems and resources; Moore (No. 10) that
amends the Climate Change Adaption program to
add invasive species as a target of the adaptive man-
agement strategies to be included in the plans and
to require such proposals to describe how they will
involve and address concerns regarding the impact of
climate change in coastal communities on nearby
tribes and low-income and low-resource commu-
nities; Moore (No. 11) that amends the Living
Shoreline Grant Program to require plans to include
an education and outreach component for the com-
munity stakeholders most affected by the proposal
and to add tribes and tribal organizations to the list
that the Administrator may consult with in devel-
oping program standards; Higgins (NY) (No. 13)
that directs USGS research to include the impacts of
harmful algal blooms, nutrient pollution, and dead
zones on Great Lakes fisheries; Speier (No. 15) that
specifies that ‘‘built and natural environments’’ in
terms of infrastructure would include sea walls and
living shorelines; Bonamici (No. 16) that adds
studying coastal acidification and hypoxia as allow-
able activities through the Coastal Climate Change
Adaptation Project Implementation Grant program;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1350 December 10, 2019
Bonamici (No. 17) that directs NOAA to enter into
an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences
to assess the need for and feasibility of establishing
an Advanced Research Projects Agency-Oceans
(ARPA–O); Kildee (No. 18) that requires NOAA to
update the Environmental Sensitivity Index for the
Great Lakes every seven years; Plaskett (No. 19) that
permits a waiver of certain non-Federal contribution
requirements for a fish habitat conservation project
at the discretion of the Secretary; Jayapal (No. 20)
that amends the legislation to increase the member-
ship of the Fish Habitat Board by one seat to pro-
vide an additional seat for tribal representation;
Jayapal (No. 21) that amends the legislation to en-
sure that grant funds awarded through the Living
Shoreline Grant Program may be used to incentivize
landowners to engage in living shoreline projects;
Jayapal (No. 22) that amends the legislation to en-
sure that in developing minimum standards to be
used in selecting eligible entities to receive grants
under the Living Shoreline Grant Program, the Ad-
ministrator considers entities with systems to dis-
burse funding from a single grant to support mul-
tiple small-scale projects; Levin (MI) (No. 24) that
specifies avian habitat protection and restoration
projects as eligible activities to be considered for the
Coastal Climate Change Adaptation Project Imple-
mentation grants in this bill; Rouda (No. 27) that
adds a new section to the bill for a prize competition
to stimulate innovation to advance coastal risk and
resilience measures; and Rouda (No. 28) that adds a
new section to the bill that would require the devel-
opment of a catalog of research on applicable coastal
risk reduction and resilience measures (by a recorded
vote of 249 ayes to 166 noes, Roll No. 660);
Pages H9989–92, H10000
Brown (MD) amendment (No. 4 printed in H.
Rept. 116–330) that authorizes the NOAA Admin-
istrator to award grants to eligible entities for col-
laborative research projects on the conservation, res-
toration, or management of oysters in the Chesa-
peake Bay (by a recorded vote of 235 ayes to 179
noes, Roll No. 661); Pages H9992–93, H10000–01
Crist amendment (No. 12 printed in H. Rept.
116–330) that clarifies that Section 323, the Climate
Change Adaptation Preparedness and Response Pro-
gram, includes projects to address harmful algal
blooms (by a recorded vote of 297 ayes to 121 noes,
Roll No. 662); Pages H9995–96, H10001–02
Panetta amendment (No. 14 printed in H. Rept.
116–330) that adds a finding that collaborations and
partnerships between institutions of higher education
and Federal agencies help ensure digital data focused
on coastal management issues are communicated ef-
fectively between such entities (by a recorded vote of
389 ayes to 29 noes, Roll No. 663);
Pages H9996, H10002
Mucarsel-Powell amendment (No. 23 printed in
H. Rept. 116–330) that ensures that corals are in-
cluded as a natural element eligible for grants pro-
vided for by the Living Shoreline Grant Program (by
a recorded vote of 285 ayes to 134 noes, Roll No.
664); and Pages H9996–97, H10002–03
Luria amendment (No. 26 printed in H. Rept.
116–330) that directs NOAA to consider the poten-
tial of a living shoreline project to support the resil-
iency of military communities when developing cri-
teria for grant applications (by a recorded vote of
368 ayes to 51 noes, Roll No. 665).
Pages H9997, H10003
Rejected:
Johnson (LA) amendment (No. 29 printed in H.
Rept. 116–330) that sought to amends the Marine
Mammal Protection Act of 1972 to limit the scope
of the moratorium on taking and importing marine
mammals and marine mammal products, and revises
the requirements for obtaining an authorization for
incidentally taking by harassment marine mammals
(by a recorded vote of 160 ayes to 259 noes, Roll
No. 666). Pages H9997–99, H10004
H. Res. 748, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 729) was agreed to by a yea-and-
nay vote of 226 yeas to 189 nays, Roll No. 658,
after the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-
nay vote of 226 yeas to 188 nays, Roll No. 657.
Pages H9968–69
Tribal Coastal Resiliency Act—Motion to Recon-
sider: Representative Himes moved to reconsider the
vote on passage of H.R. 729, to amend the Coastal
Zone Management Act of 1972 to authorize grants
to Indian Tribes to further achievement of Tribal
coastal zone objectives. Representative McCollum
moved to table the motion to reconsider. Further
proceedings were postponed. Page H10005
Recess: The House recessed at 7:16 p.m. and recon-
vened at 9:04 p.m. Page H10014
Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes and
seven recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H9968,
H9968–69, H9969, H10000, H10000–01,
H10001–02, H10002, H10002–03, H10003,
H10004, and H10004–05. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 9:05 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1351
December 10, 2019
Committee Meetings
THE IMPLEMENTATION OF FARM BILL
INTERNATIONAL FOOD ASSISTANCE AND
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Livestock
and Foreign Agriculture held a hearing entitled
‘‘The Implementation of Farm Bill International
Food Assistance and Development Programs’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Ken Isley, Administrator, For-
eign Agricultural Service, Department of Agri-
culture; and Trey Hicks, Director, Office of Food for
Peace, U.S. Agency for International Development.
DIVERSITY IN RECRUITING AND
RETENTION: INCREASING DIVERSITY IN
THE MILITARY—WHAT THE MILITARY
SERVICES ARE DOING
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Mili-
tary Personnel held a hearing entitled ‘‘Diversity in
Recruiting and Retention: Increasing Diversity in
the Military—What the Military Services are
Doing’’. Testimony was heard from Lieutenant Gen-
eral Thomas C. Seamands, Deputy Chief of Staff,
G–1, U.S. Army; Vice Admiral John B. Nowell, Jr.,
Chief of Naval Personnel, U.S. Navy; Lieutenant
General Brian T. Kelly, Deputy Chief of Staff for
Manpower, Personnel and Services, U.S. Air Force;
and Lieutenant General Michael A. Rocco, Deputy
Commandant for Manpower and Reserve Affairs,
U.S. Marine Corps.
SECURING THE U.S. DRUG SUPPLY CHAIN:
OVERSIGHT OF FDA’S FOREIGN
INSPECTION PROGRAM
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Securing the U.S. Drug Supply Chain: Oversight of
FDA’s Foreign Inspection Program’’. Testimony was
heard from Mary Denigan-Macauley, Director,
Health Care, Government Accountability Office; and
Janet Woodcock, M.D., Director, Center for Drug
Evaluation and Research, U.S. Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, Department of Health and Human
Services.
PROPOSALS TO ACHIEVE UNIVERSAL
HEALTH CARE COVERAGE
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘Proposals to Achieve
Universal Health Care Coverage’’. Testimony was
heard from Representatives Jayapal, DeLauro, Hig-
gins of New York, Delgado, and Malinowski; and
public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee began
a markup on H.R. 1731, the ‘‘Cybersecurity Disclo-
sure Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2445, the ‘‘Self-Employed
Mortgage Access Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4545, the
‘‘Private Loan Disability Discharge Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 5287, the ‘‘Fair Student Loan Debt Collection
Practices Act’’; H.R. 5294, the ‘‘Student Borrowers
Protections Act’’; H.R. 5332, the ‘‘Protecting Your
Credit Score Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5330, the ‘‘Con-
sumer Protections for Medical Debt Collections
Act’’; H.R. 5322, the ‘‘Ensuring Diversity in Com-
munity Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5315, the ‘‘Ex-
panding Opportunities for Minority Depository In-
stitutions (MDIs) Act’’; a resolution electing major-
ity members to the Subcommittee on Investor Pro-
tection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital Markets; a
resolution establishing the Task Force on Artificial
Intelligence; and a resolution establishing the Task
Force on Financial Technology.
HAITI ON THE BRINK: ASSESSING U.S.
POLICY TOWARD A COUNTRY IN CRISIS
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Haiti on the Brink: Assess-
ing U.S. Policy Toward a Country in Crisis’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
AUTHORITARIANISM WITH CHINESE
CHARACTERISTICS: POLITICAL AND
RELIGIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS CHALLENGES
IN CHINA
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on Asia,
the Pacific, and Nonproliferation held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Authoritarianism with Chinese Characteristics:
Political and Religious Human Rights Challenges in
China’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
THE WAY FORWARD IN IRAQ
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Way Forward in
Iraq’’. Testimony was heard from Joey Hood, Prin-
cipal Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Near
Eastern Affairs, Department of State.
EXAMINING THE NEED FOR
COMPREHENSIVE NATIONAL PAID FAMILY
AND MEDICAL LEAVE
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Need for
Comprehensive National Paid Family and Medical
Leave’’. Testimony was heard from Representative
DeLauro; Robert Asaro-Angelo, Commissioner, New
Jersey Department of Labor and Workforce Develop-
ment; and public witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1352 December 10, 2019
EXAMINING CARCINOGENS IN TALC AND
THE BEST METHODS FOR ASBESTOS
DETECTION
Committee on Oversight And Reform: Subcommittee on
Economic and Consumer Policy held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Examining Carcinogens in Talc and the Best
Methods for Asbestos Detection’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
LOWER DRUG COSTS NOW ACT OF 2019;
FARM WORKFORCE MODERNIZATION ACT
OF 2019; CONFERENCE REPORT TO
ACCOMPANY THE NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR
2020
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 3, the ‘‘Lower Drug Costs Now Act of 2019’’
[Elijah E. Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act of
2019]; H.R. 5038, the ‘‘Farm Workforce Moderniza-
tion Act of 2019’’; and the Conference report to ac-
company S. 1790, the ‘‘National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’ (H. Rept. 116–333).
The Committee granted, by record vote of 8–3, a
rule providing for consideration of H.R. 3, the
‘‘Lower Drug Costs Now Act of 2019’’, H.R. 5038,
the ‘‘Farm Workforce Modernization Act of 2019’’,
and the Conference report to accompany S. 1790, the
‘‘National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020’’ (H. Rept. 116–333). The rule provides for
consideration of H.R. 3, the ‘‘Lower Drug Costs
Now Act of 2019’’, under a structured rule. The rule
provides four hours of general debate, with three
hours equally divided among and controlled by the
respective chairs and ranking minority members of
the Committees on Education and Labor, Energy and
Commerce, and Ways and Means, and one hour
equally divided and controlled by the Majority Lead-
er and the Minority Leader or their respective des-
ignees. The rule waives all points of order against
consideration of the bill. The rule provides that an
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–41, modi-
fied by the amendment printed in Part A of the
Rules Committee report, shall be considered as
adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as read. The rule waives all points of order
against provisions in the bill, as amended. The rule
makes in order only those further amendments print-
ed in Part B of the Rules Committee report. Each
such further amendment may be offered only in the
order printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be consid-
ered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified
in the report equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
Part B of the report. The rule provides one motion
to recommit with or without instructions. The rule
provides for consideration of H.R. 5038, the ‘‘Farm
Workforce Modernization Act of 2019’’, under a
closed rule. The rule provides one hour of general
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Committee on
the Judiciary. The rule waives all points of order
against consideration of the bill. The rule provides
that an amendment in the nature of a substitute
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print
116–42, modified by the amendment printed in Part
C of the Rules Committee report, shall be considered
as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as read. The rule waives all points of order
against provisions in the bill, as amended. The rule
provides one motion to recommit with or without
instructions. The rule provides for consideration of
the conference report to accompany S. 1790, the
‘‘National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year
2020’’. The rule waives all points of order against
the conference report and against its consideration.
The rule provides that the conference report shall be
considered as read. The rule provides one hour of de-
bate on the conference report, divided pursuant to
clause 8(d) of rule XXII. The rule provides one mo-
tion to recommit if applicable. The rule provides
that the chair of the Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence may insert in the Congressional Record
not later than December 13, 2019, such material as
he may deem explanatory of intelligence authoriza-
tion measures for the fiscal years 2018, 2019, and
2020. The rule provides that it shall be in order at
any time through the legislative day of December
20, 2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions that
the House suspend the rules as though under clause
1 of rule XV, and that the Speaker or her designee
shall consult with the Minority Leader or his des-
ignee on the designation of any matter for consider-
ation pursuant to this section. The rule waives the
requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-
thirds vote to consider a report from the Committee
on Rules on the same day it is presented to the
House with respect to any resolution reported
through the legislative day of December 20, 2019.
Section 7 of the rule provides that on any legislative
day of the first session of the 116th Congress after
December 12, 2019: the Journal of the proceedings
of the previous day shall be considered as approved;
and the Chair may at any time declare the House
adjourned to meet at a date and time to be an-
nounced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
Section 8 of the rule provides that on any legislative
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1353
December 10, 2019
day of the second session of the 116th Congress be-
fore January 7, 2020: the Speaker may dispense with
organizational and legislative business; the Journal of
the proceedings of the previous day shall be consid-
ered as approved if applicable; and the Chair may at
any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a
date and time to be announced by the Chair in de-
claring the adjournment. The rule provides that the
Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties
of the Chair for the duration of the periods addressed
by sections 7 and 8. The rule provides that each day
during the periods addressed by sections 7 and 8:
shall not constitute calendar days for the purposes of
section 7 of the War Powers Resolution; shall not
constitute a legislative day for the purposes of clause
7 of rule XIII; and shall not constitute a legislative
day for the purposes of clause 7 of rule XV. Testi-
mony was heard from Chairman Lofgren, Chairman
Scott of Virginia, Chairman Pallone, Chairman Neal,
Chairman Smith of Washington, and Representatives
Walden, Brady, Foxx, Doggett, Titus, Collins of
Georgia, Newhouse, and Thornberry.
RESEARCH AND INNOVATION TO
ADDRESS THE CRITICAL MATERIALS
CHALLENGE
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Energy held a hearing entitled ‘‘Re-
search and Innovation to Address the Critical Mate-
rials Challenge’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
REVIEW OF THE SBA’S 504/CDC LOAN
PROGRAM
Committee on Small Business: Subcommittee on Inves-
tigations, Oversight and Regulations held a hearing
entitled ‘‘Review of the SBA’s 504/CDC Loan Pro-
gram’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
ACT
On Monday, December 9, 2019, Conferees agreed
to file a conference report on the differences between
the Senate and House passed versions of S. 1790, to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for mili-
tary activities of the Department of Defense, for
military construction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe military per-
sonnel strengths for such fiscal year.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 11, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold closed hearings to
examine an update on the situation and United States
strategy in Afghanistan, 2:30 p.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: busi-
ness meeting to consider S. 2204, to allow the Federal
Communications Commission to carry out a pilot pro-
gram under which voice service providers could block cer-
tain automated calls, S. 2363, to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to establish a Telecommunications
Workforce Development Advisory Council within the
Federal Communications Commission, S. 2381, to require
review by the Government Accountability Office of
screening protocols of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration relating to breast milk and formula, S. 2638,
to amend title 49, United State Code, to require small
hub airports to construct areas for nursing mothers, S.
2661, to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to des-
ignate 9–8–8 as the universal telephone number for the
purpose of the national suicide prevention and mental
health crisis hotline system operating through the Na-
tional Suicide Prevention Lifeline and through the Vet-
erans Crisis Line, S. 2730, to establish and ensure an in-
clusive transparent Drone Advisory Committee, S. 2786,
to establish a Federal advisory committee to provide pol-
icy recommendations to the Secretary of Transportation
on positioning the United States to take advantage of
emerging opportunities for Arctic maritime transpor-
tation, S. 2802, to amend the Marine Mammal Protection
Act of 1972 to reauthorize and modify the John H. Pres-
cott Marine Mammal Rescue and Response Grant Pro-
gram, S. 2881, to require the Federal Communications
Commission to make not less than 280 megahertz of
spectrum available for terrestrial use, S. 2898, to amend
title 5, United States Code, to provide for a full annuity
supplement for certain air traffic controllers, S. 2909, to
extend the authority of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration to enter into leases of non-excess
property of the Administration, S. 2964, to amend title
49, United States Code, to extend the authority of the
Secretary of Transportation to issue non-premium aviation
insurance, S. 2979, to improve drug testing for transpor-
tation-related activities, and S. 2981, to reauthorize and
amend the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002; to be
immediately followed by a hearing to examine the nomi-
nation of Thomas B. Chapman, of Maryland, to be a
Member of the National Transportation Safety Board, 10
a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Foreign Relations: business meeting to con-
sider S. 2641, to promote United States national security
and prevent the resurgence of ISIS, S. 2547, to state the
policy of the United States with respect to the expansion
of cooperation with allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific
region and Europe regarding the People’s Republic of
China, S. 2977, to extend the termination of sanctions
with respect to Venezuela under the Venezuela Defense of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1354 December 10, 2019
Human Rights and Civil Society Act of 2014, S. 1310,
to strengthen participation of elected national legislators
in the activities of the Organization of American States
and reaffirm United States support for Organization of
American States human rights and anti-corruption initia-
tives, S. 1830, to enhance the security of the United
States and its allies, S. 704, to prioritize the efforts of and
enhance coordination among United States agencies to en-
courage countries in Central and Eastern Europe to diver-
sify their energy sources and supply routes, increase Eu-
rope’s energy security, and help the United States reach
its global energy security goals, S. 1189, to require the
Secretary of State to determine whether the Russian Fed-
eration should be designated as a state sponsor of ter-
rorism and whether Russian-sponsored armed entities in
Ukraine should be designated as foreign terrorist organi-
zations, S. 482, to strengthen the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization, to combat international cybercrime, and to
impose additional sanctions with respect to the Russian
Federation, S. J.Res. 4, requiring the advice and consent
of the Senate or an Act of Congress to suspend, termi-
nate, or withdraw the United States from the North At-
lantic Treaty and authorizing related litigation, S. Con.
Res. 23, honoring the 75th Anniversary of the Battle of
the Bulge fought during World War II, recognizing the
valiant efforts of the Allied Forces in December 1944,
and remembering those who made the ultimate sacrifice,
all of which contributed to the Allied victory in the Eu-
ropean Theater, S. Res. 142, condemning the Govern-
ment of the Philippines for its continued detention of
Senator Leila De Lima, calling for her immediate release,
S. Res. 152, expressing the importance of the United
States alliance with the Republic of Korea and the con-
tributions of Korean Americans in the United States, S.
Res. 260, recognizing the importance of sustained United
States leadership to accelerating global progress against
maternal and child malnutrition and supporting the com-
mitment of the United States Agency for International
Development to global nutrition through the Multi-Sec-
toral Nutrition Strategy, S. Res. 297, commending the
Inter-American Foundation (IAF) on the occasion of its
50th anniversary for its significant accomplishments and
contributions to the economic and social development of
the Americas, S. Res. 343, congratulating the people of
the Czech Republic and the people of the Slovak Repub-
lic on the 30th anniversary of the Velvet Revolution, the
26th anniversary of the formation of the Czech Republic
and the Slovak Republic, and the 101st anniversary of the
declaration of independence of Czechoslovakia, S. Res.
371, reaffirming the support of the United States for the
people of the Republic of South Sudan and calling on all
parties to uphold their commitments to peace and dia-
logue as outlined in the 2018 revitalized peace agree-
ment, S. Res. 374, expressing support for the designation
of October 23, 2019, as a national day of remembrance
of the tragic terrorist bombing of the United States Ma-
rine Corps barracks in Beirut, Lebanon, in 1983, S. Res.
375, recognizing the 75th anniversary of the Warsaw Up-
rising, S. Res. 385, celebrating the 30th anniversary of
the fall of the Berlin Wall, the reunification of both Ger-
many and Europe, and the spread of democracy around
the world, S. Res. 395, recognizing the 40th anniversary
of the Iran Hostage Crisis, H.R. 2744, to authorize the
Administrator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development to prescribe the manner in which
programs of the agency are identified overseas, H.R. 133,
to promote economic partnership and cooperation be-
tween the United States and Mexico, an original resolu-
tion expressing serious concern about widespread irreg-
ularities in Bolivia’s October 20, 2019, general elections
and supporting the convening of new elections in Bolivia
at the earliest possible date, the nomination of Sung Y.
Kim, of California, to be Ambassador to the Republic of
Indonesia, Department of State, and other pending cal-
endar business, 10 a.m., S–116, Capitol.
Committee on Indian Affairs: business meeting to con-
sider S. 1853, to require Federal law enforcement agencies
to report on cases of missing or murdered Indians, and
S. 2365, to amend the Indian Health Care Improvement
Act to authorize urban Indian organizations to enter into
arrangements for the sharing of medical services and fa-
cilities; to be immediately followed by a hearing to exam-
ine the nomination of Michael D. Weahkee, of New Mex-
ico, to be Director of the Indian Health Service, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the Inspector General’s report on alleged abuses of the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, 10 a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: to hold
hearings to examine the nomination of Jovita Carranza, of
Illinois, to be Administrator of the Small Business Ad-
ministration, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Member Day’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Commodity Exchanges, Energy, and
Credit, hearing entitled ‘‘Review of Credit Conditions:
Report from Agricultural Lenders’’, 2 p.m., 1300 Long-
worth.
Committee on Armed Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘U.S. Policy in Syria and the Broader Region’’,
10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Intelligence and Emerging Threats
and Capabilities, hearing entitled ‘‘Climate Change in the
Era of Strategic Competition’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, con-
tinue markup on H.R. 1731, the ‘‘Cybersecurity Disclo-
sure Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2445, the ‘‘Self-Employed Mort-
gage Access Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4545, the ‘‘Private Loan
Disability Discharge Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5287, the ‘‘Fair
Student Loan Debt Collection Practices Act’’; H.R. 5294,
the ‘‘Student Borrowers Protections Act’’; H.R. 5332, the
‘‘Protecting Your Credit Score Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5330,
the ‘‘Consumer Protections for Medical Debt Collections
Act’’; H.R. 5322, the ‘‘Ensuring Diversity in Community
Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5315, the ‘‘Expanding Op-
portunities for Minority Depository Institutions (MDIs)
Act’’; a resolution electing majority members to the Sub-
committee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and
Capital Markets; a resolution establishing the Task Force
on Artificial Intelligence; and a resolution establishing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1355
December 10, 2019
the Task Force on Financial Technology, 10 a.m., 2128
Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, begin mark-
up on H. Res. 755, the ‘‘Articles of Impeachment
Against President Donald J. Trump’’, 7 p.m., 1100
Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties; and Subcommittee on
Transportation and Maritime Security of the House Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, joint hearing entitled
‘‘Righting the Ship: The Coast Guard Must Improve its
Processes for Addressing Harassment, Bullying, and Re-
taliation’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Government Operations, hearing en-
titled ‘‘FITARA 9.0’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, Subcommittee on Legislative
and Budget Process, hearing entitled ‘‘Solving an
Epidemic: Addressing Human Trafficking Around
Major Events like the Super Bowl and the Need for
Cross-Jurisdictional Solutions’’ [Original Jurisdiction
Hearing], 10:30 a.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Boeing 737 MAX: Exam-
ining the Federal Aviation Administration’s Oversight of
the Aircraft’s Certification’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 5306, the ‘‘Know Your Social Security Act’’; and
legislation on Restoring Tax Fairness for States and Local-
ities Act, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Creating a Climate Resilient America:
Smart Finance for Strong Communities’’, 2 p.m., 210
Cannon.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to re-
ceive a briefing on Albania’s leadership in Europe, 2
p.m., 2200, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1356 December 10, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Wednesday, December 11
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Lawrence VanDyke, of Ne-
vada, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, post-cloture.
At 12 noon, Senate will vote on passage of H.R. 2333,
Support for Suicide Prevention Coordinators Act.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, December 11
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R.
5038—Farm Workforce Modernization Act of 2019 (Sub-
ject to a Rule). Consideration of H.R. 3—Elijah E. Cum-
mings Lower Drug Costs Now Act Lower Drug Costs
Now Act of 2019 (Subject to a Rule). Consideration of
the conference report to accompany S. 1790—National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Subject
to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Brooks, Susan W., Ind., E1569
Cheney, Liz, Wyo., E1572
Crawford, Eric A. ‘‘Rick’’, Ark., E1572
Crist, Charlie, Fla., E1572
Cunningham, Joe, S.C., E1571
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E1570
Garcı́a, Jesús G. ‘‘Chuy’’, Ill., E1571
Granger, Kay, Tex., E1570
Hartzler, Vicky, Mo., E1572
Hoyer, Steny H., Md., E1568
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E1571
Keating, William R., Mass., E1568, E1572
Kuster, Ann M., N.H., E1571
Luetkemeyer, Blaine, Mo., E1569
Maloney, Carolyn B., N.Y., E1569
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E1569
Neal, Richard E., Mass., E1572
Palazzo, Steven M., Miss., E1572
Pallone, Frank, Jr., N.J., E1568, E1569
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E1567
Reschenthaler, Guy, Pa., E1567
Rutherford, John H., Fla., E1569
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E1568, E1570
Soto, Darren, Fla., E1572
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1567
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E1570
Zeldin, Lee M., N.Y., E1567
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:04 Dec 11, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D10DE9.REC D10DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
