Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H7561
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 No. 144
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mrs. DINGELL).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
September 10, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable DEBBIE
DINGELL to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
THE DISCONNECT BETWEEN THE
BELTWAY AND THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. BOST) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, we often
hear about the disconnect between the
beltway and the American people. It is
usually not intentional. It is not based
on malice, but it is real. The perfect
example of this disconnect is found in
my district in southern Illinois.
Alexander County is home to the Len
Small levee along the Mississippi
River. The levee breached during the
winter floods of 2015 and 2016. The aer-
ial photo here shows just how dev-
astating the breach was for farms and
communities. There is about 1,000
acres, and that river is now trying to
cut a new gorge to change the course of
the river.
We immediately went to work in our
office to try to get Len Small repaired.
However, the Army Corps of Engineers
told us that the levee wouldn’t receive
Federal funding because it failed to
meet the benefit-cost ratio based solely
on its flood protection criteria.
But the Len Small levee provides
much more than flood protection. It is
critical to navigation and commerce on
the Mississippi River. If it cuts through
that gorge, it changes the course of the
river and it becomes a rapids.
So I introduced legislation directing
the Army Corps of Engineers to con-
sider navigational benefits, along with
flood protection, when determining if a
levee was worth a repair.
The Corps then informed us that
there was no navigational benefit to
the repair in Len Small. So over the
months, the flood waters receded, leav-
ing nothing but the sand and debris be-
hind. And that was until earlier this
year, when record rainfall into the Mis-
sissippi flood plain and southern Illi-
nois once again brought the river up.
In August, I toured the where the
levee is, and this was left behind: six
barges, not counting the tolls that
were sucked in. We managed to get all
of them out but two.
Now, this is three-quarters of a mile
inland on a person’s farm, but yet they
are saying that it has no navigational
problems?
Look, I believe the Washington staff
of the Army Corps has good intentions.
They don’t want to hurt people. They
want to make a bad situation better,
and they are trying to balance the
needs of the communities across this
country. It can’t be easy, and I appre-
ciate that. But how in the world can
anybody look at this photo and say
there is no navigational benefit to the
Len Small levee?
When the floodwaters crested earlier
this summer, the Coast Guard issued a
warning. Now, another Federal agent.
What does it say? U.S. Coast Guard
Safety Advisory, June 27, 2019, unclas-
sified:
The U.S. Coast Guard has issued this safe-
ty advisory due to an outdraft at the break
in the Len Small levee. It is recommended
that the vessels stay approximately 800 feet
off the shore. Use extreme caution. Keep a
sharp lookout, and report navigational haz-
ards to the Coast Guard immediately.
That is right. The U.S. Coast Guard
issued a safety warning to vessels in
the river to avoid the Len Small levee.
They urged ships to use extreme cau-
tion and report any navigational haz-
ard.
Madam Speaker, there is a clear
navigational benefit to fixing the Len
Small levee, and there are huge naviga-
tional consequences to not taking ac-
tion. Weeks, months, or years from
now, we will be right back in this situ-
ation again when the flooded land and
desperate people ask why their govern-
ment didn’t act sooner.
I urge the Army Corps of Engineers
to reconsider how important this levee
is to flood protection and navigation.
We must get the Len Small levee fixed.
f
AND STILL I RISE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, and still I rise with love of country
in my heart and, I must say, I rise
today, unfortunately, some 146 days
since the Mueller report was released,
some 48 days since Mr. Mueller testi-
fied, some 48 days for the President to
be above the law since the testimony of
Mr. Mueller, 146 days above the law
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE7.000 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7562 September 10, 2019
since the report was presented to Con-
gress.
And still I rise, with a very special
message, however. I want people to
know that there is more than hope. I
rise today to say that there will be an
impeachment. The President will be
impeached.
Some things bear repeating.
The President will be impeached.
There will be a vote taken sometime
this week, I am told, for the Judiciary
Committee to make some sort of offi-
cial announcement.
I rise to say that the President will
be impeached, in spite of some and be-
cause of others.
I rise today to say that he will be im-
peached because the hands of history
are piloting his ship of fate. And I be-
lieve that history will not allow us, the
Members of this august body, to allow
the President to be above the law. I be-
lieve that if we fail to do so, it would
make Article II, Section 4 of the Con-
stitution meaningless. It would have
no application to the term that we
quite often use, ‘‘no person is above the
law.’’ We would then have to say: No
person is above the law, saving at least
one person.
Article II, Section 4, if it is to have
meaning, means that the President will
be impeached. So I rise to stand here
on the floor of the House and announce
that it will happen.
But there is one question that is out-
standing, and that is whether the big-
otry emanating from the Presidency is
going to be a part of that impeach-
ment.
I believe that if the radical Repub-
licans in 1868 could impeach Andrew
Johnson, who was the bigot of his time,
if they could impeach Andrew Johnson,
it seems to me we ought to be able to
impeach this President for bigotry
emanating from the Presidency as well.
Andrew Johnson was opposed to the
Freedmen’s Bureau. He fought the no-
tion that the persons who had been
freed should have the same liberties
that other in this country enjoyed, and
he was impeached. Republicans did it.
Radical Republicans did it.
I believe that we ought to have the
same standard today that we had in
1868, and if we should, I believe that
there will be an impeachment. So I am
announcing today that there will be an
impeachment.
One final point. After the vote, when-
ever it takes place in the Judiciary
Committee, I will have some additional
special statements to make, but I am
reserving them for after the vote.
I love my country. Democracy hangs
in the balance. Liberty and justice for
all must prevail. And if it is to prevail,
there must be and will be an impeach-
ment. The hands of history are piloting
the ship of fate.
And still I rise.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
COMMEMORATING SEPTEMBER 11
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
North Carolina (Ms. FOXX) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, no American will ever forget
what happened to us, to our Nation, 18
years ago. We remember exactly where
we were and what we were doing when
we watched the tragedy of September
11 unfold.
But we also recount how, in the
midst of fear and uncertainty, so many
Americans acted as heroes and gave of
themselves for the sake of their coun-
try and their city to help their fellow
human beings.
The darkness of that day did not pre-
vail. An attack meant to bring us to
our knees instead brought us together
and prompted a generation of protec-
tors—airmen, soldiers, sailors, Coast
Guard, and marines—to rise up in de-
fense of freedom and in pursuit of
peace.
As we commemorate the tragedy of
September 11, we pray for the families
of the fallen in New York, Washington,
and Pennsylvania; we give thanks for
the bravery of first responders who ran
toward the burning buildings and away
from safety; we honor the men and
women whose last moments were com-
mitted to love of country and their fel-
low human beings; and we pray for the
safety of those men and women still de-
ployed throughout the world on the
mission that began that day.
While we hope never again to endure
the suffering that day brought, it con-
tinues to inspire all of us to be selfless
for the greater good of our country
which unites us all.
I commend the communities in North
Carolina’s Fifth District and around
the country who are commemorating 9/
11 and taking up service projects in re-
membrance of September 11 on what
has become our National Day of Serv-
ice.
May God continue to bless the United
States of America.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF SER-
GEANT FIRST CLASS RICHARD
STAYSKAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. SPEIER) for 5 minutes.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Sergeant First Class
Richard Stayskal and to tell Rich how
much I admire his bravery and his
service to our country.
Rich has been in D.C. since yester-
day, talking to Members of the Senate
about the critical need to address the
injustice of the Feres doctrine. Today,
he has joined us in the gallery.
This will likely be his last trip to
Washington, D.C. That is because this
father, this husband, this marine and
Army Green Beret has end-stage lung
cancer, a cancer that Army medical
staff failed to alert him to despite find-
ing the tumor on scans. The cancer
grew at a deadly pace, untreated and
undiagnosed, until he went to a private
practice doctor in 2017. By then, it was
stage IV, and his prognosis was ter-
minal.
b 1015
Despite this devastating develop-
ment, Rich continued his service over-
seas and at home in good times and bad
until not long ago and just shy of his
20-year milestone for full retirement.
He also fought this tragedy as a true
soldier and tackled the very thing that
has left him and his family most vul-
nerable: The Feres doctrine.
The Feres doctrine is an outdated ju-
dicial ruling that bars active duty serv-
icemembers from suing the govern-
ment for medical malpractice. These
are not in combat situations. These are
cases that happen here at home at
medical facilities on Army bases and
other services. There has never been a
bill, there has never been a hearing, a
vote in Congress, but that is the Feres
doctrine, and that has been what has
been the law of the land for 70 years.
Servicemembers’ spouses and fami-
lies, civilian Federal employees, and
even convicted prisoners have the right
to sue for negligence, but not our serv-
icemembers. Only Rich and our brave
military servicemembers are denied
this right by the Feres doctrine. That
means that Rich, his family, and other
servicemembers and their families
have been denied justice in their great-
est hour of need. It also means there
are no consequences for botched proce-
dures and few incentives for the mili-
tary’s medical providers to improve
care.
In this fight to achieve justice for his
family and spare others what they have
endured, Rich has met with Democrats
and Republicans in the House and Sen-
ate. He testified before the Armed
Services Military Personnel Sub-
committee, which I chair. The media
has taken notice. The House has taken
notice. The NDAA has addressed it in
the House. The question is: Will the
Senate?
At a time when Rich should be able
to spend his remaining days with those
he loves, he has answered the call to
fight. Rich, as I promised you when
you testified before the committee, we
will never forget your commitment,
your honor, and sacrifice, and I will
keep fighting to fix Feres as long as it
takes.
Congress is responsible for allowing
Feres to stand for 70 years, but we can
correct this failure, and we can do it
now. The House-passed NDAA contains
the Sergeant First Class Richard
Stayskal Act of 2019. It would create an
exemption that would finally give serv-
icemembers and their families the
right to sue the government for med-
ical malpractice in noncombat set-
tings.
The ball is now in the Senate’s court
where it seems Senator MCCONNELL
would rather help corporations than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.003 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7563
September 10, 2019
our brave servicemembers. I hope he
will make an exception for doing the
right thing and for Rich, because Rich
deserves to know that after all his
years of coming through for this coun-
try when it really counted this country
will come through for him. Rich de-
serves to know that his efforts, his life,
his sacrifice matter because he made
life better for those who will come
after him. And Rich deserves to know
that when his time comes his wife
Megan and their two young daughters
will not be left alone. They, like so
many military families, have sacrificed
so much so that we may sleep at night.
They have forfeited unknown years of
happiness with a father and husband
that they would move heaven and
earth to keep with them.
In honor of Rich and his family and
all those who serve, I implore the Sen-
ate to join the House and pass the Ser-
geant First Class Richard Stayskal Act
of 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would remind Members to avoid
referencing occupants of the gallery.
f
CONGRATULATING FATHER
COLUMBA STEWART
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Minnesota (Mr. EMMER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. EMMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Father Columba
Stewart for being named the 2019 Jef-
ferson Lecturer in the Humanities by
the National Endowment for the Hu-
manities.
During my time in Congress I have
had the honor of meeting with Father
Columba Stewart in his role as the ex-
ecutive director of the Hill Museum &
Manuscript Library at Saint John’s
University in Minnesota’s Sixth Con-
gressional District.
During these meetings I learned
about his work rescuing religious her-
itage from sites across the world and
the incredible mission he has carried
out to preserve the religious art, lit-
erature, and cultural artifacts for the
preservation of our shared history.
Father Stewart’s work has taken him
to war-torn countries, which earned
him the moniker ‘‘the monk who saves
manuscripts from ISIS’’ by The Atlan-
tic magazine. He has dedicated the last
15 years to finding and preserving the
important religious documentation
that built our world history.
Thank you, Father Columba for all
your great work and congratulations.
RECOGNIZING MINNESOTA RECOVERY
CONNECTION
Mr. EMMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Minnesota Recovery
Connection. September is National Re-
covery Month, but all year long they
strive to support care and provide the
resources needed for individuals to find
freedom from addiction and remain in
long-term recovery.
Minnesota Recovery Connection’s
mission is to strengthen the recovery
community through peer-to-peer sup-
port, public education, and advocacy.
They work to eliminate the stigma
that prevents treatment, and this
month it is important to remind every-
one that recovery is possible.
Every year Minnesota Recovery Con-
nection hosts Walk for Recovery,
which is an important event to bring
people together from all over the State
to celebrate long-term recovery. It is
the largest all-recovery gathering in
Minnesota.
Minnesota Recovery Connection,
thank you for the work you do to sup-
port long-term recovery for individuals
struggling with addiction. Thank you
for being there for everyone in our
community and for bringing people to-
gether to celebrate recovery.
RECOGNIZING AMANDA LAWRENCE
Mr. EMMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Amanda Lawrence
of St. Cloud, Minnesota. This year at
the age of 22, and after only 3 years of
training, she has earned the coveted
title of Champion of Champions from
the International Powerlifting Federa-
tion.
During her debut at the 2019 World
Classic Powerlifting Championship in
Helsingborg, Sweden, she broke world
records for the squat and deadlift.
Amanda’s discipline and commitment
to train and compete make her a cham-
pion. We understand that Amanda is on
her way to the U.S.A. Powerlifting Raw
Nationals on October 19 in Lombard,
Chicago.
Good luck in Chicago, Amanda. You
have made your community so proud
already.
RECOGNIZING BRIGADIER GENERAL JOHANNA
CLYBORNE
Mr. EMMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Brigadier General
Johanna Clyborne for earning the rank
of major general and becoming the first
female two-star general in Minnesota’s
National Guard.
For 30 years, Brigadier General
Clyborne has risen through the ranks
and served her country with distinc-
tion. Incredibly, she did this while hav-
ing a family, earning a law degree, and
becoming a successful attorney. The
example she has set for other women in
the military and beyond is a legacy to
be proud of. I was honored to have
Brigadier General Clyborne participate
on a panel for our annual Young
Women in Leadership Program for high
school students in Minnesota. Her lead-
ership and life experience inspired not
only the participants, but me and my
staff, as well.
Congratulations Brigadier General
Clyborne on your outstanding achieve-
ment. Thank you for your decades of
service to our Nation and thanks for
being such a great role model for young
women. We are lucky to have individ-
uals like you devoted to the safety and
security of our Nation.
RECOGNIZING KATHY COLES
Mr. EMMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Kathy Coles of Ot-
sego, Minnesota. Kathy recently
earned her eighth degree dan black belt
in Song Moo Kwan tae kwon do, which
makes her the first female grand mas-
ter in the world after nearly 38 years in
martial arts.
This is an amazing achievement, es-
pecially considering the perseverance
required. Each increased degree in
black belt rank takes roughly the same
number of years to achieve. For exam-
ple, a second degree would take ap-
proximately 2 years, a third degree 3
years. Kathy plans to test for and earn
her ninth degree, which should take
about 81⁄2 years.
Congratulations, Kathy, on doing
what no other woman has done, and
good luck on earning your ninth degree
dan black belt.
f
CONGRATULATING MAYOR DICK
CHURCH
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Ohio (Mr. TURNER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. TURNER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to pay tribute and congratulate
my good friend, Miamisburg Mayor
Dick Church on his retirement. Dick
Church has faithfully served the city of
Miamisburg as mayor since 1992 and as
a Miamisburg city councilman for 4
years prior to that. Dick Church is the
longest serving mayor in Miamisburg’s
history
Mayor Church has transformed
Miamisburg into an economic power-
house, a thriving downtown, and a safe
and stable neighborhood. In addition,
his legacy has been the cleanup of a
former U.S. Department of Energy Cold
War era defense production and deep
space energy site in his community
known as Mound Laboratories.
Mayor Church has worked to make
the Mound facility viable for busi-
nesses again continuing the facility’s
legacy and southwest Ohio’s spirit of
innovation. The Mound Business Park
is now home to 15 businesses that con-
duct important research and develop-
ment. The Mound Business Park’s de-
velopment could not have come to fru-
ition without Dick Church’s crucial
work.
Dick Church has been a hands-on
mayor. In many communities almost
everyone can say they know the
mayor. In Miamisburg, the mayor can
say he practically knows everyone.
Congratulations, Dick Church, on an
incredible career as mayor.
f
SUPPORTING INDIANA’S NATIONAL
GUARD
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Indiana (Mr. PENCE) for 5 minutes.
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in strong support for the Army
National Guard’s proposal to station a
cyber battalion at Atterbury-
Muscatatuck in Indiana’s Sixth Dis-
trict.
The Indiana National Guard’s exist-
ing capabilities, programs, and infra-
structures make the Hoosier State an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.005 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7564 September 10, 2019
ideal location for a cyber battalion.
Home to the Department of Defense’s
only live, full-scale cyber range,
Muscatatuck Urban Training Center
boasts cutting-edge technology that is
only a stone’s throw away from na-
tional experts at the Naval Surface
Warfare Center—Crane.
I am thankful for the opportunity to
have visited Camp Atterbury and
Muscatatuck a few weeks ago, and I
hope that soon we are able to welcome
the next cyber battalion to the Hoosier
State.
SUPPORTING THE FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER
SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration Hours of
Service proposal to improve safety and
increase flexibility for truck drivers.
Over 80 percent of Hoosiers depend on
the trucking industry to keep their
businesses moving. Reducing these bur-
densome regulations will help Hoosiers
and all Americans.
As a member of the House Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure Committee,
providing flexibility for our truckers is
my top priority. Thank you, Secretary
Chao, for supporting commonsense pro-
posals to increase the safety of our Na-
tion’s roads.
SUPPORTING PASSAGE OF THE USMCA
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to reiterate my commitment to
passing the USMCA, a deal that will
lead to strong economic growth for
Hoosiers and the American people.
The USMCA will generate tens of bil-
lions of dollars and create over 175,000
new American jobs. Why won’t Speaker
PELOSI act? This agreement would re-
balance trade for American manufac-
turing, increase market access for agri-
culture, and level the playing field for
our small businesses.
While back in my district, I met with
Hoosier farmers and manufacturers
who told me the same thing: Congress
needs to act now. Pass the USMCA. I
urge my colleagues to put partisan pol-
itics aside and ratify the USMCA on
behalf of our farmers, ranchers, busi-
nesses, and all American workers.
THANKING THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to thank the U.S. Department of
Agriculture for standing with Hoosier
farmers. They have faced hardship due
to adverse weather conditions. Indiana
farmers experienced prolonged rains,
negatively impacting their ability to
plant corn and soybeans before crop in-
surance deadlines passed.
Just 2 weeks ago, Secretary Perdue
declared 74 counties across the Hoosier
State eligible for Federal assistance.
On behalf of Indiana’s Sixth District, I
want to thank the Secretary for assist-
ing farmers faced with a shortened
growing season and a small harvest
with access to this critical help.
SUPPORTING BROADBAND ACCESS
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today regarding an issue impacting
constituents in every corner of Indi-
ana’s Sixth District. My district ranks
among the lowest in the Nation in re-
gard to broadband access.
According to the FCC, 42 percent of
Hoosiers in rural areas of my district
are without high speed broadband
internet. That puts almost half of my
constituents in rural communities at a
disadvantage. This is not unique to my
district. Over 16.8 million rural Ameri-
cans across this Nation are lacking
adequate access to a broadband connec-
tion.
We must ensure rural America is not
left behind. We must close the digital
divide.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 28
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
Pastor Kevin Yriarte, Journey of
Faith Church, Covina, California, of-
fered the following prayer:
Father, thank You for our leaders
You have chosen. Lord, search their
hearts and give them wisdom and dis-
cernment to lead our Nation, courage
to stand for what is right.
Bring peace to this House, Your pres-
ence to these Halls. May our leaders
never lose their individual uniqueness,
but may they also never lose their
unity as one. Prevent differences from
distracting from purpose; unite what
others would try to divide; restore
what is broken.
Thank You that we live in a country
where we are free to live, free to be-
lieve, free to express. May we remem-
ber that we are not a country divided
by different views or beliefs; we are a
country of people united by Your love
as one body, one nation. Your Word
created this country. May Your Word
sustain this country.
God, continue to cover, protect, and
bless America.
In Jesus’ name we pray, amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from North Carolina (Mr. BUDD) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. BUDD led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING PASTOR KEVIN
YRIARTE
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the gentlewoman from California (Mrs.
NAPOLITANO) is recognized for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mrs. NAPOLITANO. Madam Speaker,
I am very pleased to introduce to the
House and bid welcome to Pastor Kevin
Yriarte today, founder and senior pas-
tor at Journey of Faith Church in Co-
vina.
Thank you, Pastor Kevin, for coming
from Covina, and your family, and for
the wonderful prayer.
Pastor Kevin, as he is known, has
been married for 25 years to his wife,
L.A. County Superior Court Judge
Geanene Yriarte. They have two sons:
Jordan and Ryder. Ryder is here. Jor-
dan is in his third year at the U.S.
Coast Guard Academy, and Ryder plans
to follow the same path.
After years of working in the busi-
ness world, Pastor Kevin was called by
the Lord into ministry full-time. Pas-
tor Kevin works to strengthen the
weak, heal the wounded, and restore
the broken.
Pastor Kevin is also the chaplain of
the City of La Verne Police Depart-
ment. He provides spiritual support
and counseling to the police depart-
ment, the residents of the city of La
Verne, and to the victims of crimes and
families as needed.
In April 2019, Pastor Kevin become a
parent admissions partner for the U.S.
Coast Guard Academy. He assists the
academy in performing interviews with
potential candidates and represents the
academy at various functions.
Pastor Kevin has been helpful in
many important events for California’s
32nd District, my district. He is an in-
tegral part in our annual prayer break-
fast and is known for his inspirational
and uplifting prayers.
Pastor, thank you for today’s bless-
ing and for the work you do to spread
and promote the Gospel throughout the
San Gabriel Valley. May God continue
to bless your ministry.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Miss Kaitlyn
Roberts, one of his secretaries.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to 15 further requests for 1-
minute speeches on each side of the
aisle.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.007 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7565
September 10, 2019
HONORING THE LIFE OF MICHAEL
BAUER
(Mr. QUIGLEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. QUIGLEY. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life and legacy
of Michael Bauer, a lifelong champion
for the causes of equality and justice.
Always at the forefront for each bat-
tle the LGBTQ community has faced
since the AIDS epidemic began, Mi-
chael connected elected officials, busi-
ness leaders, and nonprofit organiza-
tions to elevate the visibility of the
community and safeguard its rights.
Inspired by his own mother’s story as
a 103-year-old survivor of the Holo-
caust, Michael understood that the fu-
ture of humanity, of the LGBTQ, Jew-
ish, pro-Israel, and civil rights commu-
nities, in particular, was dependent on
protecting against oppression. He took
the directive ‘‘Never Again’’ literally
and devoted his life to that end.
Michael’s top priority was always his
family, and the love and support they
provided were most important in his
life. He married the love of his life,
Roger Simon, whom he met in 1982, in
Toronto in 2003.
I ask my colleagues to join me in re-
membering my friend Michael for his
tireless service and dedication. He will
be missed.
f
CONGRATULATING ELGIN AND
JOANNE DARLING
(Mr. WALBERG asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WALBERG. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Elgin and Joanne
Darling of Willis, Michigan, for being
inducted into this year’s Michigan
Farmers’ Hall of Fame.
Elgin and Joanne have been married
for 61 years, and for decades, they have
been respected farmers and community
leaders in Monroe County. From dawn
to dusk, year after year, they toiled in
bountiful fields to produce crops that
fed their fellow citizens.
Through their involvement with
Michigan Farm Bureau, Michigan Corn
Growers, and a host of other organiza-
tions, Elgin and Joanne have been
champions of the agriculture industry.
This remarkable legacy of service
and stewardship has now been passed
down to their son, Doug. In total, six
generations of Darlings have worked on
the family farm, which dates back to
1833.
Michigan farmers are among the
most patriotic and hardest working in-
dividuals I have the privilege to rep-
resent, and very few have dem-
onstrated more humility and work
ethic than Elgin and Joanne.
On behalf of Michigan’s Seventh Con-
gressional District, we wish to con-
gratulate Elgin and Joanne Darling on
a lifetime of farming excellence.
They certainly belong in the Hall of
Fame.
FEDERAL MORATORIUM ON OIL
DRILLING IN THE GULF OF MEX-
ICO
(Mr. SOTO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SOTO. Mr. Speaker, Florida
hosted over 100 million tourists last
year. They came from every State in
the Union and from around the world.
Many came to our world-class beaches.
Florida’s beaches are a national treas-
ure beyond just our district, but across
our Nation.
We also have major Air Force exer-
cises throughout the Gulf of Mexico.
For this reason, there is a Federal mor-
atorium on oil drilling in the Gulf. But
in 2022, that moratorium is set to ex-
pire.
It is time to end this looming dead-
line and make the moratorium perma-
nent. That is why we have come to-
gether in a bipartisan fashion to do
just that.
This week, we will have a chance to
protect Florida’s wildlife and sea life,
to protect our military operations and
readiness, and to protect the national
treasure of Florida’s beaches for all
Members of Congress’ constituents and
for the world. I urge all my colleagues
to support this critical legislation.
f
HURRICANE DORIAN
PREPAREDNESS
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, with last week’s threat of
Hurricane Dorian to South Carolina, I
am grateful to the State officials who
worked to prepare the people of South
Carolina. I appreciate Governor Henry
McMaster, Adjutant General Van
McCarty, Secretary of Transportation
Christy Hall, Attorney General Alan
Wilson, as well as Kim Stenson, the di-
rector of the Emergency Management
Division.
As the hurricane approached, I went
by to thank all of the State and Fed-
eral personnel in the South Carolina
Emergency Management Division at
Pine Ridge. The work this division
achieves is vital to the safety of thou-
sands of South Carolinians, and I com-
mend them on their vigilance and
around-the-clock attention.
I am grateful that Governor
McMaster closely coordinated with
President Trump and continuously
kept the people of South Carolina up-
to-date on the ever-changing hurri-
cane.
I would also like to thank President
Donald Trump for helping South Caro-
lina to prepare in this time of uncer-
tainty.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
FUND OUR MILITARY, NOT THE
WALL
(Mrs. KIRKPATRICK asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,
the President cut 127 military projects,
worth $3.6 billion, to construct 175
miles of wall on our southern border.
The halted projects affect every branch
of the military here and abroad.
Fort Huachuca, in my district, will
lose $30 million in funding designated
for the reconstruction of an overdue
transportation equipment building.
Fort Huachuca is a vital asset to our
local economy and our entire national
security.
Not only does this action defy Con-
gress’ role in appropriating funds, I be-
lieve it is disrespectful to our Armed
Forces and the American taxpayers.
The President has made it very clear
he is more willing to protect his own
political campaign over protecting and
delivering for our military. Ultimately,
this type of decisionmaking puts us all
at risk.
Mr. President, fund our military, not
your wall.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CUELLAR). Members are reminded to
address their remarks to the Chair.
f
JUSTICE FOR VICTIMS OF
SANCTUARY CITIES ACT
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Mr. Speaker, in June, Im-
migration and Customs Enforcement,
or ICE, released a list of criminal ille-
gal aliens who were allowed back into
their sanctuary communities by local
officials. One such criminal is Rosalio
Ramos-Romas, a Honduran citizen who
was deported four times before authori-
ties arrested him in Washington State
in October of 2017.
Once notified of his arrest, ICE issued
a written detainer request asking local
authorities to imprison him for an ad-
ditional 48 hours. Instead, local au-
thorities ignored the detainer request
and allowed Rosalio back into the com-
munity, where he eventually murdered
his cousin and hid the body in a dump-
ster.
These are not isolated incidents of vi-
olence, but they occur all too fre-
quently in sanctuary cities across
America. The truth is that sanctuary
city policies threaten the safety of our
neighbors.
I am fed up that these tragedies have
gone unchecked for far too long in our
country. That is why I introduced H.R.
3964, the Justice for Victims of Sanc-
tuary Cities Act, with Congressman
BRADLEY BYRNE, which would allow
anyone harmed by an illegal immi-
grant in a sanctuary city to sue the
sanctuary city or State.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:49 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.009 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7566 September 10, 2019
Mr. Speaker, it is time for the House
to give victims of sanctuary city poli-
cies a legal pathway to justice. This
cannot happen again.
f
LESSONS FROM THE BP OIL SPILL
DISASTER
(Mrs. DAVIS of California asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Speak-
er, it is hard to believe that some have
already forgotten the lessons we have
learned from the BP oil spill disaster.
It was only a few years ago that we saw
millions of gallons of oil being spilled
into the Gulf of Mexico, and, sadly,
many areas are still recovering.
In California, we have seen the disas-
trous effects offshore drilling can have
on our oceans and the lives that depend
on it. We had our own disaster in Santa
Barbara exactly 50 years ago.
Night after night, we saw images of
birds and sea otters drenched in oil and
pictures of dead seals and dolphins. It
was heartbreaking. And this is why we
say never again.
Offshore drilling is not the answer to
our country’s energy challenges. We
can and we must invest in clean, re-
newable energy.
California, as everybody knows, has
one of the most beautiful coastlines in
the world, and we have to keep it that
way. So I urge my colleagues, vote to
keep our oceans clean and reject more
offshore drilling.
f
b 1215
OPPOSING ENERGY BILLS
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise in op-
position to all three of the anti-Amer-
ican energy dominance bills on the
floor this week. I am most concerned
by H.R. 205, which bans energy develop-
ment in parts of the Gulf of Mexico.
I do not rise as just another oil-and-
gas Texan. I have unique insights, be-
cause, unlike most of the bill’s sup-
porters, I started my naval career, 9
years, at the cradle of naval aviation,
NAS Pensacola, Florida, the home port
of the Blue Angels.
I have flown over every ocean on
Earth. I patrolled for Russian nuclear
missile submarines to protect our Na-
tion from nuclear war.
A blanket ban on this entire region
hurts our national security. This bill is
a hatchet, and we need a precise scal-
pel. I urge my colleagues to vote
against the rule and against all three
bills, especially H.R. 205.
f
CONFRONTING GUN VIOLENCE
(Mr. LIPINSKI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LIPINSKI. Mr. Speaker, as we re-
turn this week, we must confront our
Nation’s sickening gun violence. My
commitment to act is even stronger
after my own terrifying experience.
My wife Judy and I were at the
Gilroy Garlic Festival when a shooter
opened fire. We heard the pops, then
screams, and we turned and ran for our
lives. Three people were killed, but it
could have been much worse if not for
law enforcement’s quick action. It al-
most seems like a bad dream, but it
was real. Just as the threat of gun vio-
lence in our Nation is all too real.
This violence has social and spiritual
roots, but there are commonsense laws
we can enact to stem gun violence. I
have had many people beg me for Con-
gress to act, including proud gun own-
ers who understand that we can pass
gun safety laws while also upholding
the Second Amendment.
This week the Senate should start by
passing the comprehensive background
check bill that we passed in the House
earlier this year. Doing nothing is not
an option. Congress must act.
f
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, fol-
lowing a summer of horrific gun vio-
lence, we can no longer accept congres-
sional failure to take concrete action.
Mass shootings in Gilroy, El Paso,
Dayton, and Odessa, as well as the un-
ceasing daily gun violence in commu-
nities across our country, including
close to my home in Chicago, define
the summer of 2019. I hope the fall of
2019 will be remembered as the time
when our leaders finally began to ad-
dress our Nation’s gun violence epi-
demic.
The simple fact is, this House already
passed bipartisan bills on universal
background checks and closing the
Charleston loophole. This is common-
sense legislation that more than 90 per-
cent of Americans support. It would
have closed the loophole that the Texas
shooter used to acquire his weapon.
But Senate Majority Leader MITCH
MCCONNELL astonishingly continues to
carry the water for the NRA and re-
fuses to even allow a simple up or down
vote on this bill. We need to tell Mr.
MCCONNELL and the NRA that enough
is enough. People are needlessly dying.
The victims and their loved ones de-
serve more than mere thoughts and
prayers. Congress must act now.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, September 10, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
September 10, 2019, at 11:29 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 349.
That the Senate passed S. 1689.
That the Senate passed without amend-
ment H.R. 831.
That the Senate agreed to without amend-
ment H. Con. Res. 57.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 205, PROTECTING AND
SECURING FLORIDA’S COAST-
LINE ACT OF 2019; PROVIDING
FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R.
1146, ARCTIC CULTURAL AND
COASTAL PLAIN PROTECTION
ACT; AND PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H.R. 1941, COAST-
AL AND MARINE ECONOMIES
PROTECTION ACT
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 548 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 548
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 205) to amend
the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of
2006 to permanently extend the moratorium
on leasing in certain areas of the Gulf of
Mexico. The first reading of the bill shall be
dispensed with. All points of order against
consideration of the bill are waived. General
debate shall be confined to the bill and
amendments specified in this section and
shall not exceed one hour equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Natural
Resources. After general debate the bill shall
be considered for amendment under the five-
minute rule. An amendment in the nature of
a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–29, modified by the
amendment printed in part A of the report of
the Committee on Rules accompanying this
resolution, shall be considered as adopted in
the House and in the Committee of the
Whole. The bill, as amended, shall be consid-
ered as the original bill for the purpose of
further amendment under the five-minute
rule and shall be considered as read. All
points of order against provisions in the bill,
as amended, are waived. No further amend-
ment to the bill, as amended, shall be in
order except those printed in part B of the
report of the Committee on Rules. Each such
further amendment may be offered only in
the order printed in the report, may be of-
fered only by a Member designated in the re-
port, shall be considered as read, shall be de-
batable for the time specified in the report
equally divided and controlled by the pro-
ponent and an opponent, shall not be subject
to amendment, and shall not be subject to a
demand for division of the question in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.011 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7567
September 10, 2019
House or in the Committee of the Whole. All
points of order against such further amend-
ments are waived. At the conclusion of con-
sideration of the bill for amendment the
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as
amended, to the House with such further
amendments as may have been adopted. The
previous question shall be considered as or-
dered on the bill, as amended, and on any
further amendment thereto to final passage
without intervening motion except one mo-
tion to recommit with or without instruc-
tions.
SEC. 2. At any time after adoption of this
resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House
resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 1146) to amend Public
Law 115–97 (commonly known as the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act) to repeal the Arctic Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge oil and gas program,
and for other purposes. The first reading of
the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. General debate shall be confined to
the bill and amendments specified in this
section and shall not exceed one hour equal-
ly divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee
on Natural Resources. After general debate
the bill shall be considered for amendment
under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the
amendment in the nature of a substitute rec-
ommended by the Committee on Natural Re-
sources now printed in the bill, an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116–30,
modified by the amendment printed in part C
of the report of the Committee on Rules ac-
companying this resolution, shall be consid-
ered as adopted in the House and in the Com-
mittee of the Whole. The bill, as amended,
shall be considered as the original bill for
the purpose of further amendment under the
five-minute rule and shall be considered as
read. All points of order against provisions
in the bill, as amended, are waived. No fur-
ther amendment to the bill, as amended,
shall be in order except those printed in part
D of the report of the Committee on Rules.
Each such further amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report,
may be offered only by a Member designated
in the report, shall be considered as read,
shall be debatable for the time specified in
the report equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be
subject to amendment, and shall not be sub-
ject to a demand for division of the question
in the House or in the Committee of the
Whole. All points of order against such fur-
ther amendments are waived. At the conclu-
sion of consideration of the bill for amend-
ment the Committee shall rise and report
the bill, as amended, to the House with such
further amendments as may have been
adopted. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill, as amended,
and on any further amendment thereto to
final passage without intervening motion ex-
cept one motion to recommit with or with-
out instructions.
SEC. 3. At any time after adoption of this
resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House
resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 1941) to amend the
Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act to pro-
hibit the Secretary of the Interior including
in any leasing program certain planning
areas, and for other purposes. The first read-
ing of the bill shall be dispensed with. All
points of order against consideration of the
bill are waived. General debate shall be con-
fined to the bill and amendments specified in
this section and shall not exceed one hour
equally divided and controlled by the chair
and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources. After general
debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule. An
amendment in the nature of a substitute
consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116–31, modified by the amendment
printed in part E of the report of the Com-
mittee on Rules accompanying this resolu-
tion, shall be considered as adopted in the
House and in the Committee of the Whole.
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as
the original bill for the purpose of further
amendment under the five-minute rule and
shall be considered as read. All points of
order against provisions in the bill, as
amended, are waived. No further amendment
to the bill, as amended, shall be in order ex-
cept those printed in part F of the report of
the Committee on Rules. Each such further
amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment,
and shall not be subject to a demand for divi-
sion of the question in the House or in the
Committee of the Whole. All points of order
against such further amendments are
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of
the bill for amendment the Committee shall
rise and report the bill, as amended, to the
House with such further amendments as may
have been adopted. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as
amended, and on any further amendment
thereto to final passage without intervening
motion except one motion to recommit with
or without instructions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Florida is recognized for 1
hour.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, for the
purpose of debate only, I yield the cus-
tomary 30 minutes to the distinguished
gentlewoman from Arizona (Mrs.
LESKO), pending which I yield myself
such time as I may consume. During
consideration of this resolution, all
time yielded is for the purpose of de-
bate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
be given 5 legislative days to revise and
extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, on
Monday the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 548,
providing for consideration of H.R. 205,
Protecting and Securing Florida’s
Coastline Act of 2019; H.R. 1146, the
Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Pro-
tection Act; and H.R. 1941, the Coastal
and Marine Economies Protection Act.
The rule provides for consideration of
each bill under a structured rule. The
rule provides one hour of debate on
each bill equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking member of
the Committee on Natural Resources.
Additionally, the rule provides one mo-
tion to recommit on each bill.
Mr. Speaker, together these three
bills block oil and gas drilling in the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, the
Atlantic and Pacific Coast, and in the
eastern Gulf of Mexico.
For those of you that have worked
with me over the years, you know that
I have said, and I mean, that I will be
the last person standing before offshore
oil drilling is expanded off the coast of
Florida. I am a native Floridian, and I
have seen substantial changes in my
State, and I have seen that coastline
on either side threatened by a variety
of issues that man should not be under-
taking.
b 1230
Mr. Speaker, I am glad it didn’t have
to come to that. I am glad that the
people’s House is taking up these meas-
ures that undoubtedly will protect our
Nation’s environment, climate, and the
economies of coastal communities that
rely on tourism, outdoor recreation,
and fishing. I am glad that the House
of Representatives is demonstrating to
the American people that we work for
them, not for the oil and gas industry.
Mr. Speaker, last year, in a radical
move, the Trump administration pro-
posed a plan to open nearly all U.S.
coasts to oil and gas drilling. This dis-
astrous plan brought to mind the BP
Deepwater Horizon disaster in the Gulf
of Mexico, where the explosion not
only killed 11 people and injured many,
but it poured millions of gallons of oil
into the Gulf waters and also killed
hundreds of thousands of birds, marine
mammals, fish, and sea turtles. Just
the prospect of oily beaches led to hun-
dreds of hotel cancellations along Flor-
ida’s Gulf Coast, even in places the oil
never reached.
Mr. Speaker, I was living there dur-
ing that period of time, of course, and
many around this Nation saw that con-
tinuous loop shown on television of oil
spilling into the Gulf. It has not all
gone away, and much of the industry
along that coastline has been deci-
mated.
Mr. Speaker, the Trump administra-
tion’s plan is risking billions of dollars
and millions of jobs from the industries
that depend on a clean, healthy ocean.
Make no mistake about it, our coastal
communities are the backbone of the
United States economy.
According to the National Ocean Ec-
onomics Program, coastal States en-
compass over 80 percent of the Nation’s
population, GDP, and employment.
Moreover, the ocean economy’s tour-
ism and recreation industry single-
handedly provides 71 percent of the
jobs to the United States economy. In
fact, our coastlines provide 12 times
the amount of jobs of the offshore oil
industry.
If that is not enough, in 2016, the U.S.
Atlantic Ocean economy and Califor-
nia’s ocean economy contributed more
than $94 billion and $43.5 billion to the
country’s GDP, respectively, during
that period of time. National parks on
both coasts and in the eastern Gulf
States contributed $6.2 billion to the
local economies. And the Department
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE7.005 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7568 September 10, 2019
of Defense has made it abundantly
clear that the continuation of the mor-
atorium in the Gulf on oil and gas leas-
ing is essential to vital military readi-
ness activities.
Mr. Speaker, there is widespread bi-
partisan support for ending offshore
drilling.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the entire Flor-
ida delegation for the work that they
have done, with special emphasis to
Ambassador ROONEY, Ms. CASTOR, Ms.
SHALALA, and others of our colleagues
who have been drilling down on these
issues legislatively.
Opposition includes nearly all the
coastal Governors; over 2,200 elected of-
ficials across the political spectrum;
more than 300 municipalities, including
all in my district; 47,000 businesses; and
500,000 fishing families.
Mr. Speaker, America needs to con-
serve energy, safeguard our natural re-
sources, and look to clean energy and
innovative ways to build a sustainable
energy portfolio. Offshore oil drilling is
simply not the answer.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Representative HASTINGS for yielding
me the customary 30 minutes, and I
yield myself as much time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, energy is a critical driv-
er of the American economy and qual-
ity of life. Its production creates thou-
sands of well-paying jobs. Energy is
needed in almost every aspect of our
lives, from fueling the trucks that
transport our goods to stores, to
powering the servers that make the
internet possible.
The United States cannot reach or
sustain our potential without large-
scale access to developing our energy
resources, but today, we are debating
three bills that put American energy,
American quality of life, and American
national security at risk.
This majority wants to pass sweeping
bans on harnessing domestic energy re-
sources. They want to ban American
energy from the Pacific, ban American
energy from the Atlantic, ban Amer-
ican energy from Alaska. They want to
ban it all, and American families will
pay the price.
These bills ignore the economic bene-
fits of domestic energy production. En-
ergy development brings high-paying
jobs, facilitates manufacturing and in-
vestment, and provides government
revenues. Energy development in the
United States also makes energy more
affordable for everyone.
The average salary paid in the nat-
ural gas and oil development fields is
$113,000 per year, and the energy indus-
try supports 300,000 jobs in the United
States.
These bills also ignore how affordable
energy makes a higher standard of liv-
ing accessible.
I spent this summer, part of it, back
home in Arizona. Air-conditioning, of
course, is essential in our climate in
Arizona, but it is also a major driver of
electricity bills. Our electricity bills
are very high.
Many of my constituents are retirees
living on limited incomes. I want to
work to lower their energy costs by ex-
panding American energy development,
but instead, my Democratic colleagues,
I believe, are doing the opposite.
Domestic oil production has allowed
Americans to spend 28 percent less in
fuel, resulting in nearly $1,000 in sav-
ings per family in 2017 alone. To my
constituents, that is a lot of money.
The reality of our current situation
in energy exploration is that 94 percent
of the Outer Continental Shelf of the
United States is currently off-limits to
offshore exploration and development.
We haven’t even had a lease auction for
areas of the Atlantic Ocean since 1984.
We have made substantial gains in ex-
ploration technologies, drilling tech-
nology, and overall safety since then.
Why not even just allow for explo-
ration, to know what resources we
have?
We must consider how access to do-
mestic energy resources helps keep our
Nation secure. Oil and gas supplies 67
percent of the energy Americans use,
and total oil and natural gas consump-
tion is expected to grow over the next
30 years, generating over 60 percent of
America’s energy. By limiting access
to offshore areas containing resources,
we risk being dependent on foreign ac-
tors, like the Russians for natural gas
or Saudi Arabia for oil. In fact, Cali-
fornia recently bought billions of dol-
lars of oil from Saudi Arabia, which
will benefit the Saudi Arabian royal
family.
These bills will weaken our energy
and national security.
Mr. Speaker, I do agree with many of
my colleagues whom I have spoken
with that we should be prudent with fu-
ture offshore exploration and drilling.
We must be mindful of the impact on
our military training and testing, espe-
cially in Florida. However, we cannot
do this with an outright ban. We must
take a measured and thoughtful ap-
proach.
To make this point, the United
States is one of the only countries
along the Atlantic that is not actively
exploring for energy in those waters.
Nations with fewer resources and far
less strict environmental regulations
are adopting policies to proceed with
offshore development, yet these bills
before us today would halt all Amer-
ican progress.
I believe in an all-of-the-above en-
ergy approach. In my home State of
Arizona, this is a reality and necessity.
We have to rely on multiple and di-
verse sources to ensure affordable and
reliable energy. I support nuclear, hy-
droelectric, coal, Sun, wind, and other
alternative solutions, but I also sup-
port domestic oil and natural gas pro-
duction.
I point to my State of Arizona. Palo
Verde Nuclear Generating Station sits
just outside my district, generating
about 3.3 gigawatts of clean energy for
Phoenix and southern California. We
also have several natural gas plants,
such as the Agua Fria Generating Sta-
tion. Just last month, I moderated a
panel at Arizona State University
where we discussed the Salt River
Project harnessing rivers to produce
hydropower.
An all-of-the-above approach like
that in Arizona would benefit Amer-
ican families and their quality of life.
In contrast, the bans that my Demo-
cratic colleagues propose would harm
the U.S. economy, threaten our na-
tional security, and increase energy
prices and rates on consumers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge opposition to the
rule, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman from
Arizona (Mrs. LESKO), my good friend,
just enunciated the number of jobs
that the oil and gas industry provides,
and the figure that she reported was
300,000. There are 242,000 jobs as a re-
sult of solar energy in this country,
102,000 jobs on wind farms in this coun-
try, and the coastline that we are talk-
ing about provides 12 times the amount
of jobs than the offshore oil and gas in-
dustry.
Mr. Speaker, I won’t be here with
you all 20 years from now, but I predict
for you that the fossil fuel industry, in-
terestingly enough, the leaders in that
industry will own a lot of the solar in
this country. It is just a matter of
time.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
SHALALA), my dear and good friend,
and a member of the distinguished
Rules Committee.
Ms. SHALALA. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. HAS-
TINGS), my good friend and a distin-
guished Congressman, for yielding me
time.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this rule and these three bills that
protect our coasts and our coastal
economies.
Mr. Speaker, I particularly want to
thank my fellow Floridians, Mr. ROO-
NEY and Ms. CASTOR, for introducing
the bipartisan legislation that places a
permanent moratorium on oil and gas
leasing in the eastern Gulf.
Beyond protecting coastal eco-
systems, these bills help ensure mili-
tary readiness, given the long history
of military training and activities, par-
ticularly in the Gulf.
b 1245
Offshore drilling is a dirty and dan-
gerous venture that threatens our frag-
ile coastal ecosystems, and in Florida,
offshore drilling threatens our very
way of life.
Mr. Speaker, millions of tourists
come to Florida each year to join us in
enjoying our pristine beaches and our
clean water. Our livelihoods depend on
a healthy and clean marine environ-
ment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.015 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7569
September 10, 2019
Offshore drilling threatens nearly
610,000 jobs and roughly $37.4 billion in
GDP in Florida alone. The risk of an-
other catastrophe like Deepwater Hori-
zon is too great to endanger Florida’s
healthy ocean resources and thriving
coastal economies.
In 2018, Mr. Speaker, Floridians
spoke out loud and clear. A State con-
stitutional amendment to ban offshore
drilling in Florida’s waters passed with
nearly 70 percent of the vote. In the
county where my district is located,
Miami-Dade, it passed with nearly 80
percent of the vote.
Simply stated: We don’t want off-
shore drilling. Instead, we should be in-
vesting our time and resources in re-
newable, clean energy that we know
creates jobs and sets us on a course to
combat climate change.
Mr. Speaker, we don’t need offshore
drilling, and we don’t want offshore
drilling.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I want to
briefly just talk about what my col-
league, Mr. HASTINGS, said.
He mentioned that there are 242,000
solar energy jobs and 102,000 wind en-
ergy jobs, and that is great. Allowing
oil and gas exploration is not going to
take away those jobs. In fact, jobs in
those industries are going to increase
just naturally.
However, at this time, with our tech-
nology, I know that you need natural
gas and other sources to spin up elec-
tric plants fast because the technology
isn’t there to store the energy for when
it is needed.
Mr. Speaker, I want to say that what
I don’t understand about the bills is we
are going to need oil and gas. Why
would we want to go back to the seven-
ties-type crisis, oil embargo crisis,
when we are reliant on foreign nations
that are often hostile to us? I just don’t
understand it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to
the gentleman from Florida (Mr. ROO-
NEY), my friend.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I thank the gentlewoman for yield-
ing.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of this
rule. H.R. 205, the Protecting and Se-
curing Florida’s Coastline Act, makes
the existing moratorium in the eastern
Gulf of Mexico permanent.
I thank Congresswoman CASTOR, our
coleader on this bill; Judge HASTINGS;
Dr. SHALALA; and the rest of the Flor-
ida delegation who have signed up en-
thusiastically to protect Florida.
Offshore drilling is an existential
threat to our tourism economy. Tour-
ism is highly competitive. Any condi-
tions or circumstances which could,
however remote or circumstantial,
stoke fear of oily beaches or ruined
fishing grounds or dead birds will have
a significant impact.
Just last November, Florida passed a
constitutional amendment banning off-
shore drilling. The amendment re-
ceived over 5 million votes and passed
with nearly 70 percent of the vote.
Fishing, tourism, and recreation ac-
count for $37.4 billion in Florida, in-
cluding $17.5 billion just from the Gulf
Coast, and supports over 600,000 jobs.
Following the Deepwater Horizon dis-
aster, the west coast of Florida lost
economic value in both commercial
and recreational fishing and in lost
tourist visits despite the fact that, as
Judge Hastings said, there was no oil
that reached there. There was no im-
pact. It is perception becomes reality
in a competitive tourist industry.
In addition to the compelling eco-
nomic need to make the moratorium
permanent, the eastern gulf is home to
the Gulf Test Range, a 120,000-square-
mile military testing range that
stretches from the Florida Panhandle
to the Keys.
This unimpeded training and testing
area is crucial to national security and
cannot be carried out anywhere else in
the United States or, perhaps, the
world. Its vast size allows the testing
of hypersonic weapons, combat maneu-
vers, drone testing, and future oper-
ations that will need space for testing
and restricted access for classified op-
erations.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentleman
from Florida.
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, the majority of this activity is
right along the area east of the mili-
tary mission line at longitude 86 de-
grees 41 minutes, which we can see
right here. This blue line is the mili-
tary mission line.
As we can see, the military forecast
is that the majority of testing is to
take place adjacent to the east of this
line—not out in here, but right in here,
where it is most critical.
I have circled here all of the major
bases, including one of the largest ones
in the country, Eglin Air Force Base.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to protect both this military
mission line and Florida’s tourist-
based economy by voting ‘‘yes’’ on the
rule.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. HUDSON), my good friend.
Mr. HUDSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to oppose the rule and in opposi-
tion to these anti-energy bills.
America leads the world in both oil
and natural gas production, and our
gas prices are on track to be the lowest
in 20 years. We are experiencing, Mr.
Speaker, an American energy renais-
sance.
The oil and gas industry today ac-
counts for over 10 million jobs, and we
have the potential to add even more
jobs in my State and others. However,
this legislation before us today is a
jobs killer. It increases our dependence
on foreign oil and gas, and it reduces
our ability to develop our own natural
resources.
In order for us to continue to lead,
we need to explore our abundant re-
sources at home. By safely developing
America’s own energy resources, we
can create a more abundant, afford-
able, and sustainable energy supply,
while, at the same time, we can ensure
strong protections for the environ-
ment.
Not only are there economic con-
cerns, but there are also serious geo-
political implications. As a member of
the Helsinki Commission, I know first-
hand the national security concerns
that come with turning over our share
of energy markets.
Russia is the largest exporter of nat-
ural gas to the European Union, and
they use this to bully our allies and
grow their sphere of influence. By di-
vesting our energy production, Wash-
ington politicians are handing over op-
portunities to Russia to expand their
energy foothold and increase their in-
fluence over our allies. We should be
countering Russian influence in any
way that we can, not giving up our own
economic and geopolitical power.
This opportunity will fade fast. If we
don’t take advantage of it now, the
jobs, the money, and the bright eco-
nomic future will all go to other coun-
tries, making our Nation and our allies
more reliant on foreign energy.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
the rule and on these underlying bills.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. GRAVES), my good friend.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman for
the time.
Mr. Speaker, we are here today to
talk about energy policy; we are here
today to talk about jobs and national
security; and we are here today to talk
about the environment and climate
change.
We have three bills that this rule ad-
dresses: We have an Alaska bill; we
have an eastern Gulf of Mexico bill;
and we have an Atlantic bill.
The idea here is that we are going to
carry out policies that stop energy pro-
duction in the United States for the
purpose of protecting the environment.
That sounds like a laudable goal: Let’s
protect the environment. I fully agree
with that.
Here is the problem: When you look
at evidence from the Obama adminis-
tration, it shows that, by shutting
down domestic energy production, it
increases greenhouse gas emissions—
increases, not decreases. It increases
imports of energy from other coun-
tries, not decreases. It threatens our
national security.
Mr. Speaker, do you want to see how
this plays out? Case in point, let’s go
up to the Northeast last winter.
In the Northeast last winter, because
they obstructed and prevented natural
gas pipelines from being built into the
Northeast to provide cleaner natural
gas fuels to help warm these homes,
heat these homes, they had to import
natural gas from Russia.
The policies that these bills are ad-
vancing, all this is is a gift for Vladi-
mir Putin. This is billions of dollars.
This is American jobs. You are not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.017 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7570 September 10, 2019
helping the environment. You are not
helping the trade deficit.
We, very simply, came in and just
said: Do you know what? We want to
offer some amendments to help clean
these up. Let’s help these bills achieve
their objectives. We offered 10 amend-
ments. All 10 amendments were re-
jected by this rule.
If you want to reduce greenhouse gas
emissions, fine. I am with you. Let’s do
that.
If you want to improve the environ-
ment, fine. I am with you.
Mr. Speaker, opposition to this rule
is necessary. These bills do not achieve
the objectives that are set.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would say to the pre-
vious speaker that eight Republican
amendments were made in order; per-
haps none that he offered, but I
thought that the rule was particularly
fair.
I would also say to him that no oil
that is being produced in this country
right now is affected by anything hav-
ing to do with this legislation.
Yesterday, Ambassador ROONEY made
it very clear to us in the Rules Com-
mittee that, at the present rate of pro-
duction of oil, we are producing enough
oil to go into 66 years of oil production.
That is at the present rate, without
going anywhere else.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Will the
gentleman yield?
Mr. HASTINGS. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Louisiana.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I appreciate the gentleman’s
statement about energy production
today.
I want to remind the gentleman, Mr.
Speaker, that as we produce energy, we
are extracting something. Therefore,
new development in these areas is nec-
essary in order to replenish the areas
that are producing today.
I also want to remind the gentleman,
Mr. Speaker, that, if the United States
is not providing energy to these coun-
tries where we are exporting today, in
some cases, countries like Russia come
in and fill that void. So it doesn’t make
sense for us to shut down these areas,
to stop these areas, particularly in the
eastern Gulf of Mexico where you have
adjacent production. You have produc-
tion attempts in Cuba, production in
Mexico.
This doesn’t do anything to help to
protect this environment. I really
think we need to look at this a little
bit more carefully.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, the
gentleman had done well until he, in
the words of my grandmother, ‘‘stepped
on the cutout’’ when he talked about
the eastern Gulf. I just offer BP as an
example of what happens.
If he were to come and go down that
coastline with me and see the busi-
nesses that went out of business, in-
cluding all of those in the fishes indus-
try, oysters, the whole coastline has
been impacted. We are still suffering
the residual.
And I might add, on the floor of the
eastern Gulf of Mexico, they call it
snow something that is on the floor.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate the gentle-
man’s position, but I will be the last
man standing on not having oil drilling
off the coast of Florida.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1300
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
If we defeat the previous question, I
have an amendment to the rule to pro-
hibit the use of Federal funds for pay-
ments in support of campaigns for the
offices of Senators or Representatives.
I ask unanimous consent to insert
the text of the amendment in the
RECORD, along with extraneous mate-
rial, immediately prior to the vote on
the previous question.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS) to explain the
amendment.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my good friend, Mrs.
LESKO, for doing a great job rep-
resenting her constituents in Arizona.
This is an issue that has got to be ad-
dressed. As my friend said, though, if
we defeat the previous question, we
will offer my bill, H.R. 4261.
When the majority of Democrats pro-
posed public financing of campaigns in
H.R. 1 at the start of this Congress, I
thought it was one of the worst ideas in
campaign finance ever. Public financ-
ing of campaigns will fill the swamp
and any Member that voted for it was
voting to fill their own pockets and the
pockets of political operatives nation-
wide.
At first, Democrats tried to use the
tax dollars of hardworking Americans
to fund their public financing sections
of H.R. 1. Remember, H.R. 1 was a 622-
page behemoth of a bill that was sup-
posed to get money out of politics that
initially had provisions to put public
taxpayer dollars into Members of Con-
gress’ own campaign coffers.
Imagine, if more people watched C–
SPAN, they would have been able to
see so many Members of Congress vote
to line their own pockets with public
tax dollars for their own personal polit-
ical campaigns.
That is not what my constituents
asked us to do when cleaning up Wash-
ington. That is not what we should be
doing. We need to work together now
to make sure that it doesn’t ever hap-
pen again.
This matching program would have
created a six-to-one match of public fi-
nancing. Well, once the public caught
some sense that this was happening,
the majority decided to change the way
they do this. What they did instead
was, they were going to use corporate
fines.
Well, that criticism forced them to
change it, but also not be able to get
funding at the levels that are needed
for every Member of Congress to be
able to run this new publicly financed
campaign. They would have had to sub-
sidize the corporate fines with tax dol-
lars. When the Federal Government
fines a corporation that has broken a
Federal law, it does so with specific in-
tentions.
Remember, for every dollar that a
donor gives to a campaign under the
Democrats’ plan, you would have got-
ten six times that in first-tax dollars
and then so-called corporate-fine dol-
lars. Imagine a scenario where a phar-
maceutical company is fined for cor-
porate malfeasance associated with the
opioid epidemic and the resulting funds
go not to those actually affected by
this horrible epidemic, but, instead,
they go to line the pockets and cam-
paign coffers of Members of Congress,
politicians.
Not to mention, this form of public
financing would bring into question
judges’ partiality. If they knew a cor-
poration’s fine could end up helping
their preferred political party, help
them win elected office, what is to stop
them from determining who specifi-
cally then receives the money?
Using taxpayers’ dollars or money
from corporate fines to publicly sup-
port a candidate and start yet another
mandatory program, is irresponsible.
There are better uses that would be
more beneficial to our constituents
than putting it back into Congress’
own campaign coffers.
Call it what you want to call it, but
we are now subsidizing private money
with funds from corporate fines
through campaign subsidies, and this is
simply a money grab for politicians.
Imagine, if every Member of Con-
gress, not counting all candidates in
each of the congressional races—just
the 435 of us who serve here—receives
just $1 million in matched funds from
the Federal Government. That is close
to half a billion dollars going to just
the incumbent politician’s campaigns.
In districts like mine, where the in-
vestment every campaign season is
substantially higher, it would be even
more.
Welcome to campaign finance social-
ism.
If the goal is to get money and cor-
ruption out of politics, public financing
of campaigns is the wrong way to do
that.
I thank my colleague from Arizona,
and I thank my colleagues who are
going to vote to make sure that we
don’t publicly finance campaigns of
anyone in this institution.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker,
through you, I would advise my good
friend from Arizona that I have no fur-
ther speakers and I am prepared to
close whenever she is.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, I am also
ready to close.
Mr. Speaker, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:04 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.018 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7571
September 10, 2019
Mr. Speaker, in closing, the bills be-
fore us today, I believe, and many be-
lieve, are harmful to American jobs,
Americans’ quality of life, and Ameri-
cans’ security. These bills, like quite a
few of the other bills passed by the
Democrat majority, will die in the Sen-
ate.
These are just more messaging bills,
but the message underlying these bills
is the false notion that domestic en-
ergy production is harmful. I cannot
disagree more. Domestic energy pro-
duction creates hundreds of thousands
of well-paying jobs, lowers electricity
bills, and prevents us from being de-
pendent on foreign countries for oil and
gas.
As The Washington Post opined last
year: ‘‘As long as the economy requires
oil, it must come from somewhere, and
better the United States than a coun-
try with much weaker environmental
oversight.’’
In a bipartisan op-ed I have here,
written by Jim Webb, a former Demo-
cratic Senator, and Jim Nicholson, it
notes that: ‘‘ . . . because of current
U.S. policy, major energy investments
are moving to countries like Mexico
where regulations could lag even far-
ther behind ours.
‘‘Over the last four years, as we have
debated whether to open up carefully
selected new areas for exploration on
our side of the Gulf of Mexico, Mexico
has leased over 20 million new acres on
its side. The country’s total acreage
leased in the Gulf is now over 30 mil-
lion acres, double that of the U.S.’s 14.7
million.’’
Utilizing America’s energy sources is
a commonsense step for America’s en-
ergy future. America must make safe
and full use of all of its energy re-
sources for our economy and for our
national security. Much of that energy
could be from offshore.
We should encourage an expansion of
domestic energy production, but, in-
stead, unfortunately, my Democratic
colleagues in the majority seek to
limit it.
There are numerous reasons why off-
shore natural gas and oil are important
to the United States and why we
should reject these bills:
One, 67 percent of the energy Ameri-
cans use in total oil and natural gas
consumption is expected to grow over
30 years.
Two, U.S. offshore has accounted for
more than 1 million barrels of oil per
day for the past 20 years.
Three, by 2035, the natural gas and
oil industry could create more than 1.9
million new jobs.
Four, there are 89.9 billion barrels of
oil and 327.49 trillion cubic feet of nat-
ural gas, potential energy resources,
yet to be discovered in the United
States’ Outer Continental Shelf.
Five, there is about $900 million an-
nually in funding for national parks
and conservation programs from off-
shore development through the LWCF.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
the previous question, a ‘‘no’’ vote on
the underlying measure, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, my friend just said that
the three measures that we offer are
going to be dead in the Senate.
One of the regrets in this country is
that virtually everything that we are
doing in the House of Representatives
goes over to the Grim Reaper’s office
and dies on his desk. And that includes
substantial measures having to do with
prescription drugs, sensible gun regula-
tions, and a variety of measures, add-
ing up to close to 75 that are on his
desk now that could be sent to the
President of the United States.
I would imagine that we are going to
continue down this path of when we
offer sensible measures that will help
the United States citizens, that one
person is going to hold them up for
whatever reason, and that includes sen-
sible gun regulation, such as back-
ground checks that more than 90 per-
cent of the American people want us to
pass.
I don’t know how the Senate works,
but I do know that the Senate ain’t
working right now, and it is being held
up by one person.
Mr. Speaker, it is not enough to op-
pose drilling off one’s State’s coastline.
Oil spills travel and climate change
knows no borders.
Our Nation’s coastlines are vital, rec-
reational, economic, and ecological
treasures that will be polluted by ex-
pansion of offshore drilling. Let’s un-
derscore that all of the drilling that is
going on in the Gulf right now is not
affected by this particular measure.
What we are saying is, no more. Please,
don’t give us your oil on our beaches,
BP, and others in that industry.
House and Senate Republicans can
stick their heads in the tar sands all
they want, but pumping more fossil
fuels out of the ocean and into the at-
mosphere will not sustain the Amer-
ican economy nor provide the eco-
nomic prosperity that will benefit all
Americans.
As I said earlier, I won’t be with you
20 years from now, but I can assure you
that during that period of time, we will
have electrically driven cars. We will
have moved substantially in the solar,
and wind, and thermal areas in this
country, and it will benefit us im-
mensely as well as benefit this planet.
I can’t imagine that we will have fos-
sil fuel in 2050, and I can’t imagine that
our children would not be worse off if
we did.
Now, one thing that you can be as-
sured, the people with the money are
going to control the deal. So when we
move to solar energy, the existing en-
ergy mongrels are going to be about
the business of owning solar energy. It
is just that simple. They will know
when the transition is going to take
place.
In the meantime, what they want to
continue to do, is to pollute the envi-
ronment that we live in, destroy the
habitat of the ocean that is provided
for mammals that are there as well as
fish and a variety of other spinoffs in
our ocean activity.
We have polluted the ocean in a very
bad way in many forms. We don’t need
to add to that with further develop-
ment at this point.
I might add, America is the leading
producer of oil and gas in the world. We
are exporting oil and gas. Therefore, I
don’t see that we are suffering a single
bit as we transition from fossil fuels to
solar, wind, thermal, and other forms
of energy that will be developed along
the way.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the rule and a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the pre-
vious question.
b 1315
The material previously referred to
by Mrs. LESKO is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 548
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 4. That immediately upon adoption of
this resolution, the House shall resolve into
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 4261) to prohibit the use of federal
funds for payments in support of campaigns
for election for the offices of Senator or Rep-
resentative of Congress. The first reading of
the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. General debate shall be confined to
the bill and shall not exceed one hour equal-
ly divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee
on House Administration. After general de-
bate the bill shall be considered for amend-
ment under the five-minute rule. All points
of order against provisions in the bill are
waived. When the committee rises and re-
ports the bill back to the House with a rec-
ommendation that the bill do pass, the pre-
vious question shall be considered as ordered
on the bill and amendments thereto to final
passage without intervening motion except
one motion to recommit with or without in-
structions. If the Committee of the Whole
rises and reports that it has come to no reso-
lution on the bill, then on the next legisla-
tive day the House shall, immediately after
the third daily order of business under clause
1 of rule XIV, resolve into the Committee of
the Whole for further consideration of the
bill.
SEC. 5. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H.R. 4261.
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.019 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7572 September 10, 2019
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
HOMEBUYER ASSISTANCE ACT OF
2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2852) to amend the National
Housing Act to authorize State-li-
censed appraisers to conduct appraisals
in connection with mortgages insured
by the FHA and to require compliance
with the existing appraiser education
requirement, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2852
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Homebuyer
Assistance Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. APPRAISAL STANDARDS FOR SINGLE-
FAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGES.
(a) CERTIFICATION OR LICENSING.—Para-
graph (5) of section 202(g) of the National
Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1708(g)) is amended—
(1) by striking subparagraph (A) and in-
serting the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(A)(i) in the case of an appraiser for a
mortgage for single-family housing, be cer-
tified or licensed by the State in which the
property to be appraised is located; and
‘‘(ii) in the case of an appraiser for a mort-
gage for multifamily housing, be certified by
the State in which the property to be ap-
praised is located; and’’; and
(2) in subparagraph (B), by inserting before
the period at the end the following: ‘‘, which,
in the case of appraisers for any mortgage
for single-family housing, shall include com-
pletion of a course or seminar that consists
of not less than 7 hours of training regarding
such appraisal requirements that is approved
by the Course Approval Program of the Ap-
praiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal
Foundation or a State appraiser certifying
and licensing agency’’.
(b) COMPLIANCE WITH VERIFIABLE EDU-
CATION REQUIREMENTS; GRANDFATHERING.—
Effective beginning on the date of the effec-
tiveness of the mortgagee letter or other
guidance issued pursuant to subsection (c) of
this section, notwithstanding any choice or
approval of any appraiser made before such
date of enactment, no appraiser may conduct
an appraisal for any mortgage for single-
family housing insured under title II of the
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1707 et seq.)
unless such appraiser is, as of such date of ef-
fectiveness, in compliance with—
(1) all of the requirements under section
202(g)(5) of such Act (12 U.S.C. 1708(g)(5)), as
amended by subsection (a) of this section, in-
cluding the requirement under subparagraph
(B) of such section 202(g)(5) (relating to dem-
onstrated verifiable education in appraisal
requirements); or
(2) all of the requirements under section
202(g)(5) of such Act as in effect on the day
before the date of the enactment of this Act.
(c) IMPLEMENTATION.—Not later than the
expiration of the 240-day period beginning on
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment shall issue a mortgagee letter or other
guidance that shall—
(1) implement the amendments made by
subsection (a) of this section;
(2) clearly set forth all of the specific re-
quirements under section 202(g)(5) of the Na-
tional Housing Act (as amended by sub-
section (a) of this section) for approval to
conduct appraisals under title II of such Act
for mortgages for single-family housing,
which shall include—
(A) providing that the completion, prior to
the effective date of such mortgagee letter
or guidance, of training meeting the require-
ments under subparagraph (B) of such sec-
tion 202(g)(5) (as amended by subsection (a)
of this section) shall be considered to fulfill
the requirement under such subparagraph;
and
(B) providing a method for appraisers to
demonstrate such prior completion; and
(3) take effect not later than the expiration
of the 180-day period beginning upon
issuance of such mortgagee letter or guid-
ance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Guam.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Guam?
There was no objection.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
H.R. 2852, the Homebuyer Assistance
Act of 2019, would make a common-
sense update to FHA’s requirements
governing appraisals, to allow licensed
appraisers to conduct appraisals for
FHA-backed mortgages.
The current requirement for all FHA
loans to utilize a certified appraiser is
simply outdated as it was put into
place at a time when there were no
minimum Federal standards for State
licensure of appraisers, leaving con-
cerns about consistency and com-
petency across States. Now that we do
have minimum standards for licensure,
FHA’s certification requirement is not
only out of date and out of alignment
with Fannie and Freddie, it is also cre-
ating market pressures for lenders to
require certified appraisers for all
loans, even if they are not FHA loans,
just in case the mortgage switches to
an FHA loan midway through the proc-
ess. This, in turn, makes it harder for
licensed appraisers to obtain work at a
time when certain areas are experi-
encing appraiser shortages and when
we are already struggling to recruit
new appraisers effectively.
There is simply no sound policy ra-
tionale to explain why licensed ap-
praisers that are perfectly qualified to
conduct appraisals for GSE loans are
not qualified to conduct appraisals for
FHA loans.
This bill is supported by a broad coa-
lition of not just appraisal industry
groups but also lenders and housing ad-
vocacy groups that recognize that this
is an unnecessary barrier.
I thank Mr. SHERMAN for introducing
this legislation and the Republican co-
sponsor, Mr. DUFFY, for his support for
this important bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
vote ‘‘yes,’’ and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2852, the Homebuyer Assistance Act of
2019.
As my friend from Guam just ex-
plained, unfortunately, there are two
different standards between the regular
government-sponsored enterprises that
finance homes and the Federal Housing
Administration, FHA. Today, FHA re-
quires certified appraisers. This bill
changes it to certified or licensed ap-
praisers, just like the other govern-
ment-sponsored enterprises, to allow
the entire pool of appraisers in a given
area to be allowed to be used to ap-
praise homes. As my friend from Guam
explained, there are appraiser short-
ages in many areas around the coun-
try, so this will, I think, be very help-
ful.
This bill also requires a minimum
amount of training that is required by
The Appraisal Foundation or State li-
censing agencies in order to be an ap-
praiser that can appraise on FHA
transactions.
These changes, I think, will help ap-
praisers, and it will help make sure
that there is a quality pool of apprais-
ers regardless of whether somebody has
a regular government-sponsored enter-
prise or an FHA loan.
Mr. Speaker, we are excited to sup-
port this. This is bipartisan. I support
the bill, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. SHERMAN).
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Guam for yielding.
I would like to thank our colleague
from Wisconsin (Mr. DUFFY) for work-
ing with me on this bill, the Home-
buyer Assistance Act of 2019. He has
worked hard to ensure that this is a
collaborative and bipartisan process.
I would also like to thank the chair
of our committee, the gentlewoman
from California, and her staff for their
assistance with this bill and her sup-
port in bringing the bill forward.
There is no more important day in
the economic life of a family than the
day that they buy a home, and some 83
or 84 percent of those with FHA financ-
ing are purchasing their first home.
Appraisers play an important role in
the process.
This bill would change the rules a bit
for FHA appraisers so as to bring them
in line with the rules we already have
for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which
are the larger, federally controlled en-
tities engaged in guaranteeing or fi-
nancing homes, and it will deal with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.023 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7573
September 10, 2019
the shortage of certified appraisers
that we are experiencing in parts of the
country.
Let me point out that this bill deals
only with single-family homes. You
could make the argument, Mr. Speak-
er, that you should have a certified ap-
praiser in dealing with complex com-
mercial, industrial, and multifamily
properties. This bill focuses on single-
family homes.
The bill has broad support of both
consumer advocacy organizations and
industry stakeholders. To name a few,
the Homebuyer Assistance Act is sup-
ported by the Center for Responsible
Lending, The Appraisal Institute, the
National Association of Realtors, the
Credit Union National Association, and
the Independent Community Bankers
of America.
This bill will make it easier for home
buyers to buy a home with Federal
Housing Administration mortgages by
expanding the number of appraisers
that are allowed to do the appraisals of
those homes.
I am pleased to say that in the other
body, Senators THUNE and TESTER have
introduced a parallel piece of legisla-
tion, a bipartisan piece of legislation,
and I look forward to putting this bill
on the President’s desk.
As other speakers have pointed out,
including the gentleman from Guam,
until 2010, there were no nationwide
standards for licensed home appraisers.
But since 2010, we have minimum Fed-
eral education, experience, and exam-
ination requirements set by the Ap-
praiser Qualifications Board, so there
is no reason at all to require that cer-
tified appraisers be involved, and it is
entirely appropriate to have either cer-
tified or licensed appraisers.
This fix will help first-time home
buyers. As I pointed out, over 83 per-
cent of FHA home purchase mortgages
are being made to first-time home buy-
ers, and over one-third of all FHA loans
were obtained by minority households.
The process of purchasing a home is
already difficult enough for first-time
home buyers. We should not have the
additional challenge of finding a cer-
tified appraiser.
We have a real interest in making
sure the FHA process is one that works
well just as the process works for
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac by allow-
ing either licensed or certified apprais-
ers.
As I have pointed out, this bill ap-
plies only to single-family homes, du-
plexes, and, I believe, R4 properties. It
does not deal with complex commer-
cial, multifamily, and industrial prop-
erties.
I am pleased to say that with the
support of all of our colleagues on the
committee, this bill was approved by
voice vote at the Financial Services
Committee. I was there on July 11;
there was not one dissenting voice
raised.
Mr. Speaker, I hope we can repeat
that success again here on the floor, so
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on
this bill.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to close by thanking the gen-
tleman from California for a bipartisan
bill. I thank the gentleman from Wis-
consin, SEAN DUFFY, from our side, the
lead Republican on this bill.
This is a bill that will get more ap-
praisers in the pool to help people who
want to buy homes that are financed
by the FHA.
Mr. Speaker, it is a win-win, and it is
a bipartisan bill. We urge its support,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
too thank the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SHERMAN) for bringing this
legislation forward and for the support
of the gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
DUFFY).
This bill removes unnecessary bar-
riers to the home-buying process,
which will help millions of Americans
over time.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Guam (Mr. SAN
NICOLAS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2852, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
STRATEGY AND INVESTMENT IN
RURAL HOUSING PRESERVATION
ACT OF 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3620) to provide rental assist-
ance to low-income tenants in certain
multifamily rural housing projects fi-
nanced by the Rural Housing Service of
the Department of Agriculture, and to
develop and implement a plan for pre-
serving the affordability of rural rental
housing, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3620
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Strategy
and Investment in Rural Housing Preserva-
tion Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT OF HOUS-
ING PRESERVATION AND REVITAL-
IZATION PROGRAM.
Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1471 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 545. HOUSING PRESERVATION AND REVI-
TALIZATION PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary shall
carry out a program under this section for
the preservation and revitalization of multi-
family rental housing projects financed
under section 515 or both sections 514 and 516.
‘‘(b) NOTICE OF MATURING LOANS.—
‘‘(1) TO OWNERS.—On an annual basis, the
Secretary shall provide written notice to
each owner of a property financed under sec-
tion 515 or both sections 514 and 516 that will
mature within the 4-year period beginning
upon the provision of such notice, setting
forth the options and financial incentives
that are available to facilitate the extension
of the loan term or the option to decouple a
rental assistance contract pursuant to sub-
section (f).
‘‘(2) TO TENANTS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For each property fi-
nanced under section 515 or both sections 514
and 516, not later than the date that is 2
years before the date that such loan will ma-
ture, the Secretary shall provide written no-
tice to each household residing in such prop-
erty that informs them of the date of the
loan maturity, the possible actions that may
happen with respect to the property upon
such maturity, and how to protect their
right to reside in federally assisted housing
after such maturity.
‘‘(B) LANGUAGE.—Notice under this para-
graph shall be provided in plain English and
shall be translated to other languages in the
case of any property located in an area in
which a significant number of residents
speak such other languages.
‘‘(c) LOAN RESTRUCTURING.—Under the pro-
gram under this section, the Secretary may
restructure such existing housing loans, as
the Secretary considers appropriate, for the
purpose of ensuring that such projects have
sufficient resources to preserve the projects
to provide safe and affordable housing for
low-income residents and farm laborers, by—
‘‘(1) reducing or eliminating interest;
‘‘(2) deferring loan payments;
‘‘(3) subordinating, reducing, or reamor-
tizing loan debt; and
‘‘(4) providing other financial assistance,
including advances, payments, and incen-
tives (including the ability of owners to ob-
tain reasonable returns on investment) re-
quired by the Secretary.
‘‘(d) RENEWAL OF RENTAL ASSISTANCE.—
When the Secretary offers to restructure a
loan pursuant to subsection (c), the Sec-
retary shall offer to renew the rental assist-
ance contract under section 521(a)(2) for a 20-
year term that is subject to annual appro-
priations, provided that the owner agrees to
bring the property up to such standards that
will ensure its maintenance as decent, safe,
and sanitary housing for the full term of the
rental assistance contract.
‘‘(e) RESTRICTIVE USE AGREEMENTS.—
‘‘(1) REQUIREMENT.—As part of the preser-
vation and revitalization agreement for a
project, the Secretary shall obtain a restric-
tive use agreement that obligates the owner
to operate the project in accordance with
this title.
‘‘(2) TERM.—
‘‘(A) NO EXTENSION OF RENTAL ASSISTANCE
CONTRACT.—Except when the Secretary en-
ters into a 20-year extension of the rental as-
sistance contract for the project, the term of
the restrictive use agreement for the project
shall be consistent with the term of the re-
structured loan for the project.
‘‘(B) EXTENSION OF RENTAL ASSISTANCE CON-
TRACT.—If the Secretary enters into a 20-
year extension of the rental assistance con-
tract for a project, the term of the restric-
tive use agreement for the project shall be
for 20 years.
‘‘(C) TERMINATION.—The Secretary may
terminate the 20-year use restrictive use
agreement for a project prior to the end of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.049 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7574 September 10, 2019
its term if the 20-year rental assistance con-
tract for the project with the owner is termi-
nated at any time for reasons outside the
owner’s control.
‘‘(f) DECOUPLING OF RENTAL ASSISTANCE.—
‘‘(1) RENEWAL OF RENTAL ASSISTANCE CON-
TRACT.—If the Secretary determines that a
maturing loan for a project cannot reason-
ably be restructured in accordance with sub-
section (c) and the project was operating
with rental assistance under section 521, the
Secretary may renew the rental assistance
contract, notwithstanding any provision of
section 521, for a term, subject to annual ap-
propriations, of at least 10 years but not
more than 20 years.
‘‘(2) RENTS.—Any agreement to extend the
term of the rental assistance contract under
section 521 for a project shall obligate the
owner to continue to maintain the project as
decent, safe and sanitary housing and to op-
erate the development in accordance with
this title, except that rents shall be based on
the lesser of—
‘‘(A) the budget-based needs of the project;
or
‘‘(B) (ii) the operating cost adjustment fac-
tor as a payment standard as provided under
section 524 of the Multifamily Assisted Hous-
ing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (42
U.S.C. 1437 note).
‘‘(g) MULTIFAMILY HOUSING TRANSFER
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE.—Under the program
under this section, the Secretary may pro-
vide grants to qualified non-profit organiza-
tions and public housing agencies to provide
technical assistance, including financial and
legal services, to borrowers under loans
under this title for multifamily housing to
facilitate the acquisition of such multi-
family housing properties in areas where the
Secretary determines there is a risk of loss
of affordable housing.
‘‘(h) TRANSFER OF RENTAL ASSISTANCE.—
After the loan or loans for a rental project
originally financed under section 515 or both
sections 514 and 516 have matured or have
been prepaid and the owner has chosen not to
restructure the loan pursuant to subsection
(c), a tenant residing in such project shall
have 18 months prior to loan maturation or
prepayment to transfer the rental assistance
assigned to the tenant’s unit to another
rental project originally financed under sec-
tion 515 or both sections 514 and 516, and the
owner of the initial project may rent the
tenant’s previous unit to a new tenant with-
out income restrictions.
‘‘(i) ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.—Of any
amounts made available for the program
under this section for any fiscal year, the
Secretary may use not more than $1,000,000
for administrative expenses for carrying out
such program.
‘‘(j) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated for
the program under this section $200,000,000
for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
SEC. 3. ELIGIBILITY FOR RURAL HOUSING
VOUCHERS.
Section 542 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1490r) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(c) ELIGIBILITY OF HOUSEHOLDS IN SECTION
514, 515, AND 516 PROJECTS.—The Secretary
may provide rural housing vouchers under
this section for any low-income household
(including those not receiving rental assist-
ance) residing in a property financed with a
loan made or insured under section 514 or 515
(42 U.S.C. 1484, 1485) which has been prepaid,
has been foreclosed, or has matured after
September 30, 2005, or residing in a property
assisted under section 514 or 516 that is
owned by a nonprofit organization or public
agency.’’.
SEC. 4. AMOUNT OF VOUCHER ASSISTANCE.
Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, in the case of any rural housing voucher
provided pursuant to section 542 of the Hous-
ing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490r), the amount
of the monthly assistance payment for the
household on whose behalf such assistance is
provided shall be determined as provided in
subsection (a) of such section 542.
SEC. 5. USE OF AVAILABLE RENTAL ASSISTANCE.
Subsection (d) of section 521 of the Housing
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490a(d)) is amended by
adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(3) In the case of any rental assistance
contract authority that becomes available
because of the termination of assistance on
behalf of an assisted family—
‘‘(A) at the option of the owner of the rent-
al project, the Secretary shall provide the
owner a period of 6 months before such as-
sistance is made available pursuant to sub-
paragraph (B) during which the owner may
use such assistance authority to provide as-
sistance of behalf of an eligible unassisted
family that—
‘‘(i) is residing in the same rental project
that the assisted family resided in prior to
such termination; or
‘‘(ii) newly occupies a dwelling unit in such
rental project during such period; and
‘‘(B) except for assistance used as provided
in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall use
such remaining authority to provide such as-
sistance on behalf of eligible families resid-
ing in other rental projects originally fi-
nanced under section 515 or both sections 514
and 516 of this Act.’’.
SEC. 6. FUNDING FOR MULTIFAMILY TECHNICAL
IMPROVEMENTS.
There is authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary of Agriculture $50,000,000 for
fiscal year 2020 for improving the technology
of the Department of Agriculture used to
process loans for multifamily housing and
otherwise managing such housing. Such im-
provements shall be made within the 5-year
period beginning upon the appropriation of
such amounts and such amount shall remain
available until the expiration of such 5-year
period.
SEC. 7. PLAN FOR PRESERVING AFFORDABILITY
OF RENTAL PROJECTS.
(a) PLAN.—The Secretary of Agriculture (in
this section referred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’)
shall submit a written plan to the Congress,
not later than the expiration of the 6-month
period beginning on the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, for preserving the afford-
ability for low-income families of rental
projects for which loans were made under
section 515 or made to nonprofit or public
agencies under section 514 and avoiding the
displacement of tenant households, which
shall—
(1) set forth specific performance goals and
measures;
(2) set forth the specific actions and mech-
anisms by which such goals will be achieved;
(3) set forth specific measurements by
which progress towards achievement of each
goal can be measured;
(4) provide for detailed reporting on out-
comes; and
(5) include any legislative recommenda-
tions to assist in achievement of the goals
under the plan.
(b) ADVISORY COMMITTEE.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE.—The Sec-
retary shall establish an advisory committee
whose purpose shall be to assist the Sec-
retary in preserving section 515 properties
and section 514 properties owned by non-
profit or public agencies through the multi-
family housing preservation and revitaliza-
tion program under section 545 and in imple-
menting the plan required under subsection
(a).
(2) MEMBER.—The advisory committee
shall consist of 14 members, appointed by the
Secretary, as follows:
(A) A State Director of Rural Development
for the Department of Agriculture.
(B) The Administrator for Rural Housing
Service of the Department of Agriculture.
(C) 2 representatives of for-profit devel-
opers or owners of multifamily rural rental
housing.
(D) 2 representatives of non-profit devel-
opers or owners of multifamily rural rental
housing.
(E) 2 representatives of State housing fi-
nance agencies.
(F) 2 representatives of tenants of multi-
family rural rental housing.
(G) 1 representative of a community devel-
opment financial institution that is involved
in preserving the affordability of housing as-
sisted under sections 514, 515, and 516 of the
Housing Act of 1949.
(H) 1 representative of a nonprofit organi-
zation that operates nationally and has ac-
tively participated in the preservation of
housing assisted by the Rural Housing Serv-
ice by conducting research regarding, and
providing financing and technical assistance
for, preserving the affordability of such
housing.
(I) 1 representative of low-income housing
tax credit investors.
(J) 1 representative of regulated financial
institutions that finance affordable multi-
family rural rental housing developments.
(3) MEETINGS.—The advisory committee
shall meet not less often than once each cal-
endar quarter.
(4) FUNCTIONS.—In providing assistance to
the Secretary to carry out its purpose, the
advisory committee shall carry out the fol-
lowing functions:
(A) Assisting the Rural Housing Service of
the Department of Agriculture to improve
estimates of the size, scope, and condition of
rental housing portfolio of the Service, in-
cluding the time frames for maturity of
mortgages and costs for preserving the port-
folio as affordable housing.
(B) Reviewing current policies and proce-
dures of the Rural Housing Service regarding
preservation of affordable rental housing fi-
nanced under sections 514, 515, 516, and 538 of
the Housing Act of 1949, the Multifamily
Preservation and Revitalization Demonstra-
tion program (MPR), and the rental assist-
ance program and making recommendations
regarding improvements and modifications
to such policies and procedures.
(C) Providing ongoing review of Rural
Housing Service program results.
(D) Providing reports to the Congress and
the public on meetings, recommendations,
and other findings of the advisory com-
mittee.
(5) TRAVEL COSTS.—Any amounts made
available for administrative costs of the De-
partment of Agriculture may be used for
costs of travel by members of the advisory
committee to meetings of the committee.
SEC. 8. COVERED HOUSING PROGRAMS.
Paragraph (3) of section 41411(a) of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C.
12491(a)(3)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(2) by redesignating subparagraph (J) as
subparagraph (K); and
(3) by inserting after subparagraph (I) the
following new subparagraph:
‘‘(J) rural development housing voucher as-
sistance provided by the Secretary of Agri-
culture pursuant to section 542 of the Hous-
ing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490r), without re-
gard to subsection (b) of such section, and
applicable appropriation Acts; and’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE7.007 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7575
September 10, 2019
Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Guam.
b 1330
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Guam?
There was no objection.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 3620, the Strategy and Invest-
ment in Rural Housing Preservation
Act of 2019, which will provide a com-
prehensive solution to address the im-
minent crisis of aging USDA multi-
family rental housing that currently
serves nearly 400,000 low-income fami-
lies in rural America.
Like HUD properties, these prop-
erties have suffered from years of inad-
equate funding, and according to the
GAO, USDA does not have a coherent
strategy to preserve these homes and
prevent the displacement of low-in-
come families. For these families, the
homes we are trying to preserve often
represent the only affordable housing
in their communities.
Without Congress providing the re-
sources and tools the USDA needs to
preserve properties in its affordable
housing portfolio, many of these fami-
lies will be displaced, not only from
their homes, but from their commu-
nities. And even worse, some might fall
into homelessness.
To address this problem, H.R. 3620
would permanently authorize the Mul-
tifamily Housing Preservation and Re-
vitalization Demonstration program
that allows USDA to restructure loans
for existing USDA multifamily prop-
erties, to provide incentive for private
owners to continue to participate in
the agency’s affordable housing pro-
grams and provide those properties
with further investment.
To carry out the program, H.R. 3620
would authorize $1 billion in funding
over 5 years. It would also require
USDA to develop a plan for imple-
menting the new funding and authori-
ties available to them under this bill to
ensure that a comprehensive strategy
is in place to preserve these rural hous-
ing properties and avoid resident dis-
placement.
The bill would also establish an advi-
sory committee made up of diverse
stakeholders, including low-income
tenants to include USDA on the imple-
mentation of its plan.
Lastly, this bill includes the text of
Congressman VICENTE GONZALEZ’s bill
that will add the Rural Housing Vouch-
er Program to the list of covered hous-
ing programs under the Violence
Against Women Act.
Groups that represent both tenants
and owners support H.R. 3620, including
the National Rural Housing Coalition,
the Council for Affordable and Rural
Housing, the National Housing Law
Project, the Housing Assistance Coun-
cil, the National Housing Trust, and
the Local Initiatives Support Corpora-
tion.
I thank the gentleman from Missouri
(Mr. CLAY) for introducing this impor-
tant legislation, and I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
3620, the Strategy and Investment in
Rural Housing Preservation Act of
2019. Statistics from the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture show that 15 per-
cent of our population lives in rural
areas, and in that area, rural renters
generally have significantly lower in-
comes than rural homeowners.
Nearly one-third of them live below
the poverty level. In fact, the average
annual income of tenants in USDA Sec-
tion 515 financed properties is approxi-
mately $13,600, and the majority of
those residents are either senior citi-
zens or people with disabilities.
Rural housing makes up about 28.4
percent of rural and small-town hous-
ing stock, a significant part of the
rural housing market. It is clear that
the challenges of rural America are
multifaceted. This bill would help ad-
dress some of those, and it would help
make sure that outcomes currently ex-
perienced as a result of the interaction
of RHS’ owner assistance programs and
the tenant rental assistance programs
not working well together.
The program is structured in a way
that the departure of properties from
the programs, when an owner’s loans
either mature or are prepaid, nega-
tively impacts the availability of rent-
al assistance for tenants. I think it is
safe to say that the system currently
does not make much sense, and there is
a need for greater reform and consoli-
dation.
H.R. 3620 is a step in the right direc-
tion. I would like to thank the gen-
tleman from Missouri (Mr. CLAY), my
colleague, for his work on this very im-
portant and long-neglected issue of
rural housing.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Missouri (Mr. CLAY), the sponsor of
this legislation and the chair of the
Subcommittee on Housing, Community
Development and Insurance.
Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend from Guam for yielding. And Mr.
Speaker, I rise in favor of H.R. 3620, the
Strategy and Investment in Rural
Housing Act of 2019, which would ad-
dress the need to repair and renovate
the existing USDA rural housing stock
and the best way to deal with maturing
loans.
Mr. Speaker, I ask Members to sup-
port this commonsense legislation, and
here is why:
The stock of affordable homes sup-
ported by USDA’s Section 515, Rural
Rental Housing Loans and Section 514,
Farm Labor Housing Loans is old and
in need of repair.
However, the USDA has been unable
to come up with a clear plan to pre-
serve these homes and ensure residents
are not displaced, putting them at risk
of housing instability, and in worst
cases, homelessness.
This bill permanently authorizes the
Multifamily Housing Preservation and
Revitalization program and provides $1
billion in funding over 5 years. This
will give the USDA the tools and fund-
ing necessary to come up with a com-
prehensive strategy for preservation
and avoid tenant displacement for
some of our most vulnerable.
And the bill also, as mentioned, es-
tablishes an advisory committee that
includes a diverse range of stake-
holders to advise the USDA on how to
implement its plan for preservation.
Section 515 and 514 are USDA-backed
multifamily loans providing low inter-
est, long-term multifamily loans to
support affordable rental housing.
There are approximately 14,000 Sec-
tion 515 and 514 properties across the
country that are home to nearly 400,000
families, and as was stated, they have
an average income of $13,000, which my
colleagues will recognize is well below
the poverty line.
Although my congressional district
is not considered rural, the State of
Missouri certainly is, and in many
ways is symbolic of rural states and
communities across this Nation, and
this bill will help them and many of
the most vulnerable people who work
in rural communities across America.
And as I stated at our hearing in
April on this legislation and at our
markup in July, as chairman, I fully
intend to ensure that this sub-
committee engages in the housing
issues facing all Americans, and I
think that is a good start.
Mr. Speaker, again, I look forward to
my colleagues’ support.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, again, I
rise in support of H.R. 3620. I want to
commend the gentleman from Missouri
(Mr. CLAY) for his incredible work on
rural housing.
As a congressman from a rural dis-
trict, over 50 percent of my district is
rural. This is going to help people all
around the country. I thank Congress-
man CLAY. We have a lot more work to
do on rural housing, but this is a good
start.
Mr. Speaker, I would urge adoption,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, an
ounce of prevention is worth a pound of
cure.
I, again, commend the gentleman
from Missouri (Mr. CLAY) for bringing
this bill before the House.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.027 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7576 September 10, 2019
We are committed to helping prevent
and address homelessness wherever
they may find themselves, and this bill
will go a long way in addressing the
need to prevent homelessness in rural
communities.
H.R. 3620 passed the committee by a
vote of 57–0, and I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
important piece of legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Guam (Mr. SAN
NICOLAS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3620, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ENSURING DIVERSE LEADERSHIP
ACT OF 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 281) to amend the Federal Re-
serve Act to require Federal Reserve
banks to interview at least one indi-
vidual reflective of gender diversity
and one individual reflective of racial
or ethnic diversity when appointing
Federal Reserve bank presidents, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 281
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Ensuring Di-
verse Leadership Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. CONGRESSIONAL FINDINGS.
The Congress finds that—
(1) while significant progress has occurred
due to the antidiscrimination amendments
to the Federal Reserve Act, barriers con-
tinue to pose significant obstacles for can-
didates reflective of gender diversity and ra-
cial or ethnic diversity for Federal Reserve
bank president positions in the Federal Re-
serve System;
(2) the continuing barriers described in
paragraph (1) merit the following amend-
ment;
(3) Congress has received and reviewed tes-
timony and documentation of the historical
lack of gender, racial, and ethnic diversity
from numerous sources, including congres-
sional hearings, scientific reports, reports
issued by public and private agencies, news
stories, and reports of related barriers by or-
ganizations and individuals, which show that
race-, ethnicity-, and gender-neutral efforts
alone are insufficient to address the prob-
lem;
(4) the testimony and documentation de-
scribed in paragraph (3) demonstrate that
barriers across the United States prove prob-
lematic for full and fair participation in de-
veloping monetary policy by individuals re-
flective of gender diversity and racial or eth-
nic diversity; and
(5) the testimony and documentation de-
scribed in paragraph (3) provide a strong
basis that there is a compelling need for the
below amendment to address the historical
lack of gender, racial, and ethnic diversity in
the Federal Reserve regional bank presidents
selection process in the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem.
SEC. 3. FEDERAL RESERVE BANK PRESIDENTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The provision designated
‘‘fifth’’ of the fourth undesignated paragraph
of section 4 of the Federal Reserve Act (12
U.S.C. 341) is amended by inserting after
‘‘employees.’’ the following: ‘‘In making the
appointment of a president, the bank shall
interview at least one individual reflective of
gender diversity and one individual reflec-
tive of racial or ethnic diversity.’’.
(b) REPORT.—Not later than January 1 of
each year, each Federal reserve bank shall
submit to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, the
Committee on Financial Services of the
House of Representatives, and the Office of
Inspector General for the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System and the Bu-
reau of Consumer Financial Protection a re-
port describing the applicant pool demo-
graphic for the position of the president of
the Federal reserve bank for the preceding
fiscal year, if applicable.
SEC. 4. TECHNICAL ADJUSTMENTS.
(a) AMERICAN COMPETITIVENESS AND WORK-
FORCE IMPROVEMENT ACT OF 1998.—Section
418(b) of the American Competitiveness and
Workforce Improvement Act of 1998 (8 U.S.C.
1184 note) is amended by striking ‘‘Chairman
of the Board of Governors’’ and inserting
‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’.
(b) BRETTON WOODS AGREEMENTS ACT.—The
Bretton Woods Agreements Act (22 U.S.C. 286
et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 4(a), by striking ‘‘Chairman
of the Board of Governors’’ and inserting
‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’; and
(2) in section 45(a)(1), by striking ‘‘chair-
man of the board of Governors’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’.
(c) DODD-FRANK WALL STREET REFORM AND
CONSUMER PROTECTION ACT.—The Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) is
amended by striking ‘‘Chairman of the
Board’’ each place such term appears and in-
serting ‘‘Chair of the Board’’.
(d) EMERGENCY ECONOMIC STABILIZATION
ACT OF 2008.—The Emergency Economic Sta-
bilization Act of 2008 (12 U.S.C. 5201 et seq.)
is amended by striking ‘‘Chairman of the
Board’’ each place such term appears and in-
serting ‘‘Chair of the Board’’.
(e) EMERGENCY LOAN GUARANTEE ACT.—
Section 2 of the Emergency Loan Guarantee
Act (15 U.S.C. 1841) is amended by striking
‘‘Chairman of the Board of Governors’’ and
inserting ‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’.
(f) EMERGENCY STEEL LOAN GUARANTEE AND
EMERGENCY OIL AND GAS GUARANTEED LOAN
ACT OF 1999.—The Emergency Steel Loan
Guarantee and Emergency Oil and Gas Guar-
anteed Loan Act of 1999 (15 U.S.C. 1841 note)
is amended—
(1) in section 101(e)(2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board of
Governors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the
Board of Governors’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Chairman,’’ and inserting
‘‘Chair,’’; and
(2) in section 201(d)(2)(B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board of
Governors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the
Board of Governors’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Chairman,’’ and inserting
‘‘Chair,’’.
(g) FARM CREDIT ACT OF 1971.—Section
4.9(d)(1)(C) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 (12
U.S.C. 2160(d)(1)(C)) is amended by striking
‘‘Chairman of the Board of Governors’’ and
inserting ‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’.
(h) FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE ACT.—The
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 7(a)(3), by striking ‘‘Chair-
man of the Board of Governors’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’; and
(2) in section 10(k)(5)(B)(ii), by striking
‘‘Chairman of the Board of Governors’’ and
inserting ‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’.
(i) FEDERAL RESERVE ACT.—The Federal
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 226 et seq.) is amend-
ed—
(1) by striking ‘‘chairman’’ each place such
term appears and inserting ‘‘chair’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘Chairman’’ each place such
term appears other than in section 11(r)(2)(B)
and inserting ‘‘Chair’’;
(3) in section 2, in the sixth undesignated
paragraph—
(A) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the Comptroller of the
Currency’s’’; and
(B) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘his’’
and inserting ‘‘the director’s’’;
(4) in section 4—
(A) in the third undesignated paragraph,
by striking ‘‘his office’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency’’;
(B) in the fourth undesignated paragraph,
in the provision designated ‘‘fifth’’, by strik-
ing ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the person’s’’;
(C) in the eighth undesignated paragraph,
by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
chair’s’’;
(D) in the seventeenth undesignated para-
graph—
(i) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the of-
ficer’s’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting ‘‘the in-
dividual’’;
(E) in the twentieth undesignated para-
graph—
(i) by striking ‘‘He’’ each place such term
appears and inserting ‘‘The chair’’;
(ii) in the third sentence—
(I) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the’’;
and
(II) by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting a
comma; and
(iii) in the fifth sentence, by striking ‘‘he’’
and inserting ‘‘the chair’’; and
(F) in the twenty-first undesignated para-
graph, by striking ‘‘his’’ each place such
term appears and inserting ‘‘the agent’s’’;
(5) in section 6, in the second undesignated
paragraph, by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting
‘‘the Comptroller of the Currency’’;
(6) in section 9A(c)(2)(C), by striking ‘‘he’’
and inserting ‘‘the participant’’;
(7) in section 10—
(A) by striking ‘‘he’’ each place such term
appears and inserting ‘‘the member’’;
(B) in the second undesignated paragraph,
by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the mem-
ber’s’’; and
(C) in the fourth undesignated paragraph—
(i) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the chair’s’’;
(ii) in the fifth sentence, by striking ‘‘his’’
and inserting ‘‘the member’s’’; and
(iii) in the sixth sentence, by striking
‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the member’s’’;
(8) in section 12, by striking ‘‘his’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the member’s’’;
(9) in section 13, in the tenth undesignated
paragraph, by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting
‘‘the assured’s’’;
(10) in section 16—
(A) by striking ‘‘he’’ each place such term
appears and inserting ‘‘the agent’’;
(B) in the seventh undesignated para-
graph—
(i) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
agent’s’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘himself’’ and inserting
‘‘the agent’’;
(C) in the tenth undesignated paragraph,
by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the Sec-
retary’s’’; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.029 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7577
September 10, 2019
(D) in the fifteenth undesignated para-
graph, by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
agent’s’’;
(11) in section 18, in the eighth undesig-
nated paragraph, by striking ‘‘he’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the Secretary of the Treasury’’;
(12) in section 22—
(A) in subsection (f), by striking ‘‘his’’ and
inserting ‘‘the director’s or officer’s’’; and
(B) in subsection (g)—
(i) in paragraph (1)(D)—
(I) by striking ‘‘him’’ and inserting ‘‘the
officer’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘he’’ and inserting ‘‘the of-
ficer’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ‘‘him as
his’’ and inserting ‘‘the officer as the offi-
cer’s’’; and
(13) in section 25A—
(A) in the twelfth undesignated para-
graph—
(i) by striking ‘‘he’’ each place such term
appears and inserting ‘‘the member’’; and
(ii) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
member’s’’;
(B) in the fourteenth undesignated para-
graph, by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
director’s or officer’s’’; and
(C) in the twenty-second undesignated
paragraph, by striking ‘‘his’’ each place such
term appears and inserting ‘‘such individ-
ual’s’’.
(j) FEDERAL RESERVE REFORM ACT OF
1977.—Section 204(b) of the Federal Reserve
Reform Act of 1977 (12 U.S.C. 242 note) is
amended by striking ‘‘Chairman or Vice
Chairman of the Board of Governors’’ and in-
serting ‘‘Chair or Vice Chair of the Board of
Governors’’.
(k) FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS REFORM, RE-
COVERY, AND ENFORCEMENT ACT OF 1989.—The
Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery,
and Enforcement Act of 1989 is amended—
(1) in section 308 (12 U.S.C. 1463 note)—
(A) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘Chair-
man of the Board of Governors’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’; and
(B) in subsection (c), by striking ‘‘Chair-
man of the Board of Governors’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’;
(2) in section 1001(a) (12 U.S.C. 1811 note),
by striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board of Gov-
ernors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the Board of
Governors’’; and
(3) in section 1205(b)(1)(A) (12 U.S.C. 1818
note)—
(A) by striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board of
Governors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the
Board of Governors’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘Chairman’s’’ and inserting
‘‘Chair’s’’.
(l) FOOD, CONSERVATION, AND ENERGY ACT
OF 2008.—Section 13106(a) of the Food, Con-
servation, and Energy Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2
note) is amended by striking ‘‘Chairman of
the Board of Governors’’ and inserting
‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’.
(m) HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
ACT OF 1992.—Section 1313(a)(3) of the Hous-
ing and Community Development Act of 1992
(12 U.S.C. 4513(a)(3)) is amended—
(1) in the heading, by striking ‘‘CHAIRMAN’’
and inserting ‘‘CHAIR’’;
(2) by striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board of
Governors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the
Board of Governors’’; and
(3) by striking ‘‘Chairman regarding’’ and
inserting ‘‘Chair regarding’’.
(n) INSPECTOR GENERAL ACT OF 1978.—Sec-
tion 8G of the Inspector General Act of 1978
is amended by striking ‘‘Chairman of the
Board of Governors’’ each place such term
appears and inserting ‘‘Chair of the Board of
Governors’’.
(o) INTERNATIONAL LENDING SUPERVISION
ACT OF 1983.—Section 908(b)(3)(C) of the
International Lending Supervision Act of
1983 (12 U.S.C. 3907(b)(3)(C)) is amended by
striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board of Gov-
ernors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the Board of
Governors’’.
(p) NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORA-
TION ACT.—Section 604(a)(3) of the Neighbor-
hood Reinvestment Corporation Act (42
U.S.C. 8103(a)(3)) is amended by striking
‘‘Chairman’’ each place it appears and insert-
ing ‘‘Chair’’.
(q) PUBLIC LAW 93–495.—Section 202(a)(1) of
Public Law 93–495 (12 U.S.C. 2402(a)(1)) is
amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board of
Governors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the
Board of Governors’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘his’’ and inserting ‘‘the
Chair’s’’.
(r) SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002.—Section
101(e)(4)(A) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
(15 U.S.C. 7211(e)(4)(A)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘Chairman of the Board of Governors’’
and inserting ‘‘Chair of the Board of Gov-
ernors’’.
(s) SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.—Sec-
tion 17A(f)(4)(C) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q–1(f)(4)(C)) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board of
Governors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the
Board of Governors’’.
(t) TITLE 31.—Title 31, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in section 1344(b)(7), by striking ‘‘Chair-
man of the Board of Governors’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘Chair of the Board of Governors’’; and
(2) in section 5318A, by striking ‘‘Chairman
of the Board of Governors’’ each place such
term appears and inserting ‘‘Chair of the
Board of Governors’’.
(u) TRADE ACT OF 1974.—Section 163(b)(3) of
the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2213(b)(3)) is
amended by striking ‘‘Chairman of the Board
of Governors’’ and inserting ‘‘Chair of the
Board of Governors’’.
(v) DEEMING OF NAME.—Any reference in a
law, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the Chairman
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System shall be deemed to be a ref-
erence to the Chair of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Guam.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Guam?
There was no objection.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman from Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY), the
chair of the Subcommittee on Diver-
sity and Inclusion, for this incredibly
important piece of legislation, and the
Members on the other side of the aisle
who also support this bill.
For far too long, the Federal Reserve
system has been very homogenous
since its inception in 1913. This only
partially changed when, in 2017, Raph-
ael Bostic was appointed as the first
African American and openly gay male
to serve as Federal Reserve Bank
President. Additionally, only six
women have served in a similar capac-
ity, despite America becoming more
demographically diverse.
To address this lack of gender and
ethnic representation, H.R. 281 would
require the Federal Reserve Bank to
interview at least one individual reflec-
tive of gender diversity and one reflec-
tive of racial or ethnic diversity when
filling Federal Reserve Bank president
vacancies.
To ensure accountability of this di-
versity effort, the bill would further re-
quire the Federal Reserve report annu-
ally on the applicant pool demo-
graphics. We must ensure the leader-
ship of the Federal Reserve System re-
flects the growing diversity of our Na-
tion and that gender and racially and
ethnically diverse candidates are re-
ceiving serious consideration for presi-
dent vacancies at the 12 Federal Re-
serve banks.
Increasing diverse leadership rep-
resentation will ensure that more per-
spectives are considered when making
decisions about America’s economic fu-
ture.
Again, I thank the gentlewoman
from Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY) for pushing
this important bill and urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting H.R.
281.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, as my friend from
Guam just explained, the Federal Re-
serve Bank has had a very long his-
tory—130 presidents of Regional Fed-
eral Reserve Banks—and it took from
1913 to 2013—100 years—for the first Af-
rican American to become president of
one of those regional banks.
Additionally, only 8 of the 12 regional
banks have ever had a woman presi-
dent. These demographics are not re-
flective of the people the Federal Re-
serve serves.
The National Football League had a
similar track record when it came to
head coaches in the past. In 2003, the
league adopted the so-called Rooney
Rule, which required every team with a
head coaching vacancy to interview at
least one or more diverse candidates.
In 2009, the Rooney Rule had ex-
panded to include general manager
jobs, and in 2016, the requirement was
updated to require every team to inter-
view at least one woman during the
hiring process for executive positions.
When the Rooney Rule went into ef-
fect, there were only two head coaches
of color in the National Football
League. The following year there were
three, and those numbers have contin-
ued to grow. Last season, there was a
record eight coaches of color in the
NFL, the highest number in league his-
tory.
H.R. 281 does not create a quota or
hiring mandate. It simply pledges op-
portunities for women and minorities,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE7.008 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7578 September 10, 2019
as the Rooney Rule did for coaches of
color in the NFL and for women in the
executive ranks of the NFL.
At four hearings this year, the Com-
mittee on Financial Services heard
from numerous witnesses that the ef-
fort to increase diversity throughout
the financial services sector relies on
expanding the pool of candidates to in-
clude more women and minorities.
We heard from witnesses how diverse
perspectives among the firm’s leader-
ship lead to better decisionmaking and
better outcomes.
H.R. 281 applies these principles to
the Federal Reserve banking system.
The bill directs the Federal Reserve
Regional Banks to interview at least
one individual reflective of gender and
racial or ethnic diversity when ap-
pointing a Federal Reserve president.
The Rooney Rule has been adopted
across the private sector and is consid-
ered an industry best practice for firms
trying to increase diversity in their
senior leadership. We have an oppor-
tunity now to expand that concept to
the Federal Reserve Bank.
I am proud to have been a cosponsor
of this bill with the gentlewoman from
Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY), chairwoman, my
friend and colleague. I thank her as the
chairwoman of the Subcommittee on
Diversity and Inclusion for bringing
forward such a commonsense idea with
a proven track record that is seen as
the best practice across the industry.
This legislation will diversify the ap-
plicant pool and increase opportunities
for women and minority leaders at the
Federal Reserve Bank.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY), the sponsor
of this legislation and the chair of the
Subcommittee on Diversity and Inclu-
sion.
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman from Guam
(Mr. SAN NICOLAS), vice chair, for his
leadership and for all his support. And
to the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. STIV-
ERS), my colleague, thank you for your
support.
Mr. Speaker, I have the distinct
honor to chair the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services’ Subcommittee on Di-
versity and Inclusion. And we have
heard from numerous experts and we
had countless research reports that
show more diverse executive teams are
more likely to outperform their peers
on profitability, be more stable, and in-
crease their market share.
According to a study conducted by
McKinsey & Company entitled, Deliv-
ering through Diversity, researchers
have found that companies in the top
25 percent for gender and ethnic diver-
sity on executive teams were 21 percent
to 33 percent more likely to outperform
on profitability.
While companies in the bottom 25
percent for both gender and ethnic di-
versity were 29 percent less likely, Mr.
Speaker, to achieve above-average
profitability.
That is why it is so important that
we pass my bill, the Ensuring Diverse
Leadership Act of 2019, or better re-
ferred to as H.R. 281, which would re-
quire at least one individual reflective
of gender diversity and one individual
reflective of racial or ethnic diversity
to be interviewed for each Federal Re-
serve president vacancy.
b 1345
Mr. Speaker, as we have heard, it is
modeled after the National Football
League’s Rooney Rule, which requires
every team to interview at least one
minority candidate in the hiring proc-
ess for a new head coach.
This bill adopts this proven private-
sector diversity initiative and applies
it to the Federal Reserve, what I like
to call the Beatty rule.
Like the National Football League
prior to the implementation of the rule
in 2003, the 12 Federal Reserve banks
face a diversity problem within the
leadership in their institutions. This
would help move the needle.
In more than 100 years of existence,
the 12 Reserve banks have had only
three non-White presidents and seven
female presidents. It wasn’t until 2009
that the Federal Reserve ever had a
non-White Reserve bank president. It
wasn’t until the historic selection of
my friend Raphael Bostic to be the
president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of Atlanta in 2017 that an African
American president of the Federal Re-
serve was appointed.
Though we have had seven female
presidents, 8 of the 12 Reserve banks
have never had the distinction of hav-
ing a female at the helm. That is why
we need to adopt the Beatty rule at the
Federal Reserve and pass this very im-
portant bill.
Reserve bank presidents not only
serve as the head of their financial in-
stitutions, but they play an incredibly
important role in our Nation’s econ-
omy, from serving on the Federal Open
Market Committee, which determines
the country’s monetary policy and in-
terest rates, to regulating the banks in
their regions, to getting cash into their
banking systems.
Federal Reserve presidents should be
more reflective of the public, and this
bill will ensure diverse leaders are in
the room and at the table when making
decisions that directly impact our
economy and directly impact our com-
munities.
I would like to end by thanking
Chairwoman WATERS and all of my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle who
have cosponsored this legislation, in-
cluding my good friend and colleague
from Ohio (Mr. GONZALEZ), who spoke
on behalf of this bill and helped to
make this bill bipartisan.
Lastly, I would like to thank Jim
Rooney and the Rooney family, with
whom I have had the opportunity to sit
down and discuss this legislation, his
philosophy, and his ideas. He is the son
of the late Dan Rooney.
This is a very important initiative. I
am pleased to have his support and bi-
partisan support on this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I ask them to
vote in the affirmative, ‘‘yes,’’ to pass
the Beatty rule.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Ohio
(Mr. GONZALEZ), who is the vice rank-
ing member of the Financial Services
Subcommittee on Diversity and Inclu-
sion and who knows the Rooney Rule
firsthand since he was a standout wide
receiver for the NFL’s Indianapolis
Colts.
Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise in support of H.R. 281, the En-
suring Diverse Leadership Act of 2019,
a.k.a. the Beatty rule.
I thank my friends, Mrs. BEATTY and
Chairwoman WATERS, for their work on
this legislation and for bringing it to
the House floor today.
My friend Mrs. BEATTY has been a
tremendous leader on the Financial
Services Subcommittee on Diversity
and Inclusion, and it has been a pleas-
ure getting to know her in my first
term in Congress and working with her
on this very important issue.
Frankly, when I am back in my dis-
trict, the issue that most animates our
business leaders, those working day-to-
day in our community, is the work
that we are doing on the Diversity and
Inclusion Subcommittee.
KeyBank, Huntington Bank, folks in
Ohio, all have stories about the dif-
ferent initiatives that they have under-
taken to expand diversity in the finan-
cial services community.
Like many of my colleagues, I am
concerned about the historic lack of di-
versity that we have seen at the high-
est levels of the Federal Reserve. I
think this is an important piece of leg-
islation that will help rectify that.
As Mr. STIVERS alluded to, I consider
myself the direct beneficiary of the
NFL’s Rooney Rule. During my time in
the NFL, I was fortunate to play for
two men who I consider to be the most
incredible and profound leaders with
whom I have ever had a chance to
work. Both are African American:
Tony Dungy, who is in the hall of fame,
and Jim Caldwell.
The Rooney Rule has worked. From
1921 until 2003, the NFL had seven mi-
nority coaches—from 1921 to 2003,
seven. From 2003 to the present, we
have seen 18.
This is a step in the right direction
in furthering the promotion of in-
creased diversity by taking a page out
of the NFL’s playbook and by imple-
menting the Beatty rule for regional
Federal Reserve banks when inter-
viewing for a new president, modeled
off of the successful Rooney Rule.
By providing the opportunity to be
interviewed and to showcase their indi-
vidual talents, this legislation will
open more doors for individuals from a
diverse background while still being
based on merit. This is about expand-
ing opportunities and giving everybody
a fair shot.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.031 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7579
September 10, 2019
I look forward to continuing to work
with my colleagues on this important
issue, and again, I thank and congratu-
late Mrs. BEATTY for her work on this
legislation. I look forward to enthu-
siastically voting ‘‘yes.’’
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time to
close.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, H.R. 281
is just common sense. It is a best prac-
tice in the industry. It has shown that
it will increase the diversity of the
staff, and we hope that it will work for
the Federal Reserve banks.
The Federal Reserve banks’ record on
diversity needs to be improved. I be-
lieve this is a great first step.
I congratulate my colleague JOYCE
BEATTY from Ohio and my colleague
ANTHONY GONZALEZ from Ohio for their
incredible efforts on this. I am happy
to be a cosponsor and urge adoption.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Once again, I thank Representative
BEATTY for bringing forward this legis-
lation. I am excited to read about the
Beatty rule in future financial news,
and I am excited to see strong bipar-
tisan support for something that is just
common sense.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this legislation,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Guam (Mr. SAN
NICOLAS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 281, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
BANK SERVICE COMPANY EXAM-
INATION COORDINATION ACT OF
2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 241) to amend the Bank Serv-
ice Company Act to provide improve-
ments with respect to State banking
agencies, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 241
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Bank Serv-
ice Company Examination Coordination Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. BANK SERVICE COMPANY ACT IMPROVE-
MENTS.
The Bank Service Company Act (12 U.S.C.
1861 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 1(b)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (2)
through (9) as paragraphs (3) through (10), re-
spectively; and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(2) the term ‘State banking agency’ shall
have the same meaning given the term
‘State Bank Supervisor’ under section 3 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act;’’;
(2) in section 5(a), by inserting ‘‘, in con-
sultation with the State banking agency,’’
after ‘‘banking agency’’; and
(3) in section 7—
(A) in subsection (a)—
(i) in the first sentence, by inserting ‘‘or
State banking agency’’ after ‘‘appropriate
Federal banking agency’’; and
(ii) in the second sentence, by striking
‘‘Federal banking agency that supervises any
other shareholder or member’’ and inserting
‘‘Federal or State banking agency that su-
pervises any other shareholder or member’’;
(B) in subsection (c)—
(i) by inserting ‘‘or a State banking agen-
cy’’ after ‘‘appropriate Federal banking
agency’’;
(ii) by striking ‘‘such agency’’ each place
such term appears and inserting ‘‘such Fed-
eral or State agency’’;
(C) by redesignating subsection (d) as sub-
section (f);
(D) by inserting after subsection (c) the
following:
‘‘(d) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION.—Infor-
mation obtained pursuant to the regulation
and examination of service providers under
this section or applicable State law may be
furnished by and accessible to Federal and
State agencies to the same extent that su-
pervisory information concerning depository
institutions is authorized to be furnished to
and required to be accessible by Federal and
State agencies under section 7(a)(2) of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C.
1817(a)(2)) or State law, as applicable.
‘‘(e) COORDINATION WITH STATE BANKING
AGENCIES.—Where a State bank is principal
shareholder or principal member of a bank
service company or where a State bank is
any other shareholder or member of the
bank service company, the appropriate Fed-
eral banking agency, in carrying out exami-
nations authorized by this section, shall—
‘‘(1) provide reasonable and timely notice
to the State banking agency; and
‘‘(2) to the fullest extent possible, coordi-
nate and avoid duplication of examination
activities, reporting requirements, and re-
quests for information.’’;
(E) in subsection (f), as so redesignated, by
inserting ‘‘, in consultation with State bank-
ing agencies,’’ after ‘‘appropriate Federal
banking agencies’’; and
(F) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(g) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed as granting
authority for a State banking agency to ex-
amine a bank service company where no
such authority exists in State law.’’.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Guam.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Guam?
There was no objection.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 241, the Bank Service Company
Examination Coordination Act of 2019.
I thank the gentleman from Texas,
Representative WILLIAMS, for his work
on this bill that would promote better
coordination between Federal and
State banking regulators as they over-
see third-party vendors and companies
that provide a wide range of services
for banks.
In recent years, technology has dis-
rupted every industry, including bank-
ing, and has given the significant cy-
bersecurity risks that come with that
technology.
In light of the recent Capital One
data breach, which involved consumer
data the bank stored on a cloud server
provided by Amazon Web Services, a
third-party service provider, or TSP,
used by the bank and many other com-
panies, it is important that Congress
ensure there is strong oversight over
these third-party companies that work
with banks.
Currently, the Bank Service Com-
pany Act authorizes Federal regulators
to examine TSPs to assess the risks
they may pose to the banks with which
they work. Similarly, many State
banking regulators are authorized to
examine bank TSPs under various
State laws. These State regulators are
responsible for ensuring that these
third-party relationships do not pose
undue risks to the State-chartered
banking system, which accounts for
nearly 80 percent of all banks in the
United States.
However, the Bank Service Company
Act is silent regarding State bank reg-
ulators, which could hamper informa-
tion sharing among State and Federal
regulators.
While H.R. 241 would not give States
any new authority to conduct TSP
exams, it would recognize at the Fed-
eral level the supervisory authority
that many State regulators already
have under current State law and en-
courage Federal regulators to coordi-
nate with them.
Given the increase in fintech compa-
nies that partner with banks, espe-
cially State-chartered banks, it is im-
portant that we consider ways to en-
courage innovation, coordination, and
consistency among Federal and State
regulators in the oversight of TSPs.
Furthermore, in its 2017 annual re-
port, the Financial Stability Oversight
Council recommended that Congress
pass legislation to strengthen over-
sight of third-party companies that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.033 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7580 September 10, 2019
work with banks to improve cybersecu-
rity. To that end, last Congress, Demo-
crats and Republicans of the Com-
mittee on Financial Services voted
unanimously, 56–0, in support of this
legislation.
H.R. 241 will promote consistency
and strengthen oversight of our banks
and the technology companies with
which they work. Therefore, I encour-
age Members to support H.R. 241, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
241, the Bank Service Company Exam-
ination Coordination Act of 2019.
This bill amends the Bank Service
Company Act to enhance State and
Federal regulators’ ability to coordi-
nate examinations and share informa-
tion with a bank’s technology vendors
and partners.
State and Federal regulatory au-
thorities are rightfully frustrated by
the inability to share information as a
result of constraints resulting from the
Bank Service Company Act, specifi-
cally the duplicative examination proc-
esses that are in no way uniform or
collaborative. Their inability to share
exam information between Federal and
State regulators creates vulnerabilities
in the financial system.
The commonsense changes contained
in H.R. 241 reduce the regulatory bur-
den for institutions that are already
struggling to comply with the current
regulatory regime.
H.R. 241 also helps enhance the safety
and soundness of our financial system
by allowing regulators to coordinate
their activities.
Sharing exam results among agencies
allows risks and weaknesses of indi-
vidual institutions, as well as the over-
all financial system, to be revealed
more effectively. It also allows Federal
and State financial agencies to more
effectively expend limited resources
and avoid duplicative examinations,
strengthen communications among
regulators, and ensure the appropriate
level of oversight for risk to the finan-
cial system is maintained.
To put it in perspective, the Bank
Service Company Act was enacted in
1962. That is 1 year before ZIP Codes
were introduced and the first push-but-
ton telephone was made available to
the American consumer. A lot has
changed since 1962. The Bank Service
Company Act fails to take into consid-
eration the advancements in tech-
nology and the implications for nearly
half a century of consumer data.
The statute needs modernization. In
2017, the Financial Stability Oversight
Council recommended congressional
action to encourage better coordina-
tion between Federal and State regu-
lators as it relates to overseeing finan-
cial institutions and periodically as it
relates to their relationships with
third-party and technology service pro-
viders. Two years later, legislation
that would encourage coordination is
still needed.
I commend the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. WILLIAMS) for being the
sponsor and champion of this issue
over several years, as well as the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. MEEKS),
who has been a strong advocate for
modernization.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 241, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
b 1400
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. MEEKS), the chair of the
Consumer Protection and Financial In-
stitutions Subcommittee.
Mr. MEEKS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak in support of H.R. 241,
the Bank Service Company Examina-
tion Coordination Act.
As chair of the House Financial Serv-
ices Subcommittee on Consumer Pro-
tection and Financial Institutions, I
am very focused on the appropriate
oversight of our banking sector and ef-
fective coordination among our bank
regulators in overseeing the integrity
and stability of individual banks and
the banking system as a whole.
We learned in the most painful way
possible during the financial crisis that
failure to properly coordinate and gaps
in regulatory oversight allow systemic
risks to emerge.
In particular, with the enactment of
this bill, State and Federal regulators
will be directed to coordinate their
work in auditing and monitoring tech-
nology solution providers in banking
and the use of such technology. This
type of coordination is key to giving
consumers and average Americans
faith in the stability of the banking
system, security of the technology so-
lutions used in banking, and will
streamline regulatory oversight with-
out cutting corners.
So I am pleased to join with my col-
league, Mr. WILLIAMS, who has been a
strong advocate of making sure that
we have this kind of transparency in
working together, and I urge all of my
colleagues to vote ‘‘aye’’ on H.R. 241.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. WILLIAMS),
who is a great entrepreneur, a great
businessman, and a supporter of the
free market system.
Mr. WILLIAMS. Mr. Speaker, I am
proud to support H.R. 241, the Bank
Service Company Examination Coordi-
nation Act, commonsense legislation
that enables State and Federal regu-
lators to better coordinate their exam-
ination activities.
The bill allows for the sharing of su-
pervisory information concerning tech-
nology service providers, better known
as TSPs, between State and Federal
regulators.
Banks use TSPs in their day-to-day
operations for a variety of activities,
such as processing payments, taking
deposits, or assisting with cybersecu-
rity efforts. As banks are adapting to a
more interconnected world, partner-
ships between financial institutions
and TSPs are not only common, but
they are necessary.
State and Federal regulators each
have the ability to examine technology
vendors for safety and for soundness,
but current law prevents them from
sharing the results of their inde-
pendent examinations, a problem that
H.R. 241 corrects.
H.R. 241 helps to harmonize the over-
sight process without adding risk to
their financial system. Sharing the re-
sults of regulatory examination results
between agencies can reveal the weak-
nesses of an individual institution as
well as the larger banking system as a
whole.
The Financial Stability Oversight
Council, which is charged with identi-
fying risks in the U.S. financial sys-
tem, recommended in their 2017 annual
report to enhance coordination be-
tween State and Federal regulators.
Specifically, the report called on Con-
gress to pass legislation that encour-
ages coordination among the Federal
and State regulators in the oversight
of third-party service providers. The
result would be reducing potentially
conflicting and duplicative regulatory
oversight, while also promoting more
consistent cybersecurity standards.
Sharing the results of these TSP su-
pervisory exams allows for agencies to
more efficiently use their limited re-
sources, while ensuring that private
companies are not subject to an avoid-
able, duplicative review.
I want to thank Chairwoman
WATERS. I want to thank Ranking
Member MCHENRY, and especially my
friend on the other side of the aisle,
Congressman MEEKS, and all the staff
for their diligent work.
I am proud of the bipartisan effort in
both the 115th and the 116th Congresses
that allowed for the passage of H.R. 241
today. I urge all my colleagues to sup-
port this legislation.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
am prepared to close. I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
H.R. 241 will help reduce duplicative
examinations and better coordinate the
exams that State and Federal agencies
give to our financial system to better
identify vulnerabilities of individual
institutions in the overall system. It is
a bipartisan act that will do great
things for our financial services sys-
tem. I would urge its adoption.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
Better coordination between Federal
and State banking regulators will
make oversight of third-party vendors
and companies that provide a wide
range of services for banks more effec-
tive. H.R. 241 helps accomplish that.
I want to again thank the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. WILLIAMS) for intro-
ducing this bill, as well as the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. MEEKS) for
his advocacy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.035 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7581
September 10, 2019
I urge all of my colleagues to join me
in supporting H.R. 241.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan). The question is on
the motion offered by the gentleman
from Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) that the
House suspend the rules and pass the
bill, H.R. 241, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS
LEADING EVERY RESIDENT TO
SAFETY ACT OF 2019
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1690) to require carbon mon-
oxide alarms or detectors in certain
federally assisted housing, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1690
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Carbon Mon-
oxide Alarms Leading Every Resident To
Safety Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘CO ALERTS Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) carbon monoxide alarms are not re-
quired by federally assisted housing pro-
grams, when not required by State or local
codes;
(2) numerous federally assisted housing
residents have lost their lives due to carbon
monoxide poisoning;
(3) the effects of carbon monoxide poi-
soning occur immediately and can result in
death in a matter of minutes;
(4) carbon monoxide exposure can cause
permanent brain damage, life-threatening
cardiac complications, fetal death or mis-
carriage, and death, among other harmful
health conditions;
(5) carbon monoxide poisoning is especially
dangerous for unborn babies, children, elder-
ly individuals, and individuals with cardio-
vascular disease, among others with chronic
health conditions;
(6) the majority of the 4,600,000 families re-
ceiving Federal housing assistance are fami-
lies with young children, elderly individuals,
or individuals with disabilities, making
them especially vulnerable to carbon mon-
oxide poisoning;
(7) more than 400 people die and 50,000 addi-
tional people visit the emergency room an-
nually as a result of carbon monoxide poi-
soning;
(8) carbon monoxide poisoning is entirely
preventable and early detection is possible
with the use of carbon monoxide alarms;
(9) the Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention warns that carbon monoxide poi-
soning is entirely preventable and rec-
ommends the installation of carbon mon-
oxide alarms;
(10) the Office of Lead Hazard Control and
Healthy Homes of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development recommends the
installation of carbon monoxide alarms as a
best practice to keep families and individ-
uals safe and to protect health; and
(11) in order to safeguard the health and
well-being of tenants in federally assisted
housing, the Federal Government should
consider best practices for primary preven-
tion of carbon monoxide-related incidents.
SEC. 3. CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS OR DETEC-
TORS IN FEDERALLY ASSISTED
HOUSING.
(a) PUBLIC HOUSING, TENANT-BASED ASSIST-
ANCE, AND PROJECT-BASED ASSISTANCE.—The
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 3(a) (42 U.S.C. 1437a(a)), by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each pub-
lic housing agency shall ensure that carbon
monoxide alarms or detectors are installed
in each dwelling unit in public housing
owned or operated by the public housing
agency in a manner that meets or exceeds—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, including any relevant
updates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’; and
(2) in section 8 (42 U.S.C. 1437f)—
(A) by inserting after subsection (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
owner of a dwelling unit receiving project-
based assistance under this section shall en-
sure that carbon monoxide alarms or detec-
tors are installed in the dwelling unit in a
manner that meets or exceeds—
‘‘(1) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(2) any other standards as may be adopted
by the Secretary, including any relevant up-
dates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’; and
(B) in subsection (o), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(21) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
dwelling unit receiving tenant-based assist-
ance or project-based assistance under this
subsection shall have carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors installed in the dwelling
unit in a manner that meets or exceeds—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, including any relevant
updates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’.
(b) SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR THE ELDER-
LY.—Section 202(j) of the Housing Act of 1959
(12 U.S.C. 1701q(j)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(9) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
owner of a dwelling unit assisted under this
section shall ensure that carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors are installed in the
dwelling unit in a manner that meets or ex-
ceeds—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, including any relevant
updates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’.
(c) SUPPORTIVE HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.—Section 811(j) of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. 8013(j)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(7) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
dwelling unit assisted under this section
shall contain installed carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors that meet or exceed—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, including any relevant
updates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’.
(d) HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS
WITH AIDS.—Section 856 of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. 12905) is amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(i) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
dwelling unit assisted under this subtitle
shall contain installed carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors that meet or exceed—
‘‘(1) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(2) any other standards as may be adopted
by the Secretary, including any relevant up-
dates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’.
(e) RURAL HOUSING.—Title V of the Hous-
ing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471 et seq.) is
amended—
(1) in section 514 (42 U.S.C. 1484), by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(j) Housing and related facilities con-
structed with loans under this section shall
contain installed carbon monoxide alarms or
detectors that meet or exceed—
‘‘(1) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(2) any other standards as may be adopted
by the Secretary, in collaboration with the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, including any relevant updates to the
International Fire Code, through a notice
published in the Federal Register.’’; and
(2) in section 515 (42 U.S.C. 1485)—
(A) in subsection (m), by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ be-
fore ‘‘The Secretary shall establish’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) Housing and related facilities rehabili-
tated or repaired with amounts received
under a loan made or insured under this sec-
tion shall contain installed carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors that meet or exceed—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, in collaboration with
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, including any relevant updates to the
International Fire Code, through a notice
published in the Federal Register.’’.
(f) GUIDANCE.—The Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development shall provide guid-
ance to public housing agencies (as defined
in section 3(b)(6) of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(6)) on how
to educate tenants on health hazards in the
home, including to carbon monoxide poi-
soning, lead poisoning, asthma induced by
housing-related allergens, and other housing-
related preventable outcomes, to help ad-
vance primary prevention and prevent future
deaths and other harms.
(g) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by subsections (a) through (d) shall
take effect on the date that is 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act.
(h) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this Act, $101,400,000 per year for
each of fiscal years 2020, 2021, and 2022.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.036 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7582 September 10, 2019
(i) NO PREEMPTION.—Nothing in the amend-
ments made by this section shall be con-
strued to preempt or limit the applicability
of any State or local law relating to the in-
stallation and maintenance of carbon mon-
oxide alarms or detectors in housing that re-
quires standards that are more stringent
than the standards described in the amend-
ments made by this section.
SEC. 4. STUDY ON INCLUSION OF CARBON MON-
OXIDE ALARMS OR DETECTORS IN
OTHER UNITS.
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, in consultation with the Consumer
Product Safety Commission, shall conduct a
study and issue a publicly available report
on requiring carbon monoxide alarms or de-
tectors in federally assisted housing that is
not covered in the amendments made by sec-
tion 3.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Guam (Mr. SAN NICOLAS) and the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Guam.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Guam?
There was no objection.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself as much time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 1690, the CO ALERTS Act of
2019, which would prevent needless car-
bon monoxide deaths from happening
in federally assisted housing.
Known as the silent killer, carbon
monoxide is an odorless, colorless,
tasteless, and nonirritant gas that is
produced by common fuel-burning
products and appliances, such as gas
ranges, cars, heating systems, boilers,
and portable engine-driven generators.
High levels of carbon monoxide can
cause serious illness and, in worst
cases, death. Carbon monoxide poi-
soning is as risky to health and safety
as a fire.
But while smoke detectors are re-
quired in all housing units, including
public and assisted housing units, car-
bon monoxide detectors are not. Only
some States and localities currently
require carbon monoxide detectors.
They are not otherwise required in fed-
erally assisted housing, such as public
housing or private market units inhab-
ited by Section 8 Housing Choice
Voucher households. Therefore, public
and assisted housing residents are at
risk of this silent killer.
According to media reports, there
have been 13 carbon monoxide poi-
soning deaths cited in public housing
since 2003. Four have occurred in 2019
alone.
In April of this year, HUD’s Office of
Public and Indian Housing sent a no-
tice to public housing authorities and
private owners of HUD-subsidized hous-
ing to encourage them to install and
maintain carbon monoxide detectors.
Unfortunately, in the absence of
funding and clear statutory require-
ments, public housing authorities and
property owners will struggle to afford
the cost of these critical safety de-
vices.
H.R. 1690 will provide just over $300
million over a 3-year period to support
the installation and maintenance of
carbon monoxide detectors and alarms
in public and assisted housing, includ-
ing units in rural areas.
No family should have to learn their
loved ones died because Congress did
not invest in a simple and cost-effec-
tive solution that would have pre-
vented this tragedy from happening in
the first place.
I want to thank the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. GARCÍA) for introducing
this lifesaving legislation, and I urge
my colleagues to support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 1690, the Car-
bon Monoxide ALERTS Act of 2019, by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
GARCÍA).
Carbon monoxide is a colorless, odor-
less gas emitted from household items
like stoves, furnaces, fireplaces, and
portable generators that can cause sud-
den illness or death when it is inhaled.
The Centers for Disease Control,
CDC, reports that each year more than
400 Americans die from unintentional
carbon monoxide poisoning, and more
than 4,000 people are hospitalized.
The good news is that carbon mon-
oxide poisoning is easily detectable and
preventable through the installation of
relatively inexpensive, battery-oper-
ated carbon monoxide detectors.
But, unlike fire alarms, Federal law
doesn’t currently require federally as-
sisted housing properties to have car-
bon monoxide detectors. H.R. 1690
would address that by requiring that
properties in Section 8 public housing,
Section 202 for elderly folks, and Sec-
tion 811 for disabled people have at
least one carbon monoxide detector per
floor installed.
This bill builds on the proactive work
of HUD Secretary Ben Carson. In April,
Secretary Carson issued a notice to all
properties in the programs encouraging
them to do just that and followed up
with a release of $5 million in funding
for the installation of these detectors
in public housing. I commend Sec-
retary Carson for taking that action
and issuing that guidance.
I also want to thank Representative
GARCÍA for this legislation, and I want
to thank Senator SCOTT for his work
on similar legislation in the United
States Senate. This is a bill that will
save lives and will help make us all
safer.
Again, I want to commend Rep-
resentative GARCÍA for his great work
on this. I would urge its adoption.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. GARCÍA), the sponsor of
the legislation and an active member
of the Financial Services Committee.
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today in support of a practical
bill that will ensure healthy, safe hous-
ing.
H.R. 1690, the Safe Housing for Fami-
lies Act, now named the Carbon Mon-
oxide ALERTS Act, or CO ALERTS
Act, would require the installation of
carbon monoxide detectors in all feder-
ally assisted public housing to prevent
needless deaths.
The legislation I introduced with my
colleague, JOE CUNNINGHAM of South
Carolina, passed out of the Financial
Services Committee unanimously, and
bipartisan action in the Senate is well
underway.
Secretary Carson of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development tes-
tified in support of our efforts to put
an end to carbon monoxide deaths in
public housing.
Allow me to share a story about
Gwendolyn and Anthony Fleming, who
were residents of the Hickory Hollow
residence in Wayne, Michigan. They
moved to their community to be some-
where quiet and safe, but the fact that
HUD doesn’t require carbon monoxide
detectors on its facilities put them in
grave danger.
On a cold February day this year,
Ashley, their daughter, pulled up to
Hickory Hollow with her three kids.
She expected to find her parents wait-
ing for a routine family dinner. When
her parents didn’t return her calls or
answer the door, she knew that some-
thing was wrong and called the police.
Ashley’s mother had died of carbon
monoxide poisoning.
When the medical examiner arrived,
Ashley knew it was time to leave. ‘‘I
didn’t want to see them bring my
mother’s body out in a body bag,’’ she
said. ‘‘And I didn’t want my children to
see that either.’’
Anthony Fleming, Ashley’s father,
was found unconscious and was taken
to a hospital. He never regained con-
sciousness.
These deaths—and many others—
were preventable.
Since 2003, 13 people have died from
carbon monoxide poisoning in federally
subsidized housing. In fact, the Centers
for Disease Control reports that 50,000
individuals per year are sickened by
carbon monoxide poisoning, and over
400 die per year.
It is unconscionable that the very
people our government seeks to provide
shelter for are dying in their homes.
All it takes is a detector, just like
smoke detectors we already require in
every building.
Secretary Carson said it himself: ‘‘A
simple, inexpensive, widely available
device can be the difference between
life and death. Given the unevenness of
State and local law, we intend to make
certain that carbon monoxide detectors
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE7.010 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7583
September 10, 2019
are required in all our housing pro-
grams, just as we require smoke detec-
tors, no matter where our HUD-as-
sisted families live.’’
In April, HUD proposed a rule to re-
quire carbon monoxide detectors on its
housing units. In May, HUD announced
$5 million to install detectors. We
know, however, that the rulemaking
process can drag on for months.
Already, almost 25 States already re-
quire carbon monoxide monitors in
homes, and it was Secretary Carson
who suggested that the patchwork of
State laws be aligned around the prin-
ciple of expanding public safety protec-
tions.
b 1415
Testifying before the Financial Serv-
ices Committee in May, Secretary Car-
son said that he was 100 percent in
favor of resolving this issue and said,
‘‘As quickly as we can get it done, it is
going to get done.’’ The quickest pos-
sible solution is for the House to pass
the bill before us today.
Secretary Carson’s staff at HUD have
been engaged in working with Congress
to expedite the rule-making process
and make sure that protections are put
in place before the cold winter months
arrive. This bill has already spurred
legislative action in the Senate, and
the bipartisan efforts moving through
the Senate Banking Committee are
now aligned in this bill.
Let’s pass this life-saving legislation
and protect those in Federally assisted
housing.
I would like to thank the staff of the
House Financial Services Committee,
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, and in the Senate those
who have worked to ensure that our ef-
forts will effectively prevent needless
deaths as quickly as possible.
I would also especially like to thank
Senator KAMALA HARRIS for working
with me to introduce this legislation
and to Senators MENENDEZ and SCOTT
for helping us make technical changes
to improve the bill.
I also want to thank Chair MAXINE
WATERS, ranking members PAT
MCHENRY and Mr. STIVERS of Ohio and
members of their staff for all their
work on this bill, which received unan-
imous support from the Financial Serv-
ices Committee.
Numerous housing, public health,
and home security groups support this
legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield an additional 5 minutes to the
gentleman from Illinois (Mr. GARCÍA).
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois. The sup-
porters of this bill include the National
Association of Realtors, the National
Low Income Housing Coalition, the
American Public Health Association,
the National Housing Law Project, the
National Housing Trust, the Public
Housing Authorities Directors Associa-
tion, the Council of Large Public Hous-
ing Authorities, the Latin United Com-
munity Housing Association, Justice
Innovations, Safe Kids Illinois, and the
Security Industry Association.
Colleagues, let’s seize the rare oppor-
tunity to advance straightforward life-
saving legislation that has already won
bipartisan support in this House. Sav-
ing lives in our housing facilities with
a simple, inexpensive solution is not a
partisan issue. It is exactly what our
constituents sent us here to do, work
together to find solutions for the
American people. I urge you to support
H.R. 1690, the CO ALERTS Act.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time. Mr.
Speaker, again, I rise in support of
H.R. 1690, the CO ALERTS Act. I want
to thank my colleague from Illinois
(Mr. GARCÍA). I also want to recognize
Senator TIM SCOTT from South Caro-
lina, who was the Senate sponsor of the
bill, and we want to help make this
into law. I rise in support of this legis-
lation and would urge all my col-
leagues to support this great legisla-
tion from Mr. GARCÍA and Senator
SCOTT.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. SAN NICOLAS. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time.
I just want to extend a sincere
thanks to Representative GARCÍA for
this life-saving legislation. To be able
to introduce something that is actually
going to save lives, not just imme-
diately but over the generations that
we are going to continue to provide for
is something very profound. It is an
honor to be able to serve with Rep-
resentative GARCÍA. It is an honor to
see so much bipartisan support for this
legislation, as well as both Houses of
our Congress.
I humbly ask my colleagues to please
join all of us in supporting this legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Illinois (Mr.
GARCÍA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1690, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
FURTHER MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT
A further message in writing from
the President of the United States was
communicated to the House by Miss
Kaitlyn Roberts, one of his secretaries.
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN OR
UNDERMINING PUBLIC CON-
FIDENCE IN UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS—MESSAGE FROM
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–60).
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
the Committee on the Judiciary, the
Committee on House Administration,
and the Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence and ordered to be print-
ed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
threat of foreign interference in or un-
dermining public confidence in United
States elections declared in Executive
Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, is to
continue in effect beyond September
12, 2019.
Although there has been no evidence
of a foreign power altering the out-
comes or vote tabulation in any United
States election, foreign powers have
historically sought to exploit Amer-
ica’s free and open political system. In
recent years, the proliferation of dig-
ital devices and internet-based commu-
nications has created significant
vulnerabilities and magnified the scope
and intensity of the threat of foreign
interference. The ability of persons lo-
cated, in whole or in substantial part,
outside the United States to interfere
in or undermine public confidence in
United States elections, including
through the unauthorized accessing of
election and campaign infrastructure
or the covert distribution of propa-
ganda and disinformation, continues to
pose an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security and for-
eign policy of the United States. There-
fore, I have determined that it is nec-
essary to continue the national emer-
gency declared in Executive Order 13848
with respect to the threat of foreign in-
terference in or undermining public
confidence in United States elections.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 10, 2019.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.039 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7584 September 10, 2019
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 23 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1445
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. LEVIN of Michigan) at 2
o’clock and 45 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 548;
Adoption of House Resolution 548, if
ordered; and
Suspending the rules and passing
H.R. 2852.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 205, PROTECTING AND
SECURING FLORIDA’S COAST-
LINE ACT OF 2019; PROVIDING
FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R.
1146, ARCTIC CULTURAL AND
COASTAL PLAIN PROTECTION
ACT; AND PROVIDING FOR CON-
SIDERATION OF H.R. 1941, COAST-
AL AND MARINE ECONOMIES
PROTECTION ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on ordering
the previous question on the resolution
(H. Res. 548) providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 205) to amend the
Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of
2006 to permanently extend the mora-
torium on leasing in certain areas of
the Gulf of Mexico; providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 1146) to
amend Public Law 115–97 (commonly
known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act)
to repeal the Arctic National Wildlife
Refuge oil and gas program, and for
other purposes; and providing for con-
sideration of the bill (H.R. 1941) to
amend the Outer Continental Shelf
Lands Act to prohibit the Secretary of
the Interior including in any leasing
program certain planning areas, and
for other purposes, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 232, nays
196, not voting 4, as follows:
[Roll No. 517]
YEAS—232
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—196
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—4
Abraham
Clyburn
McEachin Wasserman
Schultz
b 1513
Messrs. FORTENBERRY and
MEUSER changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 231, nays
196, not voting 5, as follows:
[Roll No. 518]
YEAS—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.043 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7585
September 10, 2019
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—196
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Keller
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—5
Abraham
Clyburn
DeFazio
Garamendi
McEachin
b 1523
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HOMEBUYER ASSISTANCE ACT OF
2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2852) to amend the National
Housing Act to authorize State-li-
censed appraisers to conduct appraisals
in connection with mortgages insured
by the FHA and to require compliance
with the existing appraiser education
requirement, and for other purposes, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Guam (Mr. SAN
NICOLAS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 419, nays 5,
not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 519]
YEAS—419
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE7.014 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7586 September 10, 2019
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—5
Amash
Biggs
Buck
Massie
Yoho
NOT VOTING—8
Abraham
Bass
Cicilline
Clyburn
Gallego
Garamendi
McEachin
Peters
b 1532
Mr. GROTHMAN changed his vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill1, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF THE VIC-
TIMS OF THE EL PASO SHOOT-
ING
(Ms. ESCOBAR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I in-
vite all Members to join me in the well
who wish to stand in support with
members of the Texas and Congres-
sional Hispanic Caucus delegations.
Madam Speaker, on Saturday, Au-
gust 3, at a local El Paso Walmart, par-
ents were shopping for school supplies,
elderly couples were paying for their
groceries, and kids and parents were
fundraising for their soccer team. But
that day, everything changed.
A killer drove over 600 miles to my
community. He massacred 22 people
and injured another 26. He confessed to
driving over 10 hours so that he could
target Mexicans and immigrants. It
was a horrific act of domestic ter-
rorism fueled by America’s gun vio-
lence epidemic and the hate epidemic.
The killer’s screed was filled with
bigoted, anti-immigrant language that
has been used by people in power and
those with the most powerful bully pul-
pits.
El Paso, as usual, rose to the chal-
lenge before us. We grieved together;
we went to the hospital together; we
prayed together; we buried loved ones
together.
My community has a long journey
ahead, and I thank the first responders,
healthcare providers, spiritual leaders,
and all the community members who
have shown tremendous courage during
our darkest moment.
I thank my colleagues and people
from all over the country and the
world who reached out to us, sent their
condolences, visited with us.
El Paso will continue to set the ex-
ample for the Nation because we will
continue to treat all people in our
midst with kindness, generosity, and
goodwill. We will always be El Paso
Strong, and our resilience will guide
the way.
I ask for your continued support, but
more importantly, I ask that this
awful event be the turning point that
our country so desperately needs and
that Americans so desperately want.
We must end the hate and gun vio-
lence epidemics because, for many of
us, these issues have become a matter
of life and death.
I ask that all Members and guests in
the gallery rise for a moment of si-
lence, please.
f
PRAYER FOR THE VICTIMS IN
ODESSA, TEXAS
(Mr. CONAWAY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CONAWAY. Madam Speaker, I
rise to offer a prayer for the victims of
the tragic violence in Odessa, Texas, on
August 31.
The victims were: Mary Granados,
Leilah Hernandez, Edwin Peregrino,
Joe Griffith, Rodolfo Julio Arco,
Kameron Karltess Brown, and Raul
Garcia.
Heavenly Father, we come to You
today asking for prayer, asking for
peace that passes all understanding on
the men and women in Odessa, Texas,
and the families of the suffering.
We ask that You wrap Your loving
arms around them at this dark hour in
their lives. Thank You, dear Heavenly
Father.
We ask these things in Jesus’ name.
I would also like to recognize the law
enforcement officers and first respond-
ers of Midland and Odessa who acted
quickly and courageously in their re-
sponse to this tragedy. We owe these
brave men and women more gratitude
than words can express.
f
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 2407
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that my name
be removed as a cosponsor from H.R.
2407.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
MURPHY). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentlewoman from Michi-
gan?
There was no objection.
REMOVAL OF NAME OF MEMBER
AS COSPONSOR OF H.R. 838
Mr. DESJARLAIS. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent to remove my-
self as a cosponsor from H.R. 838.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Tennessee?
There was no objection.
f
THE HEALTH OF FLORIDA’S
ECOSYSTEM
(Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, today I rise in support of the
Coastal and Marine Economies Protec-
tion Act and the Protecting and Secur-
ing Florida’s Coastline Act.
It is estimated that 11 percent of
Florida’s plant species and 883
vertebrate and invertebrate species are
endemic to our State. Florida has 114
federally endangered or threatened spe-
cies in our community.
The Florida reef is the third largest
reef in the world and the only living
coral reef in the continental United
States.
Florida’s unique ecosystem is too
delicate to put at risk to the hazards of
the drilling process. Offshore drilling
puts our tourism industry and fishing
industry at risk, two of the biggest fac-
tors in our economy here in Florida.
Drilling should never take priority
over keeping our ecosystems healthy
or our fishermen’s jobs. It is time to
put the health and the well-being of
our community over the greed of cor-
porate polluters.
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF BOY
SCOUT TROOP 578
(Mr. COLLINS of New York asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. COLLINS of New York. Madam
Speaker, today I rise to commemorate
the 100th anniversary of Boy Scout
Troop 578, one of the oldest troops in
our Nation.
Troop 578 was chartered on Sep-
tember 11, 1919, by the First Church of
Evans in Derby, New York. Histori-
cally, they were known as Troop 78,
and, unlike any other Boy Scout troop
in America, they remained active dur-
ing World War II. During that war,
these Scouts were official dispatch
bearers, and they collected recycled
metals and other goods to support the
war effort.
In the 1950s, redistricting changes re-
quired the troop to add a number 5 to
the 78, making them Troop 578, as they
are known today.
As an Eagle Scout myself, I am proud
to honor Troop 578 as they continue to
be an important part of the western
New York community and Scouting
history. I wish Troop 578 many more
active years of Scouting.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE7.015 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7587
September 10, 2019
IN CELEBRATION OF NATIONAL
PREPAREDNESS MONTH
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, we
have seen how climate change has
made natural disasters, such as hurri-
canes and tornadoes, more frequent
and much more severe.
This is not the time to debate cli-
mate change. This is the time to act on
it. And the best time to act, the best
time to prepare for natural disasters is
before they occur.
September is National Preparedness
Month. It is the perfect time to cele-
brate the brave men and women who
respond when a crisis happens and the
perfect time to coordinate our emer-
gency response efforts.
We need to be ready for the next
emergency before it strikes. As chair-
man of the Emergency Preparedness,
Response and Recovery Subcommittee
of the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity, I want FEMA and other Federal
agencies to have the power and re-
sources to coordinate relief efforts be-
fore, during, and after an emergency
happens.
We do not have to relive the horrors
of Hurricanes Andrew, Katrina, and
Maria. Let us be proactive about the
next disaster instead of waiting until it
strikes.
f
b 1545
BRINGING INDUSTRY AND EDU-
CATION TOGETHER IN PENN-
SYLVANIA’S 12TH DISTRICT
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, our
Nation’s economic prosperity and na-
tional security interests are secured
due to energy-rich districts like Penn-
sylvania’s 12th Congressional District.
That is why, during the recent Au-
gust district work month, while in
Montrose, Susquehanna County, Penn-
sylvania, I visited Cabot Oil & Gas, one
of Pennsylvania’s largest natural gas
producers.
On any given day, Pennsylvania’s
12th District is well positioned to help
make the United States a net energy
exporter by producing as much as 10
percent of the country’s natural gas.
Equally important is the great partner
that energy producers have become
with local governments and edu-
cational institutions.
As a member of the House Education
and Labor Committee, I know the im-
portance of bringing industry and edu-
cation together to enhance workforce
development, especially in rural areas.
That is why it made me proud to see
Cabot partnering with Lackawanna
College School of Petroleum and Nat-
ural Gas as a means to provide career-
ready job skills in the natural gas in-
dustry. Thanks to this partnership,
students are able to make family-sus-
taining wages and have a career in an
industry that will remain in Pennsyl-
vania for generations.
Congress should use this example, set
in Susquehanna County and through-
out Pennsylvania’s 12th Congressional
District, for how partnerships with pri-
vate-sector job creators can lead to a
better future.
f
COMMENDING EAGLE THEATER IN
HAMMONTON, NEW JERSEY
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
the New Jersey Fringe Festival is
hosted by the local Eagle Theater in
Hammonton in southern New Jersey.
The festival is a driver in the cul-
tural boom taking place in this town.
The Eagle Theater is south Jersey’s
only year-round professional Equity
theater and is dedicated to redefining
regional theater through innovation,
enlightened production techniques, and
the development of eclectic theatrics.
The Eagle Theater originally opened
its doors in 1914 as a silent movie the-
ater and was a playhouse from 1914
until 1944. Since then, the theater has
built itself to be an award-winning,
culturally diverse epicenter boasting
state-of-the-art technical equipment
and hosting a core of theming artists
dedicated to experimental storytelling
through medium-advancing tech-
nology.
It enriches south Jersey culturally
and creatively, and I commend them
for what they do. South Jersey is proud
of them; New Jersey is proud of them;
and the United States of America is
proud of them.
Congratulations.
f
RECOGNIZING CHATHAM COUNTY’S
BILL LEWIS UPON HIS RETIRE-
MENT
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Mr.
Bill Lewis, who retired on Monday, Au-
gust 12, after nearly 40 years working
in the Chatham County judicial sys-
tem.
Chatham County’s chief assistant
public defender, Mr. LEWIS found his
calling in 1980 after trying out a num-
ber of other careers first. The combina-
tion of helping people while also being
able to stand up, arguing in the court-
room, drew him to the career.
And it paid off. In his own words, Mr.
LEWIS loved every day of his job, and
he liked defending people’s freedom
rather than fighting over their money.
It also paid off for Chatham County
because of Mr. LEWIS’ exceptional rep-
utation for being a calming voice in
the courtroom and his care of his cli-
ents.
During his tenure, he earned some of
the most prestigious awards in the Sa-
vannah area: the Robbie Robinson
Award for his success in public defense
and the Thomas More Award for his re-
ligious affiliation and commitment to
humanity.
Madam Speaker, I thank Mr. LEWIS
for his service to our community. His
work will be missed.
f
CONSTITUENTS WANT CONGRESS
TO WORK TOGETHER
(Mr. ALLEN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, as my
colleagues and I come back into legis-
lative session this week, I would like to
take this opportunity to share what I
learned from the 12th District of Geor-
gia during the recent district work pe-
riod.
Like many of my colleagues, I spent
the last 6 weeks meeting with constitu-
ents, and I hope my colleagues got the
same earful I did. Our constituents
want to know why Congress can’t work
together to deliver results for the
American people.
In fact, just last night, I hosted a
telephone town hall, and constituents
said that the two top issues they want
Congress to focus on before the end of
the year are healthcare and immigra-
tion reform.
How do we solve these problems when
Democrats are determined to ensure
that our President is not successful? It
is not fair to the American people to
put politics ahead of the American peo-
ple’s interests.
We have a President who is willing
and eager to work with us on many
issues, including healthcare and immi-
gration, so let’s get to work. The
American people won’t accept anything
less.
f
PROTECT PATIENTS FROM
SURPRISE MEDICAL BILLS
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to announce a bill I recently in-
troduced in the House, the Protecting
Patients from Surprise Medical Bills
Act, which is a companion bill to Sen-
ator SCOTT’s recent legislation.
No one seeking medical care should
ever have to worry about incurring un-
expected, crippling expenses, especially
when they have done everything right
by obtaining health insurance. That is
why then-Governor RICK SCOTT and I
worked to pass a bill in Florida to
solve this issue.
This law takes patients completely
out of the billing process, protecting
patients from surprise medical bills for
emergency services and for mistakenly
seeing an out-of-network healthcare
provider at an in-network hospital.
This bill has experienced widespread
success in Florida, which is why we are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.052 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7588 September 10, 2019
introducing legislation to apply these
policies to healthcare plans regulated
at the Federal level.
I have personally known the fear of
being rushed to the emergency room.
In that moment, no one should have to
worry about their finances.
This bill not only seeks to save
Americans money but also provides the
peace of mind for them to focus on
healing.
f
RECOGNIZING REVITALIZATION
EFFORTS IN CLARION, A BLUE-
PRINT COMMUNITY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to recog-
nize the community development and
revitalization efforts of Clarion, Penn-
sylvania.
Recently, I was back in my district,
touring Clarion’s growing downtown
region, meeting with small business
owners and community leaders, and
the progress and growth that I saw
were truly exciting.
In 2015, Clarion was selected as a
Blueprint Community, an initiative
through the FHLBank Pittsburgh that
seeks to revitalize older communities
and neighborhoods. One of the shining
stars of the Blueprint program is the
Clarion River Brewing Company, and I
am proud of their continued success as
one of the many exciting small busi-
nesses in town.
But Clarion’s blueprint included
more than new businesses. It also out-
lines a plan to increase affordable
housing options for current and future
residents.
These blueprints don’t offer one-size-
fits-all plans for community develop-
ment. Instead, they work with local
leaders to better understand the needs
of their residents to create custom,
homegrown solutions that breathe new
life into older communities.
Madam Speaker, I am excited to see
what Clarion has in store, and I am
rooting for its continued success.
f
CONGRATULATING UNIVERSITY OF
TEXAS AT DALLAS ON ITS 50TH
ANNIVERSARY
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker,
today, I rise to congratulate the Uni-
versity of Texas at Dallas on 50 years
of educating students in north Texas.
In 1969, Texas Governor Preston
Smith signed legislation to officially
establish the University of Texas at
Dallas as part of the UT system. Not
only has UT grown immensely in the
last 50 years, but our community takes
great pride in the university’s Tier One
status.
Today, UTD offers over 140 degrees
and helps young people follow their
dreams by providing them with a top-
notch education. What was once vast
prairie land has become a hub of higher
learning and an opportunity for stu-
dents to learn across the country.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me in congratulating the Uni-
versity of Texas at Dallas on a wonder-
ful 5 days of academic excellence.
Whoosh.
f
RAISING AWARENESS OF DAMAGE
DONE BY MANDATORY ARBITRA-
TION AND SUPPORTING THE
FAIR ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. SPEIER) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I am
proud to join my colleagues in the
Democratic Women’s Caucus in hosting
this Special Order hour to raise aware-
ness of the damage done by mandatory
arbitration and of our support for H.R.
1423, the Forced Arbitration Injustice
Repeal Act, or as we refer to it, the
FAIR Act.
We are pleased that the Judiciary
Committee is holding a markup on this
bill as we speak.
Madam Speaker, what is stunning
about this issue is that a recent study
found that one is more likely to be
struck by lightning than to win an ar-
bitration case. In fact, the 5-year study
found that, of 6,000 claims that were
made on arbitration clauses, money
awards were provided in only 137 cases.
Today, my colleagues will read ac-
counts from just some of the women
who have experienced this miscarriage
of justice firsthand. Over 60 million
workers are subject to forced arbitra-
tion, but even those staggering num-
bers fail to fully illustrate the suf-
fering and human plight caused by
mandatory arbitration.
Today, we share the experiences of
women fighting back against the si-
lence and shame, and we join them in
demanding systemic change so that all
workers are treated with the dignity
and respect that they deserve.
Sterling Jewelers, known to many of
us as Jared Jewelers or Kay Jewelers—
Diane Acampora. Perhaps no company
better exemplifies the harm caused by
mandatory arbitration than Sterling
Jewelers.
In April 2019, The New York Times
Magazine published a story on the on-
going, decade-long pay-and-promotion
lawsuit against Sterling Jewelers,
which at one point included nearly
70,000 women. These stories should out-
rage each of us.
Diane of Lancaster, Pennsylvania,
said that, after 5 years at Kay Jewelers
and 6 years of experience at another
store, she made $2 to $4 less per hour
than her more recently hired, lesser ex-
perienced male colleagues.
According to the investigation,
‘‘When she was promoted to manager,
she attended the company’s annual
managers’ meeting in Florida. On a
shuttle bus back to the resort, she was
pulled onto the lap of a manager, who
held her tightly as he fondled her. At
the same meeting, a district manager
tried to kiss her. At a later meeting,
she had to leave a hot tub because dis-
cussion turned uncomfortably sexual.
She was later told that the hot-tub
scene turned into an orgy.’’
And that is just the tip of the ice-
berg.
‘‘There was Amanda Barger, a sales
associate who made her way up to as-
sistant manager, who after 5 years of
employment complained that she was
still making her starting salary but
was brushed off by her manager; who
watched the new guy who previously
worked at a cell phone-cover kiosk be
promoted ahead of her; who dared to
complain to HR after her district man-
ager invited her to a Chili’s with a few
other managers and, while they were
eating, texted her from across the
table, ‘I want to come on your tits.’’’
Marie Wolf’s manager didn’t seem to
like her, despite the fact that she was
a top salesperson at Jared. She didn’t
have ‘‘the Jared look,’’ the manager
told a colleague.
‘‘Marie was tall and wore pants and
blouses, not short skirt-suits, and she
wore little makeup. One day, Marie
asked for a raise, and the manager told
her she was already making more than
any other salesperson in the store.’’
Not surprisingly, that was far from the
truth.
Or, ‘‘Tammy Zenner, who was called
‘Texas Tammy’ by her colleagues be-
cause of the size of her breasts and who
complained to her store manager that
an executive visiting the store had
rubbed himself against her from behind
but was told when she complained that
she should be flattered.’’
The culture of rampant gender dis-
crimination, pay inequity, and sexual
harassment at Sterling is the stuff of
living nightmares suffered by so many
working women, many of whom are the
primary, if not only, breadwinner for
their families.
Diane, Amanda, Marie, and Tammy
are just 4 of nearly 70,000 women who
have at some point joined the lawsuit
against Sterling. And Sterling was able
to hide the details of these allegations
from its shareholders and from the
public because all of their employees
are forced to sign a forced arbitration
agreement upon being hired.
That means all work-related disputes
had to go through Sterling’s in-house
dispute resolution system, effectively
gagging employees and destroying any
chance of positive change.
It also, undoubtedly, resulted in
countless other women facing similar
types of abuse and discrimination.
That is why the experiences of these
women are so important for us to hear,
so that Congress will pass the FAIR
Act.
b 1600
It is unacceptable that millions of
employees are subjected to a system
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.054 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7589
September 10, 2019
that forces them to settle disputes
through mandatory arbitration, where
the company can control the process
and shroud the outcome in secrecy.
I urge my colleagues to support the
FAIR Act and strike a blow in the fight
for fairness and transparency. No one
should have to suffer harassment, as-
sault, and degradation in silence in
order to support themselves and their
families and pursue their career
dreams.
‘‘Every kiss begins with Kay Jewel-
ers’’ should be a jingle, not a job re-
quirement. When couples are shopping
for wedding rings, I hope they stay
away from retail jewelers that treat
women like sex toys or second-class
citizens.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY), one of the architects
of the Equal Rights Amendment.
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Madam Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding and for all of
her hard work on the Equal Rights
Amendment and standing up and fight-
ing for women.
Madam Speaker, I am pleased to join
my colleagues of the Democratic Wom-
en’s Caucus to emphasize the impor-
tance of passing H.R. 1423, the FAIR
Act for women in the workplace. I ap-
plaud the work of HANK JOHNSON, who
has authored this legislation and, in
some cases, worked with constituents
over 14 years who are involved in
forced arbitration of settlements that
seem never to be settled. But statistics
say that, if they are settled, usually
the woman loses.
I might say that the Judiciary Com-
mittee is marking up this bill right
now, as we speak. I hope it comes to
the floor. We should have strong, bipar-
tisan support for this injustice and
pass the FAIR bill.
Forced arbitration is a trap. Binding
a victim of workplace misconduct to
arbitration, particularly anyone sub-
jected to harassment or discrimina-
tion, is just plain wrong. Forced arbi-
tration denies survivors a fair shot at
justice. In fact, most employees do not
even know they have entered into such
an agreement until an incident occurs.
So not only has a person been har-
assed or had their rights violated at
work, but now the employer gets to
dictate how the matter is settled. How
fair is that?
I want to recognize a woman present
in the gallery this evening who knows
all too well the deficiencies of forced
arbitration agreements.
Karen Ward is a distinguished former
partner at the New York accounting
firm of Ernst & Young, which is refus-
ing to let her take her sexual harass-
ment case to a public courtroom be-
cause of a forced arbitration contract
clause.
Not only is this unfair, it is expen-
sive, as Ms. Ward has told us she has
already spent $185,000 to arbitrate her
claims because of a provision in her
contract that requires her to split the
cost of the dispute resolution.
Ernst & Young and other firms with
similar employment contract terms
claim that forced arbitration is more
efficient and streamlined. They don’t
tell you that the process is hidden from
the public, that people can’t see it. It is
not transparent. And they don’t tell
you how secrecy surrounding arbitra-
tion settlements only helps perpetuate
the problem of harassment or discrimi-
nation in the workplace. And it is cost-
ly emotionally and financially, as her
case illustrates, with the $185,000 cost
so far.
Ms. Ward has said that she has heard
from dozens of women bound by arbi-
tration agreements. She said: ‘‘They
see that the cost can caution financial
ruin and they choose to live with injus-
tice.’’
In other words, the system is built
like a wall against the rights of
women, costing them out of the proc-
ess, making it totally unfair to them.
Underreporting and secretive settle-
ments have roles in creating and ce-
menting a culture of harassment in the
workplace.
Passing the FAIR Act is an impor-
tant step toward empowering all em-
ployees to report workplace mis-
conduct and retain the option of seek-
ing the remedy that they so choose;
and it creates an incentive for every
employer to focus on preventing these
incidents before they occur, not to try
to conceal them, case by case, knowing
that it will never reach the light of day
and that the employees will never win.
There is no incentive to even bring a
case for justice.
So Ms. Ward’s fight has shone a light
on this disturbing and unfair corporate
behavior, and I am proud to fight
alongside her and with my like-minded
colleagues in the Women’s Caucus and
in Congress to change this and to sup-
port and pass the FAIR Act.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for her leadership on this issue
and so many others.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, it is
now my pleasure to yield to the gentle-
woman from Illinois (Mrs. BUSTOS), my
good friend and colleague who also has
spent a great deal of time working on
this issue of forced arbitration as it re-
lates to sexual harassment.
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise
also today in support of the FAIR Act
and to bring an end to the secret arbi-
tration process that silences victims of
harassment and discrimination. This is
a fight that we have been waging for
years now. It is about doing the right
thing and giving a voice to women like
Jasmine Edwards.
Jasmine is an African American
woman who was a comanager of a
Guess retail store. When she began
there, she came to the store with 15
years of retail experience and was
promised that she would be promoted
to manager shortly, but then the har-
assment started.
Her boss instructed the women at the
store to ‘‘dress sexier.’’ He regularly
made racist and sexist comments about
employees and about customers. He
would stare at female customers and
then share his observations with Jas-
mine. He would continuously make of-
fensive remarks about African Ameri-
cans and would claim they would be
more likely to steal from the store, and
he even segregated employees by shift.
His behavior was so concerning that
even the customers noticed this and
began complaining about him.
Jasmine voiced her concerns about
her manager’s behavior, but rather
than taking her seriously, she was re-
taliated against and she was accused of
theft. There was no investigation of
those claims against her. She was
bullied. Eventually the stress was too
much to handle, and so Jasmine had to
resign.
But she wasn’t done fighting. She
found an attorney and she filed a com-
plaint in court. But this clothing com-
pany—again, Guess retailer—now says
the case must be sent to arbitration.
Why? Because on one of her first days
at the retailer, the company says that
Jasmine agreed to arbitrate any dis-
putes.
Of course, the arbitration agreement
requires her to stay silent about what
happened; and, under the arbitration
agreement, it is the company-funded
arbitrator who gets to decide what
type of evidence there would be.
I would ask anybody here: What kind
of justice is that?
It will be no surprise to you that Jas-
mine would rather have an impartial
judge hear her case. Wouldn’t we all?
But that is not something she will like-
ly be allowed to get.
That is why we need to pass the
FAIR Act now, because we have had
enough. No more looking the other way
when powerful men use their position
of authority to victimize women. No
more excuses for abusers just because
of their status, their position, or their
gender. No more telling women to stay
silent or to get over it.
No more.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from California
(Ms. LEE), my good friend and col-
league from the East Bay and a great
advocate for equal rights.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, first of all, I want to thank
Congresswoman SPEIER for calling us
together to speak on behalf of these
courageous women and for her tireless
work on their behalf, but also on behalf
of women throughout the world.
Today, I join my colleagues in stand-
ing in support of the FAIR Act and in
solidarity with women like Saturnina
Plasencia, a Latina single mother of
four who was working for $13 an hour
in a Dollar store in New York.
Now, her general manager subjected
her to frequent sexual harassment, and
after she refused his sexual demands,
she alleged she was given fewer hours
than new female hires. When she told
him she was pregnant, he angrily re-
sponded: ‘‘The baby could have been
mine.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.056 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7590 September 10, 2019
Sadly, Saturnina did not realize
when she started work that she had
signed a mandatory arbitration agree-
ment, and her case is now in arbitra-
tion.
Her attorney noted that New York
passed a law that would have allowed
Saturnina to take her case to court,
but the law was struck down based on
the Federal Arbitration Act. So
Saturnina is forced to arbitrate her
claims.
Her case is supported by the TIME’S
UP Legal Defense Fund, which is
housed and administered by the Na-
tional Women’s Law Center Fund.
Forced arbitration is just what it
says; it is forced. So let’s pass the
FAIR Act so women will finally have
the justice that they so deserve.
Enough is enough.
I thank Congresswoman SPEIER for
allowing us to give voice to these injus-
tices, and hopefully, soon, these
women, because of the gentlewoman,
because of the FAIR Act, will be able
to move forward with their lives.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia again for her outstanding leader-
ship.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms. HILL),
one of our new colleagues, but not new
to fighting on behalf of women.
Ms. HILL of California. Madam
Speaker, I appreciate the opportunity
to speak on such an important issue.
I am here today to support the FAIR
Act because of women like Kelli Stein,
who, earlier this year, wrote a public
letter to the Senate Finance Com-
mittee telling the story of her mother,
June Lee.
In the letter, Kelli details how June
was severely abused in a nursing home.
The letter describes how her mother
was dropped several times by staff
members and sustained a broken shoul-
der. It took 5 days before the injury
was x-rayed.
Because staff failed to check on her
enough, June developed bed sores. She
suffered countless urinary tract infec-
tions because the nursing home staff
would not take her to the bathroom
enough.
Nursing home staff even taped the
nurse call cord, the cord that she need-
ed to call for help, out of her reach so
that they would not have to attend to
her.
Kelli recounts how ‘‘throughout the
entire time her mother was there, it
was a never-ending ordeal of prevent-
able health problem after preventable
health problem, chipping away at her
dignity as well as her mental and phys-
ical health.’’
Ultimately, the physical neglect
caused her mental and physical health
to suffer, and it greatly diminished her
quality of life.
But when June’s family tried to hold
the nursing home accountable, they re-
alized that they had unknowingly
signed away their rights to hold that
nursing home corporation accountable
for June’s abuse and neglect. They had
been forced to sign an arbitration
agreement as a condition of June being
admitted to the nursing home.
The FAIR Act would eliminate forced
arbitration clauses in employment,
consumer, and civil rights cases and
would allow consumers and workers to
agree to arbitration only after a dis-
pute occurs.
This legislation protects older Amer-
icans who rely on the care of nursing
home staff by allowing families to hold
nursing homes accountable for the
abuse or neglect of their loved ones.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
FRANKEL), the co-chair of the Demo-
cratic Women’s Caucus.
Ms. FRANKEL. Madam Speaker, it is
great to be with the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. SPEIER). I thought
maybe we could have some sort of a
colloquy. The gentlewoman looks like
she is up to it.
Ms. SPEIER. Of course I am up to it.
Ms. FRANKEL. First all, I want to
thank the gentlewoman for her leader-
ship.
And I also know that Representative
HANK JOHNSON has also been involved
with the FAIR Act.
First, I want to just make a state-
ment.
Forced arbitration deprives men and
women—not just the women, but men—
of fundamental legal protections and
also prevents—this is important—the
public from knowing about the harm
that corporations often create or the
secrecy of arbitration.
b 1615
So I am very pleased to join you in
supporting the Forced Arbitration In-
justice Repeal Act, or FAIR Act. So,
you know, I want to talk to you about
a woman named Lilly, but I want to
read this to you. This is an advertise-
ment from a massage spa that Lilly
went to. And this is what it says, ‘‘The
world is out to get you. Thankfully, we
got you. Stress can take a toll on your
body, and even though your body works
hard to keep it up, it needs help. Keep-
ing your body running efficiently
should be high on your to-do list, and
regular massage is a key to operating
at peak efficiency. Keeping your body
in optimal working condition with rou-
tine massage along with rapid tension
relief and total body stretch is easy at
any Massage Envy franchise location.’’
Now, I would assume you would agree
it is pretty appealing.
Ms. SPEIER. Actually, no, I don’t. It
sounds like someone talking about re-
pairing one’s car, but, you know . . .
Ms. FRANKEL. Anyway, this is the
advertisement. We got your back. And
the fact of the matter is, as I said, The
world is out to get you. Thankfully, we
got you. And they did get Lilly, who I
am here to talk about today, because
on her visit to the Massage Envy Spa
she was sexually assaulted.
First, she tried to get—it is one of
these things where you sign up and get
a series. So, first, she tried to get out,
and she had to get the app, and she
tried to cancel her membership, which
she wasn’t even allowed to do because
in the little fine line it said, you have
to go to arbitration.
Ms. SPEIER. Will the gentlewoman
yield?
Ms. FRANKEL. I yield to the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. SPEIER. So this is a consumer
who went to get a package of three
massages at Massage Envy?
Ms. FRANKEL. Right.
Ms. SPEIER. She signed up for it and
then decided she didn’t want to do it
and didn’t read the fine print that said
she had to go to arbitration?
Ms. FRANKEL. Right. And she didn’t
want to go back because she was sexu-
ally assaulted. And so, we are not talk-
ing about, obviously, she can make a
criminal claim, but she wanted to actu-
ally get out of having to continue to
pay Massage Envy.
She is just an example of, literally,
the many women this has happened to.
There was an investigation. There are
about 1,200 of these franchises across
the country, and BuzzFeed did an in-
vestigation, and they found that there
were about more than 180 women who
had been sexually assaulted at these
spas.
Now think about this, aside from the
criminal consequences, which obvi-
ously there must be, the company does
not want to let you out of your con-
tract unless they force you to arbitra-
tion.
Maybe you can explain again why
forced arbitration is really so contrary
to our system of justice?
Ms. SPEIER. Well, because there is
no justice. Oftentimes, as we have
pointed out, these arbitration claims
end up benefiting the company as op-
posed to the individual. So few of them
actually result in claims being paid out
to the consumer or the employee who
was impacted by it.
So, once again, it is a, you know,
buyer beware, employee beware, be-
cause it is set up, not for fairness, but
to protect the employer or the retailer
in the case that you pointed out.
Ms. FRANKEL. Is it true that in
many of these arbitration cases that
the company actually gets to choose
the arbitrator and then the arbi-
trator—it is the same arbitrator, and
then what are the implications of that?
Ms. SPEIER. Well, again, the lack of
fairness, because that particular arbi-
trator is chosen each time. That arbi-
trator is probably chosen because he or
she finds in favor of the company, and
the result is that fairness is thrown out
the window.
Ms. FRANKEL. And, obviously, the
arbitrator wants to be rehired. And so
the power is with the employer. And I
think it is important to know, and I
think we can help.
We have been talking today about in-
stances of sexual abuse and sexual har-
assment, but what people should know
is that these arbitration agreements
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.057 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7591
September 10, 2019
touch almost every part of our life. For
example, when you go into a doctor’s
office or a hospital.
Ms. SPEIER. A doctor’s office. I am
about to tell a story about a nursing
home. Here is a patient in a nursing
home who gets violated, and then there
is this arbitration clause that prevents
any kind of relief for that particular
person who was a client at the nursing
home. So it really does impact vir-
tually every aspect or every contract
you sign. Every app that you sign up
for probably has an arbitration clause.
Ms. FRANKEL. So what this means
in practical terms, we always think if
we are harmed or we are wronged that
we should have our day in court where
a judge or a jury can hear evidence
publicly and decide the case. But really
what we have now is this system, I call
it the system of injustice with this
forced arbitration that is secret that is
really weighted towards the corpora-
tion.
Ms. SPEIER. That is correct. With-
out being harsh here, it is rigged. You
are not necessarily, in all likelihood,
going to get a fair hearing. You are not
going to have someone who is inde-
pendent. Oftentimes they are employed
by, selected by the corporation, and
the result is, as you pointed out, that
they want to be rehired again, so they
find reasons to be supportive of the
corporation and not the individual.
Ms. FRANKEL. And, again, just to
emphasize this, maybe you can give
some examples of how this results in a
coverup of wrongdoing that really
keeps other people, whether they are
employees or consumers, from being
protected?
Ms. SPEIER. That is absolutely cor-
rect. And it is really important for us
to make the public aware that whether
you know it or not you are probably
signing these arbitration clauses every
time you sign up for a particular pro-
gram, a particular service, or you are
being employed by a specific company.
Ms. FRANKEL. And one more point,
if you can emphasize again, when you
go into arbitration, does it cost the
consumer or the employee money?
Ms. SPEIER. Oftentimes it does. In
one of the cases that our colleague
from New York reflected on, it was
costing her hundreds of thousands of
dollars.
In this case I am going to speak
about, the patient, the client at the
nursing home had to pay money, some
$3,000 for the rental of the room in
which the arbitration took place. So it
is like a double slap in the face.
Ms. FRANKEL. So before I let you go
on with your next story, can you just
reemphasize again exactly what this
legislation will do?
Ms. SPEIER. This legislation, and
again, they are marking it up right
now in the Judiciary Committee, is
going to return to the consumer, re-
turn to the employee, the opportunity
to not sign a forced arbitration agree-
ment when they are at the most vul-
nerable position, typically when they
are being hired or when they are re-
questing a service and, frankly, not
knowing that the arbitration clause is
there.
Ms. FRANKEL. Well, I think you will
bring a lot of justice to people all over
the country, and I want to thank you
for your leadership.
Ms. SPEIER. I thank the gentle-
woman from Florida. I am going to
end, Madam Speaker, with two cases
because they are both egregious in
their own right.
One is about Irene Morissette, an 87-
year-old Catholic nun. Now think
about this for a minute. An 87-year-old
Catholic nun was raped in her nursing
home near Birmingham, Alabama. Po-
lice and medical records revealed a
brutal attack. ‘‘Police investigators
found two semen stains in Morissette’s
bed and blood on the ‘inside rear area’
of her green-and-pink-flowered pajama
bottoms, which had been shoved under-
neath the mattress.’’ Equally alarming
was the article recalls how the medical
examiner later wrote that Ms.
Morissette was afraid to call anyone
because she was afraid the assailant
would be the one to come back to her
room.
Ms. Morissette told police in an
interview several days after the attack
that she felt like ‘‘a piece of trash’’ be-
cause she had honored her vow of chas-
tity for over 6 decades and had lost
something she had valued for her en-
tire life. That one really breaks my
heart.
Due to a forced arbitration clause in
the admissions contract she signed
when she was admitted, Ms. Morissette
was left with no choice. Her family
could not pursue their claim in a public
court of law, but was, rather, forced
into arbitration. In the forced arbitra-
tion proceedings, the arbitrator in-
vented outlandish arguments of hear-
say and conjecture, including claims
that Ms. Morissette did not appear
‘‘upset enough’’ about the rape for it to
be believable. Mind you, there is evi-
dence, there is DNA evidence.
Ms. Morissette lost, and as a final in-
sult received a bill for $3,000 to cover
the cost of the room rental for the
forced arbitration proceedings.
No nursing home resident or family
should ever have to go through what
Ms. Morissette endured. That is why
we are calling this particular piece of
legislation the FAIR Act and urging a
vote on the House floor.
One last story that I would like to
tell is of Rosette Pambakian. Ms.
Pambakian was a senior executive at
the dating app Tinder. She was one of
the earliest hires and the longest
standing female executive at Tinder,
writing their very first press release.
She was the head of marketing and
communications, ran a department of
more than 40 employees, and served as
the face of the brand on panels and in
the press.
Ms. Pambakian had sued her former
employer for sexual harassment and as-
sault. Now Tinder is one of those dat-
ing apps. According to her lawsuit,
former Match Group and Tinder CEO
Gregory Blatt assaulted Ms.
Pambakian in 2016 at a Tinder holiday
party. Blatt made a lewd overture to
her saying that he got a hard-on ‘‘every
time I look at you,’’ and ‘‘let’s get out
of here.’’ Pambakian left the party and
went to a colleague’s hotel room with
another coworker.
Later in the night Blatt showed up.
According to the lawsuit, he began
forcibly groping her breasts and upper
thighs and kissing her shoulders, neck,
and chest without her consent in front
of other subordinates.
A meaningful investigation of the as-
sault, which was required under com-
pany policies and California law, never
happened. Pambakian alleges she was
never even interviewed. Instead, she
claims she was marginalized, subjected
to additional harassing and offensive
behavior, put on administrative leave,
particularly accused of consenting to
advances, calling it ‘‘consensual
cuddling,’’ and finally, wrongfully ter-
minated.
The lawsuit further alleges IAC and
Match tried to buy Ms. Pambakian’s si-
lence following the assault by offering
her a higher salary and more stock op-
tions on the condition that she sign a
nondisclosure agreement. She declined.
According to her attorney, Rosette is
bringing this action not only to right
the personal wrong against her, but to
stand with the many women in the
tech industry and beyond who have
been ‘‘blamed and shamed into submis-
sion or silence.’’
Match and Blatt have filed a motion
to have the case sent to arbitration,
even though Ms. Pambakian was forced
to sign an arbitration agreement after
the assault and after she rejected the
proposed NDA. Her pursuit of justice is
ongoing.
I now yield to Congresswoman SCHA-
KOWSKY, the gentlewoman from Illi-
nois, who will also be telling a story.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I really appreciate my colleague set-
ting up this Special Order to talk
about something that is so incredibly
important and often not really brought
to the surface.
I am here today to join my col-
leagues in support for the FAIR Act,
because I don’t believe that victims of
racial discrimination should be forced
into a secretive process in which they
have no access to justice and account-
ability.
This is especially important to me
because of the story of two Floridians,
Glenda and Peter Perez. Both worked
for Cigna until forced arbitration abso-
lutely ruined their lives.
b 1630
As reported by Business Insider, ev-
erything was going well and, ‘‘They
were living in a newly built home in
Ruskin, Florida, happily raising their
three kids.’’ That is what they say
about themselves. But due to forced ar-
bitration, things turned for the worse.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.058 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7592 September 10, 2019
Two years ago, Glenda, who is
Latinx, was fired after reporting racial
discrimination. Unknown to her, bur-
ied in the fine print of the employment
agreement she signed along with other
onboarding documents when she was
first hired was a forced arbitration
clause, so Glenda had no choice but to
go into forced arbitration proceedings.
But as the article notes, ‘‘Instead of
the simple and fair process that arbi-
tration promises to be, Perez saw her
claim dismissed without so much as a
hearing, only to learn later that her
apparently independent arbitrator was
so friendly with the attorney rep-
resenting Cigna that the arbitrator in-
vited him to his 50th birthday party.’’
To no surprise, the arbitrator sided
with Glenda’s employer, Cigna.
When her husband, Peter, complained
about the unfairness of the process and
how the arbitrator truly was not inde-
pendent, guess what? He too was fired.
Now Glenda and Peter are struggling
to support themselves and their three
children and trying to fight their
wrongful termination in court.
No worker should ever have to go
through what Glenda and Peter have
endured. This is why I support ending
forced arbitration by voting for the
FAIR Act.
Madam Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues who care about justice, who
care about fairness, to support the
FAIR Act.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Illinois
(Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) for her comments on
this Special Order. As she said at the
end, she is one of the loudest voices to
make sure there is justice in this coun-
try.
Madam Speaker, we could tell many
more stories tonight, but I am going to
close now by thanking all of my col-
leagues from the Democratic Women’s
Caucus for sharing the stories of
women and men who are hurt by forced
arbitration and demonstrating the
human impact of this corrupt and abu-
sive practice.
We are eager to have the House of
Representatives take a vote on the
FAIR Act on the House floor because
survivors deserve their day in court
and workers deserve dignified and re-
spectful workplaces.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair would remind Members to avoid
referencing occupants of the gallery.
f
MODERNIZING SANCTIONS TO
COMBAT TERRORISM—MESSAGE
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–
61)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies
Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), the United
Nations Participation Act of 1945 (22
U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, and in view of mul-
tiple United Nations Security Council
resolutions, including Resolution 1373
of September 28, 2001, Resolution 1526
of January 30, 2004, Resolution 1988 of
June 17, 2011, Resolution 1989 of June
17, 2011, Resolution 2253 of December 17,
2015, Resolution 2255 of December 21,
2015, Resolution 2368 of July 20, 2017,
and Resolution 2462 of March 28, 2019, I
hereby report that I have issued an Ex-
ecutive Order (the ‘‘order’’) modern-
izing sanctions to combat terrorism.
I have determined that it is nec-
essary to consolidate and enhance
sanctions to combat acts of terrorism
and threats of terrorism by foreign ter-
rorists, acts that are recognized and
condemned in the above-referenced
United Nations Security Council reso-
lutions. I have terminated the national
emergency declared in Executive Order
12947 of January 23, 1995, and revoked
Executive Order 12947, as amended by
Executive Order 13099 of August 20,
1998. The order builds upon the initial
steps taken in Executive Order 12947
and takes additional steps to deal with
the national emergency declared in Ex-
ecutive Order 13224 of September 23,
2001, with respect to the continuing
and immediate threat of grave acts of
terrorism and threats of terrorism
committed by foreign terrorists, which
include acts of terrorism that threaten
the Middle East peace process.
I am enclosing a copy of the order I
have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 9, 2019.
f
SUPPORT D.C. STATEHOOD
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentlewoman from the District of Co-
lumbia (Ms. NORTON) for 30 minutes.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
come to the floor this afternoon be-
cause of the importance of a coming
date. It will be known as a historic
date in the Congress of the United
States, Thursday, September 19, which
is the day that, prerequisite to coming
to the floor, the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform will hold the first
hearing on D.C. statehood, H.R. 51, in
26 years. That will be a historic hear-
ing.
This is not an informational hearing
to let us know about statehood. It is a
jurisdictional hearing, the prerequisite
to going to the House floor.
The residents of the District of Co-
lumbia, who are number one—mark
that fact—number one in taxes paid to
support the Government of the United
States, do not have full rights, the
same rights, as other Americans.
Yes, I can come to the House floor to
speak any time I want to, and yes, with
Democrats in power, I have reclaimed
the Committee of the Whole vote,
which means that when the committee
is gathered here in the House voting on
at least some matters, I get to vote.
But, Madam Speaker, on final votes, I
cannot vote, even though, as you have
heard, the people I represent con-
tribute more Federal taxes than any
people in the United States, more per
capita than New York and California
and Florida. You name the State, you
will be talking about a State where,
per capita, its residents contribute less
to support the very government that is
ours and theirs than the people of the
District of Columbia.
So, yes, I have introduced the D.C.
statehood bill.
Let me predict right now that that
bill will pass. It has virtually enough
cosponsors to pass. Most bills come to
this House floor without many cospon-
sors, and yet we know they will pass.
Well, when you have almost enough co-
sponsors to pass the bill, Madam
Speaker, I say to my good friends who
are not on the bill, this is the time to
get on the bill so that they will be part
of history. I do believe this bill will, in
fact, pass the House of Representa-
tives.
There has already been a forecast
that that will happen. That forecast
was in H.R. 1, which has already passed
the House. Every Democratic Member
voted for H.R. 1.
H.R. 1 contains findings for D.C.
statehood. It found that District resi-
dents pay the highest taxes per capita,
that residents of your Nation’s Capital
have fulfilled all the obligations of
statehood, fighting in all of the Na-
tion’s wars, including the war that
gave rise to the United States of Amer-
ica itself.
It found that there were no histor-
ical, constitutional, financial, or eco-
nomic reasons why the 700,000 residents
of your Nation’s Capital should not be-
come part of a state.
These are findings in H.R. 1 that
every Democrat has already voted for.
These were findings for statehood for
the District of Columbia.
It found that the District is in one of
the strongest fiscal positions in the
United States: a $14.6 billion budget, a
surplus of $2.8 billion, total personal
income higher than that of seven
States, per capita personal consump-
tion expenditures higher than those of
any State, and total personal consump-
tion expenditures greater than those of
seven States.
We are not talking about an entity
not worthy of statehood. The qualifica-
tions are clear, and there are qualifica-
tions to become a state.
How do you become a state? You get
voted a state by a majority vote in this
House. It is hard to become a state, but
those qualifications have been met.
Let us compare the District of Co-
lumbia to States that are already
States. Let’s take two States of the
Union, Vermont and Wyoming. I be-
grudge them nothing, except to say
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.060 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7593
September 10, 2019
they have voting Members of the House
and the Senate, yet they don’t have as
many residents as the District of Co-
lumbia. This graph goes only to 600,000.
Now, we are at 700,000 D.C. residents.
Moreover, it should be said that
there are seven States in the Union
about the same size, less than a million
voters, yet they have two Senators and
a voting Member of the House.
There just is no reason to deny that
same right to the residents of your Na-
tion’s Capital.
The authorities that indicate that
our bill is constitutional are the ones
we always look to, to find out whether
a bill is constitutional. Congressional
Research Service has found that H.R.
51 is constitutional. The American
Civil Liberties Union, the foremost au-
thority on constitutional rights, has
done a study and has found that H.R. 51
is constitutional. Importantly, Viet
Dinh, a conservative legal scholar who
served as the highest ranking Justice
Department official in the George W.
Bush administration, because he was
Assistant Attorney General for Legal
Policy, Viet Dinh has done a study and
found that H.R. 51 is constitutional.
Do note that 51, that has real mean-
ing, because the District would become
the 51st state.
The findings mean that this House
has already voted for H.R. 51 because it
has voted for all the findings that are
necessary for the District to become a
state.
There is a Senate version of H.R. 1,
but the Senate version doesn’t have all
the many propositions that H.R. 1 has.
H.R. 1, yes, has findings saying essen-
tially that the District should be the
51st state, but H.R. 1 has a lot of other
things in it. H.R. 1 says that to en-
hance democracy—and that is what it
is, it is an omnibus democracy-enhanc-
ing bill. That is why our findings for
D.C. statehood are in that bill, but it
has things in it, like it wants paper
ballots to protect the infrastructure,
which sometimes goes down if there is,
for example, a cyberattack; it has
donor disclosure requirements; expand-
ing early voting; no gerrymandering;
the President and Vice President would
have to disclose their tax returns.
b 1645
Those are seen as democracy enhanc-
ing, and I fully endorse them. But com-
pare that to the findings endorsing
statehood, which would mean that
700,000 American citizens would have
the same rights as every other citizen,
and you will see why H.R. 1 is very im-
portant to the District of Columbia and
why we predict that H.R. 51, the D.C.
statehood bill, will pass the Congress,
the House of Representatives.
I do want to stress the full qualifica-
tions, and one of the most important is
service in the Armed Forces. Not only
do the residents of the District of Co-
lumbia pay the highest taxes per capita
in the United States—Federal taxes—
but the residents of the Nation’s Cap-
ital have served in every war, including
the war that gave rise to the Nation
itself.
This is a particularly poignant poster
because it shows the major wars, the
World War wars. And notice what the
losses have been of residents of the Na-
tion’s Capital who fought and died for
their country without the same rights
as others in their country:
World War I, 635 casualties from the
District, more than from three States;
The Korean war, more casualties
than from eight States;
World War II, more casualties than
from four States;
And, of course, Vietnam, more cas-
ualties than from 10 States.
The casualties of war perhaps speak
loudest to our struggle for equality.
There is a war memorial, the only war
memorial on The Mall, and it is there
because the District lost so many men,
and it didn’t have home rule at all.
What is home rule? Home rule is sim-
ply a government with a legislature
and an executive.
The District was ruled from this
place, from the Capitol. So to com-
memorate our war dead after World
War I, the Congress placed a pristine,
beautiful monument, the only monu-
ment to a single jurisdiction you will
find on The Mall.
People sometimes go there to get
married. They go there because it is
beautiful and not terribly elaborate.
It is called the D.C. War Memorial.
There are 400 or so names of men and
women who died in World War I actu-
ally carved out in that memorial. That
is why our service in the armed serv-
ices is so important to bring before the
House today.
There is something that I think the
average person also doesn’t know. This
was a segregated city, and Congress did
not allow it to denounce and get rid of
racial segregation. Buses and street-
cars weren’t segregated, but public ac-
commodations were segregated.
And yet, during the very years of seg-
regation, we have some very distin-
guished members of the Armed Forces
who were African Americans who stand
out, still, in American history:
The first African American general,
born and raised in the District of Co-
lumbia;
The first African American Air Force
general, this is in the entire country,
born and raised in the District of Co-
lumbia;
The first African American Naval
Academy graduate, born and raised in
the District of Columbia;
The first African American Air Force
graduate, born and raised in the Dis-
trict of Columbia.
What a history of distinguished citi-
zens, particularly these citizens who
served so illustriously in our Armed
Forces, reaching the highest ranks but,
nevertheless, who came home with
fewer rights or far fewer rights than
any other Americans.
If there is to be a statehood provision
that, as I have predicted, will become
law in this House and make its way to
the Senate, will there still be a Cap-
ital?
I should indicate some of the issues
that may occur to the average citizen.
Yes, because our bill preserves Fed-
eral control over the national capital
area, and that is the Federal enclave.
That is right here. That is where the
so-called Federal complex, the Federal
monuments, the Federal buildings, The
National Mall, all that Federal juris-
diction is maintained.
The 51st State gives the District con-
trol only over the neighborhoods where
the residents and the businesses are to
be found. So there is not much that is
upset or will appear very different,
frankly, when visitors come to what is
now known as Washington, D.C.
By the way, it will still be called
Washington, D.C., but D.C. will stand
for Douglass Commonwealth.
Where did D.C. get that notion? That
notion comes from Frederick Douglass’
own home here in the District of Co-
lumbia, that icon of American history.
It should be noted that, while he is
remembered foremost for his work
against slavery in the United States,
he was a very energetic proponent of
full equality for all the residents of the
District of Columbia.
To this day, we have been able,
through a bill I got passed in this
House, to have a statue of Frederick
Douglass. We are the only city—that is
what we are at the moment—that has a
statue.
Each State has two statues. We ex-
pect to get another statue, although I
won’t say that until it is announced
formally, but then we will be the only
non-State to have two statues.
The statue of Frederick Douglass can
be seen right here in the Capitol, and it
acknowledges that it was contributed
by the residents of the District of Co-
lumbia.
Now, as ardent as we have been in
pursuing statehood, we are determined
to get full equality any way we can. So
I have simultaneously introduced a bill
that uses another strategy, and that is
because the District doesn’t even have
full, what we call, home rule to make
sure, at the very same time that we are
pursuing statehood—because it will
take us a little more time to get
through the Senate—that we pursue a
strategy that would enhance our home
rule so that we would get many of the
same authorities that would come
through our statehood bill.
Those are on a dual track, and let me
indicate what some of them are.
For example, every bill that the D.C.
Council passes has to come over here.
It is never touched. So it has to lie
over here for 30 days. What nonsense is
that? One of the home rule bills to en-
hance home rule would simply get rid
of that.
You don’t need to be a State to have
a local prosecutor. Why is the U.S. at-
torney for the District of Columbia,
the street crimes here in the District of
Columbia, appointed by the President
of the United States? Virtually all of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.062 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7594 September 10, 2019
her jurisdiction is on police crime here
in the District of Columbia. She should
be appointed by the Mayor of the Dis-
trict of Columbia. At the same time we
are going for statehood, we will have a
bill on this floor for a local prosecutor.
We will have a bill allowing the
Mayor to deploy the National Guard.
We see what is happening with climate
change, and every jurisdiction is on the
lookout to prepare itself for whatever
may come. The D.C. National Guard
would be our last refuge.
Unlike the Guard in the States and
even in the territories, the District’s
Mayor or chief executive has no au-
thority to call out the National Guard
if there is a hurricane or if there is a
flood, so she has got to somehow find
her way up the chain of command to
the President to say: ‘‘Please, Mr.
President, can I call out my own Na-
tional Guard?’’
The National Guard of the District of
Columbia helps us in a multitude of
ways; but in the way that could count
most, there would be a delay because
the District doesn’t have the authority
to call out its own National Guard. We
want that even before statehood. We
want that now.
We don’t have control over our local
courts. These courts don’t have any-
thing to do with the Federal Govern-
ment. That authority should be with
the D.C. Council.
There are many more. But to point
out the ridiculous nature of not, in
fact, having even rights that Ameri-
cans take for granted—leave aside, if
you will, the right to vote on this
House floor, the right to Senate rep-
resentation—but matters about which
Congress knows nothing and wants to
know nothing, like a local prosecutor,
like the right to deploy members of the
National Guard, you can see why I am
on dual tracks.
One is statehood, which is absolute
and pure equality with other Ameri-
cans, but, in the meantime, we are un-
willing to pass up what we could get in-
crementally, and that is simply control
over all of our local matters, or as
many of them as we can.
b 1700
There are many reasons why D.C.
statehood is ripe. Denying statehood to
the Nation’s Capital is a violation of
international law, and that has been
noted.
Our country, in 1977—that is before I
came to Congress—signed what is
called the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights. The Human
Rights Committee of the United Na-
tions has twice indicated that the
United States, by denying the residents
of its Nation’s Capital equal rights
with other parts of the country, is in
violation of international law.
The Human Rights Committee of the
United Nations, said that the United
Nations ‘‘ . . . remains concerned that
the residents of the District of Colum-
bia do not enjoy full representation in
Congress, a restriction which does not
seem to be compatible with article 25
of the covenant.’’
That is the article we signed in 1977.
And, thus, we have been found in vio-
lation of international law.
Madam Speaker, may I inquire how
much time I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from the District of Colum-
bia has 6 minutes remaining.
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, we
are very pleased at the large number—
now over 100 organizations—that have
endorsed D.C. statehood. That is im-
portant to us because they themselves
have millions of constituents.
One of our greatest problems has
been nationalizing this issue. In fact,
the residents are frustrated that people
come to the Nation’s Capital and they
think that the residents of their cap-
ital have the same rights they have.
We simply don’t have a national pulpit
every day that informs them.
So these 100-plus national organiza-
tions spreading the word, cascading it,
is very important to us. I am not going
to name all 100, but to give you an idea
of how broad their constituency is,
they include people like Common
Cause, the National Active and Retired
Federal Employees Association, the Si-
erra Club, People for the American
Way, and the International Association
of Machinists and Aerospace Workers.
There are unions there. There are
good government organizations there.
There are organizations of every kind,
and that is one of the reasons that we
are sure this bill is ultimately going to
pass the Senate, as well.
We draw to the attention of the
House that democracy has always been
an aspiration of our country. Look at
who we are. When our country was cre-
ated, only White men could vote. It
took 132 years for White women to be
able to vote. They had to sit down in
the streets. They had to go to the old
Lorton prison, the prison for the Dis-
trict of Columbia. They chained them-
selves to the White House gates.
If you want to know why we are un-
daunted when we see that half the pop-
ulation had to go through much that
we have experienced and finally attain
the vote, we cannot afford to be pessi-
mistic. But we remind those who come
to this floor and say how proud they
are of what a democracy we are; that
H.R. 1 has democracy-enhancing provi-
sions because we are not a democracy
yet.
The worst blow to democracy is that
the Nation’s Capital does not have full
democracy because it does not have the
same rights, including full voting
rights in the Congress itself.
The Framers understood that they
were creating an imperfect democracy.
Remember, our Constitution is a set of
compromises. They had to get the Con-
stitution done. They had to abide by
three-fifths of a man. That was the
compromise for not counting the Black
slaves. There were many who signed
the bill who opposed that in every way,
but when you have a democracy with
as many different factions as ours did
then, and have now, those are the com-
promises you make. You will be faulted
only if, over time, you do not correct
those inadequacies.
I am grateful that we had barely
come into session—we have been in ses-
sion now only since January with
Democrats in control of the House—
that the Speaker issued a very power-
ful statement endorsing statehood;
that our Majority Leader STENY HOYER
has endorsed the bill. And, yes, I be-
lieve that we are coming to the end of
an era, an era for 218 years where the
residents of our Nation’s Capital have
been second-class citizens.
That is a term normally applied to
African Americans, but every citizen of
the United States will tell you second-
class citizen knew no color. It meant
every resident of the District of Colum-
bia.
We are closing this era in the House
of Representatives during the 116th
Congress. I am predicting, based on the
number of cosponsors, that this bill
will pass the House.
It will be a historic day. It will buoy
this bill to the other side of this House
so that the District becomes the 51st
State of the United States.
I yield back the balance of my time.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported and found truly en-
rolled a bill of the House of the fol-
lowing title, which was thereupon
signed by the Speaker:
H.R. 831. An act to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations for
and make determinations regarding roads to
be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, and for other purposes.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 5 o’clock and 7 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Wednesday,
September 11, 2019, at 10 a.m. for morn-
ing-hour debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 241, the
Bank Service Company Examination
Coordination Act of 2019, would have
no significant effect on direct spending
or revenues, and therefore, the budg-
etary effects of such bill are estimated
as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10SE7.064 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7595
September 10, 2019
2009. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — DCAA Privacy Act Program
[Docket ID: DOD-2019-OS-0039] (RIN: 0790-
AK63) received August 19, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
2010. A letter from the Counsel, Legal Divi-
sion, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting the Bureau’s final rule —
Availability of Funds and Collection of
Checks (Regulation CC) [Docket No.: CFPB-
2018-0035] (RIN: 3170-AA31) received August
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
2011. A letter from the Senior Counsel,
Legal Division, Bureau of Consumer Finan-
cial Protection, transmitting the Bureau’s
final rule — Truth in Lending (Regulation Z)
Annual Threshold Adjustments (Credit
Cards, HOEPA, and Qualified Mortgages) re-
ceived August 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
2012. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Inter-
national Bureau, Federal Communications
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
final rule — Streamlining Licensing Proce-
dures for Small Satellites [IB Docket: 18-86]
received August 19, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2013. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
Administrator for Regulatory NOAA Fish-
eries, Office of Protected Resources, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s final
rule — Takes of Marine Mammals Incidental
to Specified Activities; Taking Marine Mam-
mals Incidental to Oil and Gas Activities in
Cook Inlet, Alaska [Docket No.: 190214112-
9535-02] (RIN: 0648-BI62) received August 13,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2014. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Office of the
General Counsel, Consumer Product Safety
Commission, transmitting the Department’s
statement of enforcement policy — State-
ment of Policy on Enforcement Discretion
Regarding General Conformity Certificates
for the Requirements of the Refrigerator
Safety Act received August 19, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2015. A letter from the Senior Procurement
Executive, Office of Acquisition Policy, Gen-
eral Services Administration, transmitting
the Department’s summary presentation of
an interim rule — Federal Acquisition Regu-
lation; Federal Acquisition Circular 2019-05;
Introduction [Docket No.: FAR 2019-0002; Se-
quence No.: 4] received August 19, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
2016. A letter from the Chief, Regulatory
Coordination Division, U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s Major final rule — Inadmissibility on
Public Charge Grounds [CIS No.: 2637-19; DHS
Docket No.: USCIS-2010-0012] (RIN: 1615-
AA22) received August 14, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
2017. A letter from the Chief Justice, Su-
preme Court of the United States, transmit-
ting notification that the Supreme Court
will open the October 2019 term on Monday,
October 7, 2019 at 10:00 a.m.; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
2018. A letter from the Attorney, U.S.
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, transmitting the Department’s final
rule — Consumer Price Index Adjustments of
Oil Pollution Act of 1990 Limits of Liability-
Vessels, Deepwater Ports and Onshore Fa-
cilities [Docket No.: USCG-2019-0392] (RIN:
1625-AC53) received August 15, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2019. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; International Aero Engines AG Tur-
bofan Engines [Docket No.: FAA-2019-0274;
Product Identifier 2019-NE-07-AD; Amend-
ment 39-19704; AD 2019-16-01] (RIN: 2120-AA64)
received August 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2020. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Engine Alliance Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0459; Product Identi-
fier 2018-NE-36-AD; Amendment 39-19699; AD
2019-15-06] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2021. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Engine Alliance Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0465; Product Identi-
fier 2018-NE-19-AD; Amendment 39-19707; AD
2019-16-04] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2022. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0186; Product Identifier 2018-
NM-153-AD; Amendment 39-19694; AD 2019-15-
01] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2023. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0120; Product Identifier 2018-
NM-167-AD; Amendment 39-19702; AD 2019-15-
09] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2024. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0192; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
004-AD; Amendment 39-19692; AD 2019-14-14]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2025. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Diamond Aircraft Industries GmbH
Airplanes [Docket No.: FAA-2019-0203; Prod-
uct Identifier 2018-CE-052-AD; Amendment
39-19689; AD 2019-14-11] (RIN: 2120-AA64) re-
ceived August 15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2026. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2019-0575; Product Identifier
2019-NM-113-AD; Amendment 39-19690; AD
2019-14-12] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2027. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2019-0249; Product Identifier
2019-NM-010-AD; Amendment 39-19693; AD
2019-14-15] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2028. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2019-0023; Product Identifier
2018-NM-145-AD; Amendment 39-19700; AD
2019-15-07] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2029. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Safran Aerosystems Life Jackets
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0207; Product Identi-
fier 2019-NE-02-AD; Amendment 39-19703; AD
2019-15-10] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August
15, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2030. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Minocqua-Woodruff, WI [Docket
No.: FAA-2019-0336; Airspace Docket No.: 19-
AGL-11] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received August 15,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2031. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0319; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
005-AD; Amendment 39-19701; AD 2019-15-08]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2032. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; 328 Support Services GmbH (Type Cer-
tificate Previously Held by AvCraft Aero-
space GmbH; Fairchild Dornier GmbH;
Dornier Luftfahrt GmbH) Airplanes [Docket
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10SE7.000 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7596 September 10, 2019
No.: FAA-2019-0117; Product Identifier 2018-
NM-169-AD; Amendment 39-19696; AD 2019-15-
03] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received August 15, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2033. A letter from the Division Chief, Reg-
ulatory Development, Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Lifetime Disqualification
for Human Trafficking [Docket No.: FMCSA-
2018-0361] (RIN: 2126-AC20) received August
19, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2034. A letter from the Senior Trial Attor-
ney, Office of Aviation Enforcement and Pro-
ceedings, Office of the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Transportation, transmitting the
Department’s final statement of enforce-
ment priorities regarding Service Animals —
Guidance on Nondiscrimination on the Basis
of Disability in Air Travel [Docket No.: DOT-
OST-2018-0067] (RIN: 2105-ZA05) received Au-
gust 20, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2035. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Automatic Consent to Change Meth-
ods of Accounting to Comply with Amended
Sections 807 and 848 (Rev. Proc. 2019-34) re-
ceived August 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
2036. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Six-Month Extension to File Form
1065 and Furnish Schedules K-1 Granted to
Eligible Partnerships (Rev. Proc. 2019-32) re-
ceived August 13, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4261. A bill to prohibit the use of Fed-
eral funds for payments in support of cam-
paigns for election for the offices of Senator
or Representative in Congress; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration.
By Mr. SAN NICOLAS:
H.R. 4262. A bill to ensure that refunds of
overpayments of the Guam Territorial In-
come Tax are issued in a timely manner, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. HUFFMAN, and
Mr. LOWENTHAL):
H.R. 4263. A bill to prohibit importation of
certain products of Brazil, to prohibit cer-
tain assistance to Brazil, and to prohibit ne-
gotiations to enter into a free trade agree-
ment with Brazil; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr.
KING of New York, and Mr. TURNER):
H.R. 4264. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense make available certain records rel-
evant to a determination of whether a mem-
ber of the Armed Forces is disqualified from
possessing or receiving a firearm, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services, and in addition to the Committee
on the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself and
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 4265. A bill to amend the Richard B.
Russell National School Lunch Act to re-
move certain limitations with respect to
commodity assistance for school breakfast
programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. HECK (for himself and Mr.
KATKO):
H.R. 4266. A bill to establish centers of ex-
cellence for innovative stormwater control
infrastructure, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. WATKINS (for himself and Ms.
DAVIDS of Kansas):
H.R. 4267. A bill to amend the Federal De-
posit Insurance Act with respect to share-
holder claims arising from the appointment
of a conservator or receiver for certain de-
pository institutions, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Ms. NORTON (for herself, Mr.
HOYER, Mr. TRONE, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Ms.
WEXTON, and Mr. SARBANES):
H.R. 4268. A bill to require that the head-
quarters for the Bureau of Land Management
be located in the National Capital Region,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Ms. HAALAND (for herself and Mr.
HUFFMAN):
H.R. 4269. A bill to provide incentives for
agricultural producers to carry out climate
stewardship practices, to provide for in-
creased reforestation across the United
States, to establish the Coastal and Estuary
Resilience Grant Program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Agriculture, and
in addition to the Committees on Natural
Resources, and Science, Space, and Tech-
nology, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself, Mr.
SMITH of New Jersey, and Mr.
KHANNA):
H.R. 4270. A bill to prohibit commercial ex-
ports of certain nonlethal crowd control
items and defense articles and services to the
Hong Kong Disciplined Services, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 4271. A bill to prohibit the sale of a
firearm unless it carries a warning label that
provides the number of the National Suicide
Prevention Lifeline; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self, Ms. PLASKETT, and Ms. LEE of
California):
H.R. 4272. A bill to designate The Bahamas
under section 244 of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to permit nationals of The Ba-
hamas to be eligible for temporary protected
status, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GOMEZ (for himself and Mr.
STIVERS):
H.R. 4273. A bill to establish a program to
award grants to entities that provide trans-
portation connectors from critically under-
served urban communities and rural commu-
nities to green spaces; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and
Mr. ZELDIN):
H.R. 4274. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the limitation on
the deduction for certain taxes, including
state and local property and income taxes, to
limit the step-up in basis allowed in the case
of property acquired from a decedent, and to
deem a sale on any contribution of property
to a private foundation; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana (for him-
self and Mr. RICHMOND):
H.R. 4275. A bill to amend the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act to reauthorize
the Lake Pontchartrain Basin Restoration
Program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for him-
self, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. PETERSON,
Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, Mr.
WELCH, and Ms. SLOTKIN):
H.R. 4276. A bill to establish a minimum
staffing level of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection officials along the northern bor-
der, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 4277. A bill to promote ethics and pre-
vent corruption in Department of Defense
contracting and other activities, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Armed
Services, and in addition to the Committees
on the Judiciary, and Oversight and Reform,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self, Ms. OMAR, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. PALLONE, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. PAYNE, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. DESAULNIER,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. RUSH, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. EVANS,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CUMMINGS, and
Mrs. LAWRENCE):
H.R. 4278. A bill to require the Secretary of
Labor to establish a pilot program to provide
grants for job guarantee programs; to the
Committee on Education and Labor, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. DEMINGS (for herself, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. OMAR,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. WILD, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. LARSON of Connecticut,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10SE7.000 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H7597
September 10, 2019
BEATTY, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Ms.
WATERS, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Mr. TONKO, Mr. RICHMOND,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. CISNEROS,
Ms. SHALALA, Ms. LEE of California,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. LYNCH, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. CRIST, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Ms. TLAIB, Ms. CASTOR of Flor-
ida, Ms. BASS, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of
Georgia, Mr. COHEN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. MEEKS,
Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Mr. CUMMINGS,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms.
FUDGE, Mrs. MURPHY, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. HIMES, Ms. MENG, Ms. TITUS, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, and Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts):
H. Res. 549. A resolution reaffirming the
commitment to media diversity and pledging
to work with media entities and diverse
stakeholders to develop common ground so-
lutions to eliminate barriers to media diver-
sity; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. PAYNE (for himself and Mr.
BILIRAKIS):
H. Res. 550. A resolution expressing support
of the designation of September 2019 as Pe-
ripheral Artery Disease Awareness Month; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. WITTMAN:
H. Res. 551. A resolution emphasizing the
importance of addressing participation in ca-
reer and technical education; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4261.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Mr. SAN NICOLAS:
H.R. 4262.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 of the Con-
stitution, Congress’s authority to make all
rules and regulations respecting the Terri-
tories and possessions
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 4263.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 (relating to
the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress)
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 4264.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. MCGOVERN:
H.R. 4265.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. HECK:
H.R. 4266.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. WATKINS:
H.R. 4267.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: To make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 4268.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Ms. HAALAND:
H.R. 4269.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. MCGOVERN:
H.R. 4270.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 4271.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 4272.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. GOMEZ:
H.R. 4273.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 14.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER:
H.R. 4274.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana:
H.R. 4275.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 4276.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section 8 of Article I of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 4277.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 4278.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by the Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 51: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 141: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 149: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 307: Mr. GUTHRIE and Mr. HURD of
Texas.
H.R. 587: Mr. WALKER and Mr. ARMSTRONG.
H.R. 613: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 647: Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr. JOHNSON of
South Dakota, and Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 836: Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 912: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 955: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 981: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 1034: Mr. HILL of Arkansas and Mr.
RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 1046: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1049: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1078: Mr. TRONE and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
H.R. 1135: Ms. FINKENAUER.
H.R. 1137: Mr. PANETTA and Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 1154: Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 1174: Mr. KING of New York and Mr.
SIRES.
H.R. 1175: Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Mr.
CASTRO of Texas, Mr. VEASEY, and Ms.
SHERRILL.
H.R. 1186: Mr. EVANS, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr.
VELA, Mr. CORREA, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Ms. CRAIG, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
WELCH, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. DOGGETT, Ms.
ADAMS, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, and Mr. GREEN
of Texas.
H.R. 1236: Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
YARMUTH, Ms. CRAIG, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Ms. DELAURO, Ms. ADAMS, Mr. DANNY
K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. CLAY, Mr. COSTA,
Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. CASE, Ms. UNDERWOOD, and Mrs.
FLETCHER.
H.R. 1266: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi and
Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1274: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 1275: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 1297: Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. CARSON of In-
diana, and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1325: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 1346: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1373: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1393: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. TRONE, and Mr. THOMPSON of
California.
H.R. 1394: Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
TRONE, and Mr. THOMPSON of California.
H.R. 1400: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1406: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 1417: Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 1423: Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Ms. GABBARD,
and Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 1455: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1456: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1530: Mr. HIMES and Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1533: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 1629: Ms. WEXTON and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 1671: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 1679: Mr. BRINDISI and Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 1692: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 1695: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 1711: Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut, Mr. NEGUSE, and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1725: Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 1748: Mr. PETERSON, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1749: Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 1754: Ms. SÁNCHEZ and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 1766: Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 1769: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1771: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 1773: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:10 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10SE7.100 H10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H7598 September 10, 2019
H.R. 1778: Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 1787: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1846: Mr. COURTNEY and Mr.
MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 1870: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1903: Mr. CORREA and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 1923: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 1939: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1982: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 2041: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2051: Mr. FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 2074: Ms. SCANLON and Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 2086: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 2094: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2117: Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H.R. 2134: Mr. GROTHMAN and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 2148: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
HARDER of California, Mr. EVANS, and Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2158: Mr. LOUDERMILK.
H.R. 2164: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2178: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2208: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2218: Mr. HUIZENGA.
H.R. 2294: Mr. STIVERS and Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER.
H.R. 2311: Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. KHANNA, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2313: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 2321: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2338: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 2344: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 2405: Mr. TRONE and Ms. CASTOR of
Florida.
H.R. 2406: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 2407: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2415: Ms. SCANLON, Mr. KILDEE, Mr.
COX of California, and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 2420: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
PORTER, Mr. TED LIEU of California, and Mr.
HIMES.
H.R. 2424: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 2426: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. GOTTHEIMER, and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2435: Mr. STIVERS, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr.
LUETKEMEYER, and Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 2460: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 2466: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
DOGGETT, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr. RYAN, and
Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 2482: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2486: Mr. SABLAN, Mr. FORTENBERRY,
Mr. LUJÁN, and Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 2501: Mr. LARSEN of Washington.
H.R. 2504: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 2511: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2531: Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2545: Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 2571: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 2585: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 2593: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 2611: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 2635: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2653: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mrs. MUR-
PHY, and Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2660: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2685: Mr. KING of New York and Mr.
QUIGLEY.
H.R. 2696: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2708: Ms. MATSUI, Ms. BLUNT ROCH-
ESTER, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Ms. STE-
VENS, Mr. PANETTA, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr.
NEGUSE, Mr. PASCRELL, and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2720: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 2733: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 2746: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 2771: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 2785: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2819: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2857: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 2878: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 2881: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 2912: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 2959: Mr. HASTINGS, Ms. NORTON, and
Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 2996: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 2999: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3077: Mr. PASCRELL, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr.
EVANS, and Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 3103: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 3106: Mr. MCEACHIN.
H.R. 3107: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
KILMER, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr.
WENSTRUP, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. MORELLE,
Mr. PASCRELL, and Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 3114: Mr. NADLER, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, and Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 3116: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 3127: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3157: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3162: Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 3165: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 3172: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. SAN NICO-
LAS.
H.R. 3179: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 3182: Mrs. WAGNER and Mr. JOHNSON of
Louisiana.
H.R. 3193: Mr. CORREA and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 3195: Mr. MOULTON, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Ms. WILD, Mr. VEASEY, and Mrs.
LAWRENCE.
H.R. 3224: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 3243: Mr. LUETKEMEYER.
H.R. 3249: Mr. SUOZZI and Ms. SEWELL of
Alabama.
H.R. 3252: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3260: Mr. ROUDA and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 3302: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 3322: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 3330: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 3349: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3356: Mr. MCGOVERN and Mr. JOHNSON
of South Dakota.
H.R. 3362: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 3446: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York, Mr. BRINDISI, and Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 3456: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 3459: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 3463: Mr. CASE, Ms. DEGETTE, and Mr.
KENNEDY.
H.R. 3489: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 3497: Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 3512: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3529: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 3548: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3555: Mr. VARGAS, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 3564: Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 3593: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 3637: Mr. LIPINSKI and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3663: Mr. DESAULNIER and Mr. RICH-
MOND.
H.R. 3665: Ms. LOFGREN and Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 3667: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 3712: Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. NADLER, and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 3740: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 3744: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3749: Ms. DEAN, Mr. MORELLE, and Mr.
MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3753: Mr. ROSE of New York.
H.R. 3760: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 3774: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 3779: Ms. FINKENAUER and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3782: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 3791: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. COLLINS of
New York.
H.R. 3798: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 3803: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 3830: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 3846: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 3874: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 3887: Mr. KENNEDY and Mr. LARSON of
Connecticut.
H.R. 3917: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 3951: Ms. TLAIB and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3969: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3971: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 3973: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 4004: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 4009: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 4022: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4031: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 4044: Mr. PAPPAS and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 4077: Mr. MCGOVERN and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 4091: Ms. STEVENS, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Ms.
SLOTKIN, and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 4107: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 4108: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 4121: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4153: Mr. COLE and Ms. DEGETTE.
H.R. 4160: Mr. RUSH, Mr. DEUTCH, and Mr.
LAWSON of Florida.
H.R. 4165: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 4192: Mr. ROUDA and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
H.R. 4194: Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. GARAMENDI,
and Mr. SCHRADER.
H.R. 4211: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 4215: Mr. FLORES, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mrs.
WALORSKI, and Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 4230: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. LUJÁN, and Mr.
VEASEY.
H.R. 4232: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 4249: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 4254: Ms. GARCIA of Texas and Mr.
CUMMINGS.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H. Res. 17: Ms. STEVENS and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H. Res. 33: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H. Res. 114: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER and Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H. Res. 163: Mr. CORREA.
H. Res. 255: Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
COMER, Mr. GOSAR, and Mr. STIVERS.
H. Res. 310: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H. Res. 374: Mr. SCHWEIKERT and Mr.
GOSAR.
H. Res. 429: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H. Res. 479: Mr. LAMBORN.
H. Res. 496: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H. Res. 512: Ms. NORTON and Mr.
GROTHMAN.
H. Res. 513: Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 517: Mr. KILMER, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
Mr. SIRES, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. BEYER, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. COLE, Mr. WILSON of
South Carolina, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
STEVENS, and Ms. TITUS.
H. Res. 538: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H. Res. 543: Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 544: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 838: Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 2407: Mrs. DINGELL.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:42 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE7.022 H10SEPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5373
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2019 No. 144
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, Your words are pure.
When hate seems to triumph, surround
us with Your protection and favor.
Have mercy upon our Nation and
world.
Lord, the wicked are often exalted as
they blaspheme and destroy. May our
lawmakers not permit inaction to de-
rail liberty.
How long will the enemies of freedom
prevail? Awake us all, and use us for
Your glory, for we trust in Your mercy.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak in
morning business for 1 minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA
AGREEMENT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
agriculture and the family farmers of
America depend upon exports for pros-
perity. Passing the U.S.-Mexico-Canada
Agreement is then critical to provide
farmers and ranchers with the cer-
tainty they need to make long-term
business decisions.
Over $10 billion worth of agricultural
products are exported each year to our
neighbors, and that supports more than
86,000 jobs. Modernizing and improving
our trade relationships with Canada
and Mexico is a bipartisan no-brainer.
Former Secretary of Agriculture
Tom Vilsack and I discussed the
USMCA in Des Moines last month at a
local dairy processing plant. Secretary
Vilsack and I agree we must pass the
USMCA to help our farmers.
I yield the floor.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
BUSINESS BEFORE THE SENATE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
the Senate is in the midst of con-
firming several more of the President’s
well-qualified nominees to important
Federal posts. After we complete to-
day’s vote on Ambassador Kelly Craft,
whom we confirmed a month ago to
serve as Ambassador to the United Na-
tions, we will turn to several more pub-
lic servants whom the President has
asked to serve at the Departments of
State, Treasury, Health and Human
Services, and Veterans Affairs, among
others.
Meanwhile, the Appropriations Com-
mittee is working to produce govern-
ment funding legislation. With a good-
faith, bipartisan, bicameral approach,
we will be able to build on the agree-
ment the President signed into law last
month and ensure adequate funding for
the American people’s priorities. As al-
ways, I know my colleagues and I are
grateful to Chairman SHELBY and
Ranking Member LEAHY for their work.
I hope we are able to consider signifi-
cant bipartisan funding legislation
here on the floor this month before
turning to a temporary continuing res-
olution while work continues.
400TH ANNIVERSARY OF SLAVERY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
now on an entirely different matter,
today Congress observes the 400th anni-
versary of a reprehensible moment in
the history of our land. In August 1619,
an English ship landed at the tip of
Virginia’s Lower Peninsula. On board
were 20-some Africans whom the crew
had captured from a Portuguese slave
ship. These men and women were sold
to the Colonies, and with that, Eng-
land’s American Colonies had taken
their first step into the already mas-
sive transatlantic slave trade. The
shameful history of slavery in what
would become our Nation had begun.
In many ways, slavery is the original
sin of the United States of America.
This systematic racial exploitation
wove its way into the Colonies’ econo-
mies and societies. Almost two cen-
turies later, the disgusting practice
was a stumbling block in our founding
debates. It ultimately was allowed to
continue for the sake of union.
Some of our Founders participated
personally even as they argued the
philosophical case for equality under
God and under law. Thomas Jefferson
owned slaves while he wrote the Dec-
laration of Independence—and the
shameful inconsistency was not lost on
him. Jefferson wrote: ‘‘Indeed, I trem-
ble for my country when I reflect that
God is just: that his justice cannot
sleep forever.’’
Indeed, justice did not sleep forever.
The last century and a half has seen
the moral truths on which this Nation
is founded slowly overcome one racist
evil after another. After an unthink-
ably bloody Civil War, slavery in
America was no more. Almost a cen-
tury later—much too late—the failures
of Reconstruction and the cruelty of
Jim Crow began giving way to the her-
oism of the civil rights movement.
Change has come too slow. The proc-
ess has been incredibly imperfect. But
every American should take pride in
the undeniable progress we have made
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.000 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5374 September 10, 2019
in overcoming the terrible chapter that
was opened 400 years ago. We should
take pride that our American ideals of
equality and justice—not the sins of
our forefathers—are the true, deepest
bedrock of this great Nation.
Today, with the Nation, Congress
looks back to 1619 and remembers the
size and scope of slavery’s stain on our
history. We mark this somber anniver-
sary with grief for all the slaves whose
God-given freedoms were so brutally
denied. We reflect gratefully on the
tremendous, rich contribution that
generations of African Americans have
made to this Nation despite this vio-
lence and adversity. We give thanks
that true American values slammed
the door on this unjust part of our Na-
tion’s history and continue to prevail
today.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, morning business is
closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Kelly Craft, of
Kentucky, to be Representative of the
United States of America to the Ses-
sions of the General Assembly of the
United Nations during her tenure of
service as Representative of the United
States of America to the United Na-
tions.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
NATIONAL EMERGENCIES ACT
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
begin this morning with some news for
my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle. As stipulated by the National
Emergencies Act, Democrats will once
again force a vote to terminate the
President’s national emergency dec-
laration. The provisions of the Na-
tional Emergencies Act dictate that
the resolution of disapproval be privi-
leged and therefore must be voted
upon.
As everyone no doubt remembers, the
Trump administration declared a na-
tional emergency in February of this
year after Congress repeatedly denied
the President funding for the construc-
tion of a border wall that he promised
Mexico would pay for. A few weeks ago,
the administration released the list of
military construction projects it has
planned on canceling in order to steal
money for the President’s wall.
The President’s emergency declara-
tion was and is an outrageous power
grab by a President who refuses to re-
spect the constitutional separation of
powers. I say to all of my colleagues,
this issue rises to a large and vital con-
stitutional issue: Does our country
truly have checks and balances, par-
ticularly when we have such an over-
reaching President?
We all must consider the dangerous
precedent this would set if Presidents
could declare national emergencies
every time their initiatives fail in Con-
gress. It is outrageous. There is bal-
ance of powers. The President failed in
Congress. He didn’t say it was an emer-
gency then, but he used the national
emergency law, which is intended for
true national emergencies—floods,
states of war—and then overruled the
will of the people as voiced in the Con-
gress. This is so wrong. The President
has clearly attempted to usurp the
power of the purse given exclusively to
the Congress by the Constitution to
take funding from projects we have ap-
proved and give it to projects we have
repeatedly declined to approve.
This goes to our democracy. This
goes to how the Founding Fathers set
up that delicate balance. We have
never had such a President overreach
on an emergency basis. The recourse
for such a brazen power grab should be
an overwhelming bipartisan vote in the
Congress to terminate the emergency
declaration and reassert our constitu-
tional authority.
Most of my colleagues know this is
wrong. In fact, when we had a vote the
last time, 59 Senators—including a
good number of Republicans—voted
against the emergency. What adds in-
sult to injury is the President stealing
the money from our military projects
that protect our Nation, support mili-
tary families, local economies, and
local schools.
The Trump administration has pro-
posed pilfering funds from projects in
23 States, 3 U.S. territories, and mili-
tary installations in 20 countries, in-
cluding $80 million from projects in
North Carolina, $30 million in Arizona,
and even a middle school in Kentucky.
How do we say to the men and women
who risk their lives for us and whose
families sacrifice that the President is
taking the money away, and we are
going to shrug our shoulders—not this
Senator, not this Member and not, I be-
lieve, every Member on our side and
not a whole bunch on the Republican
side.
We need more people to join us. I
hope we will see an even larger major-
ity stand up for both the Constitution
and the military and its Members and
their families. Democrats and Repub-
licans alike should vote to terminate
the President’s national emergency
declaration, and you can be sure we
will make sure everyone will have a
chance to do so within the next month.
If we don’t do it, how many more
emergencies will the President declare?
Whom else will he take money from
and to use for purposes he wants but
that Congress doesn’t and that the
American people are largely opposed
to?
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Madam President, on another mat-
ter, we have until the end of the month
for Members of both parties to work to-
gether to fund the Federal Govern-
ment, one of our most basic respon-
sibilities as legislators.
At the end of July, both parties came
together to produce a budget deal that
set the blueprint for negotiations this
fall. The same spirit of bipartisanship
is required to move forward through
the appropriations process, and it
starts with good-faith discussions on
how we allocate funding to 12 sub-
committees. To be successful, that
process must be fair, cooperative, and
bipartisan.
Under a partisan process, we know
what happens. We all lived through it
just 9 months ago. The President de-
manded funding for a border wall and
then shut down the government when
Congress didn’t give in to him. Now,
just 9 months later, I read reports that
Republicans are considering going
down the same path again, potentially
risking another government shutdown
over the exact same issue. I believe
there is good will on both sides of the
aisle. We want to avoid a shutdown.
Certainly, Republicans learned their
lesson; it wasn’t very good for them
the last time. Both sides want to avoid
a shutdown and both sides would prefer
to have a real budget, not a CR. The
way to get that done is for both parties
to work together and keep the appro-
priations process bipartisan, not for
the Republicans to tell the Democrats
that these are the 302(b)s and this is
the order in which we will do the bill.
That is not bipartisan, and that is not
what the bipartisan agreement called
for.
BACKGROUND CHECKS
Madam President, finally, on guns,
over the August recess, Leader MCCON-
NELL promised we would hold a debate
on gun violence when we returned to
Washington. Now that we are back,
Democrats will insist on holding Lead-
er MCCONNELL to his promise.
The debate on gun safety should be
our first order of business, and the
place to start a debate is a vote on the
House-passed, bipartisan background
checks bill. It is the foundation on
which most other gun safety laws de-
pend. We can’t make a real dent in pre-
venting gun violence without first
catching the glaring loopholes in our
laws that allow criminals, spousal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:45 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.001 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5375
September 10, 2019
abusers, and the adjudicated mentally
ill to buy firearms without a back-
ground check.
Some are talking about the so-called
red flag, but the red flag doesn’t work
if there is no background check. Mr.
Jones is red-flagged. Then he goes on-
line or goes to a gun show to buy a gun
without a background check. The red
flag doesn’t work unless we tighten the
loopholes—close the loopholes—on the
background check law.
Later today, Republican leaders will
meet with President Trump to talk
about the congressional agenda this
fall. Gun violence, according to the re-
ports I have read, is expected to be a
topic of the conversation. I strongly
urge my Republican colleagues to pre-
vail on the President to support uni-
versal background checks. Leader
MCCONNELL has said he will bring a bill
to the floor if it has the President’s
support. That means there is a truly
historic opportunity for President
Trump to lead his party toward sen-
sible gun safety laws that in the past,
Republicans, in obeisance to the NRA,
refused to support for decades.
Public support and public pressure is
mounting from one end of the country
to the other, with 93 percent of Ameri-
cans supporting background checks.
The vast majority of Republicans and
gun owners—a vast majority—support
it.
The President can provide Repub-
licans important political cover. They
shouldn’t need it because so many
Americans are for this, but they do be-
cause of the power sometimes exercised
rather ruthlessly by the NRA. The
President can do it. This is a moment
of truth for the President, for Leader
MCCONNELL, and for all of my Repub-
lican colleagues.
The American people are fed up. Too
many people are being killed across the
country every day. Just yesterday, I
was waiting at the airport, and a man
came over to me and grabbed my arm
and said to me that his nephew was a
victim of gun violence. He pleaded with
me for action. It is affecting more and
more people, their families, their
friends, and their communities. I imag-
ine every one of my colleagues has met
someone like this man over the past
month.
The Mayor of Dayton, OH, Nan
Whaley, joined with Democrats yester-
day at a press conference—another in-
credibly compelling voice pushing for
progress on this issue. We invited her
to speak at our caucus lunch today. I
expect my Republican colleagues have
mayors in their States who, just like
her, are exhausted by the daily gun vi-
olence in their cities. Republicans have
a chance today to convince the Presi-
dent to do the right thing and come
out in support of a policy that is not a
figleaf, that is not milquetoast and will
do nothing, but one that will actually
save lives.
I strongly urge our Republican col-
leagues and Leader MCCONNELL to use
this afternoon’s meeting at the White
House to discuss supporting a bipar-
tisan background checks bill.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). Without objection,
it is so ordered.
NOMINATION OF DALE CABANISS
Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise
today to oppose the nomination of Dale
Cabaniss to serve as Director of the Of-
fice of Personnel Management.
With roughly 5,500 dedicated employ-
ees, OPM is responsible for managing
the Federal Government’s civilian
workforce—overseeing government-
wide policies for recruiting, for hiring,
and training—and administering the
healthcare, life insurance, and retire-
ment benefits that impact millions of
Americans every year.
The Director of OPM plays a crucial
role in the Federal Government, not
only by managing the agency’s employ-
ees but by serving as a leader and an
advocate for more than 2 million hard-
working men and women in the Federal
workforce. The next Director of OPM
must have a proven track record of ef-
fective leadership.
While I acknowledge and I admire
Ms. Cabaniss’s long record of public
service, which includes more than 20
years here in the Senate, I do not be-
lieve that her experience and qualifica-
tions satisfy the requirements of this
very important and very challenging
position.
Last summer, the Trump administra-
tion released its government-wide reor-
ganization proposal, which includes
plans to dismantle the Office of Per-
sonnel Management as we know it.
Since then, Congress has repeatedly at-
tempted to engage in an honest and
productive dialogue with the adminis-
tration about their reorganization pro-
posal. However, they have not been
transparent about the repercussions of
this plan and what impact those reper-
cussions could have on the Federal
workforce. They have not dem-
onstrated how taxpayers will be better
served by their proposal, and it re-
mains unclear if they have even stud-
ied the full impact of their proposal. In
short, they have left too many funda-
mental questions simply unanswered.
The Office of Personnel Management
is charged with safeguarding the non-
partisan civil service from the political
motives of this or any White House.
During such a time of uncertainty and
upheaval, OPM needs strong and steady
leadership that is focused on good gov-
ernance and that will not be swayed by
political whims of elected officials.
This Agency and the millions of Ameri-
cans it serves each and every day de-
serve a proven, independent leader.
Simply put, Dale Cabaniss is not that
leader. While Ms. Cabaniss has some
experience leading a small agency, I
am not confident that her background
has prepared her to provide the sta-
bility and the autonomy that OPM de-
serves.
Unfortunately, after a careful review
of Ms. Cabaniss’s record, I do not be-
lieve that she is the right choice to
lead OPM at this critical time. I will be
voting no, and I urge my colleagues to
do the same.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
DEBBIE SMITH ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, for
nearly 15 years, the Debbie Smith Act
has been the driving force behind our
progress to eliminate the Nation’s rape
kit backlog.
Though exact numbers are difficult
to estimate, experts believe there are
hundreds of thousands of untested rape
kits in the United States. Each one of
them, of course, represents a different
story—the story of a sexual assault
victim. Also, as a result of DNA
science, it holds the key to appre-
hending a violent criminal and stop-
ping them from committing further as-
saults.
Since the Debbie Smith Act was
signed into law in 2004, more than $1
billion has been invested in State and
local crime labs for DNA testing. This
program also supports training for law
enforcement, correctional personnel,
forensic nurses, and other professionals
who work with victims of sexual as-
sault. Though the primary goal of the
program is to reduce the rape kit back-
log and identify attackers, processing
this DNA evidence can assist investiga-
tions into other nonviolent crimes as
well.
Once evidence is tested, it is
uploaded into the FBI’s DNA database,
called CODIS. This is similar to the
criminal fingerprint database but pro-
vides DNA evidence that can help iden-
tify and convict people who commit
other crimes. So if it is collected as a
result of a sexual assault, you may, in
fact, be able to get a hit that will help
you identify someone who has com-
mitted a burglary, a murder, a robbery,
or some other crime. This is particu-
larly true when somebody commits a
crime in one State and moves to an-
other State—to be able to connect the
identity of the person based on their
DNA, not based on where the offense
was committed. According to the Na-
tional Institute of Justice, 42 percent
of hits in the FBI’s DNA database sys-
tem are the direct result of Debbie
Smith Act funding—42 percent.
In addition to helping us get more
criminals off the streets, this informa-
tion could also be the key to exon-
erating individuals who were wrongly
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:45 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.003 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5376 September 10, 2019
accused and preventing innocent peo-
ple from being put behind bars for a
crime they didn’t commit. DNA evi-
dence is very, very powerful.
States have seen the positive results
of this program at the national level
and have been following suit. Texas has
led the Nation in passing mandatory
rape kit testing laws, conducting au-
dits of the backlog, and using Debbie
Smith funds to analyze untested sexual
assault evidence.
Since 2011, the Debbie Smith Act has
helped Texas reduce its backlog of pre-
viously unsubmitted rape kits by ap-
proximately 90 percent—from over
20,000 kits to now around 2,000. This
program has allowed us to provide vic-
tims of sexual assault with the re-
sources they need and the answers they
deserve while more effectively identi-
fying criminals across the board.
The benefits of this law simply can-
not be overstated, and that is why the
Debbie Smith Act was readily reau-
thorized in 2008 and 2014. Now it is time
to once again reauthorize this impor-
tant legislation.
Earlier this year, Senator FEINSTEIN,
the senior Senator from California, and
I introduced the Debbie Smith Act of
2019, which will extend this program
through 2024. As you might expect,
with this kind of nonpartisan legisla-
tion, it sailed through the Senate ear-
lier this year. In fact, it passed the
Senate in May with not one person vot-
ing against it. But here we are, nearly
4 months later, and the House of Rep-
resentatives has not scheduled a vote.
If they don’t take action before Sep-
tember 30, the law will expire—some-
thing I hope we all can agree would be
unconscionable and certainly com-
pletely unnecessary.
The benefits of this program tran-
scend politics or party, and allowing it
to expire would be a disservice to the
victims and advocates who have cham-
pioned this bill for the last 15 years,
particularly Debbie Smith herself.
It is time for the House to vote to re-
authorize the Debbie Smith Act so that
we can get it to the President’s desk
without further delay.
One of the strongest advocates for
the reauthorization of the Debbie
Smith Act is the Rape, Abuse & Incest
National Network, also known as
RAINN. It is the Nation’s largest anti-
sexual violence organization, and in its
25-year history, it has helped 3 million
survivors and their loved ones.
Last week, RAINN held a press con-
ference announcing the delivery of
more than 32,000 signatures urging the
immediate passage of this legislation
by the House of Representatives.
Debbie Smith also spoke at the press
conference.
Just to remind colleagues, Debbie is,
of course, a remarkable woman whose
advocacy was born from a terrible per-
sonal experience. We have had the ben-
efit of hearing from Debbie over the
years many times in the Judiciary
Committee.
I believe there is no one—no one—
who has done more to support victims
of sexual assault than Debbie, and I am
continually grateful to her for her
courage and her candor as she travels
around the country advocating for sur-
vivors. It can’t be easy to talk about
your own personal sexual assault and
how you tried to grapple with the fact
that your rape kit has not been tested
and, thus, you don’t even know who
your attacker was and whether he may
show up at some future date and try to
repeat his crime.
During the press conference, Debbie
spoke about the years of fear she dealt
with while waiting for her attacker to
be identified. She said: ‘‘The years I
spent waiting for justice can never be
returned to me.’’
That is a heartbreaking reality for
survivors of sexual violence and a re-
minder of why it is so critical to reau-
thorize the Debbie Smith Act without
further delay.
While we can’t turn back the hands
of time and somehow change history,
we can act now to provide victims with
the support, the answers, and the clo-
sure they need.
I urge Speaker PELOSI to bring the
Debbie Smith Act of 2019 to the floor
for a vote immediately in the House to
demonstrate Congress’s ongoing com-
mitment to support victims of sexual
violence.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
BUDGET PROPOSAL
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise to
object in the strongest possible terms
to President Trump’s continued raid on
the budget of the U.S. military. As a
candidate, the President promised the
American public that he would build a
border wall with Mexico and that Mex-
ico would pay for any wall that he
would build. The President has broken
his promise. It shocks me that, as Com-
mander in Chief, he now insists that it
has to be our troops, our military fami-
lies, and our Nation’s security that has
to be sacrificed for his foolishness.
Frankly, it shocks me even more that
Republican colleagues in this body
seem perfectly willing to let him do
that.
If you will not stand up for the men
and women in our military, whom will
you stand up for? If you will not stand
up for important projects in your own
State, whom will you stand up for? If
you will not stand up to protect your
Defense authorization bill or your De-
fense appropriations bill when they are
being cannibalized, when will you
stand up?
We will have a vote soon to block the
President’s destructive efforts to weak-
en our military and to trample on the
power of Congress to set the Nation’s
budget and appropriations levels. I am
hoping that my colleagues, Democratic
and Republican, will stand up.
Let me first address the need for a se-
cure border. I have called the Presi-
dent’s insistence on using military
monies to build the wall foolishness.
What do I mean by this?
I don’t challenge the need for border
security. I strongly supported a com-
prehensive immigration reform pack-
age in 2013 that included vast amounts
for border security, much more than
the President has asked for. The bill
had strong bipartisan support in the
Senate, but the Republican-majority
House refused to even take the bill up
in committee, much less on the floor of
the House. Had we passed that bill in
2013, it would have been a powerful step
forward for immigrants, Dreamers, em-
ployers, TPS recipients, the American
economy, and the security of America’s
borders.
In February of 2018, I worked with a
bipartisan group of 16 Senators—8
Democrats and 8 Republicans. We put a
proposal on the table, a permanent fix
for Dreamers and a major investment
in border security. In fact, we put an
investment in border security into that
bipartisan bill that had every penny
that the President asked for for the
next 10 years, $25 billion, but President
Trump attacked that bill and killed
the bill, even though he had earlier in-
dicated that he would sign it. There
was $25 billion for border security over
10 years, with basic guidelines to en-
sure that the monies were spent wisely
and not foolishly.
I learned something from that experi-
ence. What I learned is that I don’t be-
lieve the President cares about solving
the border security issue. The sub-
stance of it means nothing to him, or
he would have embraced a deal that
gave him every penny he asked for in
February of 2018.
He could have had a deal a long time
ago if this mattered to him. What the
President cares about is big campaign
rallies with people chanting ‘‘build a
wall’’ so he can continue to stoke his
political machine. That is what I call
foolishness.
It gets worse. A foolish insistence on
political sloganeering over problem-
solving is one thing, but taking money
out of the military budget—from key
priorities affecting our troops and the
lives and safety of our troops and their
families—is something much worse. It
is disrespectful, and it is dangerous.
The President proposes to raid the
military construction budget to the
tune of $3.6 billion to build 173 miles of
border fencing. That is an average cost
of $4,000 per linear foot of fence. For
reference, a standard 6-foot fence costs
$25 a foot, and a standard 6-foot brick
wall costs $90 a foot. The proposal is to
spend $4,000 a foot on fencing.
Let me give you examples of projects
in Virginia and elsewhere that are
being slashed to build this $4,000-a-foot
fence.
In Virginia, we will lose $77 million
in MILCON projects that the Depart-
ment of Defense has told the Senate
they need. There is $26 million being
taken away from improvements to a
Navy ship maintenance facility in
Portsmouth. Here is what the DOD said
about the importance of that work on
the ship maintenance facility:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:45 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.005 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5377
September 10, 2019
The building has been cited for a number of
life safety violations. These violations in-
clude no sprinkler protection, inadequate
fire alarm placement, lack of a mass notifi-
cation system and inadequate egress.
IMPACT IF NOT PROVIDED: Approxi-
mately 330 personnel working more than
256,000 manhours annually, will remain in a
high-risk environment, with continuing sig-
nificant rework, higher stress, and addi-
tional operating costs due to inadequate
working environment.
That is what this cut will mean to
that facility.
There is $41 million being taken away
from improvements to hazardous chem-
ical storage facilities in Portsmouth
and Norfolk. Here is how the DOD de-
scribes the impact on that cut and why
the dollars were needed:
If this project is not provided . . . Norfolk
will continue storing hazardous materials in
non-conforming storage facilities that do not
meet current life safety/fire safety code re-
quirements.
Noncompliant firewalls, inadequate fire
suppression systems, fire alarms, and inad-
equate ventilation.
There is $10 million being taken away
from a cyber facility that was recently
announced to be located at Joint Base
Langley Eustis. Needless to say, the
cyber protection of our Nation is a
higher and higher priority every day.
Here is what DOD says will happen if
those funds are not provided:
[We will be] unable to reach operating ca-
pability without a facility that includes the
required SCIF—
a classified facility—
space from which to operate. Having the re-
quired SCIF space is necessary for the team
to receive the intel and perform the training
required to perform in the cyber mission
space. Continued use of leased space is costly
and represents an enhanced security risk.
Those funds are being cut.
Just to give a few examples, $75.4
million is being taken away from heat-
ing plant improvements at Eielson Air
Force Base in Alaska. Here is what
that means, according to the Depart-
ment of Defense:
Failure of the boiler is expected within the
next 3–4 years.
That was requested in 2017.
Loss of heat and power during Eielson’s
sub-arctic winters, with temperatures as low
as 65F below zero, would be devastating to
facilities and missions housed in those facili-
ties. If the situation were deemed critical
enough, the base would be forced to consider
evacuating facilities due to a lack of heat
and power. Once closed, the facilities would
freeze and require many millions of dollars
of repair to return to usable condition. Com-
pleting the planned replacement of all boil-
ers will guarantee continued steam and
power generation to support the flying mis-
sion.
That money is being taken to fund
the wall.
There is $62 million being taken away
from improvements to a school on the
base at Fort Campbell in Kentucky.
Here is what that means, according to
the Department of Defense:
The existing school structures do not com-
ply with current building codes, Anti-Ter-
rorism & Force Protection standards, and
sustainability standards.
Heating, ventilation and air conditioning
and electrical systems are not sufficient.
IMPACT IF NOT PROVIDED: The sub-
standard environment will continue to ham-
per the educational process and the middle
school will not be able to support the DOD
curriculum and provide for a safe facility.
The continued use of deficient, inadequate,
and undersized facilities that do not accom-
modate the current student population will
continue to impair the overall educational
program for these students.
There is $13 million being taken away
from improvements to a childcare cen-
ter at Joint Base Andrews, here in the
DC area. Here is what that means, ac-
cording to the DOD:
The current facility—
a childcare center—
has suffered from sewage back-ups, heating,
ventilation and air conditioning failures and
mold and pest management issues. This
project will accommodate 165 children and
staff. As of Feb 2018, 115 children are on the
Priority 1 waiting list. . . .
Why would we do this to these mili-
tary families and their kids when they
are sacrificing to volunteer and serve
the country—take the program away,
take away the funding for the childcare
development center they need—to
spend it on a wall that the President
promised Mexico would pay for? We are
now making these families pay for it.
We are now making their children pay
for it. We are now making the troops
pay for it.
There is $15 million being taken away
from a healthcare center at Camp
Lejeune, a healthcare center for mili-
tary members and their families. Here
is what that means, according to the
DOD:
This project solves the problem of pro-
viding primary care services to the active
duty operational forces . . . located in sub-
standard infrastructure throughout the in-
stallation. [The] current capacity is insuffi-
cient and cannot accommodate more than
half of the population resulting in a disper-
sion of patients and personnel. [Existing fa-
cilities] in some cases lack basic require-
ments such as sinks, proper ventilation, and
exam rooms with doors.
IMPACT IF NOT PROVIDED: Required
medical and dental services for Marine in-
garrison care will continue to be provided in
substandard, inefficient, decentralized and
uncontrolled facilities.
My son was based at Camp Lejeune
for a number of years. That one stings.
Why would we take money out of the
healthcare facility for marines who are
living on the garrison?
Finally, $8 million is being taken
away from the space control center at
Peterson Air Force Base in Colorado.
This is interesting because the Armed
Services Committee just worked to-
gether with the administration to en-
hance a space force, a space command,
because it is a higher priority. It needs
to be. We all agree it needs to be be-
cause of advances that are being made
in space capacities by China, Russia,
and other nations. Yet the proposal is
to take $8 million away from the space
control facility. Here is what the DOD
says that would mean:
There are no adequate facilities located at
either Peterson or Buckley AFBs for this
space control squadron. The only solution
that meets all mission requirements is to
construct a new facility on Peterson AFB.
If this facility isn’t constructed, the
military will be unable to stand up
‘‘the space control mission and equip-
ment, with operational and strategic
mission impacts due to inadequate fa-
cilities.’’
We have just reached a deal with the
administration to elevate the space
force to meet the challenges of our
principal nation-state competitors. Yet
these monies are being taken away.
Will we really do this? Will we really
do this to the safety of this country, to
our security, to our troops and their
families? Will we allow the President
to unilaterally hurt these patriotic
people, when he has long been able to
find a fair and comprehensive immigra-
tion deal with Congress that includes
border security funding?
Will the Senate majority say a word,
raise an objection, show support for the
military, show that Congress sets the
budgets and appropriations, not the
Executive, make clear that no Presi-
dent—not this President or any Presi-
dent—should be able to move money
around at will to support a blatantly
political agenda at the expense of crit-
ical defense priorities? That is what we
will be voting on soon.
I urge my colleagues to reject the
President’s foolish and dangerous raid
on our military.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the order for the quorum call
be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEAHY. I ask unanimous con-
sent to proceed as in morning business
for up to 10 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, last
week, the administration announced it
was going to raid $3.6 billion from mili-
tary construction projects to pay for
President Trump’s ineffective and con-
troversial border wall. That is the wall
they gave their solemn word that Mex-
ico would pay for. Now the money is
being taken out of our military.
Look at some of the things he has
taken money from: a new middle
school at Fort Campbell, KY, a child
development center at Joint Base An-
drews in Maryland, a new elementary
school in Puerto Rico, a fire rescue sta-
tion at Tyndall Air Force base in Flor-
ida. These are among the projects can-
celed on orders from a President who
apparently values his cynical campaign
promise over our men and women serv-
ing our country in uniform and their
families.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:45 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.006 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5378 September 10, 2019
Remember, on the campaign trail he
repeatedly promised that Mexico would
pay for the wall. Supporters cheered
about that—Mexico would pay. Have
my friends on the other side of the
aisle forgotten that?
Now, after unsurprisingly failing to
convince Mexico to do so, he is forcing
our troops and their families, who al-
ready sacrifice so much to keep our
country safe, to sacrifice yet again just
to keep his ego safe.
This announcement should outrage
every U.S. Senator from both parties—
not just because it is an insult to our
troops, which it is, but also because it
is part of a larger pattern by the Presi-
dent to disregard the Congress and to
subvert the Constitution. He is doing
so not in furtherance of our national
security or to address the very real hu-
manitarian needs along our border; he
is doing so merely in service of his own
ego, and that should not go unchal-
lenged.
For those people at the White House
who have actually read the Constitu-
tion, they will find that article I, sec-
tion 9 of the Constitution established
that Congress—and Congress alone—
possesses the power of the purse.
Congress’s exclusive power over our
government’s spending priorities is one
of the most critical checks and bal-
ances in our constitutional system.
The President can propose funding
for whatever project he wants—he has
that absolute right—but it is the job of
Congress to decide where to invest the
American people’s hard-earned tax dol-
lars. In a democracy and under our
Constitution, the President has to re-
spect those decisions, but this Presi-
dent apparently is willing to ignore our
country’s foundational document, the
Constitution, or perhaps he has not
read it.
When President Trump declared a na-
tional emergency in February, citing a
crisis at the southern border, he did so
for one reason: to do an end-run around
Congress and the Appropriations Com-
mittee and to use taxpayer money to
build a wall on the southern border,
when Congress specifically voted to
downsize his request by $4.2 billion. He
cited 10 U.S.C. 2808. That is an author-
ity unlocked by the declaration of a
national emergency. He used that to
raid military construction projects to
pay for the wall—projects we had de-
termined were important and worthy
of Federal dollars like cleaning up the
housing for some of our soldiers and
their families. He has done this by con-
torting the law beyond all recognition.
He has undone congressional funding
decisions by fiat.
This should concern any Senator in a
State where critical military construc-
tion projects are being canceled to pay
for President Trump’s obsession with a
medieval wall. It should concern those
of us who believe the Constitution
should carry more weight than the
whims of a President who genuinely
thinks—and he has actually said this
out loud—that the Constitution gives
him the ‘‘right to do whatever I want
as President.’’ No. We have a Constitu-
tion because the President is not above
the law any more than the rest of us.
Only a few weeks ago, the adminis-
tration yet again disregarded objec-
tions from Congress and announced
plans to divert $116 million we appro-
priated to the Department of Homeland
Security for national security pur-
poses, as well as $155 million from
FEMA’s wildfire and hurricane disaster
relief fund, and use it to detain more
immigrants by increasing the number
of ICE detention beds and building
court facilities for the deeply mis-
guided, dangerous, and cruel Remain-
in-Mexico Program.
The level of funding for ICE deten-
tion beds was set in the fiscal year 2019
in the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity Act. That was passed by Congress
and signed by the President just 6
months ago. It was one of the last
issues resolved. Like the wall funding
itself, it was central to the final agree-
ment.
I had serious concerns with the fund-
ing level we agreed to at that time. I
still do. There is no reason to turn to
mass incarceration when most people
crossing our borders are desperately
fleeing violence in their home coun-
tries, not seeking to do harm to ours.
More humane and cost-efficient ways
to address these issues exist and allow
us to have a secure border, but a deal is
a deal. It is what we agreed to. The
President signed that bill into law. For
the President to undo what he signed
into law only months later by increas-
ing funding for ICE through transfers
is outrageous.
The fiscal year 2019 DHS appropria-
tions act set a level of funding that re-
quired DHS to end the fiscal year with
a debt ceiling of 40,520. They now oper-
ate at a level of 52,930 beds—a 31-per-
cent increase, all without the approval
of Congress.
The President will say he is merely
relying on general transfer authority
provided to him by Congress in the
DHS appropriations act to increase
funding for ICE detention beds. Well,
that is ridiculous. It is disingenuous
and makes no sense.
Congress provides the executive
branch certain transfer authority so it
can be flexible and react in realtime to
emergencies, unanticipated needs, and
changed circumstances. We have pro-
vided this flexibility for decades for
Presidents of both parties because it
was the responsible thing to do. No
government can anticipate all of its
needs at the beginning of each fiscal
year. We trust the administration to
follow the law, follow the Constitution,
and use the authority appropriately.
We have done this for both Republicans
and Democrats.
In return for that flexibility, past ad-
ministrations of both parties, they re-
spected the will of Congress. For the
most part, when the Appropriations
Committee objected to a transfer or re-
programming, the objection was hon-
ored until a compromise might be
reached.
This President, however—after all, he
said the Constitution allows him to do
anything he wants, and we know it
does not—has thrown that tradition
out the window. He has decided that
consulting Congress is a box-checking
exercise to be summarily disregarded.
For the second year in a row, he is in-
creasing money for ICE detention beds
over the objection of the Appropria-
tions Committee and in violation of
the agreements reached in the DHS ap-
propriations laws.
Earlier this year, he used the trans-
fer authority to divert $2.5 billion from
the Department of Defense accounts to
pay for the wall after Congress refused
to give him that authority. That
money is in addition to the $3.6 billion
he recently announced he will take
from military construction projects
and $600 million that he took from the
Treasury asset forfeiture account for
the wall.
He is doing all this while refusing to
spend the money Congress appropriated
to address the root causes of migration
in Central America. So when will it
stop? When will Members on the other
side of the aisle take a stand and say:
‘‘We passed a law, and we expect you to
follow it’’?
So far, the abuses of authority have
been used in ways that mostly impact
issues Democrats care about. Repub-
licans have stood silent. What happens
when the administration crosses a Re-
publican redline? What about Members
from States impacted by the canceled
military construction projects? When
this has been canceled in your State,
will you stand up for your State? If
they will not stand up for Congress or
the Constitution, will they at least
stand up for their own State?
Last month, the administration
threatened to cancel over $4 billion in
foreign assistance in blatant violation
of the law. The funds were appropriated
by overwhelming majorities of Repub-
licans and Democrats after lengthy ne-
gotiations between the House and Sen-
ate, including the White House, and
signed into law by the President.
These funds were intended to imple-
ment policies and programs which,
among other things, fulfill U.S. treaty
obligations, support our allies and
partners, protect the public against
Ebola and other infectious diseases,
counter Russian aggression and Chi-
nese influence, respond to humani-
tarian crises, and counter violent ex-
tremism. The President backed down
from this threat, but what if he had
not? And now we hear reports that he
is withholding $250 million in aid to
Ukraine meant to counter the Russian
invasion of that country.
This week, we will begin marking up
the fiscal year 2020 appropriations bills
in committee. If we care about this in-
stitution, Members on both sides of the
aisle need to stand up for the power of
the purse, granted to it under article I,
section 9 of the Constitution. I plan to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:45 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.008 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5379
September 10, 2019
do so by offering amendments to appro-
priations bills to undo the President’s
actions on the wall and to limit his
flexibility to transfer and reprogram
money, which he has so abused.
I urge all members of the committee
to support me in this effort. Our coun-
try was built on the concept of separa-
tion of powers. This is meaningless if
Congress cedes one of its most impor-
tant powers to the executive branch or
refuses to take a stand when the ad-
ministration overreaches, ignores Con-
gress, or breaks the law.
We may disagree on the utility of the
President’s wall, but we should not dis-
agree on the constitutional role of this
body. The President may not care
about our system of checks and bal-
ances, but every one of us here should.
Political winds tend to change direc-
tion. It is time to reassert ourselves
and do so before it is too late.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Craft nomination?
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, I ask for the
yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There is a sufficient second.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 56,
nays 38, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 264 Ex.]
YEAS—56
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—38
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Sinema
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Elizabeth Darling, of Texas, to be
Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Fami-
lies, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices.
Mitch McConnell, Steve Daines, John
Thune, John Cornyn, James M. Inhofe,
Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, Chuck Grass-
ley, Richard Burr, John Barrasso,
Jerry Moran, Roy Blunt, Shelley
Moore Capito, John Boozman, Johnny
Isakson, Thom Tillis, John Hoeven.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Elizabeth Darling, of Texas, to be
Commissioner on Children, Youth, and
Families, Department of Health and
Human Services, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 57,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 265 Ex.]
YEAS—57
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Sinema
Warren
Mr. CRUZ. On this vote, the yeas are
57, the nays are 37.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Elizabeth Dar-
ling, of Texas, to be Commissioner on
Children, Youth, and Families, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 1:05 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m., and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Darling nomination?
Mr. SHELBY. I ask for the yeas and
nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.009 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5380 September 10, 2019
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote or change their vote?
The result was announced—yeas 57,
nays 37, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 266 Ex.]
YEAS—57
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—37
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Sinema
Warren
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
The Senator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the remaining
votes in this series be 10 minutes in
length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be
Director of the Office of Foreign Missions,
with the rank of Ambassador.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Shelley
Moore Capito, Mike Rounds, John
Boozman, Thom Tillis, Richard Burr,
James E. Risch, David Perdue, Roy
Blunt, Kevin Cramer, Roger F. Wicker,
Tom Cotton, John Barrasso, Steve
Daines, John Thune, John Hoeven.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Di-
rector of the Office of Foreign Mis-
sions, with the rank of Ambassador,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 91,
nays 3, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 267 Ex.]
YEAS—91
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—3
Booker Gillibrand Markey
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Sinema
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote the yeas are 91, the nays are 3.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Direc-
tor of the Office of Foreign Missions,
with the rank of Ambassador.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant to
rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be
Director of the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment for a term of four years.
Mitch McConnell, James E. Risch, Roy
Blunt, John Boozman, John Cornyn,
Pat Roberts, Richard Burr, Lindsey
Graham, John Kennedy, Mike Crapo,
Mike Rounds, David Perdue, Roger F.
Wicker, Thom Tillis, Ron Johnson,
Rick Scott.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be Di-
rector of the Office of Personnel Man-
agement for a term of four years, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 268 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.004 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5381
September 10, 2019
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Sinema
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 53, the nays are 41.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to
be Director of the Office of Personnel
Management for a term of four years.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Georgia.
NOMINATION OF JAMES BYRNE
Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, we
have a second to certify our growth in
the VA by nominating James Byrne
and approving his appointment. We
have all worked hard to see that the
VA is responsive. We get good news in
the papers, not bad news. We are help-
ing our veterans get back to work. The
VA is working. We have some prob-
lems, but we have a lot fewer than we
used to have. A lot of that is because of
James Byrne. He has been working al-
ready, and we need to make him per-
manent. Please help us to confirm
James Byrne.
I yield to the Senator from Montana,
Mr. TESTER.
Mr. TESTER. Madam President, I
thank the chairman of the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs for his good work.
Jim Byrne is the right man for the
job. We passed the VA MISSION Act
that needs to be implemented. I know
Mr. Byrne has ruffled feathers among
some here. In the end, I think he will
do the right thing and that we can hold
him accountable. It is critically impor-
tant we get these folks confirmed so we
can hold them accountable and get
them in front of our committee. I
would urge a ‘‘yea’’ vote on Jim Byrne.
Mr. ISAKSON. I yield the floor.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of James Byrne, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Mitch McConnell, James E. Risch, John
Boozman, John Cornyn, Pat Roberts,
Richard Burr, Lindsey Graham, John
Kennedy, Mike Crapo, David Perdue,
Mike Rounds, Roy Blunt, Roger F.
Wicker, Todd Young, Thom Tillis, Ron
Johnson, Rick Scott.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of James Byrne, of Virginia, to be Dep-
uty Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall
be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 81,
nays 13, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 269 Ex.]
YEAS—81
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Risch
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Smith
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—13
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Gillibrand
Hirono
Klobuchar
Markey
Merkley
Murray
Reed
Schumer
Stabenow
Wyden
NOT VOTING—6
Alexander
Harris
Roberts
Sanders
Sinema
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 81, the nays are 13.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of James Byrne, of Virginia, to
be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
S. 1689
Mr. BOOKER. Madam President, I
rise to speak today on S. 1689, which
passed last night.
Yesterday, this body unanimously
voted to pass my legislation that could
give States greater flexibility in how
they use Federal funding for water
projects. This bill is a tool to help com-
munities in New Jersey and other
States remove lead from their drinking
water.
We have a national crisis. It is a cri-
sis we are seeing all over the country.
I first wrote this legislation after a
study was released last year that found
lead leaching into the drinking water
of my home city, Newark, NJ. Since
then, I have been trying to get our
State the Federal resources it needs to
upgrade our aging water infrastruc-
ture.
After it wasn’t included in last year’s
end-of-the-year spending bill, I intro-
duced it as a stand-alone bill and
pushed its passage through the Senate
Environment and Public Works Com-
mittee, with bipartisan support, earlier
this summer.
While the bill has been waiting to
pass here in the Senate, the residents
of my city, my neighbors, my family,
and others have had to deal with addi-
tional concerns of exposure to lead in
our drinking water.
Local, State, and Federal officials
have been working almost literally
around the clock to bring residents an-
swers they deserve, answers they de-
mand. I have repeatedly pushed the
Federal Government, and the EPA in
particular, to provide more resources
to Newark in every way I can. I have
been making calls and writing letters,
hosting meetings. When I spoke with
Administrator Wheeler and then per-
sonally met with EPA in Newark, I re-
minded them of our shared responsi-
bility in bringing safe, clean drinking
water to residents. This is not just a
national emergency; this is an urgency.
We are waiting for more sampling re-
sults right now to better understand
how to address the situation in Newark
as quickly as possible. This legislation
will allow Newark, NJ, and all of New
Jersey to have access to upward of $100
million in Federal funds for pressing
drinking water projects.
For the last month, thousands of
residents haven’t been able to drink
the city’s water. As I was handing out
bottled water to my neighbors, I heard
how significantly this was affecting the
daily routines of my neighbors and
friends and undermining the well-being
of my community, of my city.
Again, I say this is a national ur-
gency, a national emergency, because
the residents of my city are not alone.
This crisis is affecting communities all
over the country. In fact, as Reuters
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.006 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5382 September 10, 2019
reported, there are over 3,000 jurisdic-
tions where children in America have
more than twice the blood lead levels
of Flint, MI.
These results across our country
demonstrate yet again how we have
failed to adequately invest in our Na-
tion’s aging infrastructure. In a Nation
as wealthy as ours, clean drinking
water should be a basic human right,
and we must act to make that our re-
ality.
The majority of those impacted are
low-income, economically vulnerable
people. They are like the neighbors in
my community. They cannot face this
health crisis alone. The Federal Gov-
ernment must act.
I am so grateful for the success we
have had to help Newark and the bill
we passed together last night, but
clearly our work is not done, and I will
not stop until every American has ac-
cess to clean drinking water. Clean
water and clean air must be an Amer-
ican right.
I want to thank my partner on this
legislation, Senator BOB MENENDEZ. I
also want to thank my Senate col-
leagues, especially Leader SCHUMER,
Ranking Member CARPER, and the
chairman of EPW, Chairman BAR-
RASSO. I also want to thank others who
are advocating for this critical legisla-
tion and urge the House to take it up
immediately—not only to help New
Jersey but communities nationwide.
I am happy that finally the legisla-
tion I wrote has now passed this body,
and I am grateful it was done with 100
Senators in accord. We still have work
to do, but this, for me, was affirmation
that now people in the State of New
Jersey will have more of the Federal
resources they need to address the cri-
sis. I am encouraged that this bill was
able to be passed and that there is
more hope on the horizon for my city
and others like it in New Jersey.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNIZING THE EASTBANK LITTLE LEAGUE
TEAM
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
rise today to recognize the Eastbank
Little League team from River Ridge,
LA, for winning the 2019 Little League
World Series.
Everybody is glad when kids do well,
but you are particularly glad when
they are your kids, and these are Lou-
isiana’s kids. It is the first time in his-
tory a Louisiana team has won the Lit-
tle League tournament, and we are
still celebrating.
Egan, Reece, Marshall, William,
Gavin, Jeffrey, Ryan, Derek, Connor,
Ryder, Alton, Peyton, Stan, and coach-
es Scott Frazier, Kevin Johnson, and
Donald Abadie, you have made us
proud.
The real story may not be the cham-
pionship itself but how they won. After
losing their first game to Hawaii, the
defending world champions, the Lou-
isiana team went on to outscore oppo-
nents 44 to 8. They averaged almost as
many runs per game as their opponents
scored in total during this streak, and
that is amazing.
One of those wins included fending
off a comeback in a rematch against
Hawaii for the American champion-
ship. I commend the Hawaii team for
their impressive season, which is after
an impressive season last year, but this
year it was the Louisiana team’s mo-
ment.
After the Hawaii victory, they then
went on to shut out the Caribbean
team 8 to 0 to bring the world cham-
pionship home to Louisiana and to the
United States.
Louisianans are known for resiliency.
That inborn never-give-up attitude is
why these kids are champions.
These young folks from River Ridge
faced adversity they conquered. They
demonstrated character and sports-
manship throughout the ups and
downs. Their wins should make all
Americans proud. They certainly make
all of Louisiana proud.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business for up to 25 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, as
the Presiding Officer knows, I have
often spoken about how climate change
is affecting Rhode Island. Rising sea
levels will remake my State’s map.
Warming seas are shifting our tradi-
tional fisheries away from Rhode Is-
land. A hotter climate creates public
health risks for Rhode Islanders. And
the list goes on.
In the Senate, I have also tried to
learn how climate change is affecting
other States. The Presiding Officer was
courteous about joining me in Lou-
isiana when I made a trip to his State.
I have been doing a fair amount of
traveling, and last month I visited Wy-
oming to hear about climate change in
the Cowboy State. That was the 17th
State I visited on these climate trips.
Here is a little background on Wyo-
ming. It is big. It is a lot bigger than
Rhode Island. It is almost 400 miles
wide by almost 300 miles north to
south. Although it has some lovely
lakes, Wyoming ain’t coastal. Its low-
est point is more than 3,000 feet above
sea level—three times higher than
Rhode Island’s highest point, Jerimoth
Hill—and its highest point, Gannett
Peak, is almost 14,000 feet.
Wyomingites have a reputation for
being conservative skeptics about cli-
mate change, but polling data shows
that even in Wyoming, 60 percent of
people think climate change is hap-
pening, 43 percent think humans are
driving it, 69 percent say they support
regulating carbon dioxide as a pollut-
ant, and 68 percent think their schools
should teach about global warming.
My trip began in Teton County,
which I was repeatedly told is the lib-
eral part of the State. Teton County is
home to Jackson Hole and Grand Teton
National Park, as well as a large chunk
of America’s legendary Yellowstone
National Park. From Jackson, I went
up to visit Yellowstone and then came
back down over Togwotee Pass and
down here to Dubois and then around
on to Lake of the Woods, to the Wind
River Indian Reservation, to Lander, to
Pinedale, and back to Jackson.
In Teton County, I met with local
elected officials from Jackson, from
the Teton County council, and from
the Wyoming Legislature. I learned
that roughly two-thirds of Wyoming’s
revenues come from mineral extrac-
tion—mostly coal, oil, and natural gas.
With all this fossil fuel money pouring
into its coffers, Wyoming has no State
income tax, sales tax of 4 percent, and
one of the lowest effective property tax
rates in the Nation. Indeed, I was told
that Wyomingites get around $9 in
services for every $1 they pay in taxes.
It is a sweet deal. And fossil fuel picks
up the rest of the tab.
There are problems with this polit-
ical-economic model, however—prob-
lems that folks in Wyoming repeatedly
pointed out to me. First, it exposes
Wyoming heavily to boom/bust cycles.
Three coal companies have gone bank-
rupt just this year. It will also expose
Wyoming to the devastating bust com-
ing if, as predicted, fossil fuel assets
crash. Almost all of Wyoming’s eggs
are in one fossil fuel basket.
Moreover, a political-economic model
based on fossil fuel harms Wyoming’s
other economic driver: outdoor recre-
ation—skiing and snowboarding, river
rafting, backpacking, hiking, rock
climbing, and fly fishing. Wyoming has
abundant outdoor recreation.
During my trip, I heard how lucky I
was to enjoy clear and smokeless skies
in August and that this August was
like August of times gone by. The new
normal across the West is hotter, dryer
summers driven by climate change, and
that makes massive forest fires, filling
the skies with smoke for weeks and
months on end. We enjoyed clear skies.
In addition to the threat to life and
property, wildfires harm Wyoming’s
tourism and outdoor recreation econo-
mies. Obviously, fewer people visit
when iconic landscapes are obscured or
when places they want to explore are
at risk of fire. A representative from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.024 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5383
September 10, 2019
the Fremont County lodging tax board
told me that fires can shut down roads
to the national parks and forests, cut-
ting hotels and motels off from the at-
tractions to draw people there.
At the Jackson Hole Mountain Re-
sort, I sat down with over a dozen busi-
ness leaders from the outdoor recre-
ation industry who told me that out-
door recreation generates $5.6 billion in
Wyoming and supports 50,000 jobs—ac-
tually more jobs than the fossil fuel in-
dustry. For the winter sports business,
climate change is an existential threat,
shortening ski seasons, worsening snow
cover, and affecting these beautiful
landscapes. For this industry, this
problem is deadly serious, and the in-
dustry is struggling to learn how to get
the political attention that the fossil
fuel industry enjoys.
In Lander, I met with leaders from
the renowned National Outdoor Lead-
ership School, NOLS. NOLS draws peo-
ple from around the world to learn
about the outdoors, develop leadership
skills, and study mountaineering and
outdoor survival. It is the largest non-
government employer in Fremont
County. The president of NOLS told
me: ‘‘Without question, the number
one risk the school faces is climate
change.’’ For instance, the risk of wild-
fire is up dramatically and along with
it, property insurance rates. Climate
change has disrupted NOLS’s schedule
at its outdoor campuses around the
world, as wildfires, melting glaciers
and permafrost, and upended stream
flows make it difficult, impossible, or
dangerous to access these course sites.
For people who love these places, this
hurts the heart as much as it hurts the
pocketbook.
In Jackson, I met winter sports ath-
letes from the group Protect Our Win-
ters. These are amazing athletes who
spoke about their passion for snow
sports and magnificent mountain land-
scapes. They also spoke of climate
change threatening the future of the
sports they love. I listened to Lynsey
Dyer deliver a wonderful presentation
to a packed house in Jackson about
how climate change is altering alpine
environments. She is summoning the
same inner strength that allows her to
ski death-defying drops. I will tell you,
look at the film of some of what she
skis off of, and it will stun you. She is
using that inner strength to build na-
tional support for climate action.
In Pinedale I heard how climate
change threatens Wyoming’s cold
water fisheries. The Upper Green River
and its tributaries are some of the
most storied trout streams in the
world, drawing in a big fishing busi-
ness. I spent an afternoon with a fly
fishing guy and a representative from
Wyoming Trout Unlimited. They told
me how higher temperatures and lower
water flows, both caused by climate
change, harm Wyoming’s iconic trout,
which need cold water with plenty of
oxygen.
I also visited local scientists who
study climate change. Dr. Michael
Tercek and Dr. Andy Ray gave me a
tour of Yellowstone National Park to
show me how climate change is already
changing the park’s ecosystem, with
vaster changes expected ahead. Dr.
Tercek is an ecologist who has worked
in Yellowstone for over two decades.
Dr. Ray’s specialty is amphibians,
which may not be as iconic as Yellow-
stone’s bison but are on the frontlines
of climate change.
The scientists told me that just over
the last 70 years, the average annual
temperature in the greater Yellow-
stone area has risen by 2 degrees Fahr-
enheit. In parts of the region, there are
now 60 fewer days a year with below-
freezing temperatures than there were
just 30 years ago. Summers are drier,
and in winter there is less snowpack,
meaning less snowmelt and less water
in the spring and early summer.
You can already see changes in the
park. Take cheatgrass. Cheatgrass is
an invasive species whose roots don’t
hold the soil as well as the native sage
brush. As temperatures warm, cheat-
grass spreads to higher and higher ele-
vations, supplanting the sage brush.
The result is this: large gullies carved
in hillsides as rain and snowmelt wash
away the soil.
Consider Dr. Ray’s amphibians. We
visited several small ponds and tarns
that dot the Yellowstone landscape. As
temperatures warm and precipitation
declines, water levels in many ponds
fall, reducing habitat for these amphib-
ians and making them more vulnerable
to predators.
In this photo, you can see a line here
along the edge of this pond. Most of the
rocks here are gray. They are gray be-
cause they are covered by lichen that
turns them that color. But if you look
just above these grasses here, you will
see rocks that are nearly pink in color.
These are rocks that were submerged
until recently, and the lichen hasn’t
yet had time to colonize—clear evi-
dence that the water level at this pond
has fallen rapidly.
We climbed up into some dead forests
to look at what bark beetles are doing
to the Rocky Mountains’ conifers. Here
is a photo I took of a branch from a
tree killed by bark beetles. The beetles
bore through the bark, and then their
larvae eat the thin cambium layer be-
tween the bark and the wood of the
tree trunk. This ultimately girdles and
kills the tree. You can see in this photo
the marks left by the bark beetles.
This J-shaped mark you see here is
particularly characteristic of bark bee-
tles.
This chart shows how beetle kill
spreads through forests once winter
temperatures began warming. You see
these temperature climbs here from
1980 forward, and you see a matching
climb in beetle-killed trees in Colorado
and Wyoming. Hotter, drier summers
also stress the trees, making them
more vulnerable to infestation. Once
they are dead, they become wildfire
tinder.
Bark beetles might seem like eso-
teric little creatures until you see the
damage they have done throughout the
Mountain West. Everywhere there is
red on this map there is kill by bark
beetles. Bark beetles have killed
enough acres of western forest to cover
the entire State of Wyoming and then
some. You can see a lot of this kill is
in Wyoming.
On the road from Yellowstone to
Dubois, you cross Togwatee Pass, be-
tween the Absaroka and Wind River
mountain ranges. You traverse miles
and miles that look like this—dead
trees as far as the eye can see, killed
by beetle infestation.
In the Wind River Indian Reserva-
tion, I met a man named Jim Pogue.
He said they call these gray, dead for-
ests ‘‘doghair forests.’’
Here is a landscape dramatically al-
tered by climate change. This forest
died in less than a decade.
Before I met Dr. Tercek, I read an ar-
ticle in which he was quoted as saying:
‘‘By the time my daughter is an old
woman, the climate will be as different
for her as the last ice age seems to us.’’
I didn’t fully grasp what he meant
until I met another scientist studying
climate change in Wyoming, the Uni-
versity of Wyoming’s Bryan Shuman.
Dr. Shuman took me up to one of his
research sites—the Lake of the
Woods—high in the foothills of the
Wind River Range. At this lake and
others, Dr. Shuman extracts sediment
cores and conducts radar scans of the
lake bottom and then reconstructs the
climate of the region 10,000 years back
to the last ice age. During the last ice
age, global average temperatures were
3.5 degrees colder than our
preindustrial average.
The 3.5 degrees colder temperatures
resulted in a radically different land-
scape in Wyoming. Massive glaciers
spread across the Wind River Range.
On this map, you can see just how
much territory these vast glaciers cov-
ered. That legend shows 10 kilometers.
So that is essentially the whole Wind
River Range.
The 3.5 degrees change in tempera-
ture created a huge effect. I say that
because the Earth is predicted to warm
at least 3.5 degrees by the end of the
century if we don’t cut carbon emis-
sions. So think about it for a minute.
In a little bit more than 100 years, the
temperature on Earth will have
changed as much as it did in the 10,000
years from the end of the last ice age.
From 10,000 years ago to the beginning
of the Industrial Age, there was a
change of 3.5 degrees, and in the fol-
lowing 100 years, we are expecting an-
other 3.5 degrees. Instead of climate
change driving forward at 1 mile an
hour, it started driving forward,
thanks to fossil fuel emissions, at 100
miles an hour.
This shows how dishonest the smug
statement is that the climate is always
changing. Not like this, it is not. When
you know that 3.5 degrees Celsius is
the difference between being covered in
ice and having the forest and sage
brush steppe ecosystems there now,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.028 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5384 September 10, 2019
you can see that another 3.5 degrees of
warming will cause massive changes.
Dr. Tercek was not exaggerating.
When his daughter is an old woman at
the end of the century, the climate will
have changed as much as it changed
since the last ice age, and our climate
then will seem as foreign to her as the
ice age seems to us.
There are still glaciers—some—in the
Wind River Range. They were tiny
compared to the ice age glaciers that
once dominated northwestern Wyo-
ming, but they are the largest glaciers
in the Rocky Mountains. For the last
several summers, a team of professors
and students from Central Wyoming
College have studied these glaciers.
Their work is featured in an Emmy-
winning documentary produced by PBS
Wyoming called ‘‘Glaciers of the
Winds.’’ It is actually available on
YouTube, and I highly recommend it.
Again, it is called ‘‘Glaciers of the
Winds.’’
I visited around their campfire the
night before the Central Wyoming Col-
lege team set off on a 20-plus mile ex-
pedition up to the base of Dinwoody
Glacier. The students are measuring
the size of the glaciers to determine
how quickly they are melting. They
will analyze water quality, and they
will search for archeological artifacts
to better understand how Native peo-
ples lived up in this alpine environ-
ment.
The archeology team told me that
based on artifacts they have unearthed,
they believe that early Native peoples
worshipped the glaciers. A spiritual
reverence for glaciers began to make a
little more sense to me when I visited
the Wind River Indian Reservation.
The land to the east of the reservation
is deathly arid. Agriculture depends on
irrigation, and irrigation depends on
glaciers. Leaders of the Eastern Sho-
shone and Northern Arapaho Tribal
councils said that after the winter
snow melts away, their irrigation de-
pends entirely on the glaciers, which
hold water back as ice and release it
through the long summer as
meltwater—key after annual snows
have melted away. They told me that
‘‘once the glaciers are gone, our main
resource for life will be gone.’’
I won’t pretend I met no climate
skeptics in Wyoming. An innkeeper at
a motel told me that climate change
was a ‘‘goddamned hoax’’ and for sure
wasn’t happening in Wyoming. Many of
the student scientists at Central Wyo-
ming College recounted difficulty ex-
plaining their interest in climate
change to family and friends. They
called it having ‘‘the conversation.’’
I also met with an employee at the
Jim Bridger coal-fired powerplant. She
made a strong case that climate solu-
tions must protect workers. I couldn’t
agree more. Wyoming has lost three
coal companies to bankruptcy just this
year.
One of the great lies of the rotten,
crooked climate denial operation is
that reducing carbon emissions is bad
for the economy and bad for jobs,
when, in fact, the opposite is true. An-
other great lie is that the industry
cares much about its workers. Carbon
pricing would give an economic reason
for carbon removal, which in turn
could help keep some plants operating
a little longer and ease the workers’
transition. But, no, like we saw when
coal companies looted miners’ pen-
sions, took care of the CEOs, and
ducked into bankruptcy, the climate
denial path is a dead-end for workers.
In spite of some Wyomingites’ skep-
ticism, my trip underscored how atti-
tudes are changing even in the reddest
parts of the country. Over and over
again, Wyomingites told me that they
cherish the stunning landscapes around
them. They live in Wyoming to be able
to hunt and fish and explore these
amazing places. As climate change
bears down on Wyoming’s wild places,
even current skeptics will come to ac-
cept that we must fight climate change
to protect things they love.
The younger generation already gets
it. I won’t forget the fire-lit, passionate
faces of the Central Wyoming College
students, nor the determination and
drive of Lynsey Dyer and the winter
sports athletes, nor a young instructor
at NOLS who gave an impassioned ar-
gument for climate action. With pow-
erful and knowledgeable voices like
these speaking, with an economy so
vulnerable and no plan B, and with
such risk to Wyoming’s natural won-
ders, I am hopeful that voters in Wyo-
ming and across the country will start
to send a clear message that we must
take action to reduce carbon emissions
and soon—it is the smart, prudent, and
economically best course—and to ask
the people whom they elect: Listen,
let’s do this. If you won’t lead, at least
get out of the way. Help us protect
what we love while there is still time.
I yield the floor, and I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
f
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the postcloture
time on the Akard, Cabaniss, and
Byrne nominations expire at 11 a.m. on
Wednesday, September 11, and that if
the nominations are confirmed, the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table and the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action. I further ask that
notwithstanding rule XXII, following
disposition of the Byrne nomination,
the Senate resume consideration of the
Bowman nomination and that at 2:45
the Senate vote on the cloture motions
for the Bowman, Feddo, and Nordquist
nominations. Finally, I ask that fol-
lowing the cloture vote on the
Nordquist nomination, the Senate vote
on the Haines, Brown, Grimberg,
Seeger, McElroy, and Gallagher nomi-
nations as under the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, sec-
tion 36(b) of the Arms Export Control
Act requires that Congress receive
prior notification of certain proposed
arms sales as defined by that statute.
Upon such notification, the Congress
has 30 calendar days during which the
sale may be reviewed. The provision
stipulates that, in the Senate, the noti-
fication of proposed sales shall be sent
to the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–44 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Denmark for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $200 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–44
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Denmark.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10SE6.029 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5385
September 10, 2019
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $100 million.
Other $100 million.
Total $200 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase: The Government of Den-
mark has requested to expand operational
mission capability of previously purchased
nine (9) MH–60R Multi-Mission helicopters,
by equipping them with Anti-Submarine
Warfare (ASW) capabilities inherent in MH–
60R design to include the following items:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE): Nine (9)
AN/AQS–22 Airborne Low Frequency Sonar
(ALFS) Systems
Non-MDE: Also included are six hundred
(600) AN/SSQ–36/53/62 Sonobuoys; spare and
repair parts; support and test equipment;
communication equipment; publications and
technical documentation; personnel training
and training equipment; U.S. Government
and contractor engineering, technical, and
logistics support services; and other related
elements of logistical and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (DE–P–
LBT).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: DE–P–SAE
and DE–P–GBP.
(vi) Sales Commission. Fee. etc., Paid. Of-
fered. or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
August 27, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Denmark—Airborne Low Frequency Sonar
System and Sonobuoys
The Government of Denmark has requested
to buy nine (9) AN/AQS–22 Airborne Low Fre-
quency Sonar (ALFS) systems; six hundred
(600) AN/SSQ–36/53/62 Sonobuoys; spare and
repair parts; support and test equipment;
communication equipment; publications and
technical documentation; personnel training
and training equipment; U.S. Government
and contractor engineering, technical, and
logistics support services; and other related
elements of logistical and program support.
The total estimated program cost is $200 mil-
lion.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security objectives of
the United States by helping to improve the
military capability of Denmark, a NATO ally
that is an important force for ensuring polit-
ical stability and economic progress within
Europe.
The proposed sale will improve Denmark’s
capability to meet current and future
threats from enemy weapon systems. The
ALFS and Sonobuoys will provide the capa-
bility to perform anti-submarine warfare
missions. Denmark will use the enhanced ca-
pability as a deterrent to regional threats
and to strengthen its homeland defense. Den-
mark will have no difficulty absorbing this
equipment into its armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The principal contractor will be Lockheed
Martin Rotary and Mission Systems in
Oswego, New York. There are no known off-
set agreements in connection with this po-
tential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of additional U.S.
Government or contractor representatives to
Denmark.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–44
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The AN/AQS–22 Airborne Low Frequency
Sonar (ALFS) is the primary undersea war-
fare sensor of the MH–60R multi-mission hel-
icopter. This integrated dipping sonar sys-
tem enables the MH–60R to accomplish the
assigned Anti-Submarine Warfare missions
of submarine detection, tracking, localiza-
tion, and classification. It also performs mis-
sions relating to acoustic intercept, under-
water communications, and environmental
data acquisition. Acoustics algorithms are
used to process dipping sonar and sonobuoy
data for target tracking and for the Acous-
tics Mission Planner (AMP), which is a tac-
tical aid employed to optimize the deploy-
ment of the sonobuoy and the dipping sonar.
Acoustics hardware is Unclassified. The
acoustics system is classified up to Secret
when environmental and threat databases
are loaded and/or the system is processing
acoustic data. ALFS hardware and support
equipment, test equipment, and maintenance
spares are unclassified. Technical data and
documentation for the ALFS weapon system
is classified up to Secret.
2. The AN/SSQ–36 Bathythermograph (BT)
sonobuoy is an A-size, expendable and non-
repairable sonobuoy. The BT sonobuoy is an
expendable thermal gradient measurement
sonobuoy that operates over Radio Fre-
quency (RF) channels. It consists of a therm-
istor temperature probe that descends
through the bottom of the sonobuoy can-
ister, producing a continuous reading of tem-
perature versus depth, and transmits the
readings to an aircraft or nearby vessel. The
thermistor temperature probe can descend
up to 2625 feet.
3. The AN/SSQ–53 Directional Frequency
Analysis and Recording (DIFAR) sonobuoy is
an A-size, expendable and non-repairable di-
rectional passive sonobuoy. Basic capabili-
ties include four hydrophone depth selec-
tions up to 1000 feet with five time duration
selections up to eight hours.
4. The AN/SSQ–62 Directional Command
Activated Sonobuoy System (DICASS) sono-
buoy is an A-size, expendable, non-repair-
able, directional active sonobuoy. The
DICASS, in conjunction with the monitoring
unit’s signal processing equipment, provides
active sonar range, bearing, and Doppler in-
formation on a submerged contact. The
DICASS sonobuoy is designed to develop and
maintain attack criteria. While often em-
ployed in multiple sonobuoy patterns; the
DICASS sonobuoy is designed to permit sin-
gle buoy attack criteria. The flexibility in-
herent in the monitoring unit’s control over
the various sonobuoy functions enables opti-
mum sonobuoy employment over a wide
range of environmental and target condi-
tions.
5. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures, which might reduce weapon sys-
tem effectiveness or be used in the develop-
ment of a system with similar or advanced
capabilities.
6. A determination has been made that the
recipient country can provide substantially
the same degree of protection for the sen-
sitive technology being released as the U.S.
Government. This sale is necessary in fur-
therance of the U.S. foreign policy and na-
tional security objectives outlined in the
Policy Justification.
7. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to Denmark.
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, sec-
tion 36(b) of the Arms Export Control
Act requires that Congress receive
prior notification of certain proposed
arms sales as defined by that statute.
Upon such notification, the Congress
has 30 calendar days during which the
sale may be reviewed. The provision
stipulates that, in the Senate, the noti-
fication of proposed sales shall be sent
to the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–25, concerning the Air Force’s proposed
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Gov-
ernment of Hungary for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $500 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–25
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Hungary.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $320 million.
Other $180 million.
Total $500 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
One hundred eighty (180) AIM–120C–7 Ad-
vanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missiles
(AMRAAM).
Four (4) Spare AIM–120C–7 AMRAAM Guid-
ance Sections.
Non-MDE: Also included are four (4) spare
AIM–120C–7 control sections, six (6)
AMRAAM training missiles (CATM–120C),
missile containers, classified software (for
the AN/MPQ–64F1 Sentinel Radar requested
by Hungary through Direct Commercial
Sale), spare and repair parts, cryptographic
and communication security devices, preci-
sion navigation equipment, other software,
site surveys, weapons system equipment and
computer software support, publications and
technical documentation, common muni-
tions and test equipment, repair and return
services and equipment, personnel training
and training equipment, integration support
and test equipment, and U.S. Government
and contractor, engineering, technical and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.008 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5386 September 10, 2019
logistics support services, and other related
elements of logistical and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Air Force (HU–
D–YAD); Army (HU–B–UCU).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
August 27, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Hungary—AIM–120C–7 Advanced Medium-
Range Air-to-Air Missiles (AMRAAM)
The Government of Hungary has requested
to buy one hundred and eighty (180) AIM–
120C–7 Advanced Medium Range Air-to-Air
Missiles (AMRAAM), and four (4) spare AIM–
120C–7 AMRAAM guidance sections. Also in-
cluded are four (4) spare AIM–120C–7 control
sections, six (6) AMRAAM training missiles
(CATM–120C), missile containers, classified
software (for the AN/MPQ–64F1 Sentinel
Radar requested by Hungary through Direct
Commercial Sale), spare and repair parts,
cryptographic and communication security
devices, precision navigation equipment,
other software, site surveys, weapons system
equipment and computer software support,
publications and technical documentation,
common munitions and test equipment, re-
pair and return services and equipment, per-
sonnel training and training equipment, in-
tegration support and test equipment, and
U.S. Government and contractor, engineer-
ing, technical and logistics support services,
and other related elements of logistical and
program support. The total estimated cost is
$500 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by improving the security of a NATO
ally which is an important force for political
stability and economic progress in Europe.
This sale is consistent with U.S. initiatives
to provide key allies in the region with mod-
ern systems that will enhance interoper-
ability with U.S. forces and increase secu-
rity.
Hungary intends to use these defense arti-
cles and services to modernize its armed
forces and expand its capability to deter re-
gional threats and strengthen its homeland
defense. This sale will contribute to Hun-
gary’s interoperability with the United
States and other allies. Hungary should not
have any difficulties absorbing this equip-
ment into its armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support does not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The prime contractor and integrator will
be Raytheon Missile Systems of Tucson, AZ.
There are no known offset agreements pro-
posed in connection with this potential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of additional U.S.
Government and contractor representatives
to Hungary.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–25
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. AIM–120C Advance Medium Range Air-
to-Air Missile (AMRAAM) is a radar guided
missile featuring digital technology and
micro-miniature solid-state electronics.
AMRAAM capabilities include look-down/
shoot-down, multiple launches against mul-
tiple targets, resistance to electronic
counter measures, and interception of high
flying and low flying and maneuvering tar-
gets. AIM–120 Captive Air Training Missiles
are non-functioning, inert missile rounds
used for armament load training, and which
also simulate the correct weight and balance
of live missiles during captive carry on
training sorties. Although designed as an
air-to-air missile, the AMRAAM can also be
employed in a surface-launch mode when in-
tegrated on systems such as the National
Advanced Surface-to-Air System (NASAMS).
The AIM–120C7, as employed on NASAMS,
protects national assets from imminent hos-
tile air threats. The AMRAAM All Up Round
is classified CONFIDENTIAL, major compo-
nents and subsystems range from UNCLAS-
SIFIED to CONFIDENTIAL, and technology
data and other documentation are classified
up to SECRET.
2. The classified radar operational software
utilized with the exportable AN/MPQ–4F1
Sentinel Radar contains specific Electronic
Counter-Counter Measures (ECCM) capa-
bility, but it does not contain Non-Coopera-
tive Target Recognition (NCTR)/classifica-
tion capabilities. This software will only be
released for export in an executable format
with no source code. Without source code,
the ability of a foreign entity to analyze the
operating software, its processes, and its al-
gorithms is slowed. The highest classifica-
tion of this software is SECRET.
3. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures or equivalent systems which might
reduce weapon system effectiveness or be
used in the development of a system with
similar or advanced capabilities.
4. This sale is necessary in furtherance of
the U.S. foreign policy and national security
objectives outlined in the enclosed Policy
Justification. A determination has been
made that Hungary can provide the same de-
gree of protection for the sensitive tech-
nology being released as the U.S. Govern-
ment.
5. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to Hungary.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, sec-
tion 36(b) of the Arms Export Control
Act requires that Congress receive
prior notification of certain proposed
arms sales as defined by that statute.
Upon such notification, the Congress
has 30 calendar days during which the
sale may be reviewed. The provision
stipulates that, in the Senate, the noti-
fication of proposed sales shall be sent
to the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–41 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Japan for defense articles and serv-
ices estimated to cost $3.295 billion. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–41
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Japan.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $3.159 billion.
Other $.136 billion.
Total $3.295 billion.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Up to seventy-three (73) Standard Missile–
3 (SM–3) Block IIA Missiles.
Non-MDE: Also included are MK 29 Can-
isters with packing, handling, storage, and
transportation (PHS&T) kits; up to ten (10)
Special Assignment Airlift Mission (SAAM)
flights; U.S. Government and contractor rep-
resentatives’ technical assistance, engineer-
ing and logistical support services, and other
related elements of logistics and program
support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (JA–P–
ATZ).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: JA–P–ATB
& JA–P–AUA.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid. Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
August 27, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Japan—Standard Missile (SM)–3 Block IIA
The Government of Japan has requested to
buy up to seventy-three (73) Standard Mis-
sile–3 (SM–3) Block IIA missiles. Also in-
cluded are MK 29 Canisters with packing,
handling, storage, and transportation
(PHS&T) kits; up to ten (10) Special Assign-
ment Airlift Mission (SAAM) flights; U.S.
Government and contractor representatives’
technical assistance, engineering and
logistical support services, and other related
elements of logistics and program support.
The estimated cost is $3.295 billion.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by improving the security of a major
ally that is a force for political stability and
economic progress in the Asia-Pacific region.
It is vital to U.S. national interests to assist
Japan in developing and maintaining a
strong and effective self-defense capability.
The proposed sale will provide Japan with
increased ballistic missile defense capability
to assist in defending the Japanese homeland
and U.S. personnel stationed there. Japan
will have no difficulty absorbing these addi-
tional missiles into its armed forces.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.010 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5387
September 10, 2019
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The prime contractor for the SM–3 Block
IIA All Up Rounds will be Raytheon Missile
Systems, Tucson, Arizona. The prime con-
tractor for the MK 29 Canisters and PHS&T
kits will be BAE Systems, Minneapolis, Min-
nesota. There are no known offset agree-
ments proposed in connection with this po-
tential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
require annual trips to Japan involving U.S.
Government and contractor representatives
for technical reviews, support, and oversight
for approximately five years.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–41
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The proposed sale will involve the re-
lease of sensitive technology to the Govern-
ment of Japan related to the Standard Mis-
sile–3 (SM–3):
The ship- or ground-launched SM–3 Block
IIA is the most recent iteration in the SM–
3 family. It has two distinct new features:
larger rocket motors that will allow it to de-
fend broader areas from ballistic missile
threats; and a larger kinetic warhead. The
kinetic warhead has been enhanced, improv-
ing the search, discrimination, acquisition
and tracking functions, to address emerging
threats. Once enclosed in the canister, the
SM–3 Block IIA missile is classified CON-
FIDENTIAL. The optics hardware and signal
processor are classified SECRET.
2. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures that might reduce weapon system
effectiveness or be used in the development
of a system with similar or advanced capa-
bilities.
3. The sensitive technology being released
under this notification is subject to special
security measures. This sale is necessary in
furtherance of the U.S. foreign policy and
national security objectives outlined in the
Policy Justification.
4. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal are authorized for release
and export to the Government of Japan.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, sec-
tion 36(b) of the Arms Export Control
Act requires that Congress receive
prior notification of certain proposed
arms sales as defined by that statute.
Upon such notification, the Congress
has 30 calendar days during which the
sale may be reviewed. The provision
stipulates that, in the Senate, the noti-
fication of proposed sales shall be sent
to the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–28 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Repub-
lic of Korea for defense articles and services
estimated to cost $72 million. After this let-
ter is delivered to your office, we plan to
issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
GREGORY M. KAUSNER
(For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant
General, USA, Director).
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–28
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Republic of
Korea.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $37 million.
Other $35 million.
Total $72 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Up to thirty-one(31) MK 54 All Up Round
Lightweight Torpedoes.
Non-MDE: Also included are torpedo con-
tainers, Recoverable Exercise Torpedoes
(REXTORP) with containers, Fleet Exercise
Section (FES) and fuel tanks, air launch ac-
cessories for fixed wing, torpedo spare parts,
training, publications, support and test
equipment, U.S. Government and contractor
engineering, technical, and logistics support
services, and other related elements of logis-
tics and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (KS–P-
AMP).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Annex Attached.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
August 27, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Korea—MK 54 Lightweight Torpedoes
The Republic of Korea (ROK) has requested
to buy thirty-one (31) MK 54 All Up Round
lightweight torpedoes. Also included are tor-
pedo containers, Recoverable Exercise Tor-
pedoes (REXTORP) with containers, Fleet
Exercise Section (FES) and fuel tanks, air
launch accessories for fixed wing, torpedo
spare parts, training, publications, support
and test equipment, U.S. Government and
contractor engineering, technical, and logis-
tics support services, and other related ele-
ments of logistics and program support. The
total estimated program cost is $72 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security objectives of
the United States by meeting the legitimate
security and defense needs of one of the clos-
est allies in the INDOPACOM Theater. The
Republic of Korea is one of the major polit-
ical and economic powers in East Asia and
the Western Pacific and a key partner of the
United States in ensuring peace and stability
in that region. It is vital to U.S. national in-
terests to assist the Republic of Korea in de-
veloping and maintaining a strong and ready
self-defense capability.
The Republic of Korea Navy intends to uti-
lize MK 54 Lightweight Torpedoes on its P–
8A aircraft. The ROK will have no difficulty
absorbing this equipment into its armed
forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The principal contractor will be Raytheon
Integrated Defense System, Portsmouth,
Rhode Island. There are no known offset
agreements proposed in connection with this
potential sale. Any offset agreement will be
defined in negotiations between the Pur-
chaser and the prime contractor.
Implementation of the proposed sale will
not require the assignment of any additional
U.S. Government or contractor representa-
tives to the ROK. However, U.S. Government
Engineering and Technical Services may be
required on an interim basis for training and
technical assistance
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–28
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The MK 54 Torpedo is a conventional
torpedo that can be launched from surface
ships and rotary and fixed wing aircraft. The
MK 54 is an upgrade to the MK 46 Torpedo.
The upgrade to the MK 54 entails replace-
ment of the torpedo’s sonar and guidance
and control systems with more modern tech-
nology. The new guidance and control sys-
tem uses a mixture of commercial-off-the-
shelf and custom-built electronics. The war-
head, fuel tank and propulsion system from
the MK 46 torpedo are re-used in the MK 54
configuration with minor modifications. The
assembled MK 54 torpedo and several of its
individual components are classified CON-
FIDENTIAL. The MK 54 operational software
is classified as SECRET. The Republic of
Korea has not requested nor will it be pro-
vided with the source code for the MK 54
operational software.
2. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures that might reduce weapon system
effectiveness or be used in the development
of a system with similar or advanced capa-
bilities.
3. A determination has been made that the
recipient government can provide substan-
tially the same degree of protection for the
technology being released as the U.S. Gov-
ernment. This sale supports the U.S. foreign
policy and national security objectives as
outlined in the Policy Justification.
4. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to the Republic of Korea.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, sec-
tion 36(b) of the Arms Export Control
Act requires that Congress receive
prior notification of certain proposed
arms sales as defined by that statute.
Upon such notification, the Congress
has 30 calendar days during which the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:29 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.012 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5388 September 10, 2019
sale may be reviewed. The provision
stipulates that, in the Senate, the noti-
fication of proposed sales shall be sent
to the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–46 concerning the Army’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Lithuania for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $170.8 million.
After this letter is delivered to your office,
we plan to issue a news release to notify the
public of this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–46
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Lithuania.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $147.0 million.
Other $23.8 million.
Total $170.8 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Five hundred Joint Light Tactical Vehi-
cles, M1278A1 Heavy Guns Carrier.
Non-MDE: Also included are Baseline Inte-
gration Kits; Ballistic Kits Armor; Explosive
Formed Protection Kit; Shot Detection Boo-
merang Kits; Shot Detection, Boomerang III;
GPS Stand Alone kits; Network Switch—8
port; M153 Common Remote Weapon Sta-
tions (CROWS); CROWS Baseline v2 Integra-
tion Kit; MK–93 Weapons Mounts; M2 QCB .50
CAL Machine Guns; M230 TAC–FLIR Sys-
tems; Opaque Armor (windows); Basic Issue
Item Kits; Winch Kits; Flat Tow Kits; Run-
Flat Kits; Spare Tire Kits; Combat Bumper
Kits; Duramax Turbo Engine with Allison 6
speed automatic transmission and 4x4 TAK–
4i Independent suspension systems; per-
sonnel training and training equipment; U.S.
Government and contractor engineering,
technical and logistics support services; and
other related elements of logistical and pro-
gram support.
(iv) Military Department: Army (LH–B–
UDG).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: None.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
August 27, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Lithuania—Joint Light Tactical Vehicles
and Accessories
The Government of Lithuania has re-
quested to buy 500 Joint Light Tactical Vehi-
cles and M1278A1 Heavy Guns Carriers. Also
included are Baseline Integration Kits; Bal-
listic Kits Armor; Explosive Formed Protec-
tion Kit; Shot Detection Boomerang Kits;
Shot Detection, Boomerang III; GPS Stand
Alone kits; Network Switch—8 port; M153
Common Remote Weapon Stations (CROWS);
CROWS Baseline v2 Integration Kit; MK–93
Weapons Mounts; M2 QCB .50 CAL Machine
Guns; M230 TAC–FLIR Systems; Opaque
Armor (windows); Basic Issue Item Kits;
Winch Kits; Flat Tow Kits; Run-Flat Kits;
Spare Tire Kits; Combat Bumper Kits;
Duramax Turbo Engine with Allison 6 speed
automatic transmission and 4x4 TAK–4i
Independent suspension systems; personnel
training and training equipment; U.S. Gov-
ernment and contractor engineering, tech-
nical and logistics support services; and
other related elements of logistical and pro-
gram support. The total estimated program
cost is $170.8 million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security objectives of
the United States by helping to improve the
military capability of Lithuania, a NATO
ally that is an important force for ensuring
political stability and economic progress
within Eastern Europe.
The proposed sale of the Joint Light Tac-
tical Vehicle (JLTV) will help improve Lith-
uania’s light tactical vehicle fleet and en-
hance the capabilities to meet current and
future enemy threats. Lithuania will have no
difficulty absorbing this equipment into its
armed forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The principal contractor will be Oshkosh
Defense LLC of Oshkosh, WI. There are no
known offset agreements associated with
this proposed sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of additional U.S.
Government or contractor representatives to
Lithuania. However, it is anticipated that
engineering and technical support services
provided by the U.S. Government and/or the
contractor may be required on an interim
basis for training and technical assistance.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–46
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. This sale will involve the release of sen-
sitive technology to Lithuania. The Joint
Light Tactical Vehicle platform is classified
as SECRET. The Joint Light Tactical Vehi-
cle fleet will incorporate Ballistic Armor
Kits for protection from Improvised Explo-
sive Devices.
2. Sensitive and/or classified (up to SE-
CRET) elements of the proposed Joint Light
Tactical Vehicle include hardware and acces-
sories, components and associated software.
3. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the specific
hardware and software elements, the infor-
mation could be used to develop counter-
measures, which might reduce weapon sys-
tem effectiveness or be used in the develop-
ment of a system with similar or advanced
capabilities.
4. A determination has been made that the
Government of Lithuania can provide sub-
stantially the same degree of protection for
this technology as the U.S. Government.
This proposed sale is necessary in further-
ance of the U.S. foreign policy and national
security objectives outlined in the Policy
Justification.
5. All defense articles and services listed in
this transmittal have been authorized for re-
lease and export to Lithuania.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Madam President, sec-
tion 36(b) of the Arms Export Control
Act requires that Congress receive
prior notification of certain proposed
arms sales as defined by that statute.
Upon such notification, the Congress
has 30 calendar days during which the
sale may be reviewed. The provision
stipulates that, in the Senate, the noti-
fication of proposed sales shall be sent
to the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–50 concerning the Air Force’s proposed
Letter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Tai-
pei Economic and Cultural Representative
Office in the United States (TECRO) for de-
fense articles and services estimated to cost
$8.0 billion. After this letter is delivered to
your office, we plan to issue a news release
to notify the public of this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
GREGORY M. KAUSNER
(For Charles W. Hooper, Lieutenant
General, USA, Director).
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–50
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Taipei Economic
and Cultural Representative Office in the
United States (TECRO).
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $5.1 billion.
Other $2.9 billion.
Total $8.0 billion.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE):
Sixty-six (66) F–16C/D Block 70 Aircraft.
Seventy-five (75) F110 General Electric En-
gines (includes 9 spares).
Seventy-five (75) Link–16 Systems (in-
cludes 9 spares).
Seventy-five (75) Improved Programmable
Display Generators (iPDG) (includes 9
spares).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.020 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5389
September 10, 2019
Seventy-five (75) APG–83 Active Electroni-
cally Scanned Array (AESA) Radars (in-
cludes 9 spares).
Seventy-five (75) Modular Mission Com-
puters 7000AH (includes 9 spares).
Seventy-five (75) LN–260 Embedded GPS/
INS (includes 9 spares).
Seventy-five (75) M61 Vulcan 20mm Guns
(includes 9 spares).
One-hundred thirty-eight (138) LAU–129
Multipurpose Launchers.
Six (6) FMU–139D/B Fuze for Guided
Bombs.
Six (6) FMU–139D/B Inert Fuze for Guided
Bombs.
Six (6) FMU–152 Fuze for Guided Bombs.
Six (6) MK–82 Filled Inert Bombs for Guid-
ed Bombs.
Three (3) KMU–572 Joint Direct Attack
Munition (JDAM) Tail Kits, GBU–38/54.
Non-MDE: Also included are seventy-five
(75) AN/ALE–47 Countermeasure Dispensers
(includes 9 spares); one-hundred twenty (120)
ALE–50 towed decoy or equivalent; seventy-
five (75) APX–126 Advanced Identification
Friend or Foe (includes 9 spares); seventy-
five (75) AN/ALQ–211 A(V)4 Airborne Inte-
grated Defensive Electronic Warfare Suite
(AIDEWS) or equivalent (includes 9 spares);
EW Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) and Stand-
ard Electronic Module (SEM) spares; one
hundred fifty (150) ARC–238 radios (includes
18 spares); Secure Communications and Cryp-
tographic Appliques including seventy-three
(73) KIV–78 cryptographic COMSEC devices,
and ten (10) AN/PYQ–10 Simple Key Loaders
(SKLs) for COMSEC; three (3) Joint Mission
Planning Systems (JMPS); twenty-seven (27)
Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems
(JHMCS) II with Night Vision Device (NVD)
compatibility or Scorpion Hybrid Optical-
based Inertial Tracker (HObIT) helmet
mounted cueing system with NVD compat-
ibility; seventy (70) NVDs; six (6) NVD spare
image intensifier tubes; Cartridge Actuated
Devices/Propellant Actuated Devices (CAD/
PAD); cartridges; chaff; flares; three (3) each
DSU–38A/B Precision Laser Guidance Sensor
(PLGS) for GBU–54 Laser Joint Direct At-
tack Munition (LJDAM) integration; PGU–
28A/B 20mm ammunition; telemetry units for
integration and test; bomb components;
twenty (20) ground debriefing stations; Elec-
tronic Combat International Security Assist-
ance Program (ECISAP) support including
EW database and Mission Data File (MDF)
development (classified/unclassified); com-
munications equipment; classified/unclassi-
fied spares, repair, support equipment, test
equipment, software delivery/support, per-
sonnel training, training equipment, flight/
tactics manuals, publications and technical
documentation; bomb racks; Organizational,
Intermediate and Depot level tooling; Pilot
Life Support Equipment (PLSE); Alternate
Mission Equipment (AME); ground training
devices (including flight and maintenance
simulators); containers; development, inte-
gration, test and engineering, technical and
logistical support of munitions; aircraft
ferry; studies and surveys; construction serv-
ices; U.S. Government and contractor engi-
neering, technical and logistical support
services; and other related elements of logis-
tics, program and sustainment support.
(iv) Military Department: Air Force (TW–
D–QCA).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: TW–D–SKA,
TW–D–QBZ.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: See Attached Annex.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
August 20, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Taipei Economic and Cultural Representa-
tive Office in the United States (TECRO)—
F–16C/D Block 70 Aircraft
TECRO has requested to purchase sixty-six
(66) F–16C/D Block 70 aircraft; seventy-five
(75) F110 General Electric Engines (includes 9
spares); seventy-five (75) Link–16 Systems
(includes 9 spares); seventy-five (75) Im-
proved Programmable Display Generators
(iPDG) (includes 9 spares); seventy-five (75)
APG–83 Active Electronically Scanned Array
(AESA) Radars (includes 9 spares); seventy-
five (75) Modular Mission Computers 7000AH
(includes 9 spares); seventy-five (75) LN–260
Embedded GPS/INS (includes 9 spares); sev-
enty-five (75) M61 Vulcan 20mm Guns (in-
cludes 9 spares); one-hundred thirty-eight
(138) LAU–129 Multipurpose Launchers; six
(6) FMU–139D/B Fuze for Guided Bombs; six
(6) FMU–139D/B Inert Fuze for Guided
Bombs; six (6) FMU 152 Fuze for Guided
Bombs: six (6) MK–82 Filled Inert Bombs for
Guided Bombs; and three (3) KMU–572 Joint
Direct Attack Munition (JDAM) Tail Kits,
GBU–38/54. Also included are seventy-five (75)
AN/ALE–47 Countermeasure Dispensers (in-
cludes 9 spares); one-hundred twenty (120)
ALE–50 towed decoy or equivalent; seventy-
five (75) APX–126 Advanced Identification
Friend or Foe (includes 9 spares); seventy-
five (75) AN/ALQ–211 A(V)4 Airborne Inte-
grated Defensive Electronic Warfare Suite
(AIDEWS) or equivalent (includes 9 spares);
EW Line Replaceable Unit (LRU) and Stand-
ard Electronic Module (SEM) spares; one
hundred fifty (150) ARC–238 radios (includes
18 spares); Secure Communications and Cryp-
tographic Appliques including seventy-three
(73) KIV–78 cryptographic COMSEC devices,
and ten (10) AN/PYQ–10 Simple Key Loaders
(SKLs) for COMSEC; three (3) Joint Mission
Planning Systems (JMPS); twenty-seven (27)
Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems
(JHMCS) II with Night Vision Device (NVD)
compatibility or Scorpion Hybrid Optical-
based Inertial Tracker (HOb1T) helmet
mounted cueing system with NVD compat-
ibility; seventy (70) NVDs; six (6) NVD spare
image intensifier tubes; Cartridge Actuated
Devices/Propellant Actuated Devices (CAD/
PAD); cartridges; chaff; flares; three (3) each
DSU–38A/B Precision Laser Guidance Sensor
(PLGS) for GBU–54 Laser Joint Direct At-
tack Munition (LJDAM) integration; PGU–
28A/B 20mm ammunition; telemetry units for
integration and test; bomb components;
twenty (20) ground debriefing stations; Elec-
tronic Combat International Security Assist-
ance Program (ECISAP) support including
EW database and Mission Data File (MDF)
development (classified/unclassified); com-
munications equipment; classified/unclassi-
fied spares, repair, support equipment, test
equipment, software delivery/support, per-
sonnel training, training equipment, flight/
tactics manuals, publications and technical
documentation; bomb racks; Organizational,
Intermediate and Depot level tooling; Pilot
Life Support Equipment (PLSE); Alternate
Mission Equipment (AME); ground training
devices (including flight and maintenance
simulators); containers; development, inte-
gration, test and engineering, technical and
logistical support of munitions; aircraft
ferry; studies and surveys; construction serv-
ices; U.S. Government and contractor engi-
neering, technical and logistical support
services; and other related elements of logis-
tics, program and sustainment support. The
total estimated program cost is $8.0 billion.
This proposed sale is consistent with U.S.
law and policy as expressed in Public Law 96–
8.
This proposed sale serves U.S. national,
economic, and security interests by sup-
porting the recipient’s continuing efforts to
modernize its armed forces and to maintain
a credible defensive capability. The proposed
sale will help improve the security of the re-
cipient and assist in maintaining political
stability, military balance, and economic
progress in the region.
This proposed sale will contribute to the
recipient’s capability to provide for the de-
fense of its airspace, regional security, and
interoperability with the United States. The
recipient currently operates the F–16A/B.
The recipient will have no difficulty absorb-
ing this aircraft and services into its arms
forces.
The proposed sale of this equipment and
support will not alter the basic military bal-
ance in the region.
The principle contractor will be Lockheed
Martin, headquartered in Bethesda, MD.
There are no known offset agreements pro-
posed. The purchaser typically requests off-
sets. Any offset agreement would be defined
in negotiations between the purchaser and
the contractor(s).
Implementation of this proposed sale will
require assignment of a small number of U.S.
Government representatives (less than 20)
and a modest number of contractor rep-
resentatives to the recipient to manage the
fielding and training for the program.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–50
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act
Annex Item No. vii
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology:
1. The F–16 Block 70 weapon system is un-
classified, except as noted below. The air-
craft utilizes the F–16 airframe and features
advanced avionics and systems. It contains
the General Electric F110–129 engine, AN/
APG–83 radar, digital flight control system,
embedded internal global navigation system,
Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing Systems
(JHMCS) II or may include Scorpion Hybrid
Optical-based Inertial Tracker (HOb1T) with
or without Night Vision Device (NVD) capa-
bility, internal and external electronic war-
fare equipment, Advanced IFF, LINK–16
datalink, operational flight trainer, and soft-
ware computer programs.
2. Sensitive and/or classified (up to SE-
CRET) elements of the proposed F–16 Block
70 include hardware, accessories, compo-
nents, and associated software: Link 16 and
ESHI Terminals, Multipurpose Launcher
(LAU–129), AN/ALQ–21 I A(V)4 AIDEWS EW
system or equivalent, Advanced Identifica-
tion Friend or Foe (AIFF), Cryptographic
Appliques (KIV–78), Dual-Band AN/ARC–238
UHF/VHF Radios, Joint Mission Planning
System, F–16 Block 70 Simulator, Avionics I-
Level Test Station, F110 engine infrared sig-
nature, and Advanced Interference Blanker
Unit. Additional sensitive areas include op-
erating, tactics manuals, and maintenance
technical orders containing performance in-
formation, operating and test procedures,
and other information related to support op-
erations and repair. The hardware, software,
and data identified are classified to protect
vulnerabilities, design and performance pa-
rameters and other similar critical informa-
tion.
3. AN/APG–83 is an Active Electronically
Scanned Array (AESA) radar upgrade for the
F–16. It includes higher processor power,
higher transmission power, more sensitive
receiver electronics, and Synthetic Aperture
Radar (SAR), which creates higher-resolu-
tion ground maps from a greater distance
than existing mechanically scanned array
radars (e.g., APG–68). The upgrade features
an increase in detection range of air targets,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.022 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5390 September 10, 2019
increases in processing speed and memory, as
well as significant improvements in all
modes. The highest classification of the
radar is SECRET.
4. Link–16 is a command, control, commu-
nications, and intelligence (C3I) system in-
corporating high-capacity, jam-resistant,
digital communication links for exchange of
near real-time tactical information, includ-
ing both data and voice, among air, ground,
and sea elements.
5. Joint Helmet Mounted Cueing System II
(JHMCS II) is a modified HGU–55/P helmet
that incorporates a visor-projected Heads-Up
Display (HUD) to cue weapons and aircraft
sensors to air and ground targets. This sys-
tem projects visual targeting and aircraft
performance information on the back of the
helmet’s visor, enabling the pilot to monitor
this information without interrupting his
field of view through the cockpit canopy.
This provides improvement for close combat
targeting and engagement. Hardware is UN-
CLASSIFIED; technical data and documents
are classified up to SECRET.
6. Joint Mission Planning System (JMPS)
is a multi-platform PC based mission plan-
ning system. JMPS hardware is UNCLASSI-
FIED but the software is classified up to SE-
CRET.
7. AN/ALQ–211 A(V)4 Airborne Integrated
Defensive Electronic Warfare Suite
(AIDEWS) or equivalent provides passive
radar warning, wide spectrum Radio Fre-
quency (RF) jamming, and control and man-
agement of the entire Electronic Warfare
(EW) system. The system is anticipated to be
internal to the aircraft although mounted
pod variants are used in certain cir-
cumstances, The commercially developed
system software and hardware is UNCLASSI-
FIED. The system is classified SECRET
when loaded with a U.S. derived EW data-
base.
8. Embedded GPS-INS (EGI) LN–260 is a
sensor that combines GPS and inertial sen-
sor inputs to provide accurate location infor-
mation for navigation and targeting. The
EGI LN- 260 is UNCLASSIFIED. The GPS
cryptovariable keys needed for highest GPS
accuracy are classified up to SECRET.
9. AN/APX–126 Advanced Identification
Friend or Foe (AIFF) Combined Interrogator
Transponder (CIT) is a system capable of
transmitting and interrogating Mode V. It is
UNCLASSIFIED unless/until Mode IV and/or
Mode V operational evaluator parameters
are loaded into the equipment. Elements of
the IFF system classified up to SECRET in-
clude software object code, operating charac-
teristics, parameters, and technical data.
Mode IV and Mode V anti-jam performance
specifications/data, software source code, al-
gorithms, and tempest plans or reports will
not be offered, released, discussed, or dem-
onstrated.
10. Modular Mission Computer (MMC)
7000AH is the central aircraft computer of
the F–16. It serves as the hub for all aircraft
subsystems and avionics data transfer. The
MMC 7000AH hardware and software are clas-
sified SECRET.
11. Improved Programmable Display Gener-
ator (iPDG) and color multifunction displays
utilize ruggedized commercial liquid crystal
display technology that is designed to with-
stand the harsh environment found in mod-
ern fighter cockpits. The display generator is
the fifth generation graphics processor for
the F–16. Through the use of state-of-the-art
microprocessors and graphics engines, it pro-
vided orders of magnitude increases in
throughput, memory, and graphics capabili-
ties. The hardware and software are UN-
CLASSIFIED.
12. AN/AVS–9 Night Vision Goggles (NVG)
are 3rd generation aviation NVG offering
higher resolution, high gain, and photo re-
sponse to near infrared. Hardware is UN-
CLASSIFIED, and technical data and docu-
mentation to be provided are UNCLASSI-
FIED.
13. KIV–78 is a crypto applique for IFF. The
hardware is UNCLASSIFIED unless loaded
with Mode 4 classified elements.
14. AN/ARC–238 radio with HAVE QUICK II
is a voice communications radio system and
considered UNCLASSIFIED without HAVE
QUICK II. HAVE QUICK II employs cryp-
tographic technology that is classified SE-
CRET. Other waveforms may be included as
needed. Classified elements include oper-
ating characteristics, parameters, technical
data, and keying material.
15. LAU–129 Guided Missile Launcher is ca-
pable of launching a single AIM–9 (Side-
winder) family of missile or AIM–120 Ad-
vanced Medium Range Air-to-Air Missile
(AMRAAM). The LAU–129 launcher provides
mechanical and electrical interface between
missile and aircraft. There are five versions
produced strictly for foreign military sales.
The only difference between these launchers
is the material they are coated with or the
color of the coating. This device is UNCLAS-
SIFIED.
16. Laser JDAM (Joint Direct Attack Mu-
nitions) (GBU–54/56) is a Joint Service weap-
on and has the capability to engage targets
moving at up to 70 mph. The LJDAM weapon
consists of a DSU–38/40 sensor, a JDAM guid-
ance set installed on either a non-thermal or
thermal coated bomb body; and fuze. The
DSU–38/40 consists of a laser spot tracker
(same size and shape as a DSU–33 proximity
fuze), a cable connecting the DSU–38/40 to
the basic JDAM guidance set, a cable cover,
cable cover tie down straps, modified tail kit
door and wiring harness, and associated
modified JDAM software that incorporates
navigation and guidance flight software to
support both LJDAM and standard JDAM
missions. FMU–152A/B, FMU–139 (all
variants) and dummy fuzes are the standard
fuzes to be used with this weapon. The quan-
tities in this notification are for testing and
integration effort. The weapons components
are UNCLASSIFIED. Technical data and
countermeasures/vulnerabilities are SE-
CRET. The overall classification is SECRET.
17. MK–82 inert General Purpose (GP) bomb
is a 500 pound, inert, free-fall, unguided, low-
drag weapon usually equipped with the me-
chanical M904 (nose) and M905 (tail) fuzes or
the radar-proximity FMU–113 air-burst fuze.
The MK–82 is designed for soft, fragment sen-
sitive targets and is not intended for hard
targets or penetrations. The explosive filling
is usually tritonal, though other composi-
tions have sometimes been used. The overall
classification of the weapon and 904/905/FMU–
1 13 fuzes are UNCLASSIFED.
18. M61 20mm Vulcan Cannon is a six-bar-
reled automatic cannon chambered in
20x120mm with a cyclic rate of fire from
2,500–6,000 shots per minute. This weapon is a
hydraulically powered air cooled Gatling gun
used to damage/destroy aerial targets, sup-
press/incapacitate personnel targets and
damage or destroy moving and stationary
light materiel targets. The M61 and its com-
ponents are UNCLASSIFIED.
19. If a technologically advanced adversary
were to obtain knowledge of the hardware
and software elements, the information
could be used to develop countermeasures or
equivalent systems, which might reduce sys-
tem effectiveness or be used in the develop-
ment of a system with similar or advanced
capabilities.
20. A determination has been made that
the recipient can provide substantially the
same degree of protection for the sensitive
technology being released as the U.S. Gov-
ernment. This sale is necessary in further-
ance of the U.S. foreign policy and national
security objectives outlined in the Policy
Justification.
21. All defense articles and services listed
in this transmittal have been authorized for
release and export to the recipient.
f
200TH ANNIVERSARY OF F.O.
BAILEY
Ms. COLLINS. Madam Speaker, in
1819, young Henry Bailey opened a gen-
eral store on Ingraham’s Wharf in
Portland, ME, and began auctioning
salvaged goods. Two hundred years
later, the F.O. Bailey Company is still
going strong, and I am delighted to
congratulate this outstanding Maine
business on its bicentennial anniver-
sary.
The company was purchased in 2014
by the husband and wife team of real-
estate broker David Jones and antiques
professional Nancy McInnis-Jones, who
continue the two-century tradition of
integrity, expertise, and experience.
Founded 1 year before Maine
achieved statehood, F.O. Bailey exem-
plifies the traditions of entrepreneur-
ship, innovation, and hard work that
define our State. In 1827, the Bailey
Company diversified by manufacturing
rolltop desks and display cabinets and
moved to a larger facility on Exchange
Street. Despite national and local eco-
nomic ups and downs and the disrup-
tion of the Civil War, the auctioneering
business was a solid foundation for
growth.
In 1866, the booming city of Portland
was devastated by the Great Fire, the
worst urban fire in America to that
date. Among the many impressive
buildings destroyed by that catas-
trophe was the Bailey store.
Henry Bailey died the following year,
and the company was carried on by his
son, Frederick Orville Bailey. As Port-
land rose from the ashes with a new
downtown of brick, stone, and cast
iron, F.O. Bailey led the family busi-
ness into a new era of growth.
Today, under the leadership of David
and Nancy, F.O. Bailey’s real estate
and antiques and auction divisions pro-
vide 38 good jobs. It is significant that,
in addition to antiques, the company
promotes contemporary Maine art and
quality handcrafted furniture.
The F.O. Bailey Company was found-
ed when Maine was just coming into its
own. The optimism and confidence of
that time continue today, and I wish
this remarkable company great success
in the years to come.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING WETZEL SANDERS
∑ Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President,
today I wish to honor the legacy of a
member of our Greatest Generation:
Pearl Harbor survivor, Purple Heart re-
cipient, and World War II Veteran—
American Hero—Wetzel ‘‘Sundown’’
Sanders.
Born on June 25, 1923, in East Lynn,
to Barney and Emma Jane Sanders,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.024 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5391
September 10, 2019
Wetzel grew up working in his father’s
coal mines. He was humble and kind
with an unparalleled sense of humor,
and his devotion to God, State, and
country was unmatched. I was honored
to call him a friend, and I know I join
so many when I say West Virginia has
lost a shining star. He is dearly missed.
Ever since the historic beginning of
our State, we have never failed to an-
swer our country’s call. No demand has
been too great, no danger too daunting,
and no trial too threatening. Wetzel
wanted so dearly to serve our country
that, when he was 17, he lied about his
age to join the Army. It was in the
military that he received the nickname
‘‘Sundown’’ because of a childhood
story he told his Army buddies. As a
boy, he and a friend would occasionally
sneak into a chicken pen, grab one of
the birds, then sneak off to the woods
where they would butcher their ill-got-
ten fowl and have a chicken fry. A ser-
geant asked him, ‘‘When’s the best
time to steal a chicken?’’ He replied,
‘‘Well, any time after sundown.’’ The
name stuck.
Wetzel served as an anti-aircraft gun-
ner stationed at Hospital Point at
Pearl Harbor on the day of the Japa-
nese attack, December 7, 1941. During
the attack, he shot down Japanese
fighter planes that were about to at-
tack the hospital. Wetzel was wounded
during the attack, and it was an abso-
lute honor to work on his behalf and
present him with the Purple Heart
nearly 76 years later. Along with so
many of his friends and fellow vet-
erans, we presented Wetzel with the
Purple Heart that he so rightfully
earned on that fateful day. We all hold
that memory dear and are deeply
thankful to have presented that award
to Wetzel in person.
Wetzel remained in Hawaii until
March of 1942. From there, he traversed
the Pacific, fighting the Japanese on
Guadalcanal and Bougainville Island.
His outfit was about to head to the in-
vasion of the Philippines when a colo-
nel from Morgantown sent him home.
The colonel asked how long he had
been away, and when Wetzel told him,
he responded, ‘‘Lord, how do you stand
it? I’ve been out of West Virginia for
six months, and it’s about to kill me. If
you’ve got anything to pack, pack it.’’
Wetzel agreed with him, and after 3
years and 4 months overseas, he finally
made it back home.
After serving in the military, Wetzel
worked for and retired from the De-
partment of Highways. Never one to be
comfortable in retirement, he became a
bus driver for Tri-River Transit Sys-
tem, where he earned the title of, at
the age of 89, the oldest bus driver in
America. Throughout the rest of his
extraordinary life, Wetzel continued to
pay homage to his fallen comrades, at-
tending multiple anniversary cere-
monies of Pearl Harbor.
When visitors come to West Virginia,
I jump at the chance to tell them we
are home to the most hard-working
and patriotic people in the Nation. We
have fought in more wars, shed more
blood, and lost more lives for the cause
of freedom than most any State. We
have always done the heavy lifting and
never complained. We have mined the
coal and forged the steel that built the
guns, ships, and factories that have
protected and continue to protect our
country to this day. I am so deeply
proud of what West Virginians, like
Wetzel, have accomplished and what
they will continue to accomplish to
protect the freedoms we hold dear. We
have every reason to be proud and to
stand tall knowing that West Virginia
is the reason Americans sleep peace-
fully at night.
Wetzel is survived by three children,
Sherry Handley, Beverly Sanders, and
Greg (Regina) Sanders; two grand-
children, B.J. (Tracey) and Ashley
Sanders; three great-grandchildren, Sa-
vannah (Kyle) Handley-Watts, Georgia,
and Macon Handley; his sister Willa
Faye Fry; and a host of many, many
extended family and dear friends. I
know he and Kathleen are smiling
down on each of you.
West Virginia is great because our
people are great—Mountaineers who
will always be free. We are tough, inde-
pendent, inventive, and honest, our
character shaped by the wilderness of
our State—its rushing streams, its
boundless blue skies, its divine forests,
and its majestic mountains. We are
West Virginians, and like the brave,
loyal patriots who made our State the
35th star on Old Glory, our love of God
and country and family and State is
unshakeable. I know that 20, 50, or an-
other 156 years from now, that will al-
ways remain the same. That legacy
laid the groundwork for heroes like
Wetzel, and now he serves as an inspi-
ration to all who wish to follow in his
footsteps and live a life filled with pa-
triotism, service, faith, and family.
There are so few of our American he-
roes left from Wetzel’s generation. It is
our responsibility and our privilege to
ensure that their service and sacrifice
is never forgotten. It is an honor to
have called Wetzel a friend and to have
helped him receive the recognition he
very much earned and deserved. The
sun will never set on Wetzel’s legacy of
service, his generosity, his love for his
family, and his devotion to God, our
home State, and our beautiful coun-
try.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DR. BRUCE CORLISS
∑ Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, today I wish to honor the career
of one of Rhode Island’s ocean and
coastal experts, Dr. Bruce Corliss. Dr.
Corliss has served as dean of the Uni-
versity of Rhode Island’s Graduate
School of Oceanography since 2012. In
March, Dean Corliss announced he
would be leaving URI GSO early next
year.
Dean Corliss started at URI GSO as a
graduate student. He completed both
his M.A. and Ph.D. in oceanography at
URI. He then completed postdoctoral
work at Woods Hole Oceanographic In-
stitution and served as a scientist at
WHOI until joining Duke University as
a professor in 1984, ultimately becom-
ing director of the Duke University/
University of North Carolina Oceano-
graphic Consortium. Dr. Corliss served
as chief scientist on more than a dozen
oceanographic research cruises and has
published over 60 research papers.
In 2012, Dr. Corliss heard the call of
the Ocean State and returned to his
alma mater as dean. Under his leader-
ship, URI GSO expanded its oceano-
graphic and coastal research programs
and is currently revitalizing its Narra-
gansett campus; NOAA selected the
university to lead a multi-university
Ocean Exploration Cooperative Insti-
tute; and last summer, URI GSO was
awarded a new NSF research vessel, to
be named the R/V Resolution. The ves-
sel will replace the R/V Endeavor,
which URI GSO has operated for 40
years.
Dean Corliss will leave URI GSO hav-
ing reaffirmed its place as one of the
world’s preeminent ocean research in-
stitutions. His work will be reflected in
the new research vessel on GSO’s
docks, in new buildings and labs that
will house the next generation of ma-
rine researchers, and in new depths of
understanding we will reach through
the Ocean Exploration Cooperative In-
stitute.
Dean Corliss has been a friend and an
ally in the fight to protect and pre-
serve our oceans and coasts. URI GSO
has greatly benefited from his sci-
entific expertise, leadership, and sup-
port for ocean research. On behalf of
the Ocean State, I recognize and salute
him on an impressive career and a last-
ing legacy at the University of Rhode
Island.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGES
REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION
OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
THAT WAS ORIGINALLY DE-
CLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER
13848 OF SEPTEMBER 12, 2018,
WITH RESPECT TO THE THREAT
OF FOREIGN INTERFERENCE IN
UNITED STATES ELECTIONS—PM
26
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report, which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.016 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5392 September 10, 2019
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to the
threat of foreign interference in or un-
dermining public confidence in United
States elections declared in Executive
Order 13848 of September 12, 2018, is to
continue in effect beyond September
12, 2019.
Although there has been no evidence
of a foreign power altering the out-
comes or vote tabulation in any United
States election, foreign powers have
historically sought to exploit Amer-
ica’s free and open political system. In
recent years, the proliferation of dig-
ital devices and internet-based commu-
nications has created significant
vulnerabilities and magnified the scope
and intensity of the threat of foreign
interference. The ability of persons lo-
cated, in whole or in substantial part,
outside the United States to interfere
in or undermine public confidence in
United States elections, including
through the unauthorized accessing of
election and campaign infrastructure
or the covert distribution of propa-
ganda and disinformation, continues to
pose an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security and for-
eign policy of the United States. There-
fore, I have determined that it is nec-
essary to continue the national emer-
gency declared in Executive Order 13848
with respect to the threat of foreign in-
terference in or undermining public
confidence in United States elections.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 10, 2019.
f
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE
ISSUANCE OF AN EXECUTIVE
ORDER WITH RESPECT TO EXEC-
UTIVE ORDER 12947 OF JANUARY
23, 1995, EXECUTIVE ORDER 13099
OF AUGUST 20, 1998, AND EXECU-
TIVE ORDER 13224 OF SEP-
TEMBER 23, 2001 WITH RESPECT
TO PERSONS WHO COMMIT,
THREATEN TO COMMIT, OR SUP-
PORT TERRORISM THAT CON-
SOLIDATES AND ENHANCES
SANCTIONS—PM 27
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report, which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies
Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), the United
Nations Participation Act of 1945 (22
U.S.C. 287c), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, and in view of mul-
tiple United Nations Security Council
resolutions, including Resolution 1373
of September 28, 2001, Resolution 1526
of January 30, 2004, Resolution 1988 of
June 17, 2011, Resolution 1989 of June
17, 2011, Resolution 2253 of December 17,
2015, Resolution 2255 of December 21,
2015, Resolution 2368 of July 20, 2017,
and Resolution 2462 of March 28, 2019, I
hereby report that I have issued an Ex-
ecutive Order (the ‘‘order’’) modern-
izing sanctions to combat terrorism.
I have determined that it is nec-
essary to consolidate and enhance
sanctions to combat acts of terrorism
and threats of terrorism by foreign ter-
rorists, acts that are recognized and
condemned in the above-referenced
United Nations Security Council reso-
lutions. I have terminated the national
emergency declared in Executive Order
12947 of January 23, 1995, and revoked
Executive Order 12947, as amended by
Executive Order 13099 of August 20,
1998. The order builds upon the initial
steps taken in Executive Order 12947
and takes additional steps to deal with
the national emergency declared in Ex-
ecutive Order 13224 of September 23,
2001, with respect to the continuing
and immediate threat of grave acts of
terrorism and threats of terrorism
committed by foreign terrorists, which
include acts of terrorism that threaten
the Middle East peace process.
I am enclosing a copy of the order I
have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, September 9, 2019.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:17 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 1420. An act to amend the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007 to
promote energy efficiency via information
and computing technologies, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 1760. An act to require the Secretary
of Energy to establish and carry out a pro-
gram to support the availability of HA-LEU
for domestic commercial use, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 1768. An act to reauthorize subtitle G
of title VII of the Energy Policy Act of 2005,
relating to diesel emissions reduction, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2114. An act to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to provide Federal
financial assistance to States to implement,
review, and revise State energy security
plans, and for other purposes.
The message also announced that
pursuant to section 4 of the United
States Semiquincentennial Commis-
sion Act of 2016 (Public Law 114–196),
the Minority Leader appoints the fol-
lowing member to the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission: Mr.
Robert A. Brady of Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania.
At 2:16 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 2500. An act to authorize appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2020 for military activi-
ties of the Department of Defense, for mili-
tary construction, and for defense activities
of the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes.
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 5:14 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
H.R. 831. An act to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to request nominations for
and make determinations regarding roads to
be designated under the national scenic by-
ways program, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 1420. An act to amend the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007 to
promote energy efficiency via information
and computing technologies, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
H.R. 1760. An act to require the Secretary
of Energy to establish and carry out a pro-
gram to support the availability of HA–LEU
for domestic commercial use, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
H.R. 2114. An act to amend the Energy Pol-
icy and Conservation Act to provide Federal
financial assistance to States to implement,
review, and revise State energy security
plans, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2186. A communication from the Acting
Principal Deputy Director, Defense Pricing
and Contracting, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the authorization to award sub-
contracts to entities for F–35 Lightning II
European and Pacific Tier 1 and Tier 2 com-
ponent repairs; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–2187. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Fluoxastrobin; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9996–79–OCSPP) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
1, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2188. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Autographa Californica Multiple
Nucleopolyhedrovirus Strain FV No. 11; Ex-
emption from the Requirement of a Toler-
ance’’ (FRL No. 9996–44–OCSPP) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 1, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.053 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5393
September 10, 2019
EC–2189. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Legislation, Regula-
tion and Energy Efficiency, Department of
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to the
DOE Contractor Employee Protection Pro-
gram’’ ((RIN1909–AA09) (10 CFR Part 708)) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 2, 2019; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
EC–2190. A communication from the Dep-
uty Inspector General, United States Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Inspector General,
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commis-
sion, received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2191. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Montana; In-
corporation by Reference Updates’’ (FRL No.
9997–07–Region 8) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 1, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2192. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Delaware;
Removal of Unnecessary Electric Arc Fur-
nace Regulation and References to the Elec-
tric Arc Furnace Regulation’’ (FRL No. 9997–
68–Region 3) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 1, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2193. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Partial approval, partial disapproval
and limited approval, limited disapproval of
Arizona Air Plan Revisions, Pinal County
Air Quality Control District’’ (FRL No. 9997–
66–Region 9) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 1, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2194. A communication from the Om-
budsman, Energy Employees Occupational
Illness Compensation Program, Department
of Labor, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report entitled ‘‘2018 Annual Report to Con-
gress’’; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2195. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Section 73.202(b), Table of Allot-
ments, FM Broadcast Stations (Kahlotus,
Washington)’’ (MB Docket No. 19–127) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2196. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Issuances Staff, Food Safety and
Inspection Service, Department of Agri-
culture, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Preparation of
Uninspected Products Outside of the Hours
of Inspectional Supervision’’ (RIN0583–AD66)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 14, 2019; to the Committee on Ag-
riculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2197. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Review Group, Com-
modity Credit Corporation, Department of
Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Trade Mitiga-
tion Program’’ (RIN0560–AI51) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 7,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2198. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Clonostachys rosea strain CR–7; Ex-
emption from the Requirement of a Toler-
ance’’ (FRL No. 9996–35) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 9, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2199. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Propiconazole; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9997–00) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 9, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–2200. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Pydiflumetofen; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 9997–09) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 9, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2201. A communication from the Acting
Director, Office of Management and Budget,
Executive Office of the President, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, notification of the
President’s intent to exempt all military
personnel accounts from sequestration for
fiscal year 2020, if a sequestration is nec-
essary; to the Committees on Appropria-
tions; Armed Services; and the Budget.
EC–2202. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Admiral John M.
Richardson, United States Navy, and his ad-
vancement to the grade of admiral on the re-
tired list; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
EC–2203. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of General Joseph
F. Dunford, Jr., United States Marine Corps,
and his advancement to the grade of general
on the retired list; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–2204. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of four (4) offi-
cers authorized to wear the insignia of the
grade of brigadier general in accordance with
title 10, United States Code, section 777, this
will not cause the Department to exceed the
number of frocked officers authorized; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2205. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of an officer
authorized to wear the insignia of the grade
of major general in accordance with title 10,
United States Code, section 777, this will not
cause the Department to exceed the number
of frocked officers authorized; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–2206. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Analyst, Department of the
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Repeal of Obsolete Acquisition Regulation:
Required Sources of Supplies and Services’’
(RIN0702–AB04) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 1, 2019; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2207. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Analyst, Department of the
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Repeal of Obsolete Acquisition Regulation:
Government Property’’ (RIN0702–AB06) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–2208. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Analyst, Department of the
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Repeal of Obsolete Acquisition Regulation:
Solicitation Provisions and Contract
Clauses’’ (RIN0702–AB07) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
1, 2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2209. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Analyst, Department of the
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Repeal of Obsolete Acquisition Regulation:
Small Business and Small Disadvantaged
Business Concerns’’ (RIN0702–AB05) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 1, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–2210. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Office of the Secretary of
Defense and Joint Staff Privacy Program’’
(RIN0790–AK57) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 7, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–2211. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Acquisition and Use of
Criminal History Record Information by the
Military Services’’ (RIN0790–AK27) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
7, 2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2212. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘DCAA Privacy Act Pro-
gram’’ (RIN0790–AK63) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 7, 2019; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2213. A communication from the Assist-
ant for Real Estate, Department of the
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Real Estate’’ (RIN0702–AA93) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 14,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2214. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Office of the
Judge Advocate General, Department of De-
fense, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Removal of Depart-
ment of the Navy (DON) regulations con-
cerning Legal Assistance’’ ((RIN0703–AB08)
(48 CFR Part 727)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2215. A communication from the Assist-
ant for Real Estate, Department of the
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Real Estate Handbook’’ (RIN0702–AA94) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 14, 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–2216. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.028 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5394 September 10, 2019
issuance of an Executive Order with respect
to the proliferation of weapons of mass de-
struction that takes additional steps with
respect to the national emergency declared
in Executive Order 12938 of November 14,
1994; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2217. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the
issuance of an Executive Order with respect
to Venezuela that takes additional steps
with respect to the national emergency de-
clared in Executive Order 13692 of March 8,
2015; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2218. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the con-
tinuation of a national emergency declared
in Executive Order 13222 of August 17, 2001,
with respect to the lapse of the Export Ad-
ministration Act of 1979; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2219. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to
Libya that was originally declared in Execu-
tive Order 13566 of February 25, 2011; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–2220. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to Executive Order 13313 of July 31, 2003,
a semiannual report detailing telecommuni-
cations-related payments made to Cuba pur-
suant to Department of the Treasury li-
censes; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2221. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to the
threat of foreign interference in United
States elections that was declared in Execu-
tive Order 13848 of September 12, 2018; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–2222. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs,
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a six-month periodic report relative
to the continuation of the national emer-
gency with respect to the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction that was origi-
nally declared in Executive Order 12938 of
November 14, 1994; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2223. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendments to
Rules for Nationally Recognized Statistical
Rating Organizations’’ (RIN3235–AM05) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 9, 2019; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2224. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Recordkeeping for Timely Deposit Insur-
ance Determination’’ (RIN3064–AF03) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 13, 2019; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2225. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Validation and Ap-
proval of Credit Score Models’’ (RIN2590–
AA98) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 14, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2226. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director for Regulatory Affairs, Office of
Foreign Assets Control, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amendments to the
Iranian Financial Sanctions Regulations and
Iranian Human Rights Abuses Sanctions
Regulations’’ (31 CFR Parts 561 and 562) re-
ceived during adjournment in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 14,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2227. A communication from the Coun-
sel, Legal Division, Bureau of Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Avail-
ability of Funds and Collection of Checks
(Regulation CC)’’ (RIN3170–AA31) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
15, 2019; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2228. A communication from the Senior
Counsel, Legal Division, Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Truth in Lending (Regulation Z) Annual
Threshold Adjustments (Credit Cards,
HOEPA, and Qualified Mortgages)’’ (12 CFR
Part 1026) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 15, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–2229. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary for Export Adminis-
tration, Bureau of Industry and Security,
Department of Commerce, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Addition of Certain Entities to the Entity
List, Revision of Entries on the Entry List,
and Removal of Entities from the Entity
List’’ (RIN0694–AH50) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 19, 2019; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–2230. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Federal Energy Regulatory Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, a re-
port relative to the progress made in licens-
ing and constructing the Alaska Natural Gas
Pipeline; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
EC–2231. A joint communication from the
Special Representative, Office of Insular Af-
fairs, Department of the Interior and the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands Special Representative, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to
the President on 902 Consultations Related
to the DHS Discretionary Parole Program’’;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
EC–2232. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Refinements to
Horizontal Market Power Analysis for Sell-
ers in Certain Regional Transmission Orga-
nization and Independent System Operator
Markets’’ ((RIN1902–AF61) (Docket No.
RM19–2–000)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–2233. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel, Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Data Collection
for Analytics and Surveillance and Market-
Based Rate Purposes’’ ((RIN1902–AF22)
(Docket No. RM16–12–000)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 12,
2019; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
EC–2234. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and
Parks, National Park Service, Department of
the Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Death Valley
National Park; Designation of Airstrip’’
(RIN1024–AE48) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 14, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–2235. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Consumer Price Index Adjustments of Oil
Pollution Act of 1990 Limits of Liability -
Vessels, Deepwater Ports and Onshore Fa-
cilities’’ ((RIN1625–AC53) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0392)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 16, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2236. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Material Safety and Safeguards, Nu-
clear Regulatory Commission, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Mitigation of Beyond-Design-Basis Events’’
(RIN3150–AJ49) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2237. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; KY; Jefferson
County Existing and New Miscellaneous
Metal Parts and Products Surface Coating
Operations’’ (FRL No. 9997–85–Region 4) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 5, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–2238. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; North Carolina;
PSD Requirements for GHGs’’ (FRL No. 9997–
84–Region 4) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 5, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2239. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of Air Quality Implementa-
tion Plans; New York; Cross-State Air Pollu-
tion Rule; NOx Ozone Season Group 2, NOx
Annual, and SO2 Group 1 Trading Programs’’
(FRL No. 9997–59–Region 2) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 5,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2240. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Hawaii; Regional
Haze Progress Report’’ (FRL No. 9998–01–Re-
gion 9) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 9, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2241. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Quality State Implementation
Plans; Approval and Promulgations; Hawaii;
Infrastructure SIP’’ (FRL No. 9998–04–Region
9) received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 9, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2242. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.030 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5395
September 10, 2019
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implantation Plans; Delaware; Non-
attainment New Source Review Require-
ments for 2008 8-Hour Ozone Standard’’ (FRL
No. 9997–97–Region 3) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 9, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2243. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Montana: Final Approval of State
Underground Storage Tank Program Revi-
sions, Codification and Incorporation by Ref-
erence’’ (FRL No. 9997–44–Region 8) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
9, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–2244. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Technical Issues; Formaldehyde
Emission Standards for Composite Wood
Products’’ ((RIN2070–AK47) (FRL No. 9994–
47)) received during adjournment of the Sen-
ate in the Office of the President of the Sen-
ate on August 9, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–2245. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Texas; Control of
Air Pollution from Motor Vehicles’’ (FRL
No. 9997–58–Region 6) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 13, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2246. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Minnesota; Flint
Hills Sulfur Dioxide (SO2) Revision’’ (FRL
No. 9998–49–Region 5) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 13, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2247. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; New Mexico; Ap-
proval of Revised Statutes; Error Correc-
tion’’ (FRL No. 9997–80–Region 6) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
15, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–2248. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; New Mexico; Ap-
proval of Revised Statutes; Error Correc-
tion’’ (FRL No. 9998–05–Region 6) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
15, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–2249. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Ohio; Redesigna-
tion of the Columbus, Ohio Area to Attain-
ment of the 2015 Ozone Standard’’ (FRL No.
998–50–Region 5) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 15, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2250. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of Air Quality Implementa-
tion Plans; New Jersey; Determination of
Attainment for the 1971 Sulfur Dioxide Na-
tional Ambient Air Quality Standard; War-
ren County Nonattainment Area’’ (FRL No.
9998–58–Region 2) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 15, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2251. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of California Air Plan Revi-
sions; Imperial County Air Pollution Control
District; Stationary Source Permits’’ (FRL
No. 9996–19–Region 9) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 15, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2252. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the Sec-
retary of Commerce’s investigation into the
effect of imports of uranium on the national
security of the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–2253. A communication from the Chair-
man of the United States International
Trade Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report entitled ‘‘Large Residential
Washers: Monitoring Developments in the
Domestic Industry’’; to the Committee on
Finance.
EC–2254. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, General Law, Ethics,
and Regulation, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, two (2) re-
ports relative to vacancies in the Depart-
ment of the Treasury, received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 8, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–2255. A communication from the Senior
Advisor for Presidential Personnel, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
a vacancy in the position of Assistant Sec-
retary for Financial Resources, Department
of Health and Human Services, received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 15,
2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–2256. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; FY 2020 Inpatient Psy-
chiatric Facilities Prospective Payment Sys-
tem and Quality Reporting Updates for Fis-
cal Year Beginning October 1, 2019’’
(RIN0938–AT69) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–2257. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; Prospective Payment
System and Consolidated Billing for Skilled
Nursing Facilities; Updated to the Quality
Reporting Program and Value-Based Pur-
chasing Program for Federal Fiscal Year
2020’’ (RIN0938–AT75) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 2, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–2258. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; Inpatient Rehabilita-
tion Facility (IRF) Prospective Payment
System for Federal Fiscal Year 2020 and Up-
dates to the IRF Quality Reporting Pro-
gram’’ (RIN0938–AT67) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 2, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–2259. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; FY 2020 Hospice Wage
Index and Payment Rate Update and Hospice
Quality Reporting Requirements’’ (RIN0938–
AT71) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 14, 2019; to the Committee
on Finance.
EC–2260. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; Hospital Inpatient Pro-
spective Payment Systems for Acute Care
Hospitals and the Long-Term Care Hospital
Prospective Payment System and Policy
Changes and Fiscal Year 2020 Rates; Quality
Reporting Requirements for Specific Pro-
viders; Medicare and Medicaid Promoting
Interoperability Programs Requirements for
Eligible Hospitals and Critical Access Hos-
pitals’’ (RIN0938–AT73) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 14, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–2261. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Automatic Consent
to Change Methods of Accounting to Comply
with Amended Sections 807 and 848’’ (Rev.
Proc. 2019–34) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–2262. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Six-Month Exten-
sion to File Form 1065 and Furnish Schedules
K–1 Granted to Eligible Partnerships’’ (Rev.
Proc. 2019–34) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 12, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–2263. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0061–2019–0065); to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2264. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Bureau of Legislative Affairs,
Department of State, transmitting, pursuant
to law, twenty-six (26) reports relative to va-
cancies in the Department of State, received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
8, 2019; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
EC–2265. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Re-
port of the Attorney General to the Congress
of the United States on the Administration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.032 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5396 September 10, 2019
of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of
1938, as amended, for the six months ending
June 30, 2018’’; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
EC–2266. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 Performance Report
to Congress for the Medical Device User Fee
Amendments’’; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2267. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Fiscal Year 2018 Annual Progress Report to
Congress on the C.W. Bill Young Cell Trans-
plantation Program and the National Cord
Blood Inventory Program’’; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–2268. A joint communication from the
Secretary of Labor and the Director of the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Corpora-
tion’s fiscal year 2018 actuarial evaluation of
the expected operations and status of the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation funds;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2269. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Disease Con-
trol and Prevention, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Guide-
lines for Determining the Probability of Cau-
sation under the Energy Employees Occupa-
tional Illness Compensation Program Act of
2000; Technical Amendments’’ (RIN0920–
AA74) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2270. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Regulations and Policy Management
Staff, Food and Drug Administration, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Listing of Color Additives
Exempt from Certification; Soy
Leghemoglobin’’ ((21 CFR Part 73) (Docket
No. FDA–2018–C–4464)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 6, 2019; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
EC–2271. A communication from the Asso-
ciate General Counsel for General Law, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to a
vacancy in the position of Inspector General,
Department of Homeland Security, received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
7, 2019; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2272. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2019–04; Small Entity Compliance Guide’’ ((48
CFR Chapter 1) (FAC 2019–04) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 9,
2019; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2273. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2019–04; Technical Amendments’’ ((48 CFR
Parts 1 and 52) (FAC 2019–04) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 9,
2019; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–2274. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Ombudsman for Indefinite-Deliv-
ery Contracts’’ ((RIN9000–AN53) (48 CFR
Parts 16 and 52)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 9, 2019; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–2275. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2019–04; Introduction’’ ((48 CFR Chapter 1)
(FAC 2019–04)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 9, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–2276. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2019–05; Introduction’’ ((48 CFR Chapter 1)
(FAC 2019–05)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 15, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–2277. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘FY 2016
Report to Congress on Outcome Evaluations
of Administration for Native Americans
(ANA) Projects’’; to the Committee on In-
dian Affairs.
EC–2278. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘FY 2017
Report to Congress on Outcome Evaluations
of Administration for Native Americans
(ANA) Projects’’; to the Committee on In-
dian Affairs.
EC–2279. A communication from the Asso-
ciate Deputy General Counsel, Office of the
Director of National Intelligence, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
three (3) vacancies in the Office of the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence, received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 19,
2019; to the Select Committee on Intel-
ligence.
EC–2280. A communication from the Asso-
ciate General Counsel for General Law, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to a
vacancy in the position of Assistant Sec-
retary/Director, U.S. Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement (ICE), Department of
Homeland Security, received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 14, 2019; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–2281. A communication from the Man-
agement Analyst, Bureau of Consular Af-
fairs, Department of State, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Schedule of Fees for Consular Services, De-
partment of State and Overseas Embassies
and Consulates - Visa Services Fee Changes’’
(RIN1400–AE11) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 13, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
EC–2282. A communication from the Chief
of the Regulatory Coordination Division,
Citizenship and Immigration Services, De-
partment of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Inadmissibility on Public Charge
Grounds’’ (RIN1615–AA22) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 14, 2019; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–2283. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Assistant Director of the Office of
Policy and Planning, Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Apprehension,
Processing, Care, and Custody of Alien Mi-
nors and Unaccompanied Alien Children’’
(RIN1653–AA75 and RIN0970–AC42) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
13, 2019; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–2284. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Uni-
formed Services Employment and Reemploy-
ment Rights Act of 1994 (USERRA) Quarterly
Report to Congress; Third Quarter of Fiscal
Year 2019’’; to the Committee on Veterans’
Affairs.
EC–2285. A communication from the Regu-
lation Policy Development Coordinator, Of-
fice of Regulation Policy and Management,
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Committal services, memorial serv-
ices and funeral honors’’ (RIN2900–AQ35) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 12, 2019; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
EC–2286. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Alcohol and
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of the Crest of the Blue Ridge Hender-
son County Viticultural Area’’ (RIN1513–
AC43) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 7, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2287. A communication from the
Broadband Division Chief, Wireless Tele-
communication Bureau, Federal Commu-
nications Commission, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Transforming the 2.5 GHz Band’’ ((WT
Docket No. 18–120) (FCC 19–62)) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 8,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2288. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Takes of Marine Mammals Incidental to
Specified Activities; Taking Marine Mam-
mals Incidental to Oil and Gas Activities in
Cook Inlet, Alaska’’ (RIN0648–BI62) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
9, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2289. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs,
Consumer Product Safety Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Statement of Policy on En-
forcement Discretion Regarding General
Conformity Certificates for the Require-
ments of the Refrigerator Safety Act’’ (16
CFR Part 1750) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 14, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.034 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5397
September 10, 2019
EC–2290. A communication from the Dep-
uty Director of the Office for Coastal Man-
agement, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, Department of Commerce
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Changes to the Coastal Zone
Management Act Program Change Proce-
dures’’ (RIN0648–AW74) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 14, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2291. A communication from the Chief
of Regulatory Development, Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration, Department
of Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Lease and
Interchange of Vehicles; Motor Carriers of
Passengers’’ (RIN2126–AC07) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 14,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2292. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, International Bureau, Federal Com-
munications Commission, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘In
the Matter of Streamlining Licensing Proce-
dures for Small Satellites’’ ((IB Docket No.
18–86) (FCC 19–81)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2293. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Surface Transportation Board
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Regulations Governing Fees
for Services Performed in Connection with
Licensing and Related Services - 2019 Up-
date’’ (Docket No. EP 542 Sub–No. 27) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 19, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2294. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘IFR Oper-
ations at Locations Without Weather Re-
porting’’ ((RIN2120–AK94) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0564)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2295. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of VOR Federal Airways V–115, V–184,
V–188, and V–542 in the Vicinity of Tidioute,
PA’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–
1022)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2296. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Expansion
of R–3803 Restricted Area Complex; Fort
Polk, LA’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–0984)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2297. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Removal
of Area Navigation (RNAV) Route Q–106;
Southern United States’’ ((RIN2120–AA66)
(Docket No. FAA–2019–0060)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 2,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2298. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Multiple Air Traffic Service (ATS)
Routes; Western United States’’ ((RIN2120–
AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0713)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
2, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2299. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revoca-
tion of Class E Airspace; Tecumseh, MI’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0273))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 2, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2300. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Beeville-Chase
Field, TX’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0222)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2301. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Cortland, Elmira,
Ithaca, and Endicott, NY’’ ((RIN2120–AA66)
(Docket No. FAA–2019–0347)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 2,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2302. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Restricted Areas R–2201 A, B, C, D;
Fort Greely, AK’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket
No. FAA–2016–9495)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2303. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Restricted Areas R–2205 A, B, C, D,
E, F, G, H, J, K; Fairbank, AK and Revoca-
tion of Restricted Area R–2205; Stuart Creek,
AK’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2016–
9479)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2304. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of Class E Airspace; Minersville, PA’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0358))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2305. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revoca-
tion of Class E Airspace; Sioux Center, IA’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0277))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2306. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Forest City, IA’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0310))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2307. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Minocqua-Wood-
ruff, WI’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0336)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2308. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3863’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 19,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2309. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3861’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 19,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2310. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3862’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 19,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2311. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Standard
Instrument Approach Procedures, and Take-
off Minimums and Obstacle Departure Proce-
dures; Miscellaneous Amendments; Amend-
ment No. 3864’’ (RIN2120–AA65) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 19,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2312. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.036 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5398 September 10, 2019
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0116))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 2, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2313. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; ATR–GIE Avions de Trans-
port Regional Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2018–00993)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 2,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2314. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; B/E Aerospace Fischer
GmbH Common Seats’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2019–0129)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 2,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2315. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0022)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2316. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0114)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2317. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0116))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 2, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2318. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Rolls-Royce Deutschland
Ltd & Co KG Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–
AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0567)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
2, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2319. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Rolls-Royce Deutschland
Ltd & Co KG TAY 650–15 and TAY 651–54 Tur-
bofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2018–0993)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2320. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Sikorsky Aircraft Corpora-
tion Helicopters’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2016–8501)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2321. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Trig Avionics Limited Tran-
sponders’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–1081)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2322. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0192))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2323. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0318))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2324. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0255))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2325. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0574))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2326. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0251))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2327. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0527))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2328. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0249)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2329. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0575)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2330. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0023)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2331. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–1011)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2332. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0186))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2333. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0120))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2334. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Bombardier, Inc., Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0578))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.038 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5399
September 10, 2019
EC–2335. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Diamond Aircraft Industries
GmbH Airplanes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket
No. FAA–2019–0203)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2336. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Engine Alliance Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0465)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2337. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Engine Alliance Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0459)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2338. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; GE Honda Aero Engines Tur-
bofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No.
FAA–2019–0352)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2339. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; International Aero Engines
AG Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA64)
(Docket No. FAA–2019–0274)) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 19,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2340. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Safran Aerosystems Life
Jackets’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0207)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2341. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; 328 Support Services GmbH
(Type Certificate Previously Held by AvCraft
Aerospace GmbH; Fairchild Dornier GmbH;
Dornier Luftfahrt GmbH) Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0117))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 19, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2342. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘C1–C4 Linear and Branched Chain
Alkyl D–Glucitol Dianhydro Alkyl Ethers;
Exemption from the Requirement of a Toler-
ance’’ (FRL No. 9997–14–OCSPP) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
19, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2343. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Dinotefuran; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9994–82–OCSPP) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2344. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Lipochitooligosaccharide (LCO)
MOR116; Exemption from the Requirement of
a Tolerance’’ (FRL No. 9997–94–OCSPP) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 22, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2345. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Buprofezin; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9997–41–OCSPP) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 23, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2346. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Emamectin Benzoate; Pesticide Tol-
erances’’ (FRL No. 9997–10–OCSPP) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
23, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2347. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Nitrapyrin; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9996–85–OCSPP) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 23, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2348. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Oxirane, 2-methyl-, Polymer with
Oxirane, Monoundecyl Ether, Branched and
Linear; Exemption from the Requirement of
a Tolerance’’ (FRL No. 9996–95–OCSPP) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 23, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2349. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Sedaxane; Tolerance in/on Legume
Vegetables (Succulent or Dried), Crop Group
6’’ (FRL No. 9998–22–OCSPP) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 23,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2350. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Vice Admiral
John D. Alexander, United States Navy, and
his advancement to the grade of vice admiral
on the retired list; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–2351. A communication from the Chief
of the Policy Branch, Department of the
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Individual Requests for Access or Amend-
ment of CID Reports of Investigation’’
((RIN0702–AB00) (32 CFR Part 633)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
EC–2352. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Collecting and Reporting of
Foreign Indebtedness within the Department
of Defense’’ (RIN0790–AK21) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 21,
2019; to the Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2353. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Recoupment of Nonrecurring
Costs (NCs) on Sales of U.S. Items’’
(RIN0790–AK24) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
EC–2354. A communication from the Chair-
man and President of the Export-Import
Bank, transmitting, pursuant to law, a re-
port relative to a transaction involving U.S.
exports to Mozambique; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2355. A communication from the Pro-
gram Specialist, Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Assessment of Fees’’
(RIN1557–AE58) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–2356. A communication from the Dep-
uty General Counsel for Operations, Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to a vacancy in the position of Assist-
ant Secretary, Community Planning and De-
velopment, Department of Housing and
Urban Development, received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 22, 2019; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–2357. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Commission Guid-
ance Regarding Proxy Voting Responsibil-
ities of Investment Advisers’’ (17 CFR Parts
271 and 276) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 23, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–2358. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Commission Inter-
pretation and Guidance Regarding the Appli-
cability of the Proxy Rules to Proxy Voting
Advice’’ (17 CFR Part 241) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 23,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2359. A communication from the Acting
Associate General Counsel for Regulations
and Legislation, Office of Fair Housing and
Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.040 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5400 September 10, 2019
and Urban Development, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Project Approval for Single-Family Con-
dominiums’’ (RIN2502–AJ30) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 23,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2360. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Industry and Analysis, Bu-
reau of Industry and Security, Department
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Addition of
Certain Entities to the Entity List and Revi-
sion of Entries on the Entity List’’ (RIN0694–
AH86) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 27, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2361. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Industry and Analysis, Bu-
reau of Industry and Security, Department
of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Temporary
General License: Extension of Validity,
Clarifications to Authorized Transactions,
and Changes to Certification Statement Re-
quirements’’ (RIN0694–AH86) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 27,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2362. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Legislation, Regula-
tion and Energy Efficiency, Department of
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Inclusion of Early
Stage Technology Demonstration in Author-
ized Technology Transfer Activities’’
((RIN1991–AC14) (48 CFR Part 970)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
27, 2019; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
EC–2363. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Human Resources, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to a vacancy in the po-
sition of Assistant Administrator, Office of
Air and Radiation, Environmental Protec-
tion Agency, received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 21, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2364. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval: Missouri; Revi-
sion to Emission Data, Emission Fees and
Process Information Rule’’ (FRL No. 9998–41–
Region 7) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2365. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval: Missouri; Revi-
sion to Reference Methods Rule’’ (FRL No.
9998–39–Region 7) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 19, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2366. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Technical Amendments to Revise Re-
gional Office Address’’ (FRL No. 9998–08–Re-
gion 6) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 19, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2367. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Arizona; Maricopa
County Air Quality Department’’ (FRL No.
9998–76–Region 9) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 22, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2368. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Arkansas; Revi-
sions to State Implementation Plan Permit-
ting Programs’’ (FRL No. 9997–81–Region 6)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 22, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–2369. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Michigan; Ohio;
Corrections’’ (FRL No. 9998–75–Region 5) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 22, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2370. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Nevada; Revisions
to Clark County Ozone Maintenance Plan’’
(FRL No. 9998–83–Region 9) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 22,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2371. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; AK; Adoption Up-
dates and Permitting Rule Revisions’’ (FRL
No. 9998–71–Region 10) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 23, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2372. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; California; Impe-
rial County Air Pollution Control District’’
(FRL No. 9996–59–Region 9) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 23,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2373. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Georgia; Update
to Materials Incorporated by Reference’’
(FRL No. 9997–86–Region 4) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 23,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2374. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Revisions; California; Tech-
nical Amendments’’ (FRL No. 9990–48–Region
9) received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 23, 2019; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
EC–2375. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nu-
clear Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Final
Safety Evaluation of Technical Specifica-
tions Task Force Traveler TSTF–569, Revi-
sion 2, ‘Revise Response Time Testing Defi-
nition’ ’’ received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 21, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2376. A communication from the Acting
Chief of the Branch of Listing Policy and
Support, Fish and Wildlife Service, Depart-
ment of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endan-
gered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants;
Regulations for Listing Species and Desig-
nating Critical Habitat’’ (RIN1018–BC88) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 26, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2377. A communication from the Acting
Chief of the Branch of Listing Policy and
Support, Fish and Wildlife Service, Depart-
ment of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endan-
gered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants;
Regulations for Interagency Cooperation’’
(RIN1018–BC87) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2378. A communication from the Wild-
life Biologist, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Migratory Bird Subsistence Harvest in
Alaska; Harvest Regulations for Migratory
Birds in Alaska During the 2019 Season’’
(RIN1018–BD07) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2379. A communication from the
Branch Chief, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Migratory Bird Subsistence Harvest in
Alaska; Harvest Regulations for Migratory
Birds in Alaska during the 2019 Season’’
(RIN1018–BD07) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2380. A communication from the Chief
of the Branch of Domestic Listing, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered and Threatened
Wildlife and Plants; Adding 16 Species, Re-
moving One Species, and Updating Entries
for 17 Species on the List of Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife’’ (RIN1018–BD72) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 26, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2381. A communication from the Chief
of the Branch of Listing Policy and Support,
Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the
Interior, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endangered and
Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Removing
Textual Descriptions of Critical Habitat
Boundaries for Mammals, Birds, Amphibians,
Fisheries, Clams, Snails, Arachnids, Crusta-
ceans, and Insects; Correction’’ (RIN1018–
BA81) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2382. A communication from the Chief
of the Branch of Conservation, Permits, and
Regulations, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Migratory Bird Permits; Regulations for
Managing Resident Canada Goose Popu-
lations’’ (RIN1018–BC72) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.042 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5401
September 10, 2019
President of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2383. A communication from the Chief
of the Branch of Domestic Listing, Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Designation of Critical Habi-
tat for Spring Pygmy Sunfish’’ (RIN1018–
BD54) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2384. A communication from the En-
forcement Specialist, Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Importation, Exportation, and Trans-
portation of Wildlife, Shellfish, and Fishery
Products; Importation and Exportation of
Green Sea Urchins’’ (RIN1018–BE35) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
26, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–2385. A communication from the En-
forcement Specialist, Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Civil Penalties; 2019 Inflation Adjust-
ments for Civil Monetary Penalties’’
(RIN1018–BD05) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2386. A communication from the
Branch Chief, Fish and Wildlife Service, De-
partment of the Interior, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Migratory Bird Hunting; Normal Agricul-
tural Operations’’ (RIN1018–BD90) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
26, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–2387. A communication from the Acting
Chief of the Branch of Listing Policy and
Support, Fish and Wildlife Service, Depart-
ment of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endan-
gered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants;
Regulations for Prohibitions to Threatened
Wildlife and Plants’’ (RIN1018–BC97) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
EC–2388. A communication from the Acting
Chief of the Branch of Delisting and Foreign
Species, Fish and Wildlife Service, Depart-
ment of the Interior, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Endan-
gered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants;
Reinstatement of ESA Listing for the Griz-
zly Bear in the Greater Yellowstone Eco-
system in Compliance With Court Order’’
(RIN1018–BD86) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2389. A communication from the Senior
Attorney-Advisor, Federal Highway Admin-
istration, Department of Transportation,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘FAST Act Section 5516 ‘Ad-
ditional State Authority’ Implementation’’
(RIN2125–AF86) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2390. A communication from the Con-
servation Policy Advisor, Fish and Wildlife
Service, Department of the Interior, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘2019–2020 Station-specific Hunting
and Sport Fishing Regulations’’ (RIN1018–
BD79) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 26, 2019; to the Committee
on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2391. A communication from the Dep-
uty Inspector General for Audit Services, De-
partment of Health and Human Services,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report enti-
tled ‘‘Review of Medicare Administrative
Contractor Information Security Program
Evaluations for Fiscal Year 2018’’; to the
Committee on Finance.
EC–2392. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Medicare Beneficiary Ombudsman FY 2014–
2016 Report to Congress’’; to the Committee
on Finance.
EC–2393. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘FY 2012–2016 Report to Congress From the
Competitive Acquisition Ombudsman for the
Durable Medical Equipment, Prosthetics,
Orthotics, and Supplies Competitive Bidding
Program’’; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–2394. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Revenue Ruling:
Failure to Cash a Distribution Check From a
Qualified Retirement Plan’’ (Rev. Rul. 2019–
19) received during adjournment of the Sen-
ate in the Office of the President of the Sen-
ate on August 26, 2019; to the Committee on
Finance.
EC–2395. A communication from the Chief
of the Trade and Commercial Regulations
Branch, Bureau of Customs and Border Pro-
tection, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Import Restrictions Imposed
on Archaeological Material from Algeria’’
((RIN1515–AE48) (CBP Dec. 19–09)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
21, 2019; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–2396. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license for the
export of defense articles, including tech-
nical data and defense services, to the Re-
public of Korea to support the manufacture
of selected T700/701K parts of the Korea Util-
ity Helicopter (Surion Helicopter) in the
amount of $50,000,000 or more (Transmittal
No. DDTC 19–005); to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–2397. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
section 36(c) of the Arms Export Control Act,
the certification of a proposed license
amendment for the export of defense arti-
cles, including technical data and defense
services, to Australia to support the manu-
facture of F–35 weapons adapters in the
amount of $100,000,000 or more (Transmittal
No. DDTC 19–023); to the Committee on For-
eign Relations.
EC–2398. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Adjust-
ment of Controls for Lower Performing
Radar and Continued Temporary Modifica-
tion of Category XI of the United States Mu-
nitions List’’ (RIN1400–AE88) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2399. A communication from the Direc-
tor, White House Liaison, Department of
Education, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report relative to a vacancy in the position
of General Counsel, Department of Edu-
cation, received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 28, 2019; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2400. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant General Counsel for Regu-
latory Affairs, Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Benefits Pay-
able in Terminated Single-Employer Plans;
Interest Assumptions for Paying Benefits’’
(29 CFR Part 4022) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 23, 2019; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–2401. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislative Affairs, De-
partment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the Department’s fiscal year 2018 annual
report relative to the Notification and Fed-
eral Employee Antidiscrimination and Re-
taliation Act of 2002 (No FEAR Act); to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
EC–2402. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Congressional Relations and Govern-
ment Affairs, Office of the Special Inspector
General for Afghanistan Reconstruction,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the Office’s July 2019 quarterly re-
port to Congress (OSS–2019–0897); to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–2403. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Fis-
cal Year 2018 Debt Collection Recovery Ac-
tivities of the Department of Justice for
Civil Debts Referred for Collection Annual
Report’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–2404. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, three (3) reports rel-
ative to vacancies in the Department of Jus-
tice, received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 20, 2019; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
EC–2405. A communication from the Senior
Trial Attorney, Office of Aviation Enforce-
ment and Proceedings, Department of Trans-
portation, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Guidance on Non-
discrimination on the Basis of Disability in
Air Travel’’ (RIN2105–ZA05) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 20,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2406. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Delay of
Class E Airspace Effective Date; Boulder
City, NV’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0816)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2407. A communication from the Attor-
ney Advisor, Office of the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Transportation, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Revisions to the Civil Penalty Amounts’’
(RIN2120–AE80) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on August 22, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2408. A communication from the Asso-
ciate Chief of the Auctions and Spectrum Ac-
cess Division, Wireless Telecommunications
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.044 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5402 September 10, 2019
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Incentive Auction of
Upper Microwave Flexible Use Service Li-
censes in the Upper 37 GHz, 39 GHz, and 47
GHz Bands for Next-Generation Wireless
Services’’ ((AU Docket No. 19–59) (FCC 19–63))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2409. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Implemen-
tation of Section 621(a) (1) of the Cable Com-
munications Policy Act of 1984 as Amended
by the Cable Television Consumer Protec-
tion and Competition Act of 1992’’ ((MB
Docket No. 05–311) (FCC 19–80)) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 22,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2410. A communication from the Chief
of Staff, Media Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Electronic
Delivery of MVPD Communications; Mod-
ernization of Media Regulation Initiative’’
((MB Docket Nos. 17–105 and 17–317) (FCC 19–
69)) received during adjournment of the Sen-
ate in the Office of the President of the Sen-
ate on August 26, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2411. A communication from the Chief
of Staff of the Competition Policy Division,
Wireless Competition Bureau, Federal Com-
munications Commission, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Implementing Section 503 of RAY BAUM’S
Act; Rules and Regulation Implementing the
Truth in Caller ID Act of 2009’’ ((WC Docket
Nos. 18–335 and 11–39) (FCC 19–73)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
26, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2412. A communication from the Chief
of Staff of the Competition Policy Division,
Wireless Competition Bureau, Federal Com-
munications Commission, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Establishing the Digital Opportunity Data
Collection; Modernizing the FCC Form 477
Data Program’’ ((WC Docket Nos. 11–10 and
19–195) (FCC 19–79)) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2413. A communication from the Acting
Chief of the Environmental Response and
Restoration Branch, Fish and Wildlife Serv-
ice, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Marine Mammals; Incidental Take
During Specified Activities: Cook Inlet,
Alaska’’ (RIN1018–BD63) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 26, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2414. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Takes of Marine Mammals Incidental to
Specified Activities: Taking Marine Mam-
mals Incidental to U.S. Navy Surveillance
Towed Array Sensor System Low Frequency
Active Sonar Training and Testing in the
Central and Western North Pacific Ocean
and Eastern Indian Ocean’’ (RIN0648–BI42)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 28, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2415. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Pa-
cific Island Fisheries; Closure of the 2019 Ha-
waii Shallow-Set Pelagic Longline Fishery’’
(RIN0648–XG905) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 28, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2416. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries’’ (RIN0648–XG810) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 28, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2417. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries’’ (RIN0648–XG839) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 28, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2418. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Atlantic
Bluefin Tuna Fisheries’’ (RIN0648–XG895) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 28, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2419. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Atlan-
tic Highly Migratory Species; Commercial
Aggregated Large Costal Shark and Ham-
merhead Shark Management Groups Reten-
tion Limit Adjustment’’ (RIN0648–XG930) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 28, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2420. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder Fishery; Retro-
active Quota Transfer’’ (RIN0648–XG739) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 28, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2421. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder Fishery; Quota
Transfer’’ (RIN0648–XG796) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2422. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Atlantic Herring Fishery; 2019 Man-
agement Area 2 Sub-Annual Catch Limit
Harvested’’ (RIN0648–XG872) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2423. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Northeast Multispecies Fishery;
Witch Flounder Trimester Total Allowable
Catch Area Closure for the Common Pool
Fishery’’ (RIN0648–XG971) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2424. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Northeastern United States;
Small-Mesh Multispecies Fishery; Inseason
Adjustment to the Northern Red Hake Pos-
session Limit’’ (RIN0648–XG696) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2425. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Coastal
Migratory Pelagic Resources of the Gulf of
Mexico and Atlantic Region; Commercial
Trip Limit Increase for King Mackerel in the
Atlantic Sothern Zone’’ (RIN0648–XG762) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 28, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2426. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Coastal
Migratory Pelagic Resources of the Gulf of
Mexico and Atlantic Region; 2018 Commer-
cial Hook-and-Line Closure for King Mack-
erel in the Gulf of Mexico Southern Zone’’
(RIN0648–XG770) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 28, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2427. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Reef Fish Fishery of the Gulf of Mexico;
2019 Recreational Accountability Measure
and Closure for Gulf of Mexico Grey
Triggerfish’’ (RIN0648–XG870) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2428. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Reef Fish Fishery of the Gulf of Mexico;
2019 Recreational Accountability Measure
and Closure for Gulf of Mexico Greater
Amberjack’’ (RIN0648–XG871) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.046 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5403
September 10, 2019
EC–2429. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; Coastal Migratory Pe-
lagic Resources of the Gulf of Mexico and At-
lantic Region; Commercial Closure for Span-
ish Mackerel’’ (RIN0648–XG734) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2430. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; Snapper-Grouper Re-
sources of the South Atlantic; 2019 Red Snap-
per Commercial and Recreational Fishing
Seasons’’ (RIN0648–XG821) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2431. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; 2019 Commercial Ac-
countability Measure and Closure for South
Atlantic Grey Triggerfish; January Through
June Season’’ (RIN0648–XG960) received dur-
ing adjournment of the Senate in the Office
of the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2432. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Northern Rockfish in the Bering
Sea and Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XG974) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 28, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2433. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Hook-and-Line
Catcher/Processors in the Western Regu-
latory Area of the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–
XG716) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 28, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2434. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Using Trawl Gear in the Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XG901) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 28, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2435. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Using Trawl Gear in the Bering Sea and
Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XG936) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on August 28, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2436. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Deep-Water Species Fishery by
Vessels Using Trawl Gear in the Gulf of Alas-
ka’’ (RIN0648–XG894) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 28, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2437. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pollock in Statistical Area 610 in
the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG916) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2438. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pollock in Statistical Area 610 in
the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG935) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2439. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pollock in Statistical Area 620 in
the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG911) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2440. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Reallocation of Pollock in the Ber-
ing Sea and Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–
XG847) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 28, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2441. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Sablefish Managed Under the Indi-
vidual Fishing Quota Program’’ (RIN0648–
XG816) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 28, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2442. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Vessels Using Jig
Gear in the Western Regulatory Area of the
Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG916) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2443. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pollock in Statistical Area 610 in
the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG730) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2444. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Hook-and-Line
Catcher/Processors in the Central Regu-
latory Area of the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–
XG869) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 28, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2445. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Greater Than or Equal to 50 Feet Length
Overall Using Hook-and-Line Gear in the
Central Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alas-
ka’’ (RIN0648–XG845) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 28, 2019; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2446. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Pacific Cod by Trawl Catcher Ves-
sels in the Western Regulatory Area of the
Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG724) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2447. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Less Than 50 Feet Overall Using Hook-and-
Line Gear in the Central Regulatory Area of
the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XG972) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
28, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2448. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pacific Cod in
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area’’ (RIN0648–XG700) received during
adjournment of the Senate in the Office of
the President of the Senate on August 28,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2449. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.048 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5404 September 10, 2019
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels Using
Trawl Gear in the Bering Sea and Aleutian
Islands Management Area’’ (RIN0648–XG760)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 28, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2450. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries of the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Reallocation of Pollock in the Ber-
ing Sea and Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–
XG756) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 28, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2451. A communication from the Chair-
man, Securities and Exchange Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the 2017 An-
nual Report of the Securities Investor Pro-
tection Corporation (SIPC); to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–2452. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Adopting Subpart Ba Requirements
in Emission Guidelines for Municipal Solid
Waste Landfills’’ (FRL No. 9998–82–OAR) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 1, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2453. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; ID: Update to
CRB Fee Billing Procedures’’ (FRL No. 9998–
96–Region 10) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on September 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2454. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Indiana; Regional
Haze Plan and Prong 4 (Visibility) for the
2006 and 2012 PM2.5, 2010 NO2, 2010 SO2, and
2008 Ozone NAAQS’’ (FRL No. 9999–33–Region
5) received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 1, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–2455. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Missouri; Compli-
ance Monitoring Usage’’ (FRL No. 9998–90–
Region 7) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2456. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of Iowa and Nebraska Air
Quality Implementation Plans; Infrastruc-
ture SIP Requirements for the 2012 Annual
Fine Particulate Matter (PM2.5) National
Ambient Air Quality Standard Interstate
Transport’’ (FRL No. 9998–89–Region 7) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
September 1, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2457. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Clean Water Act Hazardous Sub-
stances Spill Prevention’’ (FRL No. 9999–09–
OLEM) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on September 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
EC–2458. A communication from the Acting
Chief Privacy Officer, Department of Home-
land Security, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Social Security Num-
ber Fraud Prevention Act 2019 Annual Re-
port to Congress’’; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–2459. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Implementation of
Nonresident Alien Deposit Interest Regula-
tion’’ (Rev. Proc. 2019–23) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on August 29, 2019; to
the Committee on Finance.
EC–2460. A communication from the Chief
of the Publications and Regulations Branch,
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the
Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Notice: Domestic
Partnerships and S Corporations Filing
Under Proposed GILTI Regulations’’ (Notice
2019–46) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 29, 2019; to the Committee
on Finance.
EC–2461. A communication from the Chief
of the Trade and Commercial Regulations
Branch, Bureau of Customs and Border Pro-
tection, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Amendment to Statement
Processing and Automated Clearinghouse
(ACH)’’ ((RIN1515–AE47) (CBP Dec. 19–10)) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
August 30, 2019; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
EC–2462. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Office of Regulations and Reports Clear-
ance, Social Security Administration, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Security and Suitability Files’’
(RIN0960–AH97) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 1, 2019; to the
Committee on Finance.
EC–2463. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0066 - 2019–0074); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–2464. A communication from the Acting
Assistant Secretary for Legislation, Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, a report entitled
‘‘Report on the Eleventh Review of the Back-
log of Postmarketing Requirements and
Commitments’’; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–2465. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the report of an alternate plan
for pay adjustments for civilian Federal em-
ployees covered by the General Schedule and
certain other pay systems in January 2020; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–2466. A communication from the Archi-
vist of the United States, National Archives
and Records Administration, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to the Ad-
ministration’s fiscal year 2019 Commercial
Activities Inventory and Inherently Govern-
mental Activities Inventory and the Uniform
Resource Locator (URL) for the report; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–2467. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Homeland Security, transmit-
ting legislative proposals relative to the
‘‘Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at
the Southern Border Act of 2019’’; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–2468. A communication from the Regu-
lation Policy Development Coordinator, Of-
fice of Regulation Policy and Management,
Department of Veterans Affairs, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Rental Assistance for Certain Low-
Income Veteran Families’’ (RIN2900–AQ40)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 1, 2019; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
EC–2469. A communication from the Pro-
gram Analyst, National Highway Traffic
Safety Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal
Motor Vehicle Safety Standard; Electric-
Powered Vehicles: Electrolyte Spillage and
Electrical Shock Protection’’ (RIN2127–
AM10) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 30, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2470. A communication from the Attor-
ney Adviser, Federal Railroad Administra-
tion, Department of Transportation, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘System Safety Program’’ (RIN2130–
AC81) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on August 30, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2471. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Security
Threat Disqualification Update’’ ((RIN2120–
AL04) (Docket No. FAA–2018–0656)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
30, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–2472. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment of Class E Airspace; Marion, OH’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0355))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2473. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0018))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2474. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0253))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2475. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:29 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.050 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5405
September 10, 2019
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0257))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2476. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0577))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2477. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0606))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2478. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0607))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2479. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Learjet, Inc. Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0046))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on August 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2480. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Pratt & Whitney Turbofan
Engines’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0365)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on August 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2481. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Rolls-Royce Deutschland
Ltd and Co KG Turbofan Engines’’ ((RIN2120–
AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0528)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on August
30, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–126. A joint resolution adopted by the
Legislature of the State of California urging
the United States Congress to award the
Congressional Gold Medal to the World War
II Merrill’s Marauders; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 7
Whereas, In August 1943, President Frank-
lin D. Roosevelt and other allied leaders pro-
posed the creation of an American ground
unit that would engage in a long range pene-
tration mission in Japanese-occupied Burma
to cut off Japanese communications and sup-
ply lines and capture the Japanese-held air-
field and town of Myitkyina; and
Whereas, President Roosevelt issued a call
for volunteers for ‘‘a dangerous and haz-
ardous mission,’’ that was answered by ap-
proximately 3,000 American soldiers rep-
resenting 15 ethnic groups from every state,
among them Bataan Death March survivors,
Nisei interpreters, and Native American code
talkers, forming a unit officially designated
as the 5307th Composite Unit, code named
‘‘Galahad,’’ and later to become known as
Merrill’s Marauders, after its leader, Briga-
dier General Frank Merrill; and
Whereas, Future members of Merrill’s Ma-
rauders continued their training at Camp
Stoneman, a United States Army military
facility located in Pittsburg, California, that
served as a major staging area for the United
States Army in World War II for the Pacific
Theater of Operations, and named after
George Stoneman, a cavalry commander dur-
ing the Civil War and a Governor of Cali-
fornia; and
Whereas, In February 1944 the Marauders
began their approximately 1,000 mile trek
through the dense Burmese jungle, with no
artillery support and carrying their supplies
on their backs or on the pack saddles of
mules, as the first Americans to engage the
Japanese on mainland Asia since the 1900
Boxer Rebellion; and
Whereas, Over the course of their five-
month trek to Myitkyina, the Marauders
fought victoriously against larger and better
equipped units of the Japanese 18th Division
through 5 major and 30 minor engagements,
experiencing more uninterrupted jungle
fighting than any other World War II United
States combat force, with the exception of
the 1st Marine Division that took and held
Guadalcanal for 4 months; and
Whereas, During their march to
Myitkyina, the Marauders faced hunger and
disease that were exacerbated by inadequate
aerial supply drops, while malaria, typhus,
and dysentery inflicted more casualties on
Merrill’s Marauders than the Japanese; and
Whereas, By August 1944, Merrill’s Maraud-
ers accomplished their mission, successfully
disrupting Japanese supply and communica-
tion lines and taking the town of Myitkyina
and the Myitkyina airstrip, the only all-
weather airstrip in northern Burma; and
Whereas, After taking Myitkyina, only 130
Merrill’s Marauders were fit for duty, and all
remaining Merrill’s Marauders still in action
were evacuated to hospitals due to tropical
diseases, exhaustion, and malnutrition; and
Whereas, For their bravery and accom-
plishments, Merrill’s Marauders were award-
ed the Distinguished Unit Citation, later des-
ignated as the Presidential Unit Citation,
and each of Merrill’s Marauders also earned
a Bronze Star with a V or Valor device; and
Whereas, Though Merrill’s Marauders were
operational for only a few months, the leg-
acy of their bravery is honored by the United
States Army through the modern day 75th
Ranger Regiment, which traces its lineage
directly to the 5307 Composite Unit, and the
Rangers wear the Merrill’s Marauders patch
as their crest; and
Whereas, On February 27, 2019, Gilbert
Howland, one of the last 13 living members of
Merrill’s Marauders and a triple Combat In-
fantryman Badge recipient, who served in
World War II, Korea, and two tours in Viet-
nam, placed a wreath at the Camp Stoneman
Memorial at the Pittsburg Historical Mu-
seum to commemorate 2019 as the 75th anni-
versary of the 1944 Merrill’s Marauders mis-
sion in the China Burma India Theater,
called the ‘‘forgotten theater of World War
II,’’ and
Whereas, On January 30, 2019, United
States Representative Peter T. King, intro-
duced House Resolution 906 in the 116th Con-
gress, the Merrill’s Marauders Congressional
Gold Medal Act, with the Senate Companion
bill from Senator Johnny Isakson is expected
shortly, in a third and perhaps final attempt
at this recognition with only 13 of the origi-
nal 3,000 Merrill’s Marauders still living:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate and the Assembly of
the State of California, jointly, That the Legis-
lature urges the Congress of the United
States to act favorably in regard to legisla-
tion to award the Congressional Gold Medal,
the highest honor Congress can bestow, to
Merrill’s Marauders; and be it further
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
transmit copies of this resolution to the
President and Vice President of the United
States, to the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives, to the Majority Leader of the
Senate, and to each Senator and Representa-
tive from California in the Congress of the
United States.
POM–127. A resolution adopted by the
House of Representatives of the State of
Texas urging the United States Congress to
support the ratification of the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
HOUSE RESOLUTION NO. 1160
Whereas, Texas is the nation’s leading
trade state, and its future prosperity depends
on bolstering trade among our North Amer-
ican partners; and
Whereas, The United States-Mexico-Can-
ada Agreement, which awaits ratification by
the U.S. Congress, will create a more level
playing field for American workers, ensure
opportunities for trade in U.S. services, and
benefit farmers, ranchers, and agribusiness;
moreover, it modernizes protections for in-
tellectual property, promotes collaboration
in tackling cybersecurity, and ensures that
digital trade data can be transferred cross-
border with protections for the global digital
ecosystem; and
Whereas, Texas exports totaled $315 billion
in 2018; the state accounts for almost 20 per-
cent of the nation’s trade total, and 45 per-
cent of Lone Star exports are destined for
Mexico and Canada; more than 90 percent of
Texas exporters are small businesses, and
the USMCA cuts red tape, making it easier
for them to tap into foreign markets; ap-
proximately 44 percent of our state’s agricul-
tural products are exported, and the agree-
ment provides enhanced market access for
eggs, poultry, dairy, and certain food crops;
and
Whereas, In 2017, Texas energy exports to
Canada and Mexico totaled almost $17 bil-
lion; the USMCA will promote the stability
of this industry by preserving and expanding
market integration for greater certainty, ef-
ficiency, and interregional investment; and
Whereas, Texas has more U.S. ports of
entry than any other state, and Laredo and
El Paso are the two busiest trade stations
doing business with Mexico; while offering
new commitments for market access, the
USMCA also addresses nontariff barriers re-
lated to trade in remanufactured goods and
import and export licensing; and
Whereas, Nearly one million jobs in Texas
are supported by trade with Mexico and Can-
ada; experts calculate that failure to ratify
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:34 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.052 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5406 September 10, 2019
the USMCA could result in the loss of as
many as 300,000 of those jobs; as North Amer-
ica has become more economically inte-
grated, a collaborative approach to trade is
absolutely necessary to protect American
jobs and workers while fostering innovation;
and
Whereas, The trade landscape has shifted
dramatically over the past two decades, and
the USMCA is designed to adapt to the new
terrain by strengthening our nation’s export
capabilities and setting the standard for
global trade agreements that will spur con-
tinued economic dynamism for years to
come: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives of the 86th Texas Legislature hereby re-
spectfully urge the U.S. Congress to unite in
bipartisan support for the ratification of the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement;
and, be it further
Resolved, That the chief clerk forward offi-
cial copies of this resolution to the president
of the United States, to the president of the
Senate and the speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States Congress,
and to all the members of the Texas delega-
tion to Congress with the request that this
resolution be entered in the Congressional
Record as a memorial to the Congress of the
United States of America.
POM–128. A joint resolution adopted by the
Legislature of the State of Tennessee urging
the United States Congress, pursuant to Ar-
ticle V of the United States Constitution, to
call a convention of states limited to pro-
posing a balanced budget amendment to the
United States Constitution requiring that in
the absence of a national emergency the
total of all Federal appropriations made by
the Congress for any fiscal year may not ex-
ceed the total of all estimated Federal reve-
nues for that fiscal year, together with any
related and appropriate fiscal restraints; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
HOUSE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 548
Whereas, Article V of the United States
Constitution requires the United States Con-
gress to call a convention of states upon ap-
plication of two-thirds of the legislatures of
the several states for the purpose of pro-
posing amendments to the United States
Constitution: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the House of Representatives of
the One Hundred Eighth General Assembly of
the State of Tennessee, the Senate Concurring,
That the Congress of the United States is di-
rected to call a convention of states limited
to proposing an amendment to the United
States Constitution requiring that in the ab-
sence of a national emergency the total of
all Federal appropriations made by the Con-
gress for any fiscal year may not exceed the
total of all estimated Federal revenues for
that fiscal year, together with any related
and appropriate fiscal restraints; and be it
further
Resolved, That this application is to be con-
sidered as covering the same subject matter
as the presently-outstanding balanced budg-
et applications from other states, including,
but not limited to, previously-adopted appli-
cations from Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas,
Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Indiana, Iowa,
Kansas, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, Ne-
braska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mex-
ico, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and
Texas; and that this application shall be ag-
gregated with such applications for the pur-
pose of attaining the applications from two-
thirds of the legislatures from the several
states necessary to require the calling of a
convention, but shall not be aggregated with
any applications on any other subject; and
be it further
Resolved, That this application constitutes
a continuing application in accordance with
Article V of the Constitution of the United
States until at least two-thirds of the legis-
latures of the several states have made appli-
cations for similar relief pursuant to Article
V; and be it further
Resolved, That copies of this resolution be
sent to the Honorable Joseph R. Biden, Jr.,
Vice President of the United States and
President of the U.S. Senate, Washington,
D.C.; the Honorable John Boehner, Speaker
of the House of Representatives, Washington,
D.C.; to each member of the United States
Senate and House of Representatives from
Tennessee, and to the Archivist of the
United States; and be it further
Resolved, That copies of this resolution
also be sent to the presiding officers of the
other state legislative bodies in the United
States, with the request that the other
states join Tennessee in applying to Con-
gress to call a convention of states for the
limited purpose proposed in this resolution.
POM–129. A resolution adopted by the City
Council of Portsmouth, New Hampshire urg-
ing the United States Congress to pass the
Energy Innovation and Carbon Dividend Act
of 2019; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
POM–130. A resolution adopted by the City
Commission of Miami, Florida, urging the
United States Citizenship and Immigration
Services to reevaluate an application for per-
manent resident status; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
POM–131. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to the process of re-
voking naturalized American citizenship; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
S. 715. A bill to improve the productivity
and energy efficiency of the manufacturing
sector by directing the Secretary of Energy,
in coordination with the National Academies
and other appropriate Federal agencies, to
develop a national smart manufacturing plan
and to provide assistance to small- and me-
dium-sized manufacturers in implementing
smart manufacturing programs, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–80).
S. 859. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 to reauthorize hydroelectric pro-
duction incentives and hydroelectric effi-
ciency improvement incentives, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–81).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
S. 983. A bill to amend the Energy Con-
servation and Production Act to reauthorize
the weatherization assistance program, and
for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–82).
S. 1085. A bill to support research, develop-
ment, and other activities to develop innova-
tive vehicle technologies, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 116–83).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with amendments:
S. 979. A bill to amend the Post-Katrina
Emergency Management Reform Act of 2006
to incorporate the recommendations made
by the Government Accountability Office re-
lating to advance contracts, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–84).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
S. 1151. A bill to prohibit contracting with
persons that have business operations with
the Maduro regime, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–85).
S. 1378. A bill to repeal the multi-State
plan program (Rept. No. 116–86).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 1388. A bill to manage supply chain risk
through counterintelligence training, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–87).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
S. 1419. A bill to require agencies to pub-
lish an advance notice of proposed rule mak-
ing for major rules (Rept. No. 116–88).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 1539. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to provide funding to se-
cure nonprofit facilities from terrorist at-
tacks, and for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–
89).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment:
S. 1846. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to provide for engagements
with State, local, Tribal, and territorial gov-
ernments, and for other purposes (Rept. No.
116–90).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 1867. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to establish in the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security an Unmanned
Aircraft Systems Coordinator, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–91).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
S. 1869. A bill to require the disclosure of
ownership of high-security space leased to
accommodate a Federal agency, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–92).
S. 2065. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to publish an annual re-
port on the use of deepfake technology, and
for other purposes (Rept. No. 116–93).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 2107. A bill to increase the number of
CBP Agriculture Specialists and support
staff in the Office of Field Operations of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–94).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with amendments:
S. 2193. A bill to require the Administrator
of General Services to issue guidance to clar-
ify that Federal agencies may pay by charge
card for the charging of Federal electric
motor vehicles, and for other purposes (Rept.
No. 116–95).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
H.R. 150. A bill to modernize Federal grant
reporting, and for other purposes (Rept. No.
116–96).
H.R. 2590. A bill to require a Department of
Homeland Security overseas personnel en-
hancement plan, and for other purposes
(Rept. No. 116–97).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
H.R. 347. A bill to extend the authorization
of the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Con-
trol Act of 1978 relating to the disposal site
in Mesa County, Colorado (Rept. No. 116–98).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 20:58 Dec 02, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\S10SE9.REC S10SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5407
September 10, 2019
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment in the nature of a
substitute:
S. 731. A bill to amend the Anti-Border
Corruption Act of 2010 to authorize certain
polygraph waiver authority, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–99).
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 1434. A bill to prohibit the use of reverse
auctions for design and construction services
procurements, and for other purposes (Rept.
No. 116–100).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2449. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require licenses to acquire or
receive firearms, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2450. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to limit the grounds of
deportability for certain relatives of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces and veterans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. KENNEDY (for himself and Ms.
HIRONO):
S. 2451. A bill to amend chapter 171 of title
28, United States Code, to allow suit against
the United States for injuries and deaths of
members of the Armed Forces caused by im-
proper medical care, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr.
UDALL, and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 2452. A bill to provide incentives for ag-
ricultural producers to carry out climate
stewardship practices, to provide for in-
creased reforestation across the United
States, to establish the Coastal and Estuary
Resilience Grant Program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Mr. ISAK-
SON, and Mr. CARPER):
S. 2453. A bill to assist in the conservation
of the North Atlantic right whale by sup-
porting and providing financial resources for
North Atlantic right whale conservation pro-
grams and projects of persons with expertise
required for the conservation of North Atlan-
tic right whales, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Ms. BALDWIN:
S. 2454. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 and title 17, United States
Code, to provide greater access to in-State
television broadcast programming for cable
and satellite subscribers in certain counties;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
By Mr. PETERS (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 2455. A bill to establish a program to ac-
curately document vehicles that were sig-
nificant in the history of the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. UDALL:
S. 2456. A bill to establish centers of excel-
lence for innovative stormwater control in-
frastructure, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Ms. HAR-
RIS, and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 2457. A bill to require the Secretary of
Labor to establish a pilot program to provide
grants for job guarantee programs; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 2458. A bill to prioritize funding for an
expanded and sustained national investment
in agriculture research; to the Committee on
the Budget.
By Ms. MURKOWSKI (for herself, Mr.
REED, and Mr. GRAHAM):
S. 2459. A bill to amend title 9, United
States Code, to prohibit predispute arbitra-
tion agreements that force arbitration of
certain disputes arising from claims of
servicemembers and veterans; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Ms. COL-
LINS, and Mrs. SHAHEEN):
S.J. Res. 54. A joint resolution relating to
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent of February 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr.
RUBIO):
S. Res. 306. A resolution reaffirming the
commitment to media diversity and pledging
to work with media entities and diverse
stakeholders to develop common ground so-
lutions to eliminate barriers to media diver-
sity; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY):
S. Res. 307. A resolution congratulating the
Eastbank All-Stars from River Ridge, Lou-
isiana, for winning the 2019 Little League
Baseball World Series Championship; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 13
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
13, a bill to include the State of Florida
in the Gulf of Mexico outer Continental
Shelf revenue sharing program, to ex-
tend the moratorium on oil and gas
leasing in certain areas of the Gulf of
Mexico, and for other purposes.
S. 184
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 184, a bill to authorize the ap-
propriation of funds to the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention for
conducting or supporting research on
firearms safety or gun violence preven-
tion.
S. 191
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 191, a bill to direct the
Secretary of Defense to include in peri-
odic health assessments, separation
history and physical examinations, and
other assessments an evaluation of
whether a member of the Armed Forces
has been exposed to open burn pits or
toxic airborne chemicals, and for other
purposes.
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 203, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to per-
manently extend the railroad track
maintenance credit, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 227
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
227, a bill to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral to review, revise, and develop law
enforcement and justice protocols ap-
propriate to address missing and mur-
dered Indians, and for other purposes.
S. 261
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) and the Senator from West
Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added as
cosponsors of S. 261, a bill to extend
the authorization of appropriations for
allocation to carry out approved wet-
lands conservation projects under the
North American Wetlands Conserva-
tion Act through fiscal year 2024, and
for other purposes.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 362, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to re-
form taxation of alcoholic beverages.
S. 473
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 473, a bill to amend title
5, United States Code, to include cer-
tain Federal positions within the defi-
nition of law enforcement officer for
retirement purposes, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 524
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
524, a bill to establish the Department
of Veterans Affairs Advisory Com-
mittee on Tribal and Indian Affairs,
and for other purposes.
S. 554
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 554, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to take actions nec-
essary to ensure that certain individ-
uals may update the burn pit registry
with the cause of death of a registered
individual, and for other purposes.
S. 558
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) and the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 558, a bill to
amend the Public Health Service Act
to authorize a program on children and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.062 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5408 September 10, 2019
the media within the National Insti-
tutes of Health to study the health and
developmental effects of technology on
infants, children, and adolescents.
S. 655
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 655, a bill to impose addi-
tional restrictions on tobacco flavors
for use in e-cigarettes.
S. 743
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 743, a bill to award a Con-
gressional Gold Medal to the soldiers of
the 5307th Composite Unit (Provi-
sional), commonly known as ‘‘Merrill’s
Marauders’’, in recognition of their
bravery and outstanding service in the
jungles of Burma during World War II.
S. 800
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) were added
as cosponsors of S. 800, a bill to estab-
lish a postsecondary student data sys-
tem.
S. 879
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 879, a bill to provide a
process for granting lawful permanent
resident status to aliens from certain
countries who meet specified eligibility
requirements, and for other purposes.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 880, a bill to provide out-
reach and reporting on comprehensive
Alzheimer’s disease care planning serv-
ices furnished under the Medicare pro-
gram.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 901, a
bill to amend the Older Americans Act
of 1965 to support individuals with
younger onset Alzheimer’s disease.
S. 933
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the names of the Senator from Hawaii
(Mr. SCHATZ) and the Senator from Or-
egon (Mr. MERKLEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 933, a bill to improve
data collection and monitoring of the
Great Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries,
and coasts, and for other purposes.
S. 997
At the request of Mr. BROWN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
997, a bill to recognize and honor the
service of individuals who served in the
United States Cadet Nurse Corps dur-
ing World War II, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1203
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. MURPHY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1203, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order
to improve the public service loan for-
giveness program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1218
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from New
York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1218, a bill to require
the review of the service of certain
members of the Armed Forces during
World War I to determine if such mem-
bers should be awarded the Medal of
Honor, to authorize the award of the
Medal of Honor based on the results of
the review, and for other purposes.
S. 1243
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1243, a bill to provide
standards for facilities at which aliens
in the custody of the Department of
Homeland Security are detained, and
for other purposes.
S. 1254
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
names of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) and the Senator from
Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1254, a bill to require the
Secretary of Transportation to review
and report on certain laws, safety
measures, and technologies relating to
the illegal passing of school buses, and
for other purposes.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from Oregon
(Mr. MERKLEY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1263, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish
an interagency task force on the use of
public lands to provide medical treat-
ment and therapy to veterans through
outdoor recreation.
S. 1279
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER), the Senator from
Virginia (Mr. KAINE), and the Senator
from North Carolina (Mr. TILLIS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1279, a bill to
reauthorize mandatory funding pro-
grams for historically Black colleges
and universities and other minority-
serving institutions.
S. 1398
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1398, a bill to promote the use of
smart technologies and systems in
communities, and for other purposes.
S. 1409
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1409, a bill to enhance the abil-
ity of the Office of the National Om-
budsman to assist small businesses in
meeting regulatory requirements and
develop outreach initiatives to pro-
mote awareness of the services the Of-
fice of the National Ombudsman pro-
vides, and for other purposes.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1590, a bill to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956
to authorize rewards for thwarting
wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1642
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1642, a bill to increase the re-
cruitment and retention of school-
based mental health services providers
by low-income local educational agen-
cies.
S. 1727
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1727, a bill to establish the Partnership
Fund for Peace to promote joint eco-
nomic development and finance ven-
tures between Palestinian entre-
preneurs and companies and those in
the United States and Israel to im-
prove economic cooperation and peo-
ple-to-people peacebuilding programs,
and to further shared community
building, peaceful coexistence, dia-
logue, and reconciliation between
Israelis and Palestinians.
S. 1739
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from West
Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1739, a bill to enable
projects that will aid in the develop-
ment and delivery of related instruc-
tion associated with apprenticeship
and preapprenticeship programs that
are focused on serving the skilled tech-
nical workforce at the National Lab-
oratories and certain facilities of the
National Nuclear Security Administra-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1757, a
bill to award a Congressional Gold
Medal, collectively, to the United
States Army Rangers Veterans of
World War II in recognition of their ex-
traordinary service during World War
II.
S. 1777
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1777, a bill to amend the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 to include in the
Annual Country Reports on Human
Rights Practices a section on conflict-
related sexual and gender-based vio-
lence, to amend the Global Magnitsky
Human Rights Accountability Act to
authorize the President to impose eco-
nomic sanctions and a visa ban on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:08 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.065 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5409
September 10, 2019
leader of an organization that commits
sexual or gender-based violence.
S. 1877
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
1877, a bill to establish procedures and
consequences in the event of a failure
to complete regular appropriations.
S. 2043
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Wis-
consin (Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2043, a bill to provide
incentives for hate crime reporting,
provide grants for State-run hate crime
hotlines, and establish alternative sen-
tencing for individuals convicted under
the Matthew Shephard and James
Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act.
S. 2072
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2072, a bill to provide for an increase,
effective December 1, 2019, in the rates
of compensation for veterans with serv-
ice-connected disabilities and the rates
of dependency and indemnity com-
pensation for the survivors of certain
disabled veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2166
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2166, a bill to designate Regional
Ocean Partnerships of the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, and for other purposes.
S. 2179
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Florida (Mr. RUBIO) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2179, a bill to amend
the Older Americans Act of 1965 to pro-
vide social service agencies with the
resources to provide services to meet
the urgent needs of Holocaust sur-
vivors to age in place with dignity,
comfort, security, and quality of life.
S. 2183
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from Iowa (Ms. ERNST)
was added as a cosponsor of S. 2183, a
bill to require the Comptroller General
of the United States to analyze certain
legislation in order to prevent duplica-
tion of and overlap with existing Fed-
eral programs, offices, and initiatives.
S. 2206
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2206, a bill to express the sense of
Congress regarding restoration and
maintenance of the Mardasson Memo-
rial in Bastogne, Belgium.
S. 2216
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2216, a bill to require the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to formally recog-
nize caregivers of veterans, notify vet-
erans and caregivers of clinical deter-
minations relating to eligibility for
caregiver programs, and temporarily
extend benefits for veterans who are
determined ineligible for the family
caregiver program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2330
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator from
Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2330, a bill to amend
the Ted Stevens Olympic and Amateur
Sports Act to provide for congressional
oversight of the board of directors of
the United States Olympic and
Paralympic Committee and to protect
amateur athletes from emotional,
physical, and sexual abuse, and for
other purposes.
S. 2366
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2366, a bill to streamline the employer
reporting process and strengthen the
eligibility verification process for the
premium assistance tax credit and
cost-sharing subsidy.
S. RES. 252
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 252, a resolution designating
September 2019 as National Democracy
Month as a time to reflect on the con-
tributions of the system of government
of the United States to a more free and
stable world.
S. RES. 274
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. KAINE) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 274, a resolu-
tion expressing solidarity with Falun
Gong practitioners who have lost lives,
freedoms, and other rights for adhering
to their beliefs and practices, and con-
demning the practice of non-con-
senting organ harvesting, and for other
purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILL AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 2458. A bill to prioritize funding for
an expanded and sustained national in-
vestment in agriculture research; to
the Committee on the Budget.
Mr. DURBIN Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2458
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘America
Grows Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FUNDING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There are authorized to
be appropriated to each funding recipient de-
scribed in subsection (b), as determined by
the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget—
(1) for fiscal year 2020, not less than 105
percent of the amount of new budget author-
ity made available in appropriation Acts for
that recipient for fiscal year 2019, adjusted
for inflation;
(2) for fiscal year 2021, not less than 105
percent of the amount determined under
paragraph (1) for that recipient, adjusted for
inflation;
(3) for fiscal year 2022, not less than 105
percent of the amount determined under
paragraph (2) for that recipient, adjusted for
inflation;
(4) for fiscal year 2023, not less than 105
percent of the amount determined under
paragraph (3) for that recipient, adjusted for
inflation; and
(5) for fiscal year 2024, not less than 105
percent of the amount determined under
paragraph (4) for that recipient, adjusted for
inflation.
(b) FUNDING RECIPIENTS DESCRIBED.—The
funding recipients referred to in subsection
(a) are—
(1) the Agricultural Research Service;
(2) the Economic Research Service;
(3) the National Agricultural Statistics
Service; and
(4) the National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture.
SEC. 3. BUDGETARY PROVISIONS.
(a) CAP ADJUSTMENTS.—Section 251(b)(2) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 901(b)(2)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(G) AGRICULTURE RESEARCH.—
‘‘(i) ADJUSTMENT FOR ADDITIONAL FUND-
ING.—If a bill or joint resolution making ap-
propriations for a fiscal year is enacted that
specifies amounts for an agricultural re-
search funding recipient, then the adjust-
ments for that fiscal year shall be the
amount of additional new budget authority
provided in that Act for that agricultural re-
search funding recipient for that fiscal year,
but shall not exceed—
‘‘(I) for fiscal year 2020, the difference be-
tween—
‘‘(aa) the amount of new budget authority
made available in appropriation Acts for
that agricultural research funding recipient
for fiscal year 2019; and
‘‘(bb) the amount determined by the Direc-
tor under section 2(a)(1) of the America
Grows Act of 2019 with respect to that agri-
cultural research funding recipient;
‘‘(II) for fiscal year 2021, the difference be-
tween—
‘‘(aa) the amount of new budget authority
made available in appropriation Acts for
that agricultural research funding recipient
for fiscal year 2019; and
‘‘(bb) the amount determined by the Direc-
tor under section 2(a)(2) of the America
Grows Act of 2019 with respect to that agri-
cultural research funding recipient;
‘‘(III) for fiscal year 2022, the difference be-
tween—
‘‘(aa) the amount of new budget authority
made available in appropriation Acts for
that agricultural research funding recipient
for fiscal year 2019; and
‘‘(bb) the amount determined by the Direc-
tor under section 2(a)(3) of the America
Grows Act of 2019 with respect to that agri-
cultural research funding recipient;
‘‘(IV) for fiscal year 2023, the difference be-
tween—
‘‘(aa) the amount of new budget authority
made available in appropriation Acts for
that agricultural research funding recipient
for fiscal year 2019; and
‘‘(bb) the amount determined by the Direc-
tor under section 2(a)(4) of the America
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:41 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.067 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5410 September 10, 2019
Grows Act of 2019 with respect to that agri-
cultural research funding recipient; and
‘‘(V) for fiscal year 2024, the difference be-
tween—
‘‘(aa) the amount of new budget authority
made available in appropriation Acts for
that agricultural research funding recipient
for fiscal year 2019; and
‘‘(bb) the amount determined by the Direc-
tor under section 2(a)(5) of the America
Grows Act of 2019 with respect to that agri-
cultural research funding recipient.
‘‘(ii) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this subpara-
graph:
‘‘(I) ADDITIONAL NEW BUDGET AUTHORITY.—
The term ‘additional new budget authority’
means, with respect to an agricultural re-
search funding recipient, the amount of new
budget authority provided for a fiscal year in
an appropriation Act for that agricultural
research funding recipient that is in excess
of the amount of new budget authority pro-
vided in fiscal year 2019 in an appropriation
Act for that agricultural research funding
recipient.
‘‘(II) AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH FUNDING RE-
CIPIENT.—The term ‘agricultural research
funding recipient’ means a funding recipient
described in section 2(b) of the America
Grows Act of 2019.
‘‘(III) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘Director’
means the Director of the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.’’.
(b) MINIMUM CONTINUED FUNDING REQUIRE-
MENT.—The amount of new budget authority
made available in appropriation Acts for a
funding recipient described in section 2(b) for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024, and
each subsequent fiscal year, shall not be less
than the amount of new budget authority
made available in appropriation Acts for
that funding recipient for fiscal year 2019.
(c) EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN APPROPRIATIONS
FROM SEQUESTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 255(g)(1)(A) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act (2 U.S.C. 905(g)(1)(A)) is amended
by inserting after ‘‘Advances to the Unem-
ployment Trust Fund and Other Funds (16–
0327–0–1–600).’’ the following:
‘‘Appropriations pursuant to section 2(a) of
the America Grows Act of 2019.’’.
(2) APPLICABILITY.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply to any sequestra-
tion order issued under the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2
U.S.C. 900 et seq.) on or after the date of en-
actment of this Act.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 306—RE-
AFFIRMING THE COMMITMENT
TO MEDIA DIVERSITY AND
PLEDGING TO WORK WITH
MEDIA ENTITIES AND DIVERSE
STAKEHOLDERS TO DEVELOP
COMMON GROUND SOLUTIONS TO
ELIMINATE BARRIERS TO MEDIA
DIVERSITY
Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Mr.
RUBIO) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation:
S. RES. 306
Whereas the principle that an informed
and engaged electorate is critical to a vi-
brant democracy is deeply rooted in our laws
of free speech and underpins the virtues on
which we established our Constitution, ‘‘in
Order to form a more perfect Union, estab-
lish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility,
provide for the common defence, promote
the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings
of Liberty to ourselves and our Pos-
terity. . .’’;
Whereas having independent, diverse, and
local media that provide exposure to a broad
range of viewpoints and the ability to con-
tribute to the political debate is central to
sustaining that informed engagement;
Whereas it is in the public interest to en-
courage source, content, and audience diver-
sity on our Nation’s shared telecommuni-
cations and media platforms;
Whereas the survival of small, inde-
pendent, and diverse media outlets that
serve diverse audiences and local media mar-
kets is essential to preserving local culture
and building understanding on important
community issues that impact the daily
lives of residents;
Whereas research by the American Society
of News Editors, the Radio Television Digital
News Association, the Pew Research Center,
and others has documented the continued
challenges of increasing diversity among all
types of media entities;
Whereas with increasing media experience
and sophistication, it is even more impor-
tant to have minority participation in local
media to ensure a diverse range of informa-
tion sources are available and different ideas
and viewpoints are expressed to strengthen
social cohesion among different commu-
nities; and
Whereas the constriction in small, inde-
pendent, and diverse media outlets and lim-
ited participation of diverse populations in
media ownership and decisionmaking are
combining to negatively impact our goal of
increasing local civic engagement and civic
knowledge through increased voter partici-
pation, membership in civic groups, and
knowledge of local political and civil infor-
mation: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) reaffirms its commitment to diversity
as a core tenet of the public interest stand-
ard in media policy; and
(2) pledges to work with media entities and
diverse stakeholders to develop common
ground solutions to eliminate barriers to
media diversity.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 307—CON-
GRATULATING THE EASTBANK
ALL-STARS FROM RIVER RIDGE,
LOUISIANA, FOR WINNING THE
2019 LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL
WORLD SERIES CHAMPIONSHIP
Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
KENNEDY) submitted the following res-
olution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 307
Whereas Little League Baseball was found-
ed in 1939, and the first Little League Base-
ball World Series tournament was played in
1947;
Whereas Little League Baseball is the larg-
est youth sports program in the world with
nearly 200,000 teams in more than 80 coun-
tries and all 50 States;
Whereas Little League Baseball affords
children around the world a competitive
arena that instills the principles of sports-
manship, camaraderie, and teamwork;
Whereas the Eastbank All-Stars team was
founded in River Ridge, Louisiana, and in-
cludes a roster of young men from the Great-
er New Orleans area;
Whereas the Eastbank All-Stars displayed
skill, competitiveness, and determination
throughout their entire season and the Lit-
tle League Baseball World Series tour-
nament;
Whereas the Eastbank All-Stars advanced
to the Little League Baseball World Series
tournament by winning the State of Lou-
isiana Championship and the Southwest Re-
gional Championship;
Whereas the Eastbank All-Stars, rep-
resenting the State of Louisiana and the
Southwest Region, became the first team
ever to lose the first game of the Little
League World Series, and then go on to win
the Little League World Series Champion-
ship;
Whereas, on August 25, 2019, in South Wil-
liamsport, Pennsylvania, the Eastbank All-
Stars from River Ridge, Louisiana, the
United States Champions representing the
Southwest Region, defeated the Inter-
national Bracket Champions in the 73rd Lit-
tle League Baseball World Series Champion-
ship;
Whereas the Eastbank All-Stars’ 8–0 shut-
out victory was the first Little League Base-
ball World Series Championship in the his-
tory of the team;
Whereas the Eastbank All-Stars became
the first team from the State of Louisiana to
ever win the United States Championship
game and the World Series Championship
game;
Whereas manager Scott Frazier and coach-
es Donald Abadie and Kevin Johnson did a
masterful job in leading #2 Alton Shorts, #3
Ryder Planchard, #4 Stan Wiltz, #5 William
Andrade, #6 Peyton Spadoni, #7 Derek
DeLatte, #9 Connor Perrot, #10 Ryan Darrah,
#12 Jeffrey Curtis, #15 Gavin Berry, #22
Reece Roussel, #23 Marshall Louque, and #24
Egan Prather to victory in the Little League
Baseball World Series Championship;
Whereas Eastbank right fielder, Reece
Roussel, set the Little League World Series
record with an amazing 17 hits throughout
the tournament, including a .739 batting av-
erage, as well as two key hits in the cham-
pionship game;
Whereas Eastbank third baseman, Mar-
shall Louque, secured three hits and three
runs batted in (RBIs) in the championship
game;
Whereas Marshall Louque and Reece
Roussel set the Little League World Series
record, hitting seven doubles each;
Whereas Eastbank pitcher, Egan Prather,
pitched an impressive shutout in the cham-
pionship game, striking out six Curaçao bat-
ters along the way;
Whereas the parents, families, friends, and
fans of the Eastbank All-Stars deserve rec-
ognition for proudly supporting the team
throughout their historic season; and
Whereas the Eastbank All-Stars were
strong ambassadors of the great State of
Louisiana and the United States of America
on the world stage: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate congratulates—
(1) the Eastbank All-Stars for their hard
work and determination in winning the 73rd
Little League Baseball World Series Cham-
pionship;
(2) Scott Frazier and the Eastbank coach-
ing staff for the founding of the organization
and leading the team to its first Little
League World Series victory;
(3) the Eastbank All-Star players for show-
ing poise and exemplifying the strength and
resilience of the people of Louisiana by never
giving up and fighting through adversity to
make all of us proud of their historic accom-
plishment;
(4) the parents, families, friends, and fans
of the Eastbank All-Stars;
(5) the community of River Ridge, the
Greater New Orleans area, and the State of
Louisiana; and
(6) the Pabao Little League team from
Willemstad, Curaçao for a hard-fought cham-
pionship game and an outstanding season.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:29 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.068 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5411
September 10, 2019
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I have 2
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to Rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Tuesday, September 10, 2019, at 10
a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
September 10, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to con-
duct a closed briefing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that my new press
assistant, Cole Avery, be granted privi-
leges of the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
VETERANS EXPEDITED TSA
SCREENING SAFE TRAVEL ACT
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation
Committee be discharged from further
consideration of S. 1881 and the Senate
proceed to its immediate consider-
ation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
A bill (S. 1881) to provide PreCheck to cer-
tain severely injured or disabled veterans,
and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the bill be
considered read a third time and passed
and that the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 1881) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed as follows:
S. 1881
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Veterans
Expedited TSA Screening Safe Travel Act’’
or the ‘‘VETS Safe Travel Act’’.
SEC. 2. AVAILABILITY OF PRECHECK PROGRAM
TO CERTAIN SEVERELY INJURED OR
DISABLED VETERANS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 44927 of title 49,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(g) AVAILABILITY OF PRECHECK PROGRAM
TO CERTAIN SEVERELY INJURED OR DISABLED
VETERANS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—A veteran described in
paragraph (2) is eligible for security screen-
ing under the PreCheck Program under sec-
tion 44919 at no cost to the veteran if the vet-
eran is able to meet the background check
and other security requirements for partici-
pation in the program.
‘‘(2) VETERANS DESCRIBED.—A veteran de-
scribed in this paragraph is a veteran deter-
mined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs—
‘‘(A)(i) to have had a loss, or loss of use, of
a limb;
‘‘(ii) to have become paralyzed or partially
paralyzed; or
‘‘(iii) to have incurred permanent blind-
ness; and
‘‘(B) as a result of that loss, paralyzation
or partial paralyzation, or blindness, to re-
quire the use of a wheelchair, prosthetic
limb, or other assistive device to aid with
mobility.’’.
(b) COORDINATION ON IMPLEMENTATION.—
Not later than 180 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of
the Transportation Security Administration
and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall
jointly—
(1) develop and implement a process for
providing the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration with access to the data needed
to validate the eligibility of a veteran for
the PreCheck Program under section 44927(g)
of title 49, United States Code, as added by
subsection (a); and
(2) submit to Congress a report on the sta-
tus of implementing the process required by
paragraph (1).
f
TSA CREDENTIAL AND ENDORSE-
MENT HARMONIZATION ACT OF
2019
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation
Committee be discharged from further
consideration of S. 2035 and the Senate
proceed to its immediate consider-
ation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The clerk will report the bill by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 2035) to require the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to develop a
strategic plan to expand eligibility for the
PreCheck Program to individuals with
Transportation Worker Identification Cre-
dentials or Hazardous Materials Endorse-
ments.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
further ask unanimous consent that
the bill be considered read a third time
and passed and that the motion to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The bill (S. 2035) was ordered to be
engrossed for a third reading, was read
the third time, and passed as follows:
S. 2035
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘TSA Creden-
tial and Endorsement Harmonization Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. STRATEGIC PLAN TO EXPAND PRECHECK
PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Administrator of the Transportation Se-
curity Administration shall develop a stra-
tegic plan to expand eligibility for the
PreCheck Program under section 44919 of
title 49, United States Code, to individuals
who have—
(1) a Transportation Worker Identification
Credential issued under section 70105 of title
46, United States Code; or
(2) a Hazardous Materials Endorsement
under the Hazardous Materials Endorsement
Threat Assessment Program on the State-
issued commercial driver’s license of the in-
dividual.
(b) ELEMENTS.—In developing the strategic
plan required by subsection (a), the Adminis-
trator shall ensure that the plan—
(1) allows individuals described in sub-
section (a) to opt in to the PreCheck Pro-
gram; and
(2) provides the Transportation Security
Administration with the discretion—
(A) to determine whether an individual de-
scribed in subsection (a) meets the eligibility
requirements for the Program; and
(B) to establish alternative fee structures
for the Program.
(c) BRIEFING TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
30 days after developing the strategic plan
required by subsection (a), the Adminis-
trator shall brief the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity of the House of Representatives on
the strategic plan.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 9:30 a.m., Wednesday,
September 11; further, that following
the prayer and pledge, the morning
hour be deemed expired and the Jour-
nal of proceedings be approved to date,
the time for the two leaders be re-
served for their use later in the day,
morning business be closed, and the
Senate proceed to executive session
and resume consideration of the Akard
nomination under the previous order.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. CASSIDY. Mr. President, if there
is no further business to come before
the Senate, I ask that it stand ad-
journed under the previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 5:45 p.m., adjourned until Wednes-
day, September 11, 2019, at 9:30 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:41 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.071 S10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5412 September 10, 2019
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate September 10, 2019:
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
ELIZABETH DARLING, OF TEXAS, TO BE COMMISSIONER
ON CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
KELLY CRAFT, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE SESSIONS
OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE UNITED NATIONS
DURING HER TENURE OF SERVICE AS REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE UNITED NA-
TIONS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:41 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A10SE6.002 S10SEPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1115
September 10, 2019
CROATIAN SONS LODGE NUMBER
170 GOLDEN MEMBER BANQUET
ON SEPTEMBER 15, 2019
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is my
distinct honor to congratulate the Croatian
Sons Lodge Number 170 of the Croatian Fra-
ternal Union on the festive occasion of its
Golden Member banquet, which will take place
on Sunday, September 15, 2019.
The Croatian Fraternal Union will hold its bi-
ennial gala at the Croatian Center in
Merrillville, Indiana. Traditionally, the celebra-
tion entails a formal recognition of the Union’s
Golden Members, those who have achieved at
least fifty years of membership. This year’s
honorees who have attained golden member-
ship include the following individuals: Leslie G.
Aulie, Valentine W. Bahun II, Edmund
Bartowski, David Charles Batusic, Shirley
Marie Blaney, Magdalene Douchette, Marlene
B. Dravet, Richard Wayne Falatic, Corrine L.
Fandrei, Michael W. Farrenkopf, Barbara Ann
Glutting, Cheryl L. Gognski, George J.
Haralovich, Peter P. Haralovich, Margaret
Ispas-Hennessey, Katica Kirincic, Stjepan
Kirincic, Andrew A. Klobuchar, Suzanne
Kolodzeij, Donald Kometz, Linda Kronberg,
Carol Elaine Licari, Ana Listar, Gregory
Livovich, Doris J. Loggins, Nicholas Scott
Malich, Harold A. Mathews, Charles W.
Mauder, Donna Lynn Mauder, Gerald Michael
Medved, Susan Irene Meges, Yvonne M. Mil-
ler, Frank Joseph Mosca Jr., Mildred Preiboy,
Barbara A. Saunders, Jeffrey Jon Sikora,
Richard Allen Stiak, Nicholas S. Svetich, Tina
Svetich, Vladimir Tadej, Joseph George
Tropsich, Gerald Joseph Unmisig, and Bar-
bara J. Zurawski.
Madam Speaker, I ask you and my other
distinguished colleagues to join me in com-
mending Lodge President John Miksich and all
members of the Croatian Fraternal Union,
Lodge Number 170, for their loyalty and radi-
ant display of passion for their ethnicity. The
Croatian community has played a key role in
enriching the quality of life and culture of
Northwest Indiana. It is my hope that this year
will bring renewed prosperity for all members
of the Croatian community and their families.
f
REMEMBERING BAXTER LEACH
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to mourn the passing of Baxter Leach, a hero
of the historic 1968 Sanitation Workers Strike
that brought Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. to
Memphis, where he was assassinated. Mr.
Leach, 79, passed away on August 27. Born
on September 12, 1939, in Schlater (Leflore
County), Mississippi, he worked as a share-
cropper from the age of 12. He came to Mem-
phis for a better life, took a job no one wanted
for starvation wages, and ended up making
history. In 1968, Mr. Leach helped organize
sanitation workers for the American Federation
of State, County and Municipal Employees
(AFSCME)-backed strike protesting the inhu-
mane working conditions that resulted in two
sanitation workers being crushed to death in-
side a garbage truck compactor. This was a
significant event in the civil rights movement
and drew national attention to the poor work-
ing conditions of sanitation employees in the
South. He was always generous with his time,
keeping the memory of the strike, Dr. King’s
assassination and its aftermath alive for stu-
dents, labor historians and visitors to the his-
toric Lorraine Motel which has been trans-
formed into the National Civil Rights Museum.
He often quoted Proverbs 22: ‘‘a good name
is rather to be chosen than great riches and
loving favor rather than silver or gold.’’ Mr.
Leach was a voice for the dignity of all work-
ers and an advocate for civil rights and equal-
ity. Just last year, he received the National
Civil Rights Museum’s Freedom Award and
played a prominent role in the MLK50 events
commemorating the 50th anniversary of the
strike and Dr. King’s assassination. In addition
to his Freedom Award, Mr. Leach received the
keys to the cities of Memphis and Jackson,
Tennessee, and received recognition from Op-
eration PUSH, the National Action Network,
the International Brotherhood of Teamsters;
the University of Memphis School of Law,
Cossitt and Benjamin L. Hooks Libraries; and
the Henry Logan Starks ‘‘Lighting Our World’’
Award from Memphis Theological Seminary. In
2011, he joined all the living 1968 sanitation
workers in being inducted into the White
House Hall of Fame by President Obama. On
that same visit, he and his fellow strikers were
inducted into the U.S. Department of Labor’s
Hall of Honor by Secretary of Labor Hilda
Solis. Often sought out as a guest speaker, he
typically finished his speeches with the unfor-
gettable motto of the picketing strikers’ plac-
ards: ‘‘I AM A MAN.’’ When he retired in 2005,
Mr. Leach had worked for the City of Memphis
for 43 years. In 1984, he and his wife, Jimmie,
established Melanie’s Soul Food Restaurant
which served the Mid-South until it was de-
stroyed by fire in 2012. Melanie’s was one of
the absolute best soul food restaurants, and
Mr. Leach served pastors and community
leaders like they were royalty. After the disas-
trous fire, he and Jimmie established Girlee’s,
another great soul food restaurant. By the end
of his life, he had worked with presidents,
union organizers, academics and a wide circle
of admirers. At his funeral on Saturday,
AFSCME International president Lee Saun-
ders said that, even though he never finished
high school, talking with Mr. Leach made you
feel good about yourself, a rare quality. He
also called Mr. Leach a bold pioneer and a
steadfast and true trade unionist, and a friend.
Retired AFSCME secretary-treasurer Bill Lucy,
who saw the 1968 strike to its successful con-
clusion, spoke of Leach’s work improving
working conditions and said a part of Leach’s
character was to never quit. Mr. Lucy also
said Mr. Leach was ‘‘one of a group of men
who made the decision to change the course
of history.’’ Mr. Leach was a big man phys-
ically but he was also a big man in every facet
of his personality—in heart, courage, gen-
erosity and integrity. I wish to extend my deep
condolences to Baxter Leach’s family and
friends. America has lost a true hero. His was
a life well lived.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, had I
been present for the vote to suspend the rules
and pass H.R. 1420, the Energy Efficient Gov-
ernment Technology Act (Roll no. 515), I
would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
Additionally, had I been present for the vote
to suspend the rules and pass H.R. 1768, the
Diesel Emissions Reduction Act of 2019 (Roll
call no. 516), I would have voted ‘‘aye.’’
f
IN RECOGNITION OF KELSEY
KOLOJECHICK ON HER INDUC-
TION INTO THE LUZERNE COUN-
TY SPORTS HALL OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor former athlete and North-
eastern Pennsylvania native Kelsey
Kolojechick. This year, Kelsey was inducted
into the Luzerne County Sports Hall of Fame
on August 11, 2019 for her distinct athletic
achievements in the sport of field hockey.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
At Wyoming Seminary, Kelsey was a stand-
out, three sport athlete on the swimming, soc-
cer, and field hockey teams. As a four year
midfield starter, she helped her school earn
two state championships and three district
championships. In 2008, she was named Play-
er of the Year by both the Citizens Voice and
Times Leader newspapers, Sem’s Outstanding
Female Athlete, First Team All-State and All-
American. She ended her high school career
with a record 87 wins and 5 losses.
Kelsey then moved on to the University of
North Carolina where she was a four-year
starter for the Tar Heels, never missing a
game in her career. She helped lead UNC to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10SE8.001 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1116 September 10, 2019
a national championship. She was named
First Team All-ACC three years and was the
first player at UNC to be named First Team
All-American all four years. During her junior
year, she scored 23 goals which is a school
record for the most goals scored in a season
by a junior. Kelsey ended her collegiate career
with a record of eighty-eight wins and nine
losses.
Kelsey has competed at the highest level of
the sport as a member of the United States
Women’s National Field Hockey Team. In
2016, she traveled to Rio de Janeiro, Brazil to
compete at the Summer Olympic Games
where her team placed fifth. During her time
on the women’s national team, she helped
lead the team to gold medals at the 2015 Pan
American Games in Toronto, Canada, the
2014 Champions Challenge in Glasgow, Scot-
land, and the 2013 World League Round 2 in
Rio de Janeiro.
Kelsey has imparted her impressive knowl-
edge of the sport by coaching players of all
ages. Since 2018, Kelsey has served as the
assistant field hockey coach at Harvard Uni-
versity where she coached the team to a
record setting 17–2 season, the best finish in
program history.
It is an honor to recognize Kelsey on her in-
duction into the Luzerne County Sports Hall of
Fame. May her story and athletic career serve
as an inspiration to the next generation of
Pennsylvania athletes striving for excellence.
f
NIPSCO LUMINARY AWARDS ON
SEPTEMBER 12, 2019
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect and admiration that I rise to
commend the recipients of this year’s NIPSCO
Luminary Awards. The Luminary Awards were
created to honor prominent individuals or or-
ganizations for their exemplary leadership.
This year’s honorees include Lisa M.
Daugherty, NewAllen Alliance, Ivy Tech
Valparaiso Campus Energy Technology Pro-
gram, NICHES Land Trust, and Lake Station
Fire and Rescue. For their outstanding con-
tributions to their communities in Northwest In-
diana and throughout the state, the honorees
will be recognized at a ceremony on Thurs-
day, September 12, 2019, at NiSource Cor-
porate Headquarters in Merrillville, Indiana.
Lisa M. Daugherty, president and chief ex-
ecutive officer of Lake Area United Way, is
this year’s recipient of the Community Leader-
ship Award. Throughout the years, Lake Area
United Way has been a beacon of hope for
the community of Northwest Indiana. For her
remarkable dedication to public and social
service, Lisa M. Daugherty is worthy of the
highest praise.
The recipient of this year’s Environmental
Stewardship Award is NICHES Land Trust.
The organization has been protecting, restor-
ing, and sustaining West-Central Indiana’s
ecosystems since 1995. We are truly grateful
for their conservation efforts throughout many
communities in Indiana and for providing en-
joyment and gratitude of nature for genera-
tions to come.
The Education Award will be presented to
the Ivy Tech Valparaiso Campus Energy
Technology Program. Students enrolled in the
Energy Technology Program learn a variety of
important and innovative technical skills of the
future, including building and maintaining wind
turbines and designing and installing solar
photovoltaic systems. The program prepares
students to achieve success, and we are truly
thankful for their great work.
NewAllen Alliance is this year’s recipient of
the Economic Development Award. The orga-
nization works to create community and eco-
nomic development plans that will foster new
investment, job creation, and improved quality
of life throughout the communities of East
Allen County, Indiana.
Lake Station Fire and Rescue is the recipi-
ent of the Public Safety Award. This out-
standing organization provides important pub-
lic safety for the community of Lake Station
and beyond. For their hard work, bravery, and
charitable efforts, the firefighters, first respond-
ers, and volunteers are to be highly com-
mended.
Madam Speaker, I ask you and my other
colleagues to join me in commending these
remarkable leaders and organizations. For
their outstanding contributions to many com-
munities throughout Indiana and their unwav-
ering commitment to improving the quality of
life for its residents, each recipient is worthy of
the honors bestowed upon them.
f
CELEBRATING THE 225TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE FOUNDING OF
HALIFAX, PENNSYLVANIA
HON. SCOTT PERRY
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
honor and commemoration of the 225th Anni-
versary of the founding of Halifax, Pennsyl-
vania. Located in Dauphin County, Halifax was
established in 1794 where the Armstrong
Creek meets the Susquehanna River. It was
incorporated as the Borough of Halifax on May
29, 1875, and named after the nearby Fort
Halifax, a Pennsylvania stronghold in the
French and Indian War.
Halifax is a community of hard work, strong
values, and rooted in deep traditions that
maintain its connection to its past, sustain it in
the present, and prepare it to thrive well into
the future. Halifax’s community values—‘‘Serv-
ice Above Self’’—have made it a vibrant and
vital part of the fabric of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania and the United States of Amer-
ica.
Halifax will continue to flourish and to serve
as a model of ‘‘communities done right’’ for
generations to come.
To our friends and neighbors in Halifax, and
on behalf of the 10th Congressional District of
Pennsylvania, I congratulate the People of
Halifax on their momentous milestone of this
225th Anniversary, and I extend my heartfelt
gratitude for their long and continued history of
contribution to the Commonwealth of Pennsyl-
vania and the United States of America.
CELEBRATING INTERNATIONAL IN-
STITUTE OF METROPOLITAN DE-
TROIT’S 100 YEARS OF SERVICE
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to the International Institute of Metro-
politan Detroit as they celebrate one hundred
years of service to the immigrant communities
of southeastern Michigan.
Since its founding in 1919, the International
Institute has been at the forefront of creating
a welcoming community to new immigrants to
the Detroit area. Offering a wide array of serv-
ices such as English and foreign language
classes, immigration legal services, citizenship
classes, education opportunities, and trans-
lation services has set itself apart as a trusted
community resource. The International Insti-
tute has been accredited by the U.S. Depart-
ment of Justice, Board of Immigration Ap-
peals, since 1958. In 1990, The Institute was
accredited by the Council on Accreditation of
Service for Families and Children, Inc.
Beyond its many classes and services, the
International Institute has truly created cross-
cultural dialogue and is a significant commu-
nity hub. The International Institute building
today houses the award-winning International
Cafe restaurant, ‘‘The Yunion’’ youth services,
the Brush Park Conservatory of Music and
Fine Arts, and more. The International Institute
sponsors, along with the City of Southfield, the
annual International Festival, an event that
dates back to 1926. In addition, the Institute
has a vast collection of ethnic and cultural arti-
facts, which are on display for visitors to
enjoy. The collection includes flags from
eighty-two countries, the Ethel Averbach Inter-
national Doll Collection, the world’s largest col-
lection (over 2,500) of dolls dressed in native
costumes from one hundred fifty countries, as
well as the Wilkinson Model Ship Collection—
scale models of ships, donated by Lawrence
Scripps Wilkinson, which are replicas of ships
on which immigrants came to the United
States of America. The Institute was honored
to receive in 2013 the Lucille and Marshall Mil-
ler International Artifact Collection.
Please join me in saluting the International
Institute of Metropolitan Detroit for its one hun-
dred years of service.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. RON KIND
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. KIND. Madam Speaker, I was unable to
have my votes recorded on the House floor
Monday, September 9, 2019 due to flight com-
plications from heavy rainfall in Wisconsin.
Had I been present, I would have supported
the passage of both bills considered on the
floor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.003 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1117
September 10, 2019
CONGRATULATIONS TO JARED
POLLACK FOR RECEIVING THE
SPORTS MEDICINE SCHOLARSHIP
FROM MEMORIAL HERMANN
KATY HOSPITAL
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Jared Pollack from Seven
Lakes High School for receiving a Sports Med-
icine scholarship from Memorial Hermann Katy
Hospital.
Jared received this scholarship through dis-
tinguished service students provide through
KISD athletic programs. For 12 years, Memo-
rial Hermann Katy has awarded these scholar-
ships to KISD students who are worthy of this
recognition, and Jared rightfully earned this
award. Jared is planning to continue his stud-
ies at Lone Star College. We wish him the
best of luck in his future career.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Jared Pollack on receiving the Sports Medi-
cine Scholarship from Memorial Hermann Katy
Hospital.
f
HONORING DAVE KOEHLER
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today with Representative MIKE THOMPSON, in
recognition of Dave Koehler on the occasion
of his retirement after nearly 30 years of lead-
ing two of California’s most successful land
trusts.
Dave is a native of California who has been
drawn to nature his entire life. During high
school and college, Dave nurtured this pas-
sion by working in the summers for both the
U.S. Forest Service and the California Division
of Forestry. He later graduated from California
State University, Fresno, in 1979, with a Bach-
elor of Arts in Environmental Biology.
In 1990, Dave became the executive direc-
tor of the San Joaquin River Parkway and
Conservation Trust. Under his leadership the
organization developed and established
phases of the San Joaquin River Parkway res-
toration. He was appointed coordinator of the
San Joaquin River Partnership in 2009. This
collaborative of fifteen organizations supported
the goals authorized by Congress to restore
salmon to a 130-mile portion of the river. In
2012, Dave was recognized by the Depart-
ment of the Interior for his work on this historic
river restoration project. Dave’s leadership
also led to the conservation of nearly 5,000
acres during this period of time.
Dave became the executive director for the
Sonoma County Land Trust in 2015. Building
on the organization’s record of success, Dave
oversaw the acquisition of several key prop-
erties while adding new areas of focus to the
organization’s overall mission. This included
programming for Russian River watershed
protection, expanding community conservation
programs, and opening the organization’s first
public preserve. Under his leadership,
Sonoma County Land Trust has protected
over 2,500 acres of open space and an addi-
tional 10,000 acres through the organization’s
active protection project pipeline. Dave also
created a community programs department for
the Land Trust that focuses on diversifying the
organization’s reach through programming tar-
geted at people of color, young people, and
families.
Madam Speaker, Dave Koehler has dedi-
cated the majority of his professional life to the
conservation and protection of our country’s
natural wealth. It is therefore appropriate that
we recognize his accomplishments and serv-
ice to the public today, on the occasion of his
retirement from Sonoma Land Trust. Please
join me in wishing him the best of luck on his
future endeavors.
f
HONORING THE 193RD SPECIAL OP-
ERATIONS WING OF MIDDLE-
TOWN, PENNSYLVANIA
HON. SCOTT PERRY
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and congratulate the outstanding men
and women of the 193rd Special Operations
Wing of the Pennsylvania Air National Guard
for earning the Air Force Outstanding Unit
Award—for the eighteenth time. This highly
prestigious award recognizes the Wing’s ex-
ceptionally meritorious service from October 1,
2015 through September 30, 2017.
During this period, 772 Airmen from the
193rd Special Operations Wing deployed in
support of contingency operations overseas,
advancing our military’s effectiveness on the
battlefield while protecting our Nation and our
American way of life.
During the same period, the Wing also dis-
tinguished itself through its domestic oper-
ations; the unit is at the cutting edge in dis-
aster relief capabilities. After Hurricane Harvey
and again after Hurricane Maria, the Wing per-
formed vital life-sustaining activities—working
around the clock to deliver personnel and crit-
ical cargo to the affected areas and to restore
communications to advance disaster relief ef-
forts.
The Airmen of the 193rd Special Operations
Wing consistently demonstrate excellence in
their training and operations across our Nation
and around the word. On behalf of the 10th
Congressional District of Pennsylvania, we’re
honored to be the home of such a distin-
guished unit. I commend the Wing for earning
the Air Force Outstanding Unit Award again,
and I extend my heartfelt thanks to them for
their hard work, tireless dedication and stead-
fast service to the Commonwealth of Pennsyl-
vania and the United States of America.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 50TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE UNIVERSITY OF
TEXAS AT DALLAS
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, I rise
to congratulate the University of Texas at Dal-
las on 50 years of educating students in North
Texas. In 1969, Texas Governor Preston
Smith signed legislation to officially establish
the University of Texas at Dallas as part of the
UT system.
Not only has UTD grown immensely in the
last 50 years, but our community takes great
pride in the universities tier one status. Today,
UTD offers over 140 degrees, and helps
young people follow their dreams by providing
them with a top-notch education.
What was once vast prairie land has be-
come a hub of higher learning and opportunity
for students across the country.
I ask my colleagues to join me in congratu-
lating the University of Texas at Dallas on a
wonderful 5 decades of academic excellence.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE OF
JEREMY ALLEN VOYLES
HON. TRENT KELLY
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Mississippi. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to celebrate the life and service of
Deputy Sheriff Jeremy Allen Voyles, who
passed while on duty on Wednesday, August
28th at the age of 33.
Deputy Sheriff Voyles, a resident of Hous-
ton, Mississippi, was Deputy Sheriff with the
Chickasaw County Sheriff’s Department. He
followed in the footsteps of his father, Houston
Police Chief Billy Voyles, and had an 11-year
career in law enforcement. During his five
years with the Sheriff’s Department, he
worked as a Narcotics Agent with the North
Mississippi Narcotics Unit. Deputy Sheriff
Voyles had previously served with the Mis-
sissippi Department of Transportation.
Left to cherish his memory is his wife, Au-
drey Voyles; his daughters—Lola and
Arrington Voyles; his parents—Billy and Anita
Voyles; and his siblings—Chasity Mincy, Tyler
Voyles, and Corey Voyles. I am thankful for
Deputy Sheriff Voyles’ service to Mississippi.
He will be greatly missed by his family, com-
munity, and all whom he encountered.
f
IN HONOR OF BERNICE
ROSENBLUM’S 100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. JERROLD NADLER
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the 100th birthday of Mrs. Bernice
Rosenblum. Bernice was born on June 28,
1919, the oldest of 5 sisters. At 19 years of
age, she traveled from her hometown of Vilna,
Poland to the United States. On her journey
from her home to the Warsaw train station,
she met the man whom she would eventually
marry, Jacob. They traveled together from
Warsaw to the port of Poland and across the
Atlantic, docking in New York City. They would
later learn, they managed to get on the last
boat leaving Poland before World War II broke
out.
Jacob and Bernice initially lived apart: Jacob
stayed in the New York area and Bernice trav-
eled to Chicago. After a few years, Bernice
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.005 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1118 September 10, 2019
came to New York to marry Jacob, and they
were happily married for over 50 years. In
New York, they started their family, raising two
children: Diana and Kenneth. Bernice is now
the proud grandmother to four grandchildren
and a beloved GG to six great-grandchildren.
Bernice is truly ahead of her time and is
known for her determination, hard work and
incredible work ethic. Bernice is an inspira-
tional woman who always took pride in her
work and always made time to give back to
her community, including volunteering at NYU
hospital in the rehabilitation room.
Madam Speaker, I ask all my colleagues to
join me in celebrating the life of Bernice
Rosenblum, and in wishing her a happy 100th
birthday.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF WALTER FISK
ON HIS INDUCTION INTO THE
LUZERNE COUNTY SPORTS HALL
OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor former athlete, coach, and
Northeastern Pennsylvania native Walter Fisk.
This year, Walter was inducted into the
Luzerne County Sports Hall of Fame on Au-
gust 11, 2019 for his distinct athletic achieve-
ments in the sport of wrestling.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
Walter is a 1981 graduate of Lycoming Col-
lege where he was captain of the wrestling
team under the direction of the legendary Na-
tional Wrestling Coach Hall of Fame Coach
Bud Whitehall. After college, Walter began his
coaching career at Sayre Youth Wrestling be-
fore taking the coaching post at Wyalusing
Junior High. In 1986, he was named the head
coach of the Wyalusing varsity wrestling team.
Walter coached the Wyalusing Rams to 12
league championships, 9 Sectional, 6 District
IV, and 6 Regional team titles. They also
clinched the State Team Championship three
times and were State Team runner-up twice.
Alumni of his wrestling program include 83
Sectional, 27 District, and 21 Regional cham-
pions as well as 33 Pennsylvania Inter-
scholastic Athletic Association (PIAA) medal-
ists, and 7 State champions. Six of those
PIAA medals were earned by his sons, Josh
and Matt.
In his tireless dedication to wrestling, Walter
has held several leadership positions to pro-
mote the sport. During his tenure as head
coach, he has been District IV Coaches’ Asso-
ciation President, Pennsylvania Wrestling
Coaches Association (PWCA) President, Ex-
ecutive Committee member and Convention
Committee Chair, National Collegiate Wres-
tling Association (NWCA) State Representa-
tive, BRUTE National Wrestling Tournament
Event Director, and REACHES Executive Di-
rector and PWCA Convention Chairman.
In recognition for his superior and success-
ful career, Walter has been inducted into the
Sayre High School, Wyalusing High School,
Northern Tier League, Northeast Section, Dis-
trict IV, PA Wrestling Coaches’ and the Na-
tional Wrestling Halls of Fame. In 1997, 1999,
and 2000, Walter was named the PIAA State
Wrestling Coach of the Year, and in 2000, he
was recognized for his unparalleled leadership
ability as the National High School Wrestling
Coach of the Year. In 2004, he was honored
as Pennsylvania Wrestling/Wrestling USA Man
of the Year. When Walter retired as head
coach in 2005, his career record at Wyalusing
was 297–52–1. Unable to resist the draw of
the mat and the quest for athletic success, he
returned to coach the junior varsity team in
2011 and continues to do so today.
It is an honor to recognize Walter on his in-
duction into the Luzerne County Sports Hall of
Fame. May his story and athletic career serve
as an inspiration to the next generation of
Pennsylvania athletes striving for excellence.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 90TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE MUSKINGUM IRON
AND METAL COMPANY
HON. TROY BALDERSON
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. BALDERSON. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the time-honored work of
Muskingum Iron and Metal Company, located
in my hometown of Zanesville, Ohio. Ten days
from now, on September 19th, the fourth-gen-
eration, family-operated scrap recycling facility
will celebrate ninety years of serving Zanes-
ville and the surrounding community.
For nine decades, Muskingum Iron and
Metal has delivered on its promise to provide
the highest level of quality, service, and integ-
rity for its customers. The company’s devotion
to high standards and values is evident to ev-
eryone throughout our community.
Family owned-and-operated businesses like
Muskingum Iron and Metal are foundational to
the small communities that make up Ohio. Our
state’s vibrant economy could not survive with-
out these family-run engines of innovation and
job creation. Muskingum Iron and Metal rep-
resents the pinnacle of Ohio’s small busi-
nesses, spurring growth and driving our econ-
omy forward.
Muskingum Iron and Metal can confidently
attribute its nine successful decades in oper-
ation to the dedication and determination of its
employees. I thank them for the company’s
longstanding influence within Zanesville, and
for their part in propelling Ohio’s economy and
job market.
Today, Muskingum Iron and Metal can re-
flect on its honorable legacy and look forward
to a prosperous future. I am confident its im-
pact will continue to last for generations to
come.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE LATE ED-
WARD LEONARD ‘‘SHOVELS’’
KOBESKY ON HIS INDUCTION
INTO THE LUZERNE COUNTY
SPORTS HALL OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor former athlete and North-
eastern Pennsylvania native, Edward Leonard
‘‘Shovels’’ Kobesky. This year, Shovels was
inducted into the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame at the 35th annual dinner on August
11, 2019 for his distinct athletic achievements
in the sport baseball.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
Shovels was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania
and received his nickname as a child because
he was always carrying a pail with several
small shovels. After playing high school and
semi-professional baseball, Shovels joined the
Bearded House of David barnstorming team.
The House of David was a spiritual society
which emphasized participation in sports, es-
pecially baseball, to foster spiritual and phys-
ical discipline. He then became a player and
manager of the East Shore League Salisbury
Cardinals. He led the league with nearly 20
home runs and helped them claim victory in
the playoffs. After this impressive season,
Shovels was promoted to Class A Elmira
where he had a batting average of .289 and
hit a career high of 11 triples.
In 1942, he was picked up by the Buffalo Bi-
sons, the Triple-A affiliate of the Toronto Blue
Jays. As one of the most impressive minor
league players of his time, Edward hit a .300
batting average eight times, including two con-
secutive seasons hitting .390. During his ca-
reer, he had a batting average of .328, 26
home runs, and 129 RBIs. In 1943, he led the
International League with 18 home runs. Be-
tween 1942 and 1944, he averaged over 24
homeruns.
As his career drew to a close, he moved to
a class B team in New Jersey where he led
the league managing an impressive .390 bat-
ting average and 21 homeruns. Following this
standout season, he moved back up to Class
A in 1949 to play with the Batavia Indians
where he finished his career. In 1951, he hit
a final grand-slam homerun in the bottom of
the ninth, winning the game for Batavia. This
grand-slam brought him the final win of his ca-
reer.
Shovels developed lung cancer which
caused him to watch the rest of his career
from the bench. In 1952, at the age of 38, he
died in Greenwood, PA. For his influence on
the sport, the Class A PONY (Pennsylvania,
Ontario, New York) League has since estab-
lished the Kobesky Award in his honor.
It is an honor to recognize Shovels on his
induction into the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame. May his story and athletic career
serve as an inspiration to the next generation
of Pennsylvania athletes striving for excel-
lence.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF DONALD
FRANCIS WOOD
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the life of Mr. Donald Francis Wood;
a life marked by grace, humility and patriotism.
Don was an accomplished Hoosier, father,
businessman, and patriot.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10SE8.008 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1119
September 10, 2019
Born in the Midwest, and a native of Des
Moines, Iowa, Don received a degree from
Drake University and later an honorary degree
from Ivy Tech Community College in Fort
Wayne. Don’s patriotism inspired him to enlist
in the military, which led him overseas where
he fought in the Korean War. Don reached the
rank of corporal before receiving an honorable
discharge.
After his service in the Army, Don worked in
automobile manufacturing, as a journeyman
toolmaker and later as a salesman. After sev-
eral years in auto-manufacturing sales, Don,
with his sons, opened their own manufacturing
company, 80/20 manufacturing. The largest T-
slotted aluminum building system in the United
States, the company employs more than 400
workers in my hometown of Columbia City, In-
diana.
Don saw his success as-a blessing, but also
a responsibility. He created the Donald F.
Wood and Darlene M. Richardson Foundation
with his wife, and started the 80/20 Founda-
tion Trust, both dedicated to helping those in
need. Don was willing to give his time, as well
as his money, to enhance Northeast Indiana’s
community. A life-long music lover, he was a
member of the board of the Fort Wayne Phil-
harmonic, as well as the Fluid Power society.
At his core, Don was a family man. He had
three sons and a daughter, two of whom
raised families in Fort Wayne.
Madam Speaker, Don was the type of fa-
ther, and leader, that embodies the values that
make the United States and Indiana so spe-
cial. His death has struck us a great loss; only
because he contributed so much in life—to
this country, to our state, and to his family.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO LOUGHLIN
DOUGLAS FOR RECEIVING THE
SPORTS MEDICINE SCHOLARSHIP
FROM MEMORIAL HERMANN
KATY HOSPITAL
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Loughlin Douglas from Tomp-
kins High School for receiving a Sports Medi-
cine scholarship from Memorial Hermann Katy
Hospital.
Loughlin received this scholarship through
distinguished service students provide through
KISD athletic programs. For 12 years, Memo-
rial Hermann Katy has awarded these scholar-
ships to KISD students who are worthy of this
recognition, and Loughlin rightfully earned this
award. Loughlin is planning on continuing her
studies at the University of North Texas. We
wish her the best of luck in her future career.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Loughlin Douglas on receiving the Sports
Medicine Scholarship from Memorial Hermann
Katy Hospital.
IN RECOGNITION OF THE ESTAB-
LISHMENT OF THE UIC JOHN
MARSHALL LAW SCHOOL
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I rise today,
along with my colleague Representative
DANNY K. DAVIS, to recognize the establish-
ment of Chicago’s first and only public law
school, the UIC John Marshall Law School.
In July 2018, the boards of trustees of the
University of Illinois and The John Marshall
Law School voted to approve the acquisition
of The John Marshall Law School by UIC. The
inaugural class matriculated this fall.
UIC is Chicago’s only public research uni-
versity and one of the most diverse univer-
sities in the nation. UIC is an integral part of
Chicago’s educational, technological, and cul-
tural fabric. The John Marshall Law School,
founded in 1899, has been a pioneer in legal
education with top-ranked programs in
lawyering skills, trial advocacy, and intellectual
property. It is one of the most diverse law
schools in the country and has a long history
of providing pro bono services. Both UIC and
The John Marshall Law School have track
records of excellence in research and scholar-
ship, access for underserved students, and
service to Chicago and its people.
The acquisition provides current and pro-
spective law students with a more affordable
legal education and enhanced student serv-
ices, including access to health care services,
recreational facilities, residence halls, and col-
lege athletics. Additionally, this acquisition will
create opportunities for interdisciplinary
courses and new joint and dual-degree pro-
grams.
The establishment of the UIC John Marshall
Law School complements other University ef-
forts to advance innovation and opportunity in
higher education. These efforts include the re-
cent openings of UIC’s Engineering Innovation
Building and Academic and Residential Com-
plex to address UIC’s continued growth and
record enrollment gains.
As a 1996 graduate of the John Marshall
Law School, I am excited to express my sup-
port for the UIC John Marshall Law School.
My colleague, Congressman DANNY K. DAVIS,
who represents UIC, shares in this excitement.
We extend the best of luck to both institutions
as they welcome their first class.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF CHRIS WADAS
ON HIS INDUCTION INTO THE
LUZERNE COUNTY SPORTS HALL
OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor former athlete and North-
eastern Pennsylvania native, Chris Wadas.
This year, Chris was inducted into the Luzerne
County Sports Hall of Fame at the 35th annual
dinner on August 11, 2019 for his distinct ath-
letic achievements as a runner.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought rec-
ognition to the state of Pennsylvania through
their outstanding achievements and contribu-
tions in athletic endeavors.
As an athlete at Misericordia University,
Chris was a 4-time MVP, National Collegiate
Athletic Association (NCAA) Mideast All-Re-
gion selection, 3-time Pennsylvania Athletic
Conference (PAC) individual conference
champion, 4 time All-Conference, and he
helped lead the team to 4 PAC team titles. In
track and field, he was the 2005 team MVP
and All-Eastern College Athletic Conference
(ECAC) in the 10,000 meters. In indoor track,
he set the school record at 1500 meters. In
outdoor track, he holds the 3,000 meter school
record and is on the all-time Misericordia top
10 list for 1500 meters, 5,000 meters, 3,000
meters and 10,000 meters. Chris is a member
of the Misericordia University Athletics Hall of
Fame and was the 2004 Misericordia Univer-
sity Wendy’s Athlete of the Year.
Chris continued running after college, boast-
ing impressive finishes and numerous wins in
races across Pennsylvania. Since then, he
has run for the Inside Track Running Store,
Keystone Track Club, and the National Run-
ning Center.
Currently, Chris is a track and cross country
coach at Misericordia University. In his 13
years of coaching, his teams have won 10
Middle Atlantic Conference (MAC) titles, 4 in
cross country, 4 in indoor track and field, and
2 in outdoor track and field. In addition, his
teams have won one PAC men’s title in cross
country and one women’s outdoor ECAC title.
Chris was named two-time NCAA Mideast Re-
gional Head Coach of the Year. He was also
named MAC Coach of the Year 10 times in
his 13 years of coaching.
It is an honor to recognize Chris on his in-
duction into the Luzerne County Sports Hall of
Fame. May his story and athletic career serve
as an inspiration to the next generation of
Pennsylvania athletes striving for excellence.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND LEG-
ACY OF MRS. MARLYN SHREVE
HON. JAMES COMER
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I am hon-
ored to recognize the life and legacy of Mrs.
Marlyn Shreve of Taylor County. For many
years Mrs. Shreve was an integral part of her
community and showcased her dedication to
serving others. On behalf of the First District
of Kentucky, it is my privilege to honor her
memory and service to her community today.
Mrs. Shreve’s extensive community involve-
ment was demonstrated through her exem-
plary work on notable boards and clubs in
Campbellsville, KY. She was an active mem-
ber of the Taylor County Republican Women’s
Club since 1971, serving as President twice.
The second time she served as President
began in 1999, making her the club’s longest
serving club president. She also held the of-
fices of Treasurer, Vice President and Vice
Chair throughout her 49-year club tenure.
A true pioneer, Mrs. Shreve was the first
woman elected to her local Board of Edu-
cation which she served on for a total of eight
years. In addition to her community involve-
ment, Mrs. Shreve had an extensive career
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.010 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1120 September 10, 2019
from adulthood to retirement working as a ma-
chine operator at the Fruit of the Loom. Her
life in the church also served as an inspiration
to others. As an active member at Green
River Memorial Baptist Church, Mrs. Shreve
emphasized the important work of women’s
mission groups within the Church.
Mrs. Shreve’s 52-year marriage to Kenneth
Shreve is a the testament to their steadfast
love, and her outstanding legacy will undoubt-
edly live on with her husband Kenneth, their
two children, six grandchildren, and nine
great-grandchildren.
Again, I am very grateful to have the oppor-
tunity to recognize Mrs. Shreve’s tireless serv-
ice to her community, church, and family and
to honor her many outstanding lifelong accom-
plishment.
f
INTRODUCTION OF A BILL TO RE-
QUIRE THE HEADQUARTERS OF
THE BUREAU OF LAND MANAGE-
MENT TO REMAIN IN THE NA-
TIONAL CAPITAL REGION
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I
rise to introduce a bill that would require the
Bureau of Land Management (BLM) head-
quarters to remain in the National Capital Re-
gion (NCR). My bill would require BLM’s head-
quarters, as well as positions already located
in the NCR on the date of the enactment of
the bill, to remain located in the NCR. The bill
is cosponsored by Representatives ANTHONY
BROWN, GERALD CONNOLLY, STENY HOYER,
JAMIE RASKIN, C.A. DUTCH RUPPERSBERGER,
JOHN SARBANES, DAVID TRONE and JENNIFER
WEXTON.
My bill should not be needed, as more than
95 percent of BLM staff already work outside
of the NCR, undoubtedly because of where
land under BLM jurisdiction is located. The
small number of employees at headquarters
serve the indispensable role of keeping Con-
gress and the president informed of its activi-
ties. Congress cannot do its work to write laws
and engage in vital oversight without the un-
varnished facts that nonpartisan agencies, like
BLM, provide. The Washington Post reports
that the Trump administration’s plans to relo-
cate most of the BLM’s D.C. workforce outside
of the NCR will impact roughly 300 employ-
ees. The administration’s attempt to move
BLM employees mirrors attempts by the De-
partment of Agriculture (USDA) to illegally
move two of its agencies from the NCR to
Kansas City.
In July, reports emerged that employees are
deserting these two USDA agencies in high
numbers, devastating parts of these agencies.
Unless measures are taken to stop the reorga-
nization of BLM, the same outcome could
await this agency. Losses of BLM head-
quarters staff would directly hurt public lands
and impact hundreds of federal employees
and their families.
I strongly urge my colleagues to support this
legislation.
IN RECOGNITION OF JOY A. GAL-
LAGHER ON HER INDUCTION
INTO THE LUZERNE COUNTY
SPORTS HALL OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor former athlete and North-
eastern Pennsylvania native, Joy Gallagher.
This year, Joy was inducted into the Luzerne
County Sports Hall of Fame on August 11,
2019 for her distinct athletic achievements.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
Joy began her athletic career at Hazleton
Area High School as a four-letter winner in
basketball, softball, and volleyball. In basket-
ball, she was three-time First Team Wyoming
Valley Conference (WVC) All-Star and two-
time WVC Player of the Year. She finished her
high school career with 1,413 total points and
was named MVP of the WVC Senior All-Star
Game. In softball, Joy was a four-time First
Team All-Star and MVP of the WVC and WVC
Senior All-Star Game her senior year. In
volleyball, she was a two-time selection to the
WVC All-Star Team. Joy was named the
Reading Eagle Lower Anthracite Female Ath-
lete of the Year and won the prestigious Scot-
ty Roman Award in 2002 for outstanding ath-
lete, male or female, in the Hazleton Area. Joy
was inducted into the Hazleton Area Sports
Hall of Fame for her outstanding athletic
achievements.
Joy was awarded a full athletic scholarship
to Wagner College where she played basket-
ball from 2002 to 2006. She is a member of
the college’s one thousand-point club and was
named captain her senior year. While at Wag-
ner, Joy excelled on the court. As a sopho-
more, she set the school’s single game three-
point record (11) against Boston University,
and she led the NCAA Division 1 ranks with
3.5 three-point field goals made per game and
broke the school’s single-season record with
99 three-point field goals for the season. She
holds the school career record for career
three-point field goals made at 240. Joy was
a Second Team All-District-1 Academic All-
American her junior year and First Team Aca-
demic All-American District-1 her senior year.
She was named the 2006 Northeast Con-
ference (NEC) Student-Athlete of the Year and
received a $7,500.00 NCAA Postgraduate
Scholarship, the first Wagner College recipient
of this prestigious award.
Joy walked onto the softball team her senior
year, recording a Northeast Conference (NEC)
season high 21 game hitting streak while bat-
ting 0.333 and garnered second team All-NEC
honors. Joy was selected for the Academic
All-American softball team.
It is an honor to recognize Joy on her induc-
tion into the Luzerne County Sports Hall of
Fame. May her story and athletic career serve
as an inspiration to the next generation of
Pennsylvania athletes striving for excellence.
TRIBUTE TO MARCA BRISTO
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the remarkable life of Marca
Bristo. Marca was a powerful leader in the dis-
ability movement, the founder of Access Living
of Metropolitan Chicago and co-founder of the
National Council on Independent Living.
My husband Bob Creamer and I are heart-
broken to lose a precious friend of more than
four decades. Our country has lost an unparal-
leled fighter for the rights of people with dis-
abilities. Our love goes out to our dear friend,
Marca’s husband Bob Kettlewell, their children
and new granddaughter.
Marca will go down in history as one of the
most influential leaders of the disability rights
and independent living movements. Because
of Marca, countless people have been freed
from confining living arrangements and liber-
ated to live independently in communities. She
was the founder and long-time president of the
premier advocacy organization for people with
disabilities, Chicago-based Access Living.
Marca played a central role in the passage of
the landmark Americans with Disabilities Act,
and she was an important advisor to Presi-
dents Bill Clinton and Barack Obama. She
served in many major leadership positions in
government and beyond, including broad coa-
litions of progressive organizations like Illinois
Citizen Action. She relentlessly took on and
often beat down obstacles that prevented peo-
ple with disabilities from living full and produc-
tive lives. To her last breath, she was reaching
out to elected officials and leaders, promoting
a justice agenda. In fact, a week before she
died, both my husband and I had serious stra-
tegic discussions with Marca where she gave
us clear instructions about what needed to be
done.
Marca was not just a disability rights leader
but a fierce fighter for civil rights across the
board—a champion of tearing down barriers
and winning opportunity for all. We can never
thank Marca enough for opening our eyes to
barriers that were, and in too many cases, still
are holding back people with disabilities. We
will always hear her voice in our ears, pushing
us to do more, and we will always heed her
call to the best of our abilities.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO NOELLE
WALKER FOR RECEIVING THE
SPORTS MEDICINE SCHOLARSHIP
FROM MEMORIAL HERMANN
KATY HOSPITAL
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Noelle Walker from Morton
Ranch High School for receiving a Sports
Medicine scholarship from Memorial Hermann
Katy Hospital.
Noelle received this scholarship through dis-
tinguished service students provide through
KISD athletic programs. For 12 years, Memo-
rial Hermann Katy has awarded these scholar-
ships to KISD students who are worthy of this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.014 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1121
September 10, 2019
recognition, and Noelle rightfully earned this
award. Noelle is planning on continuing her
studies at Texas Southern University, and we
wish her the best of luck in her future career.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Noelle Walker on receiving the Sports Medi-
cine Scholarship from Memorial Hermann Katy
Hospital.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I was absent due to being unavoidably de-
tained. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘Yea’’ on Roll Call No. 516 and ‘‘Yea’’
on Roll Call No. 515.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF CHRISTINE
BUTTON STRUMSKI ON HER IN-
DUCTION INTO THE LUZERNE
COUNTY SPORTS HALL OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor member of the Tunkhannock
Little League Association and Northeastern
Pennsylvania native, Christine Button
Strumski. This year, Christine was inducted
into the Luzerne County Sports Hall of Fame
at the 35th annual dinner on August 11, 2019
for her distinct achievements in the sport of
softball.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
Growing up in a time when sports like base-
ball were male-dominated, Christine became a
trail-blazer for the inclusion of women in sports
in the 1970s. In the 70s, the National Little
League was sued by the National Organiza-
tion for Women for discrimination based on
sex. Christine would go on to help form the
first girls’ softball league in Tunkhannock.
Dedicated to equality and inclusion, Christine
commissioned the board to have a girls’ team
from the league participate in the State of
Pennsylvania Baseball Tournament. The girls’
league was so new at the time that one team
would only have to win six games to become
state champions. Despite the small number of
competitors and a new league, the competition
was fierce. Christine helped her team secure
the first state girls’ softball championship
against Minersville.
Today, Christine is still actively involved in
the Tunkhannock Little League Association.
This past year, the girls secured another state
championship title. Under her leadership, the
team qualified for the Softball World Series in
Portland, Oregon where they came in second.
Christine’s dedication to equality and excel-
lence has been an inspiration to all. Her serv-
ice and willingness to stand and be counted in
the uphill battle for equality in sports is admi-
rable.
It is an honor to recognize Christine on her
induction into the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame. May her story serve as an inspiration
to the next generation of Pennsylvania ath-
letes striving for excellence.
f
‘‘400 ANNIVERSARY OF THE FIRST
SLAVE ARRIVING IN AMERICA’’
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague, Congresswoman BAR-
BARA LEE for anchoring this Special Order rec-
ognizing the 400th anniversary of the first
slave arriving in America.
Four hundred years ago the first slave ar-
rived in America, ships set sail from the west
coast of Africa and in the process, began one
of mankind’s most inhumane practices: human
bondage and slavery.
For two centuries, human beings—full of
hopes and fears, dreams and concerns, ambi-
tion and anguish—were transported onto ships
like chattel, and the lives of many forever
changed.
The reverberations from this horrific series
of acts—a transatlantic slave trade that
touched the shores of a colony that came to
be known as America, and later a democratic
republic known as the United States of Amer-
ica—are unknown and worthy of exploration.
Approximately 4,000,000 Africans and their
descendants were enslaved in the United
States and colonies that became the United
States from 1619 to 1865.
The institution of slavery was constitutionally
and statutorily sanctioned by the Government
of the United States from 1789 through 1865.
American Slavery is our country’s original
sin and its existence at the birth of our nation
is a permanent scar on our country’s founding
documents, and on the venerated authors of
those documents, and it is a legacy that con-
tinued well into the last century.
While it is nearly impossible to determine
how the lives touched by slavery could have
flourished in the absence of bondage, we
have certain datum that permits us to examine
how a subset of Americans—African Ameri-
cans—have been affected by the callousness
of involuntary servitude.
We know that in almost every segment of
society—education, healthcare, jobs and
wealth—the inequities that persist in America
are more acutely and disproportionately felt in
Black America.
This historic discrimination continues: Afri-
can-Americans continue to suffer debilitating
economic, educational, and health hardships
including but not limited to having nearly
1,000,000 black people incarcerated; an un-
employment rate more than twice the current
white unemployment rate; and an average of
less than 1⁄16 of the wealth of white families,
a disparity which has worsened, not improved
over time.
A closer look at the statistics reveals the
stark disparity in these areas.
Black household wealth is less than one fifth
of the national average.
The median black household had a net
worth of just $17,600 in 2016. Yet in that
same year, the median white household held
$171,000 in wealth while the national house-
hold median was $97,300.
The black unemployment rate is 6.6 percent
more than double the national unemployment
rate.
Approximately 31 percent of black children
live in poverty, compared to 11 percent of
white children. The national average is 18 per-
cent, which suggests that the percentage of
black children living in poverty is more than
150 percent of the national average.
In the healthcare domain, the disparities suf-
fered by African Americans is also troubling.
Over 20 percent of African Americans do
not have health insurance, compared to a na-
tional average between 8.8 percent and 9.1
percent.
One in four African American women are
uninsured.
Compared to the national average, African
American adults are 20 percent more likely to
suffer from asthma and three times more likely
to die from it.
Black adults are 72 percent more likely to
suffer from diabetes than average.
Black women are four times more likely to
die from pregnancy related causes, such as
embolisms, and pregnancy-related hyper-
tension, than any other racial group.
In our nation, among children aged 19–35
months, black children were vaccinated at
rates lower than white children: 68 percent
versus 78 percent, respectively.
Education has often been called the key to
unlocking social mobility.
African American students are less likely
than white students to have access to college-
ready courses.
In fact, in 2011–12, only 57 percent of black
students had access to a full range of math
and science courses necessary for college
readiness, compared to with 81 percent of
Asian American students and 71 percent of
white students.
Black students spend less time in the class-
room due to discipline, which further hinders
their access to a quality education.
Black students are nearly two times as likely
to be suspended without educational services
as white students.
Black students are also 3.8 times as likely
to receive one or more out-of-school suspen-
sions as white students.
In addition, black children represent 19 per-
cent of the nation’s pre-school population, yet
47 percent of those receiving more than one
out-of-school suspension.
School districts with the most students of
color, on average, receive 15 percent less per
student in state and local funding than the
whitest districts.
And, of course, we cannot consider the dis-
parities between black and white in America
without considering the intersection of African
Americans and the Criminal Justice system.
There are more Black men in bondage
today who are incarcerated or under correc-
tional control, than there were black men who
were enslaved in the 1800s.
The United States locks up African Amer-
ican males at a rate 5.8 times higher than the
most openly racist country in the world ever
did:
South Africa under apartheid (1993), African
American males: 851 per 100,000
United States (2006), African American
males: 4,789 per 100,000
Incarceration is not an equal opportunity
punishment. For example, incarceration rates
in the United States by race were:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.018 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1122 September 10, 2019
African Americans: 2,468 per 100,000
Latinos: 1,038 per 100,000
Whites: 409 per 100,000
African American offenders receive sen-
tences that are 10 percent longer than white
offenders for the same crimes and are 21 per-
cent more likely to receive mandatory-min-
imum sentences than white defendants ac-
cording to the U.S. Sentencing Commission.
Looking at males aged 25–29 and by race,
you can see what is going on even clearer:
For White males ages 25–29: 1,685 per
100,000.
For Latino males ages 25–29: 3,912 per
100,000.
For African American males ages 25–29:
11,695 per 100,000. (That’s 11.7 percent of
Black men in their late 20s.)
Overall, one in 50 murders is ruled justi-
fied—but when the killer is white and the vic-
tim is a black man, the figure climbs to one in
six.
A handgun homicide is nine times more like-
ly to be found justified—when the killer is
white and the victim is a black man.
Handgun killings with a white shooter and a
black male victim exhibit an even more dra-
matic bias: one in four is found justified.
But then again, we knew these inequities
existed because for many Black Americans,
these disparities are just a part of daily life.
This is why, in 1989, my predecessor as the
most senior African American on this Sep-
tember Judiciary Committee, the honorable
John Conyers, a past Chairman of this Com-
mittee introduced H.R. 40, legislation that
would establish a commission to study and
develop proposals attendant to reparations.
Though many thought it a lost cause, John
Conyers believed that a day would come
when our nation would need to account for the
brutal mistreatment of African-Americans dur-
ing chattel slavery, Jim Crow segregation and
the enduring structural racism endemic to our
society.
I would like to take this moment to person-
ally thank the estimable John Conyers for his
work on this legislation for the last thirty years.
With the rise and normalization of white su-
premacist expression during the Trump admin-
istration, the discussion of H.R. 40 and the
concept of restorative justice have gained
more urgency, garnering the attention of main-
stream commentator, and illustrating the need
for a national reckoning.
H.R. 40 is intended to create the framework
for a national discussion on the enduring im-
pact of slavery and its complex legacy to
begin that necessary process of atonement.
The designation of this legislation as H.R.
40 is intended to memorialize the promise
made by General William T. Sherman, in his
1865 Special Field Order No. 15, to redis-
tribute 400,000 acres of formerly Confederate
owned coastal land in South Carolina and
Florida, subdivided into 40 acre plots.
Since its introduction, H.R. 40 has acted to
spur some governmental acknowledgement of
the sin of slavery, but most often the response
has taken the form of an apology.
However, even the well intentioned commit-
ments to examine the historical and modern
day implications of slavery by the Clinton ad-
ministration fell short of the mark and failed to
inspire substantive pubic discourse.
Since my reintroduction of H.R. 40 at the
beginning of this Congress, both the legisla-
tion and concept of reparations have become
the focus of national debate.
For many, it is apparent that the success of
the Obama administration has unleashed a
backlash of racism and intolerance that is an
echo of America’s dark past which has yet to
be exorcised from the national consciousness.
Commentators have turned to H.R. 40 as a
response to formally begin the process of ana-
lyzing, confronting and atoning for these dark
chapters of American history.
Even conservative voices, like that of New
York Times columnist David Brooks, are start-
ing to give the reparations cause the hearing
it deserves, observing that ‘‘Reparations are a
drastic policy and hard to execute, but the
very act of talking and designing them heals a
wound and opens a new story.’’
Similarly, a majority of the Democratic presi-
dential contenders have turned to H.R. 40 as
a tool for reconciliation, with 17 cosponsoring
or claiming they would sign the bill into law if
elected.
Though critics have argued that the idea of
reparations is unworkable politically or finan-
cially, their focus on money misses the point
of the H.R. 40 commission’s mandate.
The goal of these historical investigations is
to bring American society to a new reckoning
with how our past affects the current condi-
tions of African-Americans and to make Amer-
ica a better place by helping the truly dis-
advantaged.
Consequently, the reparations movement
does not focus on payments to individuals, but
to remedies that can be created in as many
forms necessary to equitably address the
many kinds of injuries sustained from chattel
slavery and its continuing vestiges.
To merely focus on finance is an empty
gesture and betrays a lack of understanding of
the depth of the unaddressed moral issues
that continue to haunt this nation.
While it might be convenient to assume that
we can address the current divisive racial and
political climate in our nation through race
neutral means, experience shows that we
have not escaped our history.
By passing H.R. 40, Congress can start a
movement toward the national reckoning we
need to bridge racial divides.
Reparations are ultimately about respect
and reconciliation—and the hope that one day,
all Americans can walk together toward a
more just future.
We owe it to those who were ripped from
their homes those many years ago an ocean
away; we owe it to the millions of Americans—
yes they were Americans—who were born into
bondage, knew a life of servitude, and died
anonymous deaths, as prisoners of this sys-
tem.
We owe it to the millions of descendants of
these slaves, for they are the heirs to a soci-
ety of inequities and indignities that naturally
filled the vacuum after slavery was formally
abolished 154 years ago.
And let me end as I began, noting that this
year is the 400th commemoration of the 1619
arrival of the first captive Africans in English
North America, at Point Comfort, Virginia.
Let us proceed with the cause of this morn-
ing with a full heart, with the knowledge that
this work will take time and trust.
Let us also do with the spirit of reconciliation
and understanding that this bill represents.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to
help address the harm that slavery has had on
our nation by supporting H.R. 40.
f
COACH FRANKLIN POST-GAME
INTERVIEW
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is an honor to recognize Penn State
Quarterback Michael Shuster, who was high-
lighted by Head Coach James Franklin in a
post-game interview.
A reporter asked, ‘‘Coach, you mentioned
the reaction when Nick Eury scored the touch-
down. Can you talk about the quarterback that
engineered the final drive and what you said
to him and set up for him?’’
Coach Franklin responded by saying, ‘‘He’s
another guy. Michael Shuster has been phe-
nomenal. I’m not sure if this is the right deci-
sion or not, but he has started leaning into
coaching. He already got a job offer in the real
world. He just does a great job for us. He’s
like having another coach. He takes a lot of
pride in it. He’s been a fantastic student, a
fantastic teammate. I’m a huge Shuster fan.
He brings a lot of value to our organization.’’
Congratulations to Michael Shuster on a
great drive in week one of the Penn State
football season.
f
CELEBRATING THE 100TH BIRTH-
DAY OF MRS. THELMA
ROMBERGER
HON. SCOTT PERRY
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. PERRY. Madam Speaker, today I offer
my heartfelt congratulations to Mrs. Thelma
Romberger, a resident of Carlisle, Pennsyl-
vania, who is celebrating 100 years young on
Thursday, December 12, 2019.
Mrs. Romberger was born in her grand-
mother’s farmhouse in rural Carlisle and has
since claimed Southcentral Pennsylvania as
her lifelong home. She married her husband of
53 years, World War II Veteran Chester E.
Romberger, in May of 1941. Throughout her
life, Mrs. Romberger owned and operated both
a grocery store and a mobile home park; she
also mowed her own grass with a push lawn
mower well into her eighties.
She previously enjoyed camping and is now
both an avid salt and pepper shaker collector
and Checkers player.
I join Thelma’s friends and family in extend-
ing my best and warmest wishes to her on this
special day, and in celebrating her life and
contributions to our great Commonwealth and
Country.
On behalf of Pennsylvania’s Tenth Congres-
sional District, I extend God’s blessings and
my heartfelt congratulations to Mrs. Thelma
Romberger on her 100th Birthday.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.022 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1123
September 10, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF JOSEPH ‘‘BO’’
ORLANDO ON HIS INDUCTION
INTO THE LUZERNE COUNTY
SPORTS HALL OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Joseph ‘‘Bo’’ Orlando, who was
inducted into the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame on August 11, 2019 for his out-
standing athletic achievements in the sport of
football.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
Bo’s storied athletic career began at Ber-
wick High School, where he led the team to a
13–0 record and a USA Today National
Championship as quarterback in 1983. Fol-
lowing high school, Bo took his athletic talents
to West Virginia University. During his time
with the Mountaineers, he helped lead the
team to an undefeated season in 1988 while
earning the reputation as one of the best de-
fensive players in the school’s history.
After graduating college, Bo entered the
1989 NFL Draft and was selected in the 6th
round as the 157th pick by the Houston Oilers.
Bo remained with the Oilers for 5 seasons,
where he had 7 interceptions. After leaving
Houston, Bo played for the San Diego Char-
gers and became the second leading tackler
on the team. Bo also went on to lead the Cin-
cinnati Bengals in tackles during the 1996–
1997 season. He finished his professional ca-
reer in 1998 with the Pittsburgh Steelers. Dur-
ing his time in the NFL, Bo amassed 10 inter-
ceptions and 2 sacks.
Throughout his decades of football experi-
ence, Bo received numerous awards for his
remarkable performance on the field. In high
school, Bo was named an All-Conference
player in 1982–1983, Berwick MVP in 1982–
1983, a 1983 All-State Defensive Back, a
1983 high school All-American, and a 1984
Big 33 player. In 1988 while at WVU, he
earned 1st team All Big East Defensive Back,
Defensive MVP, and was an Almanac All-
American. Bo’s alma mater, West Virginia Uni-
versity inducted him into the West Virginia
University Sports Hall of Fame. Today, Bo re-
mains involved in sports, serving as the ath-
letic director at Berwick Area High School.
It is an honor to recognize Bo on his induc-
tion into the Luzerne County Sports Hall of
Fame. May his story and athletic career serve
as an inspiration to the next generation of
Pennsylvania athletes striving for excellence.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO SABRINA
HAAGENSON FOR RECEIVING
THE SPORTS MEDICINE SCHOL-
ARSHIP FROM MEMORIAL HER-
MANN KATY HOSPITAL
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Sabrina Haagenson from Katy
High School for receiving a Sports Medicine
scholarship from Memorial Hermann Katy
Hospital.
Sabrina received this scholarship through
distinguished service students provide through
KISD athletic programs. For 12 years, Memo-
rial Hermann Katy has awarded these scholar-
ships to KISD students who are worthy of this
recognition, and Sabrina rightfully earned this
award. Sabrina is planning on continuing her
studies at Marietta College, and we wish her
the best of luck in her future career.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Sabrina Haagenson on receiving the Sports
Medicine Scholarship from Memorial Hermann
Katy Hospital.
f
CONGRATULATIONS TO ST. LEON-
ARD CATHOLIC CHURCH OF SAN
ANTONIO
HON. WILL HURD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. HURD of Texas. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of the 60th Anniversary of
St. Leonard Catholic Church in San Antonio,
Texas. Since its establishment in 1959, St.
Leonard has become a fixture in San Anto-
nio’s southside community. Over the last 60
years, the church has created a rich history of
service to the community and dedication to its
parishioners.
As St. Leonard Catholic Church marks its
diamond jubilee, it is my pleasure to congratu-
late the Archdiocese of San Antonio, Arch-
bishop Gustavo Garcia-Siller, Father Eduardo
Martinez and the parish on behalf of the
Twenty-third Congressional District of Texas. I
hope you all have a wonderful celebration and
may God continue to bless the congregation
and its dedication to serving the community.
I ask my colleagues to join me in congratu-
lating St. Leonard Catholic Church on its 60th
anniversary.
f
THANKING MS. VICTORIA
WARMOUTH FOR EXEMPLARY
SERVICE
HON. JOHN H. RUTHERFORD
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise
to pay tribute to Ms. Victoria Warmouth for her
exemplary dedication to duty and service as
an Army Congressional Budget Liaison for the
Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial
Management and Comptroller). Ms. Warmouth
is transitioning from her present assignment to
serve as a Legislative Liaison for the United
States Forces Korea.
Victoria is a proud native of Palm Harbor,
Florida, which is located on the west coast of
the state outside of Tampa. She earned a
bachelor’s degree in both Political Science
and International Affairs at Florida State Uni-
versity, and a master’s degree in International
Affairs, Comparative and Regional Studies Eu-
rope from American University in Washington,
D.C.
Victoria has served in numerous positions
during her professional career. She worked in
the House of Representatives for over six
years, primarily for the late Honorable C.W.
Bill Young (R–FL–13), Chairman of the House
of Representatives Appropriations Sub-
committee for Defense and Chairman Emer-
itus of the full House Appropriations Com-
mittee. During her time in Chairman Young’s
office, Victoria served in several different
roles, including Legislative Assistant and Sen-
ior Policy Advisor. Victoria’s primary respon-
sibilities included managing the Appropriations
Committee portfolio for six subcommittees,
analyzing seventy-six department and agency
budget requests in the President’s budget sub-
mission, and developing legislative priorities
on a wide portfolio of issues. Following Rep-
resentative David W. Jolly’s special election
victory in March 2014, Victoria coordinated the
opening of his Washington, D.C. office, sub-
mitting all of his Fiscal Year 2015 appropria-
tion requests and preparing new legislation
that was introduced in the House of Rep-
resentatives.
In SAFM-BUL, Victoria served as the Con-
gressional Analyst prior to her promotion to
the Congressional Strategist. While serving as
the Congressional Analyst, Victoria performed
a variety of functions, including providing ana-
lytical and advisory support to senior Army
management officials on the appropriations
process and coordinating information provided
to House and Senate Appropriations Commit-
tees. In her role as the Congressional Strate-
gist, Victoria analyzes and synthesizes data
from a variety of Army and congressional
sources to develop measurable and com-
prehensive Congressional Engagement Strate-
gies for Army senior leaders, including con-
gressional marks appeals to advance the
Army’s appropriations priorities.
Madam Speaker, it has been a genuine
pleasure to work with Ms. Victoria Warmouth
during my tenure on the House Appropriations
Committee. On behalf of a grateful nation, I
join my colleagues today in recognizing and
commending Vicki for her service to our coun-
try, and we wish her all the best as she con-
tinues her service to the United States.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ED ACKER-
MAN, RECIPIENT OF THE 2019
MEDIA AWARD FROM THE
LUZERNE COUNTY SPORTS HALL
OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor sports writer Ed Ackerman. Ed
received the 2019 Media Award from the
Luzerne County Sports Hall of Fame at the
35th annual dinner on August 11, 2019 for his
remarkable career in journalism.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
Starting at 17 years of age, Ed began his
storied sports writing career for Pittston’s Sun-
day Dispatch. For 52 years, Ed has covered
some of the most seminal moments in Pittston
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.025 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1124 September 10, 2019
sports history. From reporting on the
undefeated Pittston Area High School football
team to breaking the news that one of the
most recruited running backs in the country,
Jimmy Cefalo, elected to attend Penn State
University, Ed has been at the forefront of
Pittston sports history.
Ed has served in various journalistic posi-
tions throughout his five-decade career. In the
early 1980s, Ed was the managing editor of
the Sunday Dispatch in Pittston. His personal
column has been running for over 30 years
and continues today, appearing in the Greater
Pittston Progress. In addition to writing, Ed
serves as a full-time professor of Communica-
tion Arts at Luzerne County Community Col-
lege, where he has taught since 1990. Ed is
also heavily involved in his community as a
member of the Greater Pittston Friendly Sons
of St. Patrick and the Pittston Lettermen’s
Club and is currently the longest serving mem-
ber of the Citizens Advisory Board of the
Greater Pittston Salvation Army.
Ed’s outstanding work has not gone unno-
ticed. For his column, the Pennsylvania News-
papers Publishing Association honored him
with a First Place Keystone Award. Addition-
ally, Ed received the Excellence in Teaching
Award from the National Institute of Staff and
Organizational Development, and the Pittston
Memorial Library presented Ed with the Jean
Yates Award for his service to the library. The
Greater Pittston YMCA awarded Ed with a life-
time achievement award in 2016. Further, his
likeness appears in the Pittston Inspiration
Mural, forever cementing him as a fixture of
the Pittston community.
It is an honor to recognize Ed as the recipi-
ent of the 2019 Media Award from the
Luzerne County Sports Hall of Fame. May his
story and journalism career serve as an inspi-
ration to the next generation of Pennsylva-
nians striving for excellence.
f
CONGRATULATING CHERYL
RAWLINGS
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, it is my privilege to honor The Realtor Ac-
tive in Politics of the Year Award, Cheryl
Rawlings. This award recognizes an individual
who has significantly advanced the legislative
agenda of the Pennsylvania Association of
Realtors through political involvement
Cheryl has worked tirelessly to advance re-
altor interests for more than 15 years.
Throughout her time as a member of the as-
sociation, Rawlings personally advocated for
realtor issues on the federal, state and local
level, developing key relationships with elected
officials in the Allegheny Highlands area and
across the Commonwealth.
Since 2002, she has served as key a con-
tact for her Member of Congress through the
National Association of Realtors Federal Polit-
ical Coordinator program. Beginning with re-
tired Congressman Bill Shuster and continuing
with myself, Rawlings has served as the key
liaison to her local representatives on behalf of
NAR.
Since 2017, Rawlings has served on the
NAR committee guiding and serving Federal
Political Coordinators across the country.
At the state level, Rawlings has served as
the key contact to many members of the
Pennsylvania Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives, educating her elected officials
about issues of importance to realtors and
property owners
She also has been an active participant at
her local realtor association, the Allegheny-
Highland Association of Realtors.
For more than 15 years, Rawlings has
quietly served as a Realtor political and grass-
roots activist and campaign volunteer for a
host of legislators and candidates, and she is
a deserving recipient of this year’s RAP Award
for her many years of service.
It is a privilege to congratulate Cheryl
Rawlings on this incredible honor.
f
RECOGNIZING MATTHEW AND
KRISTIN LUNDGREN OF BILLINGS
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Matt and Kristin Lundgren of
Billings, Montana for their years of service and
support to charitable organizations in the Bil-
lings community.
It takes special kinds of people to dedicate
their life to service. Matt and Kristin have im-
pacted many lives in their community, helping
to equip people and nonprofit organizations
with the tools they need to succeed.
Matt has over 25 years of experience with
youth development as well as business and
nonprofit management He serves as executive
director of the Billings Leadership Foundation,
which includes the Friendship House in Bil-
lings and the Montana Rescue Mission which
aims to improve nonprofits’ impact in their
community.
‘‘It’s the Billings Leadership Foundation
model where we can serve multiple nonprofits
with the back-office skills that we’ve learned to
help the front-office program-level stuff be
more effective, more efficient,’’ Matt said.
Similarly, Kristin is the Director of Impact at
the United Way, a charitable giving foundation
that partners with other nonprofits and organi-
zations to help identify and meet the commu-
nity’s biggest needs. The projects and partner-
ships aim to mobilize the caring power of the
community, including improving kindergarten
readiness and helping make changes to
Montana211.org, an online directory for the re-
gion’s resources
She is also a part of the Yellowstone Coun-
ty Best Beginnings coalition, which focuses on
increasing parents’ access to support. The co-
alition ‘‘seeks to get children on the right tra-
jectory for life,’’ said Kristin. That mission
builds a stronger community where our kids
have the tools they need to succeed.
Madam Speaker, for their dedication to
community, efforts to build successful non-
profits, and commitment to providing children
with the tools they need to thrive, I recognize
Matthew and Kristin Lundgren for their spirit of
Montana.
CONGRATULATIONS TO CAROLINE
CANTERBURY FOR RECEIVING
THE SPORTS MEDICINE SCHOL-
ARSHIP FROM MEMORIAL HER-
MANN KATY HOSPITAL
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Caroline Canterbury from
Seven Lakes High School for receiving a
Sports Medicine scholarship from Memorial
Hermann Katy Hospital.
Caroline received this scholarship through
distinguished service students provide through
KISD athletic programs. For 12 years, Memo-
rial Hermann Katy has awarded these scholar-
ships to KISD students who are worthy of this
recognition, and Caroline rightfully earned this
award. Caroline is planning to continue her
studies at Texas Tech University. We wish her
the best of luck in her future career.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Caroline Canterbury on receiving the Sports
Medicine Scholarship from Memorial Hermann
Katy Hospital.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF MORGAN
ALAINA CRAFT ON HER INDUC-
TION INTO THE LUZERNE COUN-
TY SPORTS HALL OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor athlete and Northeastern Penn-
sylvania native Morgan Alaina Craft. This year,
Morgan was inducted into the Luzerne County
Sports Hall of Fame on August 11, 2019 for
her distinct athletic achievements in the sport
of skeet shooting.
Each year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
Morgan was born and raised in rural Sul-
livan County, Pennsylvania where she grew
up with a passion for shooting and the out-
doors. When she was 7, she began shooting
.22 rifles with the Sullivan County 4H program.
Her family played a key role in implementing
a shotgun shooting program as a varsity sport
at her high school. Always athletic and com-
petitive, Morgan enjoyed playing basketball
and soccer throughout junior and senior high
but shooting remained her true passion. Olym-
pic skeet shooting soon caught her eye, and
in 2008, she competed in her first National
Championship in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
Morgan continued her education at
Lindenwood University in St. Charles, Mis-
souri, earning a bachelor’s degree in exercise
science. While at Lindenwood, she helped
lead her team to win the Collegiate National
Championship three years in a row. She also
won an individual gold medal at the 2012
ACUI Collegiate National Championship.
As she continued her shooting career with
the Junior Olympic Team and the United
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.029 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1125
September 10, 2019
States National Team, Morgan traveled all
over the world to compete. In 2012, Morgan
competed in the Olympic Trials and was
named team alternate for the London Olympic
Games. Her alternate status drove her to
reach even higher. She was named USA
Shooting’s Women’s National Champion in
2014 and Female Shooter of the Year in 2015.
In 2015, she won silver and bronze World Cup
medals and a gold at the 51st International
Shooting Sport Federation (ISSF) World
Championships, securing one of the two spots
for Team USA at the 2016 Summer Olympics.
In 2016, she added a gold World Cup medal
to her collection and competed at the Olym-
pics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. She earned a
spot in the Olympic final by winning a three-
way shoot-off against Argentina and Russia.
Morgan finished in fifth place in Rio.
It is an honor to recognize Morgan on her
induction into the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame. May her story and athletic career
serve as an inspiration to the next generation
of Pennsylvania athletes striving for excel-
lence.
f
REMEMBERING MARGERY MAGILL
HON. JOHN GARAMENDI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. GARAMENDI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the memory and life of Margery
Magill, a Yuba City native and UC Davis alum-
nus who embodied the American spirit of posi-
tivity and devotion to one’s community.
Born in 1992 to her parents Jeff and
Bonnie, Margery grew up on the family ranch
in Yuba City with her sister Raeann. From a
young age, Margery developed a passion for
both agricultural issues and helping those
around her. This passion led her to UC Davis,
where she majored in International Agricultural
Development.
As a student at UC Davis, Margery engaged
with her community beyond the classroom and
volunteered in extracurricular programs. She
served as an Aggie Ambassador for four
years, as a peer advisor in student housing,
and participated in the UC Davis Washington
Program. Her passion for travel brought her to
over 27 countries across the globe. While
abroad, she participated in several programs
to help improve foreign agricultural commu-
nities and was a strong advocate for women’s
rights in Turkey.
After completing her undergraduate career,
Margery worked at the Jane Goodall Institute
and subsequently went on to complete her
master’s degree in International Relations at
the University of Westminster in London. Fol-
lowing her time in London, Margery returned
to Washington, D.C. to pursue a burgeoning
career in environmental and agricultural devel-
opment.
In life, Margery exemplified the promise of
what optimism and passion for one’s work can
achieve. In the wake of her loss, the mark she
undoubtably left on those whose paths she
crossed around the world ensures a lasting
legacy that will endure for many years to
come. My prayers and thoughts are with her
family and friends in this difficult time.
HONORING AVIATION MACHINIST
MATE FIRST CLASS BERNARD
BARTUSIAK ON HIS DISTIN-
GUISHED SERVICE
HON. DANIEL LIPINSKI
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of Aviation Machinist Mate First
Class Bernard Bartusiak of Chicago, Illinois,
who is being honored with two Distinguished
Flying Cross medals and seven additional
service medals. Mr. Bartusiak is a veteran
who bravely served our nation in the United
States Navy during World War II.
Even as a young boy, Mr. Bartusiak felt a
sense of duty to his community and his coun-
try. Since he was ten years old his dream was
to join the United States Navy Air Force and
at seventeen, he realized his dream and en-
listed. Mr. Bartusiak served as a Navy Flight
Engineer and bravely flew in over forty combat
missions during World War II.
Following the war, Mr Bartusiak worked as
a corporate accountant before opening his
own accounting and tax service. He was mar-
ried to Dolores for 65 years and they raised
two daughters together, Candy and Jill. He
now has two grandchildren and three great-
grandchildren. Mr. Bartusiak is a loving father,
grandfather, and friend to many.
For Mr. Bartusiak’s heroism and extraor-
dinary achievement as aircrew of a PB4Y Lib-
erator Aircraft in the European Theater of
World War II, he has been awarded two Dis-
tinguished Flying Cross medals as well as
seven additional service medals. These deco-
rations exemplify Mr. Bartusiak’s dedication to
the Navy’s core values of honor, courage, and
commitment, as well as his country.
Mr. Bartusiak’s sacrifice and dedication to
our country are an inspiration to us all. He is
a man who defended our country at a time of
tremendous need. I ask my colleagues to Join
me in honoring his service, bravery, and dedi-
cation to his family and community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE BAT MITZVA
OF LEAH WENDY SELTZER
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today
with my colleagues, Representatives ALCEE
HASTINGS and DEBBIE WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, in
honor of Leah Seltzer on the occasion of her
Bat Mitzvah at Congregation Kol Tikvah in
Parkland, Florida. We know that Leah has
been eagerly looking forward to this moment,
and we are honored to share this special day
with her friends and family.
As a seventh grader at Donna Klein Jewish
Academy, she excels at English and Art where
she is known by her classmates and teachers
to have a great eye for detail. Outside of the
classroom, Leah loves to sing, dance, and
play soccer, as well as travel with her whole
extended family.
Leah’s passions also include helping less
fortunate members of her community, through
programs organized by the Children’s Services
Council of Broward County. Her Bat Mitzvah
project, which was making peanut butter and
jelly lunches and stocking shelves for LifeNet
for Families, further speaks to this passion
and demonstrates that Leah lives by the He-
brew phrase ‘‘Tikkun Olam’’, to repair the
world.
We join in wishing ‘‘Mazel Tov’’ to Leah and
her family. We also wish her every success in
her promising future as she continues her per-
sonal and academic pursuits. It is with great
pleasure that we honor this remarkable young
woman on her special day.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CLEAR LAKE
AME CHURCH FOR ITS CHRIS-
TIAN MINISTRY
HON. BRIAN BABIN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, September 9, 2019
Mr. BABIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the Clear Lake African Methodist
Episcopal Church (AME) for nearly three dec-
ades of Christian ministry in the Clear Lake
area of Houston, Texas and the dedication of
their new church home. The church is grow-
ing, both in membership and spiritual richness
and has embraced its mission statement,
‘‘Kingdom Building, One Soul at a Time.’’
The first meeting to organize an AME
church in the Clear Lake City area began with
prayer and praise on August 18, 1992 in the
home of Reverend Brenda Payne and her
family. Bro. Jerry Payne led the praise service,
Presiding Elder X. L. Williams of the South
Houston District read the scripture, and Rev.
Payne offered prayer. There were nine adults
and five children present at the very first wor-
ship service.
In October 1992 at the Texas Annual Con-
ference held at Shiloh AME Church in Gal-
veston, Texas, Bishop John R. Bryant formally
gave Rev. Brenda Payne an appointment to
begin a mission church in the Clear Lake
area. On November 29, 1992, Clear Lake
AME, held its first 11 AM worship service at
the Piper’s Meadow Community Center in
Webster, Texas. Bible study continued initially
in the home of the pastor until it was moved
to the Piper’s Meadow Community Center in
July 1993. Clear Lake added Sunday Church
School at Piper’s Meadow on January 9,
1994.
On March 3, 1995, Clear Lake AME glorified
God for the first time in a new ‘‘home’’ located
on El Camino Real road. The Nehemiah Min-
istry under the direction of Wilbert Williams,
built an altar and carpeted the pulpit area,
helping to transform the former office space
into a church sanctuary. On April 16, 1996,
Clear Lake AME Church purchased 3.5 acres
near the NASA Johnson Space Center and
the University of Houston—Clear Lake. This
land is believed to be the first church property
purchased by African Americans in the historic
Clear Lake area.
In October 1999, Clear Lake AME Church,
joined with Primm Chapel AME Church, La-
Marque, Reedy Chapel AME Church, Gal-
veston, and St. James AME Church, Dickin-
son to form the ‘‘Mainland 4.’’ The four
churches, though small in numerical size,
hosted the Texas Annual Conference.
At the 134th Session of the Texas Annual
Conference in October 2000, Bishop McKinley
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.033 E10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1126 September 10, 2019
Young appointed Rev. Arthur Ferguson, Pas-
tor of Clear Lake AME Church. Rev. Arthur
Ferguson preached the gospel of peace, love,
and reconciliation, preparing the church to
grow and become a beacon in the Clear Lake
community.
On Saturday, November 18, 2006, at the
Post Conference Planning Meeting of the
Texas Annual Conference, Bishop Gregory G.
M. Ingram, Presiding Prelate, appointed Rev-
erend Kevin L. Hodge, to serve as Pastor of
Clear Lake AME Church. Pastor Hodge and
his new bride, First Lady LaShawn Hodge
came with a vision to take the congregation
‘‘to the next level’’ of spiritual growth, church
construction, and church expansion.
On Sunday, February 17, 2013, Bishop
Vashti Murphy McKenzie moved Pastor and
Sister Hodge to a ministry at Shiloh AME
Church in Galveston, Texas. On Friday, March
8, 2013, Reverend Derrick Cyprian was ap-
pointed Pastor of Clear Lake AME Church.
Rev. Cyprian, his wife Chalita, and their two
sons, Derrick and Jared, came with excite-
ment and a desire to help the community
reach their committed goals: to grow spir-
itually, increase God’s kingdom, and build a
home sanctuary to house Clear Lake AME
Church ministries. By the grace of God, this
was fulfilled and the sanctuary was completed.
Clear Lake AME Church held its inaugural
worship service in its new home on Sunday,
May 12, 2019 and the new sanctuary was
dedicated on Sunday, August 11, 2019.
The Clear Lake African Methodist Episcopal
Church is committed to fulfilling the Great
Commission through worship, fellowship,
youth programs, outreach initiatives, and
Christian education. The Lord has used this
church as an amazing witness and we are
privileged to have such a place of worship in
the 36th Congressional District of Texas.
CONGRATULATIONS TO BREANNE
VEEDER FOR RECEIVING THE
SPORTS MEDICINE SCHOLARSHIP
FROM MEMORIAL HERMANN
KATY HOSPITAL
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Breanne Veeder from Cinco
Ranch High School for receiving a Sports
Medicine scholarship from Memorial Hermann
Katy Hospital.
Breanne received this scholarship through
distinguished service students provide through
KISD athletic programs. For 12 years, Memo-
rial Hermann Katy has awarded these scholar-
ships to KISD students who are worthy of this
recognition, and Breanne rightfully earned this
award. Breanne is planning to continue her
studies at the University of Texas San Anto-
nio. We wish her the best of luck in her future
career.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, congratulations again
to Breanne Veeder on receiving the Sports
Medicine Scholarship from Memorial Hermann
Katy Hospital.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF LAURA
WHALEN SLANE ON HER INDUC-
TION INTO THE LUZERNE COUN-
TY SPORTS HALL OF FAME
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor former athlete and North-
eastern Pennsylvania native, Laura Whalen
Slane. This year, Laura was inducted into the
Luzerne County Sports Hall of Fame at the
35th annual dinner on August 11, 2019 for her
distinct athletic achievements in the sport of
field hockey.
Every year, the Luzerne County Sports Hall
of Fame honors those who have brought fame
and recognition to the state of Pennsylvania
through their outstanding achievements and
contributions in athletic endeavors.
Laura is a graduate of Crestwood High
School’s Class of 1996. There she played sev-
eral sports including basketball, soccer, track
and field, and field hockey. In 1995, Laura
was named field hockey team captain and
helped her team secure the AAA District
Championship. For her impressive efforts, she
was placed on the All-Conference first team
and the All-State second team. In addition to
her many accomplishments in field hockey,
she was also the captain of the basketball
team and set a number of district track
records.
After high school, Laura continued her ex-
cellence in sports at Rutgers University. Dur-
ing her time at Rutgers, she won several field
hockey awards including The Mission State-
ment Award, The Coaches Award, Rutgers
Defensive Player of the Year, and Team MVP.
She also earned other honors during her col-
lege career, including Big East Player of the
Week, Big East Academic All-Star, and Rut-
gers Player of the Year. She played on the
Big East All-Conference team and was named
a Division I Regional All-American. While help-
ing her team accomplish six shut-out games,
she succeeded in breaking the Rutgers school
record for most defensive saves in a single
season.
In addition to her stunning sports record,
Laura pursued an academic career which led
her to become world history teacher in New
Jersey. She has taught at Warren Hills Re-
gional School District for 16 years while
coaching for the past 13 years. To date, her
teams have only lost a total of 5 games under
her leadership. Laura still has time to partici-
pate in other sports as well; she plays in a
soccer league and runs 5ks and half-mara-
thons when time allows. She is supported in
her sports endeavors by her husband Roger
and son Andrew.
It is an honor to recognize Laura on her in-
duction into the Luzerne County Sports Hall of
Fame. May her tremendous athletic career
and service to the community be a source of
inspiration to future athletes in Pennsylvania.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:31 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10SE8.037 E10SEPT1
D985
Tuesday, September 10, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5373–S5412
Measures Introduced: Eleven bills and three reso-
lutions were introduced, as follows: S. 2449–2459,
S.J. Res. 54, and S. Res. 306–307. Page S5407
Measures Reported:
S. 715, to improve the productivity and energy ef-
ficiency of the manufacturing sector by directing the
Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the Na-
tional Academies and other appropriate Federal agen-
cies, to develop a national smart manufacturing plan
and to provide assistance to small-and medium-sized
manufacturers in implementing smart manufacturing
programs. (S. Rept. No. 116–80)
S. 859, to amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005
to reauthorize hydroelectric production incentives
and hydroelectric efficiency improvement incentives,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–81)
S. 983, to amend the Energy Conservation and
Production Act to reauthorize the weatherization as-
sistance program. (S. Rept. No. 116–82)
S. 1085, to support research, development, and
other activities to develop innovative vehicle tech-
nologies. (S. Rept. No. 116–83)
S. 979, to amend the Post-Katrina Emergency
Management Reform Act of 2006 to incorporate the
recommendations made by the Government Ac-
countability Office relating to advance contracts,
with amendments. (S. Rept. No. 116–84)
S. 1151, to prohibit contracting with persons that
have business operations with the Maduro regime,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–85)
S. 1378, to repeal the multi-State plan program,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–86)
S. 1388, to manage supply chain risk through
counterintelligence training. (S. Rept. No. 116–87)
S. 1419, to require agencies to publish an advance
notice of proposed rule making for major rules, with
an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–88)
S. 1539, to amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to provide funding to secure nonprofit facilities
from terrorist attacks. (S. Rept. No. 116–89)
S. 1846, to amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to provide for engagements with State, local,
Tribal, and territorial governments, with an amend-
ment. (S. Rept. No. 116–90)
S. 1867, to amend the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to establish in the Department of Homeland
Security an Unmanned Aircraft Systems Coordinator.
(S. Rept. No. 116–91)
S. 1869, to require the disclosure of ownership of
high-security space leased to accommodate a Federal
agency, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–92)
S. 2065, to require the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity to publish an annual report on the use of
deepfake technology, with an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–93)
S. 2107, to increase the number of CBP Agri-
culture Specialists and support staff in the Office of
Field Operations of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion. (S. Rept. No. 116–94)
S. 2193, to require the Administrator of General
Services to issue guidance to clarify that Federal
agencies may pay by charge card for the charging of
Federal electric motor vehicles, with amendments.
(S. Rept. No. 116–95)
H.R. 150, to modernize Federal grant reporting,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–96)
H.R. 2590, to require a Department of Homeland
Security overseas personnel enhancement plan, with
an amendment in the nature of a substitute. (S.
Rept. No. 116–97)
H.R. 347, to extend the authorization of the Ura-
nium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978
relating to the disposal site in Mesa County, Colo-
rado. (S. Rept. No. 116–98)
S. 731, to amend the Anti-Border Corruption Act
of 2010 to authorize certain polygraph waiver au-
thority, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute. (S. Rept. No. 116–99)
S. 1434, to prohibit the use of reverse auctions for
design and construction services procurements. (S.
Rept. No. 116–100) Pages S5406–07
VerDate Sep 11 2014 21:02 Dec 02, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\SEPTEMBER\D10SE9.REC D10SE9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D986 September 10, 2019
Measures Passed:
Veterans Expedited TSA Screening Safe Travel
Act: Committee on Commerce, Science, and Trans-
portation was discharged from further consideration
of S. 1881, to provide PreCheck to certain severely
injured or disabled veterans, and the bill was then
passed. Page S5411
TSA Credential and Endorsement Harmoni-
zation Act: Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation was discharged from further consider-
ation of S. 2035, to require the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration to develop a strategic plan to ex-
pand eligibility for the PreCheck Program to indi-
viduals with Transportation Worker Identification
Credentials or Hazardous Materials Endorsements,
and the bill was then passed. Page S5411
Messages from the President: Senate received the
following messages from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on the
continuation of the national emergency that was
originally declared in Executive Order 13848 of Sep-
tember 12, 2018, with respect to the threat of for-
eign interference in United States elections; which
was referred to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs. (PM–26) Pages S5391–92
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the issuance of an Executive Order with respect to
Executive Order 12947 of January 23, 1995, Execu-
tive Order 13099 of August 20, 1998, and Execu-
tive Order 13224 of September 23, 2001 with re-
spect to persons who commit, threaten to commit,
or support terrorism that consolidates and enhances
sanctions; which was referred to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. (PM–27)
Page S5392
Akard Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed con-
sideration of the nomination of Stephen Akard, of
Indiana, to be Director of the Office of Foreign Mis-
sions, with the rank of Ambassador, Department of
State. Page S5380
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 91 yeas to 3 nays (Vote No. EX. 267), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S5380
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination,
post-cloture, at approximately 9:30 a.m., on
Wednesday, September 11, 2019. Page S5411
Cabaniss Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Dale Cabaniss, of
Virginia, to be Director of the Office of Personnel
Management. Pages S5380–81
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 268), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Pages S5380–81
Byrne Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed con-
sideration of the nomination of James Byrne, of Vir-
ginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Pages S5381–84
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 81 yeas to 13 nays (Vote No. EX. 269), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S5381
Nominations—Agreement: A unanimous-consent
agreement was reached providing that notwith-
standing Rule XXII, the post-cloture time on the
nominations of Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Di-
rector of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the
rank of Ambassador, Department of State, Dale
Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be Director of the Office of
Personnel Management, and James Byrne, of Vir-
ginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, ex-
pire at 11 a.m., on Wednesday, September 11, 2019;
that notwithstanding Rule XXII, following disposi-
tion of the nomination of James Byrne, Senate re-
sume consideration of the nomination of Michelle
Bowman, of Kansas, to be a Member of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and that
at 2:45 p.m., Senate vote on the motions to invoke
cloture on the nominations of Michelle Bowman,
Thomas Peter Feddo, of Virginia, to be Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury for Investment Security,
and Jennifer D. Nordquist, of Virginia, to be United
States Executive Director of the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development; and that fol-
lowing the vote on the motion to invoke cloture on
the nomination of Jennifer D. Nordquist, Senate
vote on confirmation of the nominations of Stephanie
L. Haines, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Pennsylvania, Ada E. Brown, to
be United States District Judge for the Northern
District of Texas, Steven D. Grimberg, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Georgia, Steven C. Seeger, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Northern District of Illinois,
Mary S. McElroy, to be United States District Judge
for the District of Rhode Island, and Stephanie A.
Gallagher, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Maryland, under the previous order of
Thursday, August 1, 2019. Page S5384
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 56 yeas to 38 nays (Vote No. EX. 264), Kelly
Craft, of Kentucky, to be Representative of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10SE9.REC D10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D987
September 10, 2019
United States of America to the Sessions of the Gen-
eral Assembly of the United Nations during her ten-
ure of service as Representative of the United States
of America to the United Nations. Pages S5374–79
By 57 yeas to 37 nays (Vote No. EX. 266), Eliza-
beth Darling, of Texas, to be Commissioner on Chil-
dren, Youth, and Families, Department of Health
and Human Services. Pages S5379–80
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 57 yeas to 37 nays (Vote No. EX. 265), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S5379
Messages from the House: Page S5392
Measures Referred: Page S5392
Executive Communications: Pages S5392–S5405
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S5405–06
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5407–09
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5409–10
Additional Statements: Pages S5490–91
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5411
Privileges of the Floor: Page S5411
Record Votes: Six record votes were taken today.
(Total—269) Pages S5379–81
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:45 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, September 11, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see
the remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S5411.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Defense approved for full committee consid-
eration an original bill making appropriations for the
Department of Defense for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2020.
HOUSING FINANCE REFORM
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine housing
finance reform, focusing on next steps, after receiv-
ing testimony from Steven T. Mnuchin, Secretary of
the Treasury; Benjamin S. Carson, Sr., Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development; and Mark A.
Calabria, Director, Federal Housing Finance Agency.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee met in
closed session to receive a briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters from officials of the intelligence
community.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 18
public bills, H.R. 4261–4278; and 3 resolutions,
H. Res. 549–551 were introduced. Pages H7596–97
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H7597–98
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Dingell to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H7561
Recess: The House recessed at 10:28 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H7564
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Pastor Kevin Yriarte, Journey of
Faith Church, Covina, CA. Page H7564
Protecting and Securing Florida’s Coastline Act
of 2019, Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Pro-
tection Act, and Coastal and Marine Economies
Protection Act—Rule for Consideration: The
House agreed to H. Res. 548, providing for consid-
eration of the bill (H.R. 205) to amend the Gulf of
Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 to permanently
extend the moratorium on leasing in certain areas of
the Gulf of Mexico; providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 1146) to amend Public Law 115–97
(commonly known as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) to
repeal the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge oil and
gas program; and providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 1941) to amend the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act to prohibit the Secretary of the Inte-
rior including in any leasing program certain plan-
ning areas, by a yea-and-nay vote of 231 yeas to 196
nays, Roll No. 518, after the previous question was
ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 232 yeas to 196
nays, Roll No. 517. Pages H7566–71, H7584–85
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10SE9.REC D10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D988 September 10, 2019
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Homebuyer Assistance Act of 2019: H.R. 2852,
amended, to amend the National Housing Act to au-
thorize State-licensed appraisers to conduct appraisals
in connection with mortgages insured by the FHA
and to require compliance with the existing ap-
praiser education requirement, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay
vote of 419 yeas to 5 nays, Roll No. 519;
Pages H7572–73, H7585–86
Strategy and Investment in Rural Housing
Preservation Act of 2019: H.R. 3620, amended, to
provide rental assistance to low-income tenants in
certain multifamily rural housing projects financed
by the Rural Housing Service of the Department of
Agriculture, and to develop and implement a plan
for preserving the affordability of rural rental hous-
ing; Pages H7573–76
Ensuring Diverse Leadership Act of 2019: H.R.
281, amended, to amend the Federal Reserve Act to
require Federal Reserve banks to interview at least
one individual reflective of gender diversity and one
individual reflective of racial or ethnic diversity
when appointing Federal Reserve bank presidents;
Pages H7576–79
Bank Service Company Examination Coordina-
tion Act of 2019: H.R. 241, amended, to amend the
Bank Service Company Act to provide improvements
with respect to State banking agencies; and
Pages H7579–81
Safe Housing for Families Act of 2019: H.R.
1690, amended, to require carbon monoxide detec-
tors in certain federally assisted housing.
Pages H7581–83
Recess: The House recessed at 2:23 p.m. and recon-
vened at 2:45 p.m.
Presidential Messages: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive Order 13848
of September 12, 2018 with respect to the threat of
foreign interference in United States elections, is to
continue in effect beyond September 12, 2019—re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the
Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on
House Administration, and the Permanent Select
Committee on Intelligence and ordered to be printed
(H. Doc. 116–60). Page H7583
Read a message from the President wherein he no-
tified Congress that he issued an Executive Order
modernizing sanctions to combat terrorism—referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and ordered to
be printed (H. Doc. 116–61). Page H7592
Senate Referrals: S. 349 was held at the desk. S.
1689 was held at the desk. Page H7566
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H7566.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H7584, H7584–85, and H7585–86. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 5:07 p.m.
Committee Meetings
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, COMMUNITY
RELATIONS SERVICE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held
an oversight hearing on the Department of Justice’s
Community Relations Service. Testimony was heard
from Gerri Ratliff, Deputy Director, Community
Relations Service, Department of Justice.
SECURING THE NATION’S INTERNET AND
ARCHITECTURE
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Emerging Threats and Capabilities; and
the Subcommittee on National Security of the House
Committee on Oversight and Reform held a joint
hearing entitled ‘‘Securing the Nation’s Internet and
Architecture’’. Testimony was heard from Jeanette
Manfra, Assistant Director for Cybersecurity, Cyber-
security and Infrastructure Security Agency, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security; Diane Rinaldo, Acting
Assistant Secretary and Administrator, National
Telecommunications and Information Administra-
tion, Department of Commerce; and B. Edwin Wil-
son, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Cyber
Policy, Office of the Undersecretary of Defense for
Policy, Department of Defense.
IMPROVING MATERNAL HEALTH:
LEGISLATION TO ADVANCE PREVENTION
EFFORTS AND ACCESS TO CARE
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Health held a hearing entitled ‘‘Improving Maternal
Health: Legislation to Advance Prevention Efforts
and Access to Care’’. Testimony was heard from pub-
lic witnesses.
A $1.5 TRILLION CRISIS: PROTECTING
STUDENT BORROWERS AND HOLDING
STUDENT LOAN SERVICERS
ACCOUNTABLE
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘A $1.5 Trillion Crisis: Protecting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10SE9.REC D10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D989
September 10, 2019
Student Borrowers and Holding Student Loan
Servicers Accountable’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
PRESERVING THE AMAZON: A SHARED
MORAL IMPERATIVE
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Preserving the Amazon: A
Shared Moral Imperative’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
GLOBAL TERRORISM: THREATS TO THE
HOMELAND, PART I
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘Global Terrorism: Threats to the
Homeland, Part I’’. Testimony was heard from pub-
lic witnesses.
OVERSIGHT OF THE RENOVATIONS OF
THE CANNON HOUSE OFFICE BUILDING
Committee on House Administration: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of the Renova-
tions of the Cannon House Office Building’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Thomas J. Carroll III, Acting
Architect of the Capitol; Terrell Dorn, Managing
Director, Infrastructure Operations, Government Ac-
countability Office; Christopher P. Failla, Inspector
General, Architect of the Capitol; and a public wit-
ness.
EVIDENCE OF CURRENT AND ONGOING
VOTING DISCRIMINATION
Committee on the Judiciary: Subcommittee on the Con-
stitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Evidence of Current and Ongoing
Voting Discrimination’’. Testimony was heard from
public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 1423, the ‘‘FAIR Act’’; H.R. 1236,
the ‘‘Extreme Risk Protection Order Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 1186, the ‘‘Keep Americans Safe Act’’; H.R.
2708, the ‘‘Disarm Hate Act’’; H.R. 4018, to pro-
vide that the amount of time that an elderly offender
must serve before being eligible for placement in
home detention is to be reduced by the amount of
good time credits earned by the prisoner, and for
other purposes; and H.R. 2426, the ‘‘CASE Act of
2019’’. H.R. 1423, H.R. 1236, H.R. 1186, H.R.
2708, H.R. 4018, and H.R. 2426 were ordered re-
ported, as amended.
BLM DISORGANIZATION: EXAMINING THE
PROPOSED REORGANIZATION AND
RELOCATION OF THE BUREAU OF LAND
MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS TO
GRAND JUNCTION, COLORADO
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘BLM Disorganization: Examining the
Proposed Reorganization and Relocation of the Bu-
reau of Land Management Headquarters to Grand
Junction, Colorado’’. Testimony was heard from
William Perry Pendley, Deputy Director, Policy and
Programs, Bureau of Land Management, Department
of the Interior; and public witnesses.
THE DEVIL THEY KNEW: PFAS
CONTAMINATION AND THE NEED FOR
CORPORATE ACCOUNTABILITY, PART III
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Environment held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Devil
They Knew: PFAS Contamination and the Need for
Corporate Accountability, Part III’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
RAISING THE BAR: PROGRESS AND
FUTURE NEEDS IN FORENSIC SCIENCE
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Full Com-
mittee held a hearing entitled ‘‘Raising the Bar:
Progress and Future Needs in Forensic Science’’. Tes-
timony was heard from Susan Ballou, Program Man-
ager, Office of Special Programs, National Institute
of Standards and Technology; Lynn Garcia, General
Counsel, Texas Forensic Science Commission; Mat-
thew Gamette, Crime Lab Director, Idaho State Po-
lice Forensic Services; and public witnesses.
GROWING THE CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMY
Committee on Small Business: Subcommittee on Rural
Development, Agriculture, Trade, and Entrepreneur-
ship held a hearing entitled ‘‘Growing the Clean En-
ergy Economy’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
MEMBER DAY HEARING
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day Hearing’’. Testimony
was heard from Representatives Womack, Stivers,
Carbajal, Peters, Hartzler, Plaskett, Phillips, Mast,
Carter of Georgia, Rouzer, Mucarsel-Powell,
Malinowski, Soto, Stefanik, Wenstrup, McCarthy,
Walberg, Higgins of Louisiana, Zeldin, Johnson of
Ohio, Ruiz, Smucker, Castro of Texas, Carter of
Texas, Hill of Arkansas, Baird, Kuster of New
Hampshire, Spano, Wittman, and Costa.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10SE9.REC D10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D990 September 10, 2019
SOLVING THE CLIMATE CRISIS:
MANUFACTURING JOBS FOR AMERICA’S
WORKERS
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis:
Manufacturing Jobs for America’s Workers’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
FAMILY AFFORDABILITY
Joint Economic Committee: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine making it more affordable to
raise a family, after receiving testimony from Lyman
Stone, American Enterprise Institute, Wilmore, Ken-
tucky; Ryan Bourne, Cato Institute, Washington,
D.C.; Jane Waldfogel, Columbia University School
of Social Work, New York, New York; and Kristin
Rowe-Finkbeiner, MomsRising, Kirkland, Wash-
ington.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 11, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, to hold hear-
ings to examine fragility in the Sahel, 2:15 p.m.,
SD–124.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine protecting the nation’s transpor-
tation systems, focusing on oversight of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Subcommittee
on Energy, to hold hearings to examine S. 607, to amend
the Department of Energy Organization Act to address
insufficient compensation of employees and other per-
sonnel of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, S.
1739, to enable projects that will aid in the development
and delivery of related instruction associated with appren-
ticeship and preapprenticeship programs that are focused
on serving the skilled technical workforce at the National
Laboratories and certain facilities of the National Nuclear
Security Administration, S. 1821, to amend the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007 to provide for re-
search on, and the development and deployment of, ma-
rine energy, S. 2094, to amend the Energy Policy and
Conservation Act to provide Federal financial assistance to
States to implement State energy security plans, S. 2095,
to provide for certain programs and developments in the
Department of Energy concerning the cybersecurity and
vulnerabilities of, and physical threat to, the electric grid,
S. 2137, to promote energy savings in residential build-
ings and industry, S. 2300, to amend the Energy Inde-
pendence and Security Act of 2007 to establish a program
to incentivize innovation and to enhance the industrial
competitiveness of the United States by developing tech-
nologies to reduce emissions of nonpower industrial sec-
tors, S. 2368, to amend the Atomic Energy Act of 1954
and the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to support licensing
and relicensing of certain nuclear facilities and nuclear en-
ergy research, demonstration, and development, and S.
2393, to promote a 21st century energy workforce, 2:30
p.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine the nominations of Aurelia Skipwith, of
Indiana, to be Director of the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, and Kath-
erine Andrea Lemos, of California, to be Chairperson of
the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board, 10
a.m., SD–406.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Steven J. Menashi, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, Karen S. Marston,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Pennsylvania, Richard E. Myers II, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of North
Carolina, and Anuraag Singhal, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of Florida, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, to hold hear-
ings to examine innovation in America, focusing on how
Congress can make our patent system stronger, 2:30
p.m., SD–226.
House
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education,
hearing entitled ‘‘The Importance of Trauma-Informed
Practices in Education to Assist Students Impacted by
Gun Violence and Other Adversities’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175
Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
vironment and Climate Change, hearing on ‘‘Protecting
and Securing Chemical Facilities from Terrorist Attacks’’,
10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Communications and Technology,
hearing entitled ‘‘Legislating to Connect America: Im-
proving the Nation’s Broadband Maps’’, 10:30 a.m., 2322
Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Subcommittee on Inves-
tor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital Markets,
hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Private Market Exemptions
as a Barrier to IPOs and Retail Investment’’, 10 a.m.,
2128 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on National Security, International De-
velopment, and Monetary Policy, hearing entitled ‘‘Exam-
ining the Macroeconomic Impacts of a Changing Cli-
mate’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee for Indig-
enous Peoples of the United States, hearing entitled ‘‘Re-
viewing the Trump Administration’s Approach to the
MMIW Crisis’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, hearing entitled ‘‘The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10SE9.REC D10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D991
September 10, 2019
Administration’s Apparent Revocation of Medical De-
ferred Action for Critically Ill Children’’, 12 p.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Energy, markup on H.R. 4091, the ‘‘ARPA–E Reau-
thorization Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 4230, the ‘‘Clean In-
dustrial Technology Act’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Utilization Management: Barriers to Care and
Burdens on Small Medical Practice’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360
Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Highways and Transit, hearing entitled
‘‘Pricing and Technology Strategies to Address Conges-
tion on and Financing of America’s Roads’’, 10 a.m.,
2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Health,
hearing on H.R. 3636, the ‘‘Caring For Our Women
Veterans Act’’; H.R. 2972, to direct the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to improve the communications of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs relating to services available
for women veterans, and for other purposes; H.R. 3036,
the ‘‘Breaking Barriers for Women Veterans Act’’; H.R.
2798, the ‘‘Building Supportive Networks for Women
Veterans Act’’; H.R. 2645, the ‘‘Newborn Care Improve-
ment Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2681, to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress a report on the
availability of prosthetic items for women veterans from
the Department of Veterans Affairs; H.R. 3224, to amend
title 38, United States Code, to provide for increased ac-
cess to Department of Veterans Affairs medical care for
women veterans; H.R. 2982, the ‘‘Women Veterans
Health Care Accountability Act’’; H.R. 2752, the ‘‘VA
Newborn Emergency Treatment Act’’; H.R. 2628, the
‘‘VET CARE Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2816, the ‘‘Vietnam-
Era Veterans Hepatitis C Testing Enhancement Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1527, the ‘‘Long-Term Care Veterans Choice
Act’’; H.R. 1163, the ‘‘VA Hiring Enhancement Act’’;
H.R. 3798, the ‘‘Equal Access to Contraception for Vet-
erans Act’’; H.R. 3867, the ‘‘Violence Against Women
Veterans Act’’; H.R. 4096, the ‘‘Improving Oversight of
Women Veterans’ Care Act of 2019’’; and legislation to
establish in the Department of Veterans Affairs the Office
of Women’s Health, and for other purposes, 10 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: to hold
hearings to examine the state of diversity and inclusion
in Europe, focusing on race, rights, and politics, 10 a.m.,
210, Cannon Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10SE9.REC D10SEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D992 September 10, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Wednesday, September 11
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to
be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, with the
rank of Ambassador, Department of State, and vote on
confirmation of the nominations of Stephen Akard, of In-
diana, Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be Director of the
Office of Personnel Management, and James Byrne, of
Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, at
11 a.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of James
Byrne, Senate will resume consideration of the nomina-
tion of Michelle Bowman, of Kansas, to be a Member of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System,
and vote on the motions to invoke cloture on the nomi-
nations of Michelle Bowman, Thomas Peter Feddo, of
Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for In-
vestment Security, and Jennifer D. Nordquist, of Vir-
ginia, to be United States Executive Director of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and
on confirmation of the nominations of Stephanie L.
Haines, to be United States District Judge for the West-
ern District of Pennsylvania, Ada E. Brown, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas,
Steven D. Grimberg, to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Georgia, Steven C. Seeger,
to be United States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Illinois, Mary S. McElroy, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Rhode Island, and
Stephanie A. Gallagher, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Maryland, at 2:45 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, September 11
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R.
1941—Coastal and Marine Economies Protection Act.
Consideration of H.R. 205—Protecting and Securing
Florida’s Coastline Act of 2019. Consideration of H.R.
1146—Arctic Cultural and Coastal Plain Protection Act.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Babin, Brian, Tex., E1125
Balderson, Troy, Ohio, E1118
Banks, Jim, Ind., E1118
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E1115
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E1115, E1118, E1118, E1119,
E1120, E1121, E1123, E1123, E1124, E1126
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E1115
Collins, Doug, Ga., E1121
Comer, James, Ky., E1119
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E1125
Garamendi, John, Calif., E1125
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E1124
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E1117
Hurd, Will, Tex., E1123
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1121
Joyce, John, Pa., E1122, E1124
Kelly, Trent, Miss., E1117
Kind, Ron, Wisc., E1116
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E1119
Lipinski, Daniel, Ill., E1125
Nadler, Jerrold, N.Y., E1117
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1120
Olson, Pete, Tex., E1117, E1119, E1120, E1123, E1124,
E1126
Perry, Scott, Pa., E1116, E1117, E1122
Rutherford, John H., Fla., E1123
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E1120
Taylor, Van, Tex., E1117
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1116
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E1115, E1116
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Sep 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D10SE9.REC D10SEPT1
