Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1
Vol. 166 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 3, 2020 No. 1
House of Representatives
This being the day fixed pursuant to
the 20th Amendment to the Constitu-
tion for the meeting of the Second Ses-
sion of the 116th Congress, the House
met at noon and was called to order by
the Speaker pro tempore (Mr. RASKIN).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 3, 2020.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JAMIE
RASKIN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving God, we give You thanks for
giving us another year.
We give You thanks also for the First
Session of the 116th Congress and Your
sustaining us with Your presence, wis-
dom, patience, and love. We ask that
the efforts of the First Session might
prove fruitful in the benefits
redounding to our Nation and its peo-
ple.
We ask Your blessing now on each
Member of Congress, that they might
be their best selves in representing not
only their constituents, but also, the
entire American citizenry. They have
taken oaths to do so; give them the
strength and the wisdom to fulfill
those oaths.
We thank You, as well, for this mar-
velous forum, where the important
business of this Nation has been done
in the past and will be done in the up-
coming Second Session. May the work
to be done be inspired by the wisdom of
prophets and the love of saintly people.
May all that we do be done for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 8(a) of House Resolution
758, no organizational or legislative
business will be conducted on this day.
Messages requiring action will be
laid before the House on a subsequent
day.
Bills and resolutions introduced
today will receive a number but will
not be referred to committee or noted
in the RECORD until a subsequent day.
Executive communications, memorials,
and petitions likewise will be referred
and numbered on a subsequent day.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to section 8(c) of House Resolution
758, the House stands adjourned until 2
p.m. on Tuesday, January 7, 2020.
Thereupon (at 12 o’clock and 2 min-
utes p.m.), the House adjourned until
Tuesday, January 7, 2020, at 2 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:00 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA7.000 H03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, SECOND SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S1
Vol. 166 WASHINGTON, FRIDAY, JANUARY 3, 2020 No. 1
Senate
The Senate met at 12 noon and was
called to order by the Honorable PAT
ROBERTS, a Senator from the State of
Kansas.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Father of all, in a world where each
new day seems to bring the chaotic and
unexpected, we praise You that You
are the same yesterday, today, and for-
ever. Lord, You are our help in ages
past. You are our hope for years to
come. Give us this day wisdom to know
Your words and obey Your precepts.
May we show our gratitude with obedi-
ence because You have demonstrated
Your might, wisdom, and love through-
out the days of our earthly pilgrimage.
As our lawmakers follow Your lead,
may they trust You to carve tunnels of
hope through mountains of despair.
Give our Senators the courage to em-
brace integrity with a clear conscience.
May they not retreat from life’s battles
but faithfully keep their hands in
Yours.
We pray in Your loving Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the following letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, January 3, 2020.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable PAT ROBERTS, a Sen-
ator from the State of Kansas, to perform
the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mr. ROBERTS thereupon assumed
the Chair as Acting President pro tem-
pore.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The distinguished Senate major-
ity leader is recognized.
f
IRAQ
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, this
morning, Iran’s master terrorist is
dead. The architect and chief engineer
of the world’s most active state spon-
sor of terrorism has been removed from
the battlefield at the hand of the U.S.
military. No man alive was more di-
rectly responsible for the deaths of
more American servicemembers than
Qasem Soleimani, the leader of the
Quds Force within Iran’s Islamic Revo-
lutionary Guard Corps.
Soleimani’s schemes and his agents
killed hundreds of American service-
members in Iraq and Afghanistan. He
personally oversaw the state-sponsored
terrorism that Iran used to kill our
sons and daughters. As we have seen in
recent days and weeks, he and his ter-
rorists posed an ongoing and growing
threat to American lives and American
interests.
Soleimani made it his life’s work to
take the Iranian revolutionary calls for
‘‘Death to America’’ and ‘‘Death to
Israel’’ and turn them into action, but
this terrorist mastermind was not just
a threat to the United States and
Israel. For more than a decade he mas-
terminded Iran’s malevolent and desta-
bilizing work throughout the entire
Middle East. He created, sustained, and
directed terrorist proxies everywhere
from Yemen to Iraq, to Syria, to Leb-
anon. Innocents were killed. These sov-
ereign countries were destabilized.
In Syria this leading terrorist and his
agents acted as strategists, enablers,
and accomplices to Bashar al-Assad’s
brutal repression and the slaughter of
the Syrian people.
In Iraq, his violence expanded Iran’s
influence at the expense of the Iraqis
themselves. His dark, sectarian vision
disenfranchised countless Sunni Arabs
and paved the way for the rise of ISIS.
With ISIS largely defeated,
Soleimani and his agents again turned
their sights on controlling the Iraqi
people, who through massive protests
are rejecting not only a corrupt gov-
ernment but also Iran’s influence over
that government. Once again, there
were Iran and its proxies facilitating
violence against these peaceful pro-
testers.
For too long this evil man operated
without constraint, and countless inno-
cents have suffered for it. Now his ter-
rorist leadership has been ended.
Predictably enough, in this political
environment, the operation that led to
Soleimani’s death may prove con-
troversial or divisive. Although I an-
ticipate and welcome a debate about
America’s interests and foreign policy
in the Middle East, I recommend that
all Senators wait to review the facts
and hear from the administration be-
fore passing much public judgment on
this operation and its potential con-
sequences.
The administration will be briefing
staff today on the situation in Iraq. We
are working to arrange a classified
briefing for all Senators early next
week.
For my part, I have spoken to the
Secretary of Defense, and I am encour-
aged by the steps the U.S. military is
taking to defend American personnel
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.000 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2 January 3, 2020
and interests from a growing Iranian
threat. I know I speak for the entire
Senate when I say that my prayers are
with all American diplomats, per-
sonnel, and brave servicemembers serv-
ing in Iraq and in the Middle East. I am
grateful for their courageous service to
protect our country.
Right from the outset of this new
year, it is already clear that 2020 will
require the Senate and our whole Na-
tion to redouble our resolve to keep
America safe in this troubled world.
f
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
an entirely different matter, of course,
we also anticipate that another totally
different, very serious item will be
heading the Senate’s way soon. The
Senate will have to address some of the
deepest institutional questions con-
templated by our Constitution. We will
have to decide whether we are going to
safeguard core governing traditions or
let short-term partisan rage overcome
them.
Back in December, I explained how
House Democrats’ sprint into the most
rushed, least fair and least thorough
impeachment inquiry in American his-
tory has jeopardized the foundations of
our system of government.
Last spring, Speaker PELOSI told the
country: ‘‘Impeachment is so divisive
to the country that unless there’s
something so compelling and over-
whelming and bipartisan, I don’t think
we should go down that path.’’ That
was the Speaker less than a year ago.
Back in 1998, when Democrats were
busy defending President Clinton, Con-
gressman JERRY NADLER said:
There must never be a narrowly-voted im-
peachment, or an impeachment substan-
tially supported by one of our major political
parties and largely opposed by the other.
Such an impeachment would lack legit-
imacy.
Congressman JERRY NADLER said this
20 years ago. That was, obviously, the
standard when a Democrat was in the
White House, but, ultimately, House
Democrats cared more about attacking
President Trump than keeping their
promises. So they rushed through a
slapdash investigation. They decided
not to bother with the standard legal
processes for pursuing witnesses and
evidence. There was not enough time
to do that.
Chairman ADAM SCHIFF told the en-
tire country on national television
that getting court decisions takes a
long time and he did not want to wait.
It takes a long time to go to court. So
they just plowed ahead—plowed right
ahead with a historically weak case—
and impeached a duly elected President
with votes from just one—just one—po-
litical party.
Democrats have let Trump derange-
ment syndrome develop into the kind
of dangerous partisan fever that our
Founding Fathers were afraid of.
Just before the holidays, this sad
spectacle took another unusual turn.
As soon as the partisan impeachment
votes had finished, the prosecutors
began to develop cold feet. Instead of
sending the articles to the Senate, they
flinched. They flinched.
That is right. The same people who
had just spent weeks screaming that
impeachment was so serious and so ur-
gent that it couldn’t wait for due proc-
ess now decided that it could wait in-
definitely while they checked the polit-
ical winds and looked for new talking
points.
This is yet another situation where
House Democrats have blown right
past the specific warnings of our
Founding Fathers.
Alexander Hamilton specifically
warned about the dangers of a ‘‘pro-
crastinated determination of the
charges’’ in an impeachment. He ex-
plained it would not be fair to the ac-
cused and it would be dangerous for the
country. Speaker PELOSI apparently
does not care. Her conference is behav-
ing exactly like the ‘‘intemperate or
designing majority in the House of
Representatives’’ that Hamilton
warned might abuse the impeachment
power.
So as House Democrats continue
their political delay, they are search-
ing desperately for some new talking
points to help them deflect blame for
what they have done. We have heard it
claimed that the same House Demo-
crats who botched their own process
should get to reach over into the Sen-
ate and dictate our process.
We have heard claims that it is a
problem that I have discussed trial me-
chanics with the White House, even as
my counterpart, the Democratic leader
is openly coordinating political strat-
egy with the Speaker, who some might
call the prosecution.
So it is OK to have consultation with
the prosecution, but not, apparently,
with the defendant.
We have heard claims that any Sen-
ators who formed opinions about House
Democrats’ irresponsible and unprece-
dented actions as they played out in
the view of the entire Nation should be
disqualified from the next phase. Obvi-
ously, this is nonsense—nonsense.
Let me clarify Senate rules and Sen-
ate history for those who may be con-
fused.
First, about this fantasy that the
Speaker of the House will get to hand-
design the trial proceedings in the Sen-
ate, that is, obviously, a nonstarter.
What I have consistently said is very
simple. The structure for this impeach-
ment trial should track with the struc-
ture of the Clinton trial. We have a
precedent here. That means two
phases.
First, back in 1999, the Senate passed
a unanimous bipartisan resolution, 100
to nothing, that set up the initial lo-
gistics, such as briefs, opening argu-
ments, and Senators’ questions.
It stayed silent on midtrial ques-
tions, such as witnesses, until the trial
was actually underway. That was ap-
proved 100 to 0.
Somewhat predictably, things start-
ed to diverge along party lines when we
considered those later procedural ques-
tions, but the initial resolution laying
out the first half of the trial was ap-
proved 100 to 0.
I believe we should simply repeat
that unanimous bipartisan precedent
at this time as well. That is my posi-
tion. President Trump should get the
same treatment that every single Sen-
ator thought was fair for President
Clinton. Just like 20 years ago, we
should address midtrial questions, such
as witnesses, after briefs, opening argu-
ments, Senator questions, and other
relevant motions. Fair is fair.
Let’s discuss these lectures about
how Senators should do our jobs. The
oath that Senators take in impeach-
ment trials to ‘‘do impartial justice ac-
cording to the Constitution and laws’’
has never meant that Senators should
wall themselves off from the biggest
news stories of the Nation and com-
pletely ignore what the House has been
doing. The oath has never meant that
Senators check all of their political
judgment at the door and strip away
all of our independent judgment about
what is best for the Nation. It has
never meant that, and it never could.
The Framers debated whether to give
the power to try impeachments to a
court or to the Senate and decided on
the Senate precisely because impeach-
ment is not a narrow legal question—
impeachment is not a narrow legal
question—but a deeply political one as
well. Hamilton said this explicitly in
Federalist 65.
Impeachment requires the Senate to
address both legal questions about
what has been proved and political
questions about what the common good
of our Nation requires.
Senators do not cease to be Senators
just because the House sends us Arti-
cles of Impeachment. Our job remains
the same—to represent our States, our
constituents, and our Nation’s best in-
terests in the great matters of our
time. That is our obligation whether
we are voting on legislation, nomina-
tions, or the verdict in an impeach-
ment.
Twenty years ago, I would add,
Democrats understood all of this very
well. President Clinton had obviously
committed an actual felony. President
Clinton had actually committed a fel-
ony. If Democrats actually believed in
the narrow sense of impartiality they
have now adopted as a talking point,
then every single one of them would
have voted to remove President Clin-
ton from office. Oh, no. Instead, a ma-
jority of the Senate decided that re-
moving President Clinton, despite his
proven and actual crimes, would not
best serve the Nation. They made a po-
litical judgment. By the way, back
then, leading Democrats had zero—
zero—objections to Senators speaking
out before the trial.
The current Democratic leader, Sen-
ator SCHUMER, was running for the
Senate during the House impeachment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.001 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S3
January 3, 2020
process back in 1998. He voted against
the articles both in the House Judici-
ary Committee and on the House floor.
Listen to this, a major part of his Sen-
ate campaign that year was literally
promising New Yorkers in advance—in
advance—that he would vote to acquit
President Clinton.
People asked if it was appropriate for
him to prejudge like that. He dismissed
the question, saying: ‘‘This is not a
criminal trial but . . . something the
founding fathers decided to put in a
body that was susceptible to the whims
of politics.’’ That was the Democratic
leader in the 1998 Senate campaign
that. That was the newly sworn-in Sen-
ator SCHUMER in 1999.
A few weeks later, during the trial
itself, Democratic Senator Tom Harkin
successfully objected to the use of the
word ‘‘jurors’’ to describe Senators be-
cause the analogy to a narrow legal
proceeding was so inappropriate, ac-
cording to Senator Harkin.
I respect our friends across the aisle,
but it appears that one symptom of
Trump derangement syndrome is also a
bad case of amnesia—a bad case of am-
nesia.
No Member of this body needs conde-
scending lectures on fairness from
House Democrats who just rushed
through the most unfair impeachment
in modern history or lectures on im-
partiality from Senators who happily
prejudged the case with President Clin-
ton and simply changed their standards
to suit the political winds.
Anyone who knows American history
or understands the Constitution knows
that a Senator’s role in an impeach-
ment trial is nothing—nothing like the
job of jurors in the legal system. The
very things that make the Senate the
right forum to settle impeachments
would disqualify all of us in an ordi-
nary trial. All of us would be disquali-
fied in an ordinary trial.
Like many Americans, Senators have
paid great attention to the facts and
the arguments that House Democrats
have rolled out publicly before the Na-
tion. Many of us personally know the
parties on both sides.
This is a political body. We do not
stand apart from the issues of the day.
It is our job to be deeply engaged in
those issues, but—and this is critical—
the Senate is unique by design.
The Framers built the Senate to pro-
vide a check against short-termism,
the runaway passions, and ‘‘the demon
faction’’ that Hamilton warned would
‘‘extend his sceptre’’ over the House of
Representatives ‘‘at certain seasons.’’
We exist because the Founders want-
ed an institution that could stop mo-
mentary hysterias and partisan pas-
sions from damaging our Republic, an
institution that could be thoughtful, be
sober, and take the long view.
That is why the Constitution puts
the impeachment trial in this place,
not because Senators should pretend
they are uninformed, unopinionated, or
disinterested in the long-term political
questions that an impeachment of the
President poses but precisely because
we are informed; we are opinionated
opinion; and we can take up these
weighty questions. That is the meaning
of the oath we take. That is the task
that lies before us.
‘‘Impartial justice’’ means making up
our minds on the right basis. It means
putting aside purely reflective par-
tisanship and putting aside personal re-
lationships and animosities. It means
cooly considering the facts that the
House has presented and then ren-
dering the verdict we believe is best for
our States, our Constitution, and our
way of life. It means seeing clearly not
what some might wish the House of
Representatives had proven but what
they actually have or have not proven.
It means looking past a single news
cycle to see how overturning an elec-
tion would reverberate for generations.
You better believe Senators have
started forming opinions about these
critical questions over the last weeks
or months. We sure have, especially in
light of the precedent-breaking theat-
rics that House Democrats chose to en-
gage in.
Here is where we are. Their turn is
over. They have done enough damage.
It is the Senate’s turn now to render
sober judgment as the Framers envi-
sioned, but we can’t hold a trial with-
out the articles. The Senate’s own
rules don’t provide for that. So, for
now, we are content to continue the or-
dinary business of the Senate while
House Democrats continue to floun-
der—for now.
If they ever muster the courage to
stand behind their slapdash work prod-
uct and transmit their articles to the
Senate, it will then be time for the
U.S. Senate to fulfill our founding pur-
pose.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Under the previous order, the
Senate will be in a period of morning
business, with Senators permitted to
speak therein for up to 10 minutes
each.
The majority leader.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 555.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The question is on the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The clerk will read the nomination.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Jovita
Carranza, of Illinois, to be Adminis-
trator of the Small Business Adminis-
tration.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. I send a cloture
motion to the desk.
The ACTING PRESIDING pro tem-
pore. The cloture motion having been
presented under rule XXII, the Chair
directs the clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to be
Administrator of the Small Business Admin-
istration.
Mitch McConnell, John Boozman, Joni
Ernst, Kevin Cramer, David Perdue,
Steve Daines, Thom Tillis, Roger F.
Wicker, James E. Risch, Cindy Hyde-
Smith, Lisa Murkowski, Pat Roberts,
Richard C. Shelby, Deb Fischer, James
Lankford, Chuck Grassley, Mike
Rounds.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 3148
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
due for a second reading.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will read the title of
the bill for the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S. 3148) to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to list fentanyl-related sub-
stances as schedule I controlled substances.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceeding.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. An objection being heard, the bill
will be placed on the calendar on the
next legislative day.
f
LETTER OF RESIGNATION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand the Chair received a letter
of resignation of the former Senator
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.003 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4 January 3, 2020
Johnny Isakson of Georgia, which was
effective at 5 p.m. on Tuesday, Decem-
ber 31, 2019.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The distinguished leader is cor-
rect.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the letter be spread upon
the Journal and printed in the RECORD.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
The letter follows:
UNITED STATES SENATE,
Washington, DC, December 19, 2019.
Hon. BRIAN KEMP, Governor,
State of Georgia,
Atlanta, Georgia.
DEAR GOVERNOR KEMP: It has been the
honor and privilege of a lifetime to serve the
state of Georgia in the U.S. Senate since
2005. As you know, I have been battling
health challenges for several years, and after
much prayer and consultation with my fam-
ily and doctors, I have decided I will leave
the Senate before the end of my term.
I therefore am notifying you that I am re-
signing my U.S. Senate seat effective at 5
p.m. on December 31, 2019. While it pains me
greatly to leave in the middle of my term, I
know it is the right thing to do for the citi-
zens of Georgia.
I pledge to you that my staff and I will do
everything we can to help whomever you ap-
point to serve in this seat.
Thank you for your service to our great
state.
Sincerely,
JOHNNY ISAKSON.
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, JANUARY
6, 2020
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 3 p.m., Monday, January
6; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Carranza nomination; fi-
nally, that the cloture motion filed
during today’s session ripen at 5:30
p.m., Monday.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I just
heard Leader MCCONNELL speak for 30
minutes on the subject of the Presi-
dent’s impeachment. There was a lot of
finger-pointing, name-calling, and
misreading of history but not a single
argument or discussion about the issue
that is holding up the Senate trial:
whether there will be witnesses and
documents—not one mention. He has
no good argument against having wit-
nesses and documents, so he resorts to
these subterfuges.
I will have more to say on impeach-
ment momentarily, but I first want to
address the issue of Iran.
f
IRAN
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, last
night, the United States conducted a
military operation designed to kill
Major General Qasem Soleimani, a no-
torious terrorist. No one should shed a
tear over his death. The operation
against Soleimani in Iraq was con-
ducted, however, without specific au-
thorization and any advance notifica-
tion or consultation with Congress.
I am a member of the Gang of 8,
which is typically briefed in advance of
operations of this level of significance.
We were not. The need for advance con-
sultation and transparency with Con-
gress was put in the Constitution for a
reason—because the lack of advance
consultation and transparency with
Congress can lead to hasty and ill-con-
sidered decisions. When the security of
the Nation is at stake, decisions must
not be made in a vacuum. The Framers
of the Constitution gave war powers to
the legislature and made the executive
the Commander in Chief for the precise
reason of forcing the two branches of
government to consult with one an-
other when it came to matters of war
and peace.
It is paramount for an administra-
tion to get an outside view to prevent
groupthink and rash action and to be
asked probing questions, not from your
inner and often insulated circle but
from others—particularly Congress—
which forces an administration, before
it acts, to answer very serious ques-
tions. The administration did not con-
sult in this case, and I fear that those
very serious questions have not been
answered and may not be fully consid-
ered.
Among those questions: What was
the legal basis for conducting this op-
eration? How far does that legal basis
extend? Iran has many dangerous sur-
rogates in the region and a whole range
of possible responses. Which responses
do we expect? Which are most likely?
Do we have plans to counter all of the
possible responses? How effective will
our counters be? What does this action
mean for the long-term stability of
Iraq and the trillions of dollars and
thousands of American lives sacrificed
there? How does the administration
plan to manage an escalation of hos-
tilities? How does the administration
plan to avoid larger and potentially
endless conflagration in the Middle
East? These are questions that must be
answered.
It is my view that the President does
not have the authority for a war with
Iran. If he plans a large increase in
troops and potential hostility over a
longer time, the administration will
require congressional approval and the
approval of the American people.
The President’s decision may add to
an already dangerous and difficult situ-
ation in the Middle East. The risk of a
much longer military engagement in
the Middle East is acute and imme-
diate. This action may well have
brought our Nation closer to another
endless war—exactly the kind of end-
less war the President promised he
would not drag us into.
As our citizens and those of our allies
evacuate Iraq and troops prepare for
retaliatory action, Congress needs an-
swers to these questions and others
from the administration immediately,
and the American people need answers
as well.
f
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, the
Senate begins this new session of Con-
gress preparing to do something that
has happened only twice before in
American history: serving as a court of
impeachment in a trial of the Presi-
dent of the United States.
President Donald Trump stands ac-
cused by the House of Representatives
of committing one of the offenses the
Founding Fathers most feared when it
came to the stability of the Republic:
abusing the powers of his office for per-
sonal gain and soliciting the inter-
ference of a foreign power in our elec-
tions to benefit himself. The House has
also charged the President with ob-
structing Congress in the investigation
into those matters, the consequence of
an unprecedented blockade of relevant
witnesses and documents—flatly deny-
ing the legislative branch’s constitu-
tional authority to provide oversight of
the Executive.
As all eyes turn to the Senate, the
question before us is, Will we fulfill our
duty to conduct a fair impeachment
trial of the President of the United
States or will we not? That is the most
pressing question facing the Senate at
the outset of this second session of the
116th Congress. Will we conduct a fair
trial that examines all the facts or
not?
The country just saw Senator
MCCONNELL’s answer to that question.
His answer is no. Instead of trying to
find the truth, he is still using the
same feeble talking points he was using
last December. The country just saw
how the Republican leader views his re-
sponsibility at this pivotal moment in
our Nation’s history. The Republican
leader prefers finger-pointing and
name-calling to avoid answering the
looming question: Why shouldn’t the
Senate call witnesses? The Republican
leader hasn’t given one good reason
why there shouldn’t be relevant wit-
nesses or relevant documents. We did
not hear one from Leader MCCONNELL
today or any day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:37 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.006 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5
January 3, 2020
Once again, Leader MCCONNELL tried
to bury his audience under an ava-
lanche of partisan recriminations and
misleading references to precedents.
There is only one precedent that mat-
ters here: that never, never in the his-
tory of our country has there been an
impeachment trial of the President in
which the Senate was denied the abil-
ity to hear from witnesses. Let me re-
peat that. That is the salient fact here.
There is only one precedent that mat-
ters: There has never, never in the his-
tory of our country been an impeach-
ment trial of the President in which
the Senate was denied the ability to
hear from witnesses. Yet the Repub-
lican leader seems intent on violating
that precedent and denying critical
evidence to this body and to the Amer-
ican people.
Leader MCCONNELL has been clear
and vocal that he has no intention to
be impartial in this process. Leader
MCCONNELL reminds us today and pre-
vious days that rather than acting like
a judge and a juror, he intends to act
as the executioner of a fair trial.
Thankfully, the rules of the impeach-
ment trial will be determined by the
majority of Senators in this Chamber,
not by the Republican leader alone.
The crux of the issue still is whether
the Senate will hear testimony from
witnesses and receive documentary evi-
dence directly relevant to the charges
against the President. Since Congress
recessed for the holidays, there have
been several events that have signifi-
cantly bolstered my argument for four
specific witnesses and specific cat-
egories of documents. Nothing—noth-
ing—in that time has bolstered Leader
MCCONNELL’s argument that there
shouldn’t be relevant witnesses or doc-
uments.
On December 21, the Center for Pub-
lic Integrity obtained emails through a
Freedom of Information Act request
that showed that Michael Duffey, a top
OMB official and one of the four wit-
nesses I have requested, asked the De-
fense Department to ‘‘hold off’’ on
sending military aid to Ukraine 91 min-
utes after President Trump’s July
phone call with Ukrainian President
Zelensky.
On December 29, the New York
Times’ report included several revela-
tions about the extent of Chief of Staff
Mulvaney’s involvement in the delayed
military assistance; about the efforts
by lawyers at OMB, Justice, and the
White House to create legal justifica-
tions for the delay in assistance; and
about the depth of opposition to and
indeed alarm about the delay in mili-
tary assistance from parts of the ad-
ministration, particularly the Pen-
tagon.
Then, just yesterday, there was a new
report about a trove of newly
unredacted emails that further exposed
the serious concerns raised by Trump
administration officials about the pro-
priety and legality of the President’s
decision to delay military assistance to
Ukraine. One of those emails released
yesterday was from Michael Duffey—
one of the witnesses we have re-
quested—to the Pentagon comptroller,
and it reads: ‘‘Clear direction from
POTUS [the President] to continue the
hold.’’ Clear direction from the Presi-
dent to continue the hold is what
Duffey wrote. What constituted ‘‘clear
direction’’? Did Michael Duffey get an
order from the President, or did some-
one like Mr. Mulvaney get an order
from the President that was passed on
to Mr. Duffey? Were there discussions
by administration officials about cov-
ering up the reasons for the President
directing the delay in military assist-
ance? These are questions that can
only be answered by examination of
the documentary evidence and by the
testimony of key Trump administra-
tion officials, under oath, in a Senate
trial.
These developments are a dev-
astating blow to Leader MCCONNELL’s
push to have a trial without the docu-
ments and witnesses we have re-
quested. Each new revelation mounts
additional pressure on the Members of
this Chamber to seek the whole truth.
With these new emails, we are getting
certain portions of the truth. We need
the whole truth.
For example, much of the evidence
that was obtained by the recent FOIA
requests has been heavily redacted.
Here is an email chain between offi-
cials at the Pentagon regarding the Po-
litico article that first revealed that
the Trump administration was delay-
ing military assistance to Ukraine. It
is completely redacted. Every word
crossed out. Not available. Can’t be
seen.
Here is another email, with the sub-
ject line ‘‘apportionment,’’ between of-
ficials at OMB and the Pentagon, com-
pletely redacted. None of the words can
be seen at all. We know now that some
of these redactions were covered up—
but only some of them.
Why did they redact the sections
they redacted? Who ordered the
redactions? Why are they covering it
up? What are they hiding?
These questions must be asked. When
you are accused of something, you
don’t suppress evidence that will exon-
erate you. The fact that the adminis-
tration is going to such lengths to pre-
vent such emails from coming out is
extraordinarily telling. It seems like
they themselves feel they are guilty.
Getting the full documentary record
would undoubtedly shed light on the
issues at hand. These were senior
Trump officials discussing the delay in
military assistance to Ukraine, who or-
dered it, why it was ordered, whether
or not it was legal, and how it was con-
nected to the effort to pressure
Ukraine into announcing investiga-
tions regarding a political rival of the
President. And these emails represent
just a sliver of the documentary evi-
dence that exists in this case.
There was an exceedingly strong case
to call witnesses and request docu-
ments before the Senate went out of
session for the Christmas break. In the
short time since, that case has gotten
stronger and remarkably so.
We are not asking for critics of the
President to serve as witnesses in the
trial. We are asking only that the
President’s men, his top advisers, tell
their side of the story, and Leader
MCCONNELL, once again, has been un-
able to make one argument—one single
argument—as to why these witnesses
and these documents should not be
part of a trial.
I want to respond to one suggestion
by Leader MCCONNELL, that we follow
the 1999 example of beginning the im-
peachment first and then deciding on
witnesses and documents at a later
date.
First, to hear Leader MCCONNELL say
‘‘no witnesses now but maybe some
later’’ is just another indication that
he has no argument against witnesses
and documents on the merits. Will
Leader MCCONNELL commit to wit-
nesses and documents now and discuss
timing later?
Second, Leader MCCONNELL’s com-
parisons to 1999 are hopelessly flawed
and inaccurate. There were witnesses
in 1999, Leader MCCONNELL. You want
the precedent of 1999. There were wit-
nesses, as there were in every single
impeachment trial of the President in
history. It would be a break in prece-
dent for there not to be witnesses.
Third, there was even a greater ra-
tionale for witnesses in the Clinton
trial. In 1999, the witnesses in question
had already testified under oath exten-
sively, and there were also bipartisan
concerns about the suitability of the
subject matter for the floor of the Sen-
ate. There is no analogy to today’s sit-
uation. The witnesses we have re-
quested never testified under oath, and
the documents we have requested have
not been produced.
Fourth, we have a tradition in Amer-
ica of a fair and speedy trial. That is
why we requested only the relevant in-
formation, up front, so that the trial
can truly be speedy and fair. It makes
no sense and, in fact, it is a ruse to sug-
gest that the Senate wait until the end
of the trial to settle the hardest ques-
tion, when it might take time for wit-
nesses to prepare testimony and for the
Senate to review new documentary evi-
dence. We can and should begin that
process now and ensure that the trial is
informed by the facts and does not suf-
fer unnecessary delays.
Fifth and, finally, when Leader
MCCONNELL suggests that we have both
sides present their arguments and then
deal with witnesses, he is essentially
proposing to conduct a whole trial and,
then, once the trial is basically over,
consider the question of evidence. That
makes no sense. That is ‘‘Alice in Won-
derland’’ logic. The trial must be in-
formed by the evidence, not the other
way around. The House managers
should be allowed to present all of the
evidence to make their case, not make
their case and, then, afterward, ask for
evidence we know is out there.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.008 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6 January 3, 2020
If we don’t get a commitment up
front that the House managers will be
able to call witnesses as part of their
case, the Senate will act as little more
than a nationally televised meeting of
the mock trial club.
If we leave the witness question and
documents until after all of the presen-
tations are complete, Leader MCCON-
NELL will argue that the Senate has
heard enough and we shouldn’t prolong
the trial any longer. At that point, you
can be sure he will label anyone who
wants to subpoena evidence as a par-
tisan who wants to drag the whole af-
fair out.
I know this because he has already
told us what his position will be. This
is not a mystery. ‘‘After we’ve heard
the arguments,’’ Leader MCCONNELL
said on FOX News, ‘‘we ought to vote
and move on.’’ Does that sound like
someone who, in good faith, intends to
have the Senate reasonably consider
witnesses at a later date? No, it does
not.
Leader MCCONNELL’s proposal to vote
on witnesses and documents later is
nothing more than a poorly disguised
trap. ‘‘After we’ve heard the argu-
ments,’’ Leader MCCONNELL said, ‘‘we
ought to vote and move on.’’
All of my fellow Senators—Democrat
and Republican—should take stock of
the Leader’s words and remember the
commitment he made on national tele-
vision to take his cues from the White
House.
I say to the Chair, it may feel like we
are no closer to establishing the rules
for a Senate trial than when we last
met, but the question—the vital ques-
tion—of whether or not we have a fair
trial ultimately rests with a majority
of the Senators in this Chamber.
The President faces gravely serious
charges—abuse of power, abuse of his
public trust, soliciting the interference
of a foreign power in our elections, un-
precedented obstruction of Congress—
and, if convicted, the President faces
the most severe punishment our Con-
stitution imagines. The Framers gave
us—this Chamber, the U.S. Senate—the
sole power to discharge this most dif-
ficult and somber duty. Will the Senate
rise to the occasion?
I yield the floor.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Chair recognizes the distin-
guished Senator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
start by thanking Senator SCHUMER,
the minority leader, for his pursuit of a
fair impeachment trial in the Senate,
something supported by the over-
whelming majority of the American
people, whether they be Republicans,
Democrats, or Independents.
The Senate will soon undertake this
most serious of its duties—considering
the impeachment of a President. None
of us relish this moment, but we all
have a solemn responsibility under the
Constitution to try this case, to assess
the evidence, and to render fair judg-
ment.
We will hear a case from the House of
Representatives and from the Presi-
dent’s lawyers, and we will first be
sworn in to do ‘‘impartial justice ac-
cording to the Constitution and laws.’’
While Senators are primarily ex-
pected to listen to the evidence and
weigh that evidence, we also have a
special ability that most juries do not
have: We can request additional infor-
mation, we can request witnesses, and
we can request documents. It only
takes a simple majority, 51 Senators,
to call witnesses and request those doc-
uments. In the two other times in the
history of the Senate when we have
considered a Presidential impeach-
ment, we have required witnesses to
testify directly or give sworn deposi-
tions.
In President Clinton’s impeachment
trial, three witnesses were deposed
even though they had all given prior
sworn testimony in related pro-
ceedings. At that time, now-Majority
Leader MCCONNELL called their request
for testimony ‘‘modest’’—a modest re-
quest.
Senate Democrats have another mod-
est request that is pending today. We
would like to hear from four witnesses
who have not testified previously, who
did not testify in the House, who have
not testified under penalty of perjury,
like we saw other House witnesses tes-
tify.
Why is that? That is because Presi-
dent Trump has ordered them not to
testify. Those four witnesses are White
House Acting Chief of Staff Mick
Mulvaney, former National Security
Advisor John Bolton, and top adminis-
tration officials Michael Duffey and
Robert Blair. We are also asking the
Senate to request key documents the
President has refused to provide.
We know these are relevant wit-
nesses. We know it even more after the
reporting from this week, which has
shown that these four witnesses have
clear, firsthand knowledge of with-
holding of congressionally appro-
priated funds for Ukraine to fight Rus-
sian aggression—one of the actions at
the center of the House’s abuse-of-
power charge.
Newly revealed emails, which the
Trump administration tried to keep se-
cret, show that just 91 minutes after
President Trump had his call with
Ukrainian President Zelensky, Mr.
Duffey emailed the Department of De-
fense and their officials to inform them
that the administration would for-
mally withhold military assistance for
Ukraine. We know that days after the
phone call, Mr. Duffey, a political ap-
pointee, took over the Ukraine port-
folio from a career civil servant at
OMB, under the guise of wanting to
‘‘learn about the apportionment proc-
ess.’’
The administration claims that the
reason for the hold was to conduct a re-
view of Ukraine assistance, even
though the hold was formally ordered
on the same day President Trump per-
sonally pressured President Zelensky
to investigate Vice President Joe Biden
and the 2016 election in order to boost
President Trump’s personal political
agenda.
There is no evidence that any real re-
view of assistance to Ukraine took
place, and none of the emails about the
hold on assistance discuss any review
actually happening. Instead, we now
know that Mr. Duffey tried to keep the
hold a secret, known to as few people
as possible.
Here is what he wrote in his email in-
forming the Department of Defense
about the hold: ‘‘Given the sensitive
nature of the request, I appreciate your
keeping that information closely held
to those who need to know to execute
the direction.’’
We also know that OMB would even-
tually issue nine of what they called
footnotes from July to September to
delay releasing the congressionally au-
thorized funding for assistance to
Ukraine. The emails that have surfaced
also reveal that the Defense Depart-
ment raised concerns that the hold was
breaking the law—something the ad-
ministration has tried to hide.
Congress, many years ago, passed a
law called the Impoundment Control
Act to address situations like this,
where funding is provided in law but
the President—whoever the President
may be—refuses to spend it. The Im-
poundment Control Act only allows the
executive branch to withhold funding
in very limited circumstances. It re-
quires the President to notify Congress
when he withholds legally appropriated
funding, something President Trump
never did when he withheld assistance
to Ukraine.
In addition to abusing his power by
pressuring Ukraine to interfere in our
elections, I think the evidence will also
show that President Trump violated
the Impoundment Control Act. I have
asked the Government Accountability
Office to look into this and give us an
independent legal opinion. GAO is
working on this now, and as part of
their review, they asked the Trump ad-
ministration to explain what happened.
In their response, OMB claimed that
the Defense Department’s general
counsel never told OMB that the hold
would legally prevent the funds from
being spent before they expire at the
end of the fiscal year. Thanks to newly
revealed emails—in fact, emails that
we saw in their unredacted form for the
first time yesterday—we know that
this was, at best, extremely mis-
leading.
As the hold continued, Defense De-
partment officials repeatedly raised
concerns about its legality. In an email
sent on August 27, the Defense Depart-
ment shared a draft letter that they
had prepared to send to OMB that in-
cluded the following sentence about
continuing to withhold funding for the
Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative,
called USAI for short. Here is what
they wrote: ‘‘As a result, we have re-
peatedly advised OMB officials that
pauses beyond August 19, 2019, jeop-
ardize the Department’s ability to obli-
gate . . . [USAI] funding prudently and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.009 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S7
January 3, 2020
fully, consistent with the Impound-
ment Control Act.’’
Here, we have Defense Department
officials directly raising concerns
about the hold breaking the law, de-
spite what OMB said to GAO. Here is
what we saw earlier. This is one of the
redacted emails. This is the draft letter
I just referred to that had been pre-
pared for the signature of the Deputy
Secretary of Defense. It is addressed to
Mr. Vought, the Acting Director over
at OMB. When the administration first
released the emails in response to a
Freedom of Information request—
something the administration didn’t
want to do but was required by law—
they decided to black out this entire
email, to redact it.
What we learned yesterday was that
this blackout contained the sentences
that I just read about the Department
of Defense being very, very worried
that continued withholding violated
the law, violated the Impoundment
Control Act. I can’t imagine how, in
good faith, the Justice Department or
whoever it was in the administration
just blacked this out. I am told it was
the Attorney General. That is abuse of
power to deny that information to the
American people and to the Congress,
and this appears to be just the tip of
the iceberg.
Ultimately, we know that the Presi-
dent’s hold on the Ukraine funds con-
tinued until September 12, and the De-
fense Department was unable to deliver
$35 million of that vitally needed aid to
Ukraine before the funds expired at the
end of the fiscal year. It was only be-
cause Congress later acted by a vote of
both Houses of Congress to extend that
funding that the Defense Department
can now deliver this assistance.
This is why it is all the more impor-
tant for the Senate to hear testimony
from the witnesses under oath, under
penalty of perjury, and to review the
relevant documents for ourselves. Mr.
Mulvaney, Mr. Blair, and Mr. Duffey
were all directly involved in carrying
out President Trump’s order to with-
hold Ukraine assistance. Mr. Bolton,
according to testimony of Dr. Fiona
Hill, raised significant concerns about
the hold.
So far as we just heard, the majority
leader, Senator MCCONNELL, has re-
jected these reasonable requests for
witnesses and documents, despite the
fact that they are clearly directly rel-
evant to the impeachment trial. I
think people have a very simple ques-
tion: Why is the President and why is
the majority leader so desperate, so
scared to provide these documents and
prevent these individuals from testi-
fying under penalty of perjury?
It has been deeply disappointing to
hear the majority leader say that he is
‘‘not an impartial juror’’ and that he
will work in lockstep with the Presi-
dent’s lawyers. He is asking the Senate
to allow the defendant in this case, the
President of the United States, to set
the terms of his own trial. This is not
just an affront to our constitutional
duty, it defies justice and common
sense.
Make no mistake that those who
vote to block the Senate from consid-
ering additional evidence from wit-
nesses and documents are going to be
complicit in rigging a trial and in a
coverup. I would challenge my col-
leagues to tell me one case where, after
you have a grand jury proceeding, the
prosecution is not allowed to call wit-
nesses at trial. That would be nuts. For
the Senate to deliberately choose to
close its eyes and shut its ears to evi-
dence would be a miscarriage of justice
and a violation of our constitutional
obligations.
I heard the majority leader talk
about how the Speaker of the House is
holding up sending the Articles of Im-
peachment. Well, if the majority leader
were to just agree to do what we allow
in every other trial in the country,
which is call relevant witnesses and get
relevant documents, we could start
this trial tomorrow. It is the refusal of
the majority leader to agree to what an
overwhelming majority of Americans
consider common sense and plain jus-
tice that we are experiencing whatever
delay we end up experiencing in this
case.
The House has presented over-
whelming evidence to support its two
Articles of Impeachment: abuse of
power and obstruction of Congress. The
Senate trial is about hearing the case
on both sides, including hearing from
those who are directly involved before
rendering a final verdict. President
Trump has said many times he wants
to call witnesses. He wants to have a
full trial. If he has evidence to rebut
the facts established by the House, the
Senate needs to hear it, and we should
render a final verdict after all the evi-
dence is in and not before.
Some may have heard our Republican
colleagues argue that we need to rush
to trial to get back to legislative busi-
ness. First, let’s remember that im-
peachment is our constitutional re-
sponsibility, and we can have a trial
that is both speedy and fair.
Second, as we have seen in the House
of Representatives, it is possible to
conduct robust oversight and legislate
at the same time. In fact, the week be-
fore the House of Representatives
voted on impeachment, they passed a
very important bill to reduce the costs
of prescription drugs. In fact, the
House has passed over 300 bills that
Senator MCCONNELL has refused to
bring up for a vote here in the Senate,
including hundreds with bipartisan
support.
The House has acted to expand back-
ground checks for gun purchases to re-
duce gun violence, passed legislation to
get Big Money out of politics, to
strengthen voting rights, to raise the
minimum wage for the first time in
more than a decade, to protect em-
ployee pensions, and to reauthorize the
Violence Against Women Act. Senator
MCCONNELL has not only blocked con-
sideration of these critical measures,
he has boasted about his obstruction,
calling himself the ‘‘grim reaper.’’ So
let’s not fall for the claim that the ma-
jority leader suddenly wants to get to
work on these initiatives that are im-
portant to the American people. To
date, he has made no commitment to
take up any of those bills, whether or
not there is an impeachment trial.
As the Senate discharges its con-
stitutional duties, whether by con-
ducting an impeachment trial or pass-
ing legislation, it should never be an
instrument of a President, regardless
of party. We should not be a
rubberstamp. We should never
outsource our judgment or our votes to
any White House. We serve the Amer-
ican people and must render justice
fairly and honorably at this critical
time in our history.
f
IRAN
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Speaking of crit-
ical moments, I do want to say a word
about the rapidly escalating conflict
with Iran.
General Soleimani was a violent man
who died a violent death, but the ques-
tion facing us is not whether the target
of the attack was a good or bad man.
The question is what will be the con-
sequence of this action taken by the
United States, and more broadly, what
is President Trump’s strategy for mov-
ing forward to advance U.S. national
interests in the region and in the safe-
ty of Americans?
President Trump came into office
saying he wanted to end America’s
wars in the Middle East, but today, we
are closer to war with Iran than ever
before. The administration’s reckless
policy over the last 3 years has brought
us to this brink. Make no mistake,
from day one, President Trump and
ideologues within his administration
have escalated tensions with Iran with-
out a strategy. They launched their de-
liberate, ‘‘maximum pressure cam-
paign’’ without any realistic goals. Can
anyone tell us today what President
Trump’s endgame is with respect to
Iran?
Everything we have seen over the
last 3 years has demonstrated that this
President is not capable of thinking be-
yond the first move in a chess game
and has been surrounded by ideological
sycophants, not regional or national
security experts. They are people who
are here to please his whims and have
no capacity for the sophisticated con-
flict escalation management that will
now be required more than ever to
avoid an all-out war with Iran. It is a
war that would harm our country in
ways we cannot imagine strategically,
economically, and in loss of life.
The stated goal of the action taken
was to ‘‘protect American lives,’’ but
Americans throughout the region are
at greater risk today than they were
yesterday. That is why our embassy in
Iraq advised Americans to leave quick-
ly. Our embassies and personnel across
the region are now in even more dan-
ger, not just in Baghdad, but elsewhere
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.011 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S8 January 3, 2020
in the area and, in fact, around the
world. American troops have become
even bigger targets. What about the
American humanitarian organizations
and their personnel abroad, American
students, and American tourists? They
are all at greater risk as a result of the
action taken.
Secretary Pompeo’s call today for de-
escalation after the assassination is a
pipe dream. What we do know—and no
one should be surprised—is that Iran
has stated that the assassination of the
general is tantamount to a declaration
of war and they will strike back at a
place and time of their choosing. We
know with certainty that a response
will come and that Iran and its allies
have the ability to act against Ameri-
cans and American interests across the
region.
Moreover, the assassination will like-
ly lead to a decline in American influ-
ence in Iraq and, as a result, even
greater Iranian power and influence in
that country. Our ally, the Iraqi Gov-
ernment, has already stated that the
attack on its soil violated its sov-
ereignty. Prime Minister Mahdi called
for an extraordinary session of the
Iraqi Parliament to safeguard Iraq’s
sovereignty, calling the strike ‘‘a dan-
gerous escalation that will light the
fuse of a destructive war in Iraq, the
region, and the world.’’
Iraq’s President, Barham Salih, also
condemned the strikes. Here is the
Reuters’ piece: ‘‘Iraq president con-
demns U.S. strike, urges restraint.’’
These are our allies in the Iraqi Gov-
ernment who are condemning these ac-
tions and saying that they will lead to
a spiral toward war, and these state-
ments came just days after the Iraqi
Prime Minister and the President had
made similar warnings about prior
American actions in Iraq. This is al-
ready intensifying calls within Iraq to
expel U.S. forces. Who do we think is
going to fill the vacuum there? Iran. It
already has enormous influence in Iraq,
and now we are going to be giving it
even more.
This administration, like the Bush
administration, has never understood
basic political geography. Iran is a
large Shia country that borders Iraq.
Iraq is also a majority Shia country.
Ever since the United States invaded
Iraq in 2003 and removed Saddam Hus-
sein, Iran’s influence in Iraq has stead-
ily grown. The assassination may ap-
pear gratifying in the short term, for,
as I said, he was a bad person who had
a lot of blood on his hands, but it has
likely ushered in the most volatile mo-
ment in the Middle East in a very, very
long time.
The same group of warmongering, po-
litical ideologues who told Americans
that the Iraq war would lead to democ-
racy’s breaking out in the Middle East
is telling us today that the Iranians
will be celebrating in the streets. The
truth is that this action will likely
usher in the most militant Parliament
in Iran that we will have seen in dec-
ades. The door will be closed com-
pletely on the hard-won moment for
trying to derail Iranian nuclear ambi-
tions through negotiations.
In closing, this is a pivotal and dan-
gerous moment for America as the re-
sult of reckless policies over the last 3
years. The President’s action may be-
come the spark that could trigger an-
other war in the Middle East. Let us
here in Congress make very clear that
President Trump has no authority to
take America to war against Iran. Our
Constitution requires that Congress
authorize any decision to go to war,
and Congress has not given that au-
thorization.
In the days and weeks ahead, I hope
all of us will do our duty as Senators to
look at the situation we find ourselves
in at this moment, and I hope we will
resolve to do what President Trump
said he wanted to do while he was cam-
paigning for President, which is to not
plunge us into more wars in the Middle
East but to find a way to use our influ-
ence and our power responsibly to sta-
bilize the situation there.
I yield the floor.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 12:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 5377. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the limita-
tion on deduction of State and local taxes,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 5430. An act to implement the Agree-
ment between the United States of America,
the United Mexican States, and Canada at-
tached as an Annex to the Protocol Replac-
ing the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment.
The message further announced that
pursuant to section 1238(b)(3) of the
Floyd D. Spence National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (22
U.S.C. 7002), as amended, and the order
of the House of January 3, 2019, the
Speaker reappoints effective January
1, 2020, the following individual on the
part of the House of Representatives to
the United States-China Economic and
Security Review Commission for a
term expiring on December 31, 2021: Ms.
Carolyn Bartholomew of Washington,
DC.
The message also announced that
pursuant to 22 U.S.C. 7002, the Minority
Leader appoints the following member
to the United States-China Economic
and Security Review Commission: Mr.
Michael Wessel of Falls Church, Vir-
ginia, as previously agreed, because of
the change in Congress and the pre-
sumed statutory intent of the Commis-
sion, the Minority Leader appoints Mr.
Wessel on behalf of the Speaker.
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
At 12:12 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. RASKIN) has signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bills:
H.R. 1424. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs permits the display of Fallen
Soldier Displays in national cemeteries.
H.R. 2385. An act to permit the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to establish a grant pro-
gram to conduct cemetery research and
produce educational materials for the Vet-
erans Legacy Program.
The enrolled bills were subsequently
signed by the Acting President pro
tempore (Mr. ROBERTS).
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 5377. An act to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the limita-
tion on deduction of State and local taxes,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Finance.
H.R. 5430. An act to implement the Agree-
ment between the United States of America,
the United Mexican States, and Canada at-
tached as an Annex to the Protocol Replac-
ing the North American Free Trade Agree-
ment; referred jointly to the Committee on
Finance; Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions; Environment and Public Works; Ap-
propriations; Foreign Relations; Commerce,
Science, and Transportation; the Budget pur-
suant to section 151(e)(2) of the Trade Act of
1974.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 3148. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to list fentanyl-related sub-
stances as schedule I controlled substances.
f
ENROLLED BILL PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on December 20, 2019, she had pre-
sented to the President of the United
States the following enrolled bill:
S. 151 An act to deter criminal robocall
violations and improve enforcement of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act of
1934, and for other purposes.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G03JA6.012 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S9
January 3, 2020
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr.
DURBIN):
S.J. Res. 63. A joint resolution to direct
the removal of United States Armed Forces
from hostilities against the Islamic Republic
of Iran that have not been authorized by
Congress; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 933
At the request of Mr. WHITEHOUSE,
the name of the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 933, a bill to improve
data collection and monitoring of the
Great Lakes, oceans, bays, estuaries,
and coasts, and for other purposes.
S. 2794
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2794, a bill to provide for
the creation of the Missing Armed
Forces Personnel Records Collection at
the National Archives, to require the
expeditious public transmission to the
Archivist and public disclosure of Miss-
ing Armed Forces Personnel records,
and for other purposes.
S. 3068
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3068, a bill to modify the boundary
of the Rocky Mountain National Park,
and for other purposes.
S. 3069
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 3069, a bill to authorize the Sec-
retary of the Interior to correct a land
ownership error within the boundary of
Rocky Mountain National Park, and
for other purposes.
S. 3104
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
3104, a bill to make technical correc-
tions relating to parental leave for
Federal employees.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
JANUARY 6, 2020, AT 3 P.M.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate stand adjourned under the previous
order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 1:18 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
January 6, 2020, at 3 p.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
THE JUDICIARY
ANDREW LYNN BRASHER, OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT,
VICE EDWARD E. CARNES, RETIRING.
JOSHUA M. KINDRED, OF ALASKA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA,
VICE RALPH R. BEISTLINE, RETIRED.
MATTHEW THOMAS SCHELP, OF MISSOURI, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF MISSOURI, VICE STEPHEN N. LIMBAUGH,
JR., RETIRING.
STEPHEN A. VADEN, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE A JUDGE OF
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE,
VICE DELISSA A. RIDGWAY, RETIRED.
f
NOMINATIONS RETURNED TO THE
PRESIDENT
FRIDAY, JANUARY 3, 2020
The following nominations trans-
mitted by the President of the United
States to the Senate during the first
session of the 116th Congress, and upon
which no action was had at the time of
the sine die adjournment of the Senate,
failed of confirmation under the provi-
sions of Rule XXXI, paragraph 6, of the
Standing Rules of the Senate.
AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS
RICK A. DEARBORN, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE A DIRECTOR
OF THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR A TERM OF
FIVE YEARS.
JOSEPH RYAN GRUTERS, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A DIREC-
TOR OF THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR A TERM
OF FIVE YEARS.
LEON A. WESTMORELAND, OF GEORGIA, TO BE A DIREC-
TOR OF THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR A TERM
OF FIVE YEARS.
THEODORE ROKITA, OF INDIANA, TO BE A DIRECTOR OF
THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR THE REMAIN-
DER OF THE TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 3, 2021.
BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MICHAEL PACK, OF MARYLAND, TO BE CHIEF EXECU-
TIVE OFFICER OF THE BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOV-
ERNORS FOR THE TERM OF THREE YEARS.
CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
ANN MARIE BUERKLE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A COMMIS-
SIONER OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM OF SEVEN YEARS FROM OCTOBER 27,
2018.
ANN MARIE BUERKLE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE CHAIRMAN
OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION.
CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY
SERVICE
VICTORIA ANN HUGHES, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE FOR A TERM
EXPIRING OCTOBER 6, 2021.
HEATHER REYNOLDS, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION FOR
NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE FOR A TERM EX-
PIRING SEPTEMBER 14, 2021.
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING
DON MUNCE, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION FOR PUB-
LIC BROADCASTING FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 31,
2024.
DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
LISA VICKERS, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE DE-
FENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD FOR A
TERM EXPIRING OCTOBER 18, 2021.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
NAOMI C. EARP, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE.
SCOTT HUTCHINS, OF INDIANA, TO BE UNDER SEC-
RETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR RESEARCH, EDUCATION,
AND ECONOMICS.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
WILLIAM BRYAN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNDER SEC-
RETARY FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
SHANNON LEE GOESSLING, OF FLORIDA, TO BE DIREC-
TOR OF THE VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN OFFICE, DE-
PARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
VINCENT F. DEMARCO, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
KENNETH CHARLES CANTERBURY, JR., OF SOUTH
CAROLINA, TO BE DIRECTOR, BUREAU OF ALCOHOL, TO-
BACCO, FIREARMS, AND EXPLOSIVES.
OWEN MCCURDY CYPHER, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF
MICHIGAN FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
THOMAS L. LEONARD III, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE UNITED
STATES ATTORNEY FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF
MICHIGAN FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PAMELA BATES, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE ORGANIZA-
TION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT,
WITH THE RANK OF AMBASSADOR.
MARSHALL BILLINGSLEA, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN
UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE (CIVILIAN SECURITY, DE-
MOCRACY, AND HUMAN RIGHTS).
BRETT P. GIROIR, OF TEXAS, TO BE REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION.
RONALD MORTENSEN, OF UTAH, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE (POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND
MIGRATION).
LEANDRO RIZZUTO, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO BARBADOS, AND TO
SERVE CONCURRENTLY AND WITHOUT ADDITIONAL COM-
PENSATION AS AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE FEDERATION OF SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS, SAINT
LUCIA, ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, THE COMMONWEALTH
OF DOMINICA, GRENADA, AND SAINT VINCENT AND THE
GRENADINES.
CHRISTINE J. TORETTI, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
MALTA.
JOHN LINDER, OF GEORGIA, TO BE REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE ASSOCIA-
TION OF SOUTHEAST ASIAN NATIONS, WITH THE RANK
AND STATUS OF AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY.
WILLIAM ELLISON GRAYSON, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC
OF ESTONIA.
LEORA ROSENBERG LEVY, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
CHILE.
BARBERA HALE THORNHILL, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC
OF SINGAPORE.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
KATHARINE MACGREGOR, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
DEPUTY SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
GEOFFREY WILLIAM SEIJI OKAMOTO, OF CALIFORNIA,
TO BE DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
THELMA DRAKE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE FEDERAL TRAN-
SIT ADMINISTRATOR.
DIANA FURCHTGOTT-ROTH, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION.
FINCH FULTON, OF ALABAMA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
KEITH E. SONDERLING, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 1, 2024.
FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
RODNEY K. BROWN, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION BOARD, FARM
CREDIT ADMINISTRATION, FOR A TERM EXPIRING OCTO-
BER 13, 2024.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
JAMES E. TRAINOR III, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION FOR A TERM EX-
PIRING APRIL 30, 2023.
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION
JAMES P. DANLY, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION FOR
THE REMAINDER OF THE TERM EXPIRING JUNE 30, 2023.
FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY
CATHERINE BIRD, OF TEXAS, TO BE GENERAL COUNSEL
OF THE FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY FOR A
TERM OF FIVE YEARS.
FEDERAL MEDIATION AND CONCILIATION
SERVICES
RICHARD GIACOLONE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE FEDERAL
MEDIATION AND CONCILIATION DIRECTOR.
HARRY S TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION
STEPHEN R. BOUGH, OF MISSOURI, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE HARRY S TRUMAN
SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING DE-
CEMBER 10, 2021.
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
MARK ROSEN, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE UNITED STATES
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONE-
TARY FUND FOR A TERM OF TWO YEARS.
METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS
AUTHORITY
ALAN E. COBB, OF KANSAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE METROPOLITAN WASH-
INGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY FOR A TERM EXPIRING
NOVEMBER 22, 2023.
WILLIAM SHAW MCDERMOTT, OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO
BE A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
FOR A TERM EXPIRING MAY 30, 2024.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
ROBERT JOSEPH KRUCKEMEYER, OF TEXAS, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMAN-
ITIES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2022.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.011 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S10 January 3, 2020
PEACE CORPS
ALAN R. SWENDIMAN, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF THE PEACE CORPS.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
DAVID CHRISTIAN TRYON, OF OHIO, TO BE CHIEF COUN-
SEL FOR ADVOCACY, SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRA-
TION.
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
DAVID FABIAN BLACK, OF NORTH DAKOTA, TO BE DEP-
UTY COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY FOR THE
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 19, 2019.
ANDREW M. SAUL, OF NEW YORK, TO BE COMMIS-
SIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY FOR THE TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 19, 2019.
THE JUDICIARY
STANLEY BLUMENFELD, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
JEREMY B. ROSEN, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA.
MARK C. SCARSI, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA.
KEVIN RAY SWEAZEA, OF NEW MEXICO, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF NEW
MEXICO.
DANIEL Z. EPSTEIN, OF TEXAS, TO BE A JUDGE OF THE
UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS FOR A
TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
HALIL SULEYMAN OZERDEN, OF MISSISSIPPI, TO BE
UNITED STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE FIFTH CIR-
CUIT.
SCOTT J. LAURER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A JUDGE OF THE
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR VETERANS
CLAIMS FOR THE TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
CORY T. WILSON, OF MISSISSIPPI, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF MISSISSIPPI.
FERNANDO L. AENLLE-ROCHA, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
ADAM L. BRAVERMAN, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA.
SANDY NUNES LEAL, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA.
R. SHIREEN MATTHEWS, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
RICK LLOYD RICHMOND, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA.
STEPHEN SIDNEY SCHWARTZ, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A
JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL
CLAIMS FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
STEPHEN A. VADEN, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE A JUDGE OF
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF INTERNATIONAL TRADE.
GRACE KARAFFA OBERMANN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A
JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL
CLAIMS FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
KATHRYN C. DAVIS, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A JUDGE OF
THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL CLAIMS FOR A
TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
EDWARD HULVEY MEYERS, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A
JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES COURT OF FEDERAL
CLAIMS FOR A TERM OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
ANDREW LYNN BRASHER, OF ALABAMA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT.
JOHN W. HOLCOMB, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA.
KNUT SVEINBJORN JOHNSON, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
STEVE KIM, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE CENTRAL DISTRICT OF CALI-
FORNIA.
JOSHUA M. KINDRED, OF ALASKA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF ALASKA.
MICHELLE M. PETTIT, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF CALIFORNIA.
TODD WALLACE ROBINSON, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
JENNIFER P. TOGLIATTI, OF NEVADA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF NE-
VADA.
JOHN PETER CRONAN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF NEW YORK.
WILLIAM SCOTT HARDY, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
JOHN F. HEIL III, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN, EASTERN AND
WESTERN DISTRICTS OF OKLAHOMA.
DAVID CLEVELAND JOSEPH, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE WESTERN
DISTRICT OF LOUISIANA.
IRIS LAN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED STATES DIS-
TRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW
YORK.
MATTHEW THOMAS SCHELP, OF MISSOURI, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
DARRELL E. ISSA, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
ALMA L. GOLDEN, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT AD-
MINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
JENNY A. MCGEE, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT AD-
MINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT.
UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION
ALMO J. CARTER, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE A COMMISSIONER OF THE UNITED STATES PAROLE
COMMISSION FOR A TERM OF SIX YEARS.
UNITED STATES TAX COURT
MARK VAN DYKE HOLMES, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A
JUDGE OF THE UNITED STATES TAX COURT FOR A TERM
OF FIFTEEN YEARS.
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF LT. GEN. TIMOTHY J. KADAVY,
TO BE LIEUTENANT GENERAL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF BRIG. GEN. DAVID M. HAM-
ILTON, TO BE MAJOR GENERAL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF COL. JED J. SCHAERTL, TO BE
BRIGADIER GENERAL.
IN THE COAST GUARD
COAST GUARD NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH CAP-
TAIN CHRISTOPHER A. BARTZ AND ENDING WITH CAP-
TAIN MELISSA L. RIVERA, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE
RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER 15, 2019.
COAST GUARD NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH REAR
ADM. (LH) THOMAS G. ALLAN AND ENDING WITH REAR
ADM. (LH) MATTHEW W. SIBLEY, WHICH NOMINATIONS
WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON NOVEMBER 19, 2019.
IN THE MARINE CORPS
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF COL. DAVID
NATHANSON, TO BE BRIGADIER GENERAL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF BRIG. GEN. AUSTIN E.
RENFORTH, TO BE MAJOR GENERAL.
MARINE CORPS NOMINATION OF COL. DANIEL Q.
GREENWOOD, TO BE BRIGADIER GENERAL.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF REAR ADM. (LH) RONNY L. JACK-
SON, TO BE REAR ADMIRAL.
IN THE AIR FORCE
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF THOMAS L. REMPFER, TO
BE COLONEL.
AIR FORCE NOMINATION OF ROBERT B. GOSS, TO BE
LIEUTENANT COLONEL.
IN THE ARMY
ARMY NOMINATION OF DAVID L. JOHNSON, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JAMES L. POPE, TO BE LIEU-
TENANT COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF NATHAN GORN, TO BE COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF JAMES E. MATISKO, TO BE
COLONEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF DAVID J. PAINTER, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
ARMY NOMINATION OF SHAWN D. SMITH, TO BE COLO-
NEL.
IN THE COAST GUARD
COAST GUARD NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH ERIN N.
ADLER AND ENDING WITH MARC A. ZLOMEK, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER
15, 2019.
COAST GUARD NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH RYAN G.
ANGELO AND ENDING WITH JEFFREY S. ZAMARIN, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON OCTOBER
15, 2019.
COAST GUARD NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH JEN-
NIFER J. CONKLIN AND ENDING WITH GENNARO A.
RUOCCO, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON NOVEMBER 19, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
ALAN TURLEY AND ENDING WITH ERIC WOLFF, WHICH
NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE AND AP-
PEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON NOVEMBER
21, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH
SCOTT L. ANDERSON AND ENDING WITH CONRAD WP.
WONG, WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE
SENATE AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD ON NOVEMBER 21, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATIONS BEGINNING WITH MI-
CHAEL LALLY AND ENDING WITH DALE TASHARSKI,
WHICH NOMINATIONS WERE RECEIVED BY THE SENATE
AND APPEARED IN THE CONGRESSIONAL RECORD ON NO-
VEMBER 21, 2019.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF GUNTER E.
SCHWABE.
FOREIGN SERVICE NOMINATION OF LAURA
FARNSWORTH DOGU.
IN THE NAVY
NAVY NOMINATION OF ROBERT K. DEBUSE, TO BE CAP-
TAIN.
NAVY NOMINATION OF PAUL S. RUBEN, TO BE CAPTAIN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:06 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A03JA6.003 S03JAPT2
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
D1
Friday, January 3, 2020
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
Second Session of the One Hundred and Sixteenth Congress convened
as prescribed by the Constitution of the United States.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S1–S10
Measures Introduced: One resolution was intro-
duced, as follows: S.J. Res. 63. Pages S8–9
Senator Isakson Letter of Resignation—Agree-
ment: A unanimous-consent agreement was reached
providing that the resignation letter of former Sen-
ator Johnny Isakson be read and spread upon the
Journal and printed in the Record. Pages S3–4
Carranza Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Jovita Carranza, of
Illinois, to be Administrator of the Small Business
Administration. Page S3
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, and pursuant to the unanimous-consent
agreement of Friday, January 3, 2020, a vote on clo-
ture will occur at 5:30 p.m., on Monday, January 6,
2020. Page S3
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S3
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 3 p.m., on Monday,
January 6, 2020, Senate resume consideration of the
nomination; and that the motion to invoke cloture
filed during the session of Friday, January 3, 2020,
ripen at 5:30 p.m. Page S4
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.
Joshua M. Kindred, of Alaska, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Alaska.
Matthew Thomas Schelp, of Missouri, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Missouri.
Stephen A. Vaden, of Tennessee, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of International Trade.
Page S9
Nominations Returned to the President: The fol-
lowing nominations were returned to the President
failing of confirmation under Senate Rule XXXI at
the time of the sine die adjournment of the First
Session of the 116th Congress:
Geoffrey William Seiji Okamoto, of California, to
be Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury.
Naomi C. Earp, of Maryland, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Agriculture.
Scott Hutchins, of Indiana, to be Under Secretary
of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Econom-
ics.
Lisa Vickers, of Texas, to be a Member of the De-
fense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term ex-
piring October 18, 2021.
Thelma Drake, of Virginia, to be Federal Transit
Administrator.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be a Com-
missioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion for a term of seven years from October 27,
2018.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be Chairman
of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
Alan E. Cobb, of Kansas, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington
Airports Authority for a term expiring November
22, 2023.
Rick A. Dearborn, of Oklahoma, to be a Director
of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five
years.
Diana Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:25 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03JA9.PT2 D03JAPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D2 January 3, 2020
Joseph Ryan Gruters, of Florida, to be a Director
of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five
years.
Don Munce, of Florida, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2024.
Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Direc-
tor of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of
five years.
William Shaw McDermott, of Massachusetts, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Metro-
politan Washington Airports Authority for a term
expiring May 30, 2024.
David Fabian Black, of North Dakota, to be Dep-
uty Commissioner of Social Security for the term ex-
piring January 19, 2019.
Andrew M. Saul, of New York, to be Commis-
sioner of Social Security for the term expiring Janu-
ary 19, 2019.
Pamela Bates, of Virginia, to be Representative of
the United States of America to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, with the
rank of Ambassador.
Marshall Billingslea, of Virginia, to be an Under
Secretary of State (Civilian Security, Democracy, and
Human Rights).
Brett P. Giroir, of Texas, to be Representative of
the United States on the Executive Board of the
World Health Organization.
Darrell E. Issa, of California, to be Director of the
Trade and Development Agency.
Ronald Mortensen, of Utah, to be an Assistant
Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migra-
tion).
Michael Pack, of Maryland, to be Chief Executive
Officer of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for
the term of three years.
Leandro Rizzuto, of New Jersey, to be Ambas-
sador to Barbados, and to serve concurrently and
without additional compensation as Ambassador to
the Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Domi-
nica, Grenada, and Saint Vincent and the Grena-
dines.
Mark Rosen, of Connecticut, to be United States
Executive Director of the International Monetary
Fund for a term of two years.
Alan R. Swendiman, of North Carolina, to be
Deputy Director of the Peace Corps.
Christine J. Toretti, of Pennsylvania, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Malta.
Victoria Ann Hughes, of Virginia, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for
National and Community Service for a term expiring
October 6, 2021.
Heather Reynolds, of Texas, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Na-
tional and Community Service for a term expiring
September 14, 2021.
William Bryan, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary
for Science and Technology, Department of Home-
land Security.
Shannon Lee Goessling, of Florida, to be Director
of the Violence Against Women Office, Department
of Justice.
James E. Trainor III, of Texas, to be a Member
of the Federal Election Commission for a term expir-
ing April 30, 2023.
David Christian Tryon, of Ohio, to be Chief
Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administra-
tion.
Mark Van Dyke Holmes, of New York, to be a
Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of
fifteen years.
Stanley Blumenfeld, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Central District of Cali-
fornia.
Jeremy B. Rosen, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Central District of Cali-
fornia.
Mark C. Scarsi, of California, to be United States
District Judge for the Central District of California.
Rodney K. Brown, of California, to be a Member
of the Farm Credit Administration Board, Farm
Credit Administration, for a term expiring October
13, 2024.
John Linder, of Georgia, to be Representative of
the United States of America to the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations, with the rank and status of
Ambassador.
Alma L. Golden, of Texas, to be an Assistant Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development.
Catherine Bird, of Texas, to be General Counsel
of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term
of five years.
Richard Giacolone, of Virginia, to be Federal Me-
diation and Conciliation Director.
Vincent F. DeMarco, of New York, to be United
States Marshal for the Eastern District of New York
for the term of four years.
Theodore Rokita, of Indiana, to be a Director of
the Amtrak Board of Directors for the remainder of
the term expiring January 3, 2021.
Stephen R. Bough, of Missouri, to be a Member
of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman
Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring Decem-
ber 10, 2021.
Kenneth Charles Canterbury, Jr., of South Caro-
lina, to be Director, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:25 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03JA9.PT2 D03JAPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D3
January 3, 2020
Kevin Ray Sweazea, of New Mexico, to be United
States District Judge for the District of New Mexico.
Daniel Z. Epstein, of Texas, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of
fifteen years.
Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit.
Keith E. Sonderling, of Florida, to be a Member
of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
for a term expiring July 1, 2024.
Owen McCurdy Cypher, of Michigan, to be
United States Marshal for the Eastern District of
Michigan for the term of four years.
Thomas L. Leonard III, of Michigan, to be United
States Attorney for the Western District of Michigan
for the term of four years.
Robert Joseph Kruckemeyer, of Texas, to be a
Member of the National Council on the Humanities
for a term expiring January 26, 2022.
Scott J. Laurer, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims
for the term of fifteen years.
James P. Danly, of Tennessee, to be a Member of
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the
remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2023.
Katharine MacGregor, of Pennsylvania, to be Dep-
uty Secretary of the Interior.
William Ellison Grayson, of California, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Estonia.
Leora Rosenberg Levy, of Connecticut, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Chile.
Barbera Hale Thornhill, of California, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Singapore.
Cory T. Wilson, of Mississippi, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Mississippi.
Jenny A. McGee, of Texas, to be an Assistant Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development.
Fernando L. Aenlle-Rocha, of California, to be
United States District Judge for the Central District
of California.
Adam L. Braverman, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
California.
Almo J. Carter, of the District of Columbia, to be
a Commissioner of the United States Parole Com-
mission for a term of six years.
Sandy Nunes Leal, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Central District of Cali-
fornia.
R. Shireen Matthews, of California, to be a United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
California.
Rick Lloyd Richmond, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Central District of Cali-
fornia.
Stephen Sidney Schwartz, of Virginia, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims
for a term of fifteen years.
Stephen A. Vaden, of Tennessee, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of International Trade.
Grace Karaffa Obermann, of Virginia, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims
for a term of fifteen years.
Kathryn C. Davis, of Maryland, to be a Judge of
the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term
of fifteen years.
Edward Hulvey Meyers, of Maryland, to be a
Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims
for a term of fifteen years.
Andrew Lynn Brasher, of Alabama, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.
John W. Holcomb, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Central District of Cali-
fornia.
Knut Sveinbjorn Johnson, of California, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of California.
Steve Kim, of California, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Central District of California.
Joshua M. Kindred, of Alaska, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Alaska.
Michelle M. Pettit, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
California.
Todd Wallace Robinson, of California, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of California.
Jennifer P. Togliatti, of Nevada, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Nevada.
John Peter Cronan, of New York, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
New York.
William Scott Hardy, of Pennsylvania, to be
United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Pennsylvania.
John F. Heil III, of Oklahoma, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern, Eastern and
Western Districts of Oklahoma.
David Cleveland Joseph, of Louisiana, to be
United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Louisiana.
Iris Lan, of New York, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of New York.
Matthew Thomas Schelp, of Missouri, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Missouri.
Finch Fulton, of Alabama, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:25 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03JA9.PT2 D03JAPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D4 January 3, 2020
3 Army nominations in the rank of general.
14 Coast Guard nominations in the rank of admi-
ral.
3 Marine Corps nominations in the rank of gen-
eral.
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Coast
Guard, Foreign Service, and Navy. Pages S9–10
Messages from the House: Page S8
Measures Referred: Page S8
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Pages S3, S8
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S8
Additional Cosponsors: Page S9
Adjournment: Senate convened at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 1:18 p.m., until 3 p.m. on Monday, Janu-
ary 6, 2020. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks
of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on page
S4.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: There
were no Public Bills or Resolutions introduced in to-
day’s Record.
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Raskin to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H1
Convening of the Second Session of the 116th
Congress: Pursuant to the 20th Amendment to the
Constitution, the House met at 12 noon on January
3, 2020 for the convening of the second session of
the One Hundred Sixteenth Congress. Pursuant to
section 8(a) of H. Res. 758, the Chair announced
that no organizational or legislative business will be
conducted on this day. The Chair further announced
that messages requiring action will be laid before the
House on a subsequent day and that bills and resolu-
tions introduced today will receive a number but
will not be referred to committee or noted in the
Record until a subsequent day. Executive commu-
nications, memorials, and petitions likewise will be
referred and numbered on a subsequent day. Page H1
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no Yea and Nay
votes, and there were no Recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and at
12:02 p.m. the House stands adjourned until 2 p.m.
on Tuesday, January 7, 2020, pursuant to section
8(c) of H. Res. 758.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1413)
S. 1790, to authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the Department of
Defense, for military construction, and for defense
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such fiscal year.
Signed on December 20, 2019. (Public Law 116–92)
H.R. 1158, making consolidated appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2020.
Signed on December 20, 2019. (Public Law 116–93)
H.R. 1865, making further consolidated appro-
priations for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020. Signed on December 20, 2019. (Public Law
116–94)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:25 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03JA9.PT2 D03JAPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D5
January 3, 2020
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
JANUARY 6, 2020
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:25 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D03JA9.PT2 D03JAPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D6 January 3, 2020
Next Meeting of the SENATE
3 p.m., Monday, January 6
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to be
Administrator of the Small Business Administration, and
vote on the motion to invoke cloture thereon at 5:30
p.m.
At 5 p.m., Senate expects Senator-designate Kelly Loef-
fler, of Georgia, to be sworn-in as Senator.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
2 p.m., Tuesday, January 7
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Establishing a quorum in the
House of Representatives for the Second Session of the
116th Congress.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:25 Jan 04, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D03JA9.PT2 D03JAPT2
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
