Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H9351
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2019 No. 196
House of Representatives
The House met at noon and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. HORSFORD).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
December 9, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable STEVEN
HORSFORD to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 1:50 p.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
PASS USMCA NOW
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, this
week, I hope and I pray that we are on
the verge of passing the United States-
Mexico-Canada trade deal, a deal that
will literally mean millions of dollars
in new market opportunities for Kan-
sas agriculture products, new customs
and trade rules for our small busi-
nesses, and thousands of new jobs for
Kansas that will allow more goods and
materials to be manufactured in this
great country.
Today, once again, I join nearly 160
of my colleagues in signing a letter
urging Speaker PELOSI to hold a vote
on this trade agreement. The agree-
ment will set farmers, ranchers, work-
ers, and businesses in Kansas up for
long-term success. This will lead to
more exports, more jobs, and higher
wages. It would be a great Christmas
present for all of Kansas and for all the
hardworking Americans across this
great Nation.
With now just 2 weeks remaining, the
House has so far squandered this entire
first session of the 116th Congress.
There is no excuse for holding a trade
agreement up that is expected to cre-
ate 176,000 jobs, deliver a $70 billion
boost to our economy, and make us
stronger in our trade negotiations with
China.
Speaker PELOSI, I beg you, stop put-
ting politics ahead of our producers.
The House has a great chance to secure
a victory for the American people.
Let’s deliver a win for our economy,
pass the United States-Mexico-Canada
trade agreement, and give America a
great Christmas present this year.
CELEBRATING THE COMPANIONSHIP OF PETS
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, this
week is pet week in our office, to cele-
brate our furry companions and the
happiness they bring to our lives.
In this spirit, this is an opportunity
to recognize that the pet food industry
is simply huge for Kansas. Pet food
manufacturers in the animal health
corridor stretching from Manhattan,
Kansas, to Columbia, Missouri, and
from Emporia, Kansas, to Omaha, Ne-
braska, account for more than half of
all pet industry sales in the United
States and provide thousands of jobs to
Kansans.
Many of our State’s finest agri-
culture commodities go into our do-
mestic animal food production net-
work. As companion animal pet prod-
ucts gain a larger foothold in the over-
all food market, it is vital we continue
to do all we can to capitalize on that
growth and deliver high-paying new
jobs for Kansas and encourage the de-
velopment of the industry to not only
benefit our farmers but all of Kansas.
Aside from the obvious economic rea-
sons to support the pet food industry in
our State, there are genuine benefits of
companion animals to humans. Pet
ownership has grown for a reason.
Many studies show that having a com-
panion animal, a pet, in the home can
reduce depression and blood pressure
and provide other mental health bene-
fits. Additionally, there is incredible
work being done with companion ani-
mals for our military servicemembers
when they return home suffering from
PTSD and other mental and physical
challenges.
Some of the most successful and in-
novative pet companies in the world
are in Kansas, incorporating our agri-
culture products in their pet food sup-
ply. There is a direct link between the
pet food industry and the Kansas econ-
omy, and I will continue to work to ex-
pand those opportunities for the indus-
try, both domestically and, very impor-
tantly, internationally.
The House has a chance to secure and
encourage pet innovation going on
across the country. We look forward to
that market growing.
f
SENATE SHOULD ACT ON HOUSE-
PASSED BILLS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
New Mexico (Ms. HAALAND) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. HAALAND. Mr. Speaker, I re-
flect on all that House Democrats have
done for the people this year and how
much harm the grim reaper of the Sen-
ate, MITCH MCCONNELL, has done by
purposefully stalling our legislative
agenda.
Our Democratic House majority has
worked relentlessly for the people to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.000 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9352 December 9, 2019
strengthen the health, economic secu-
rity, and well-being of every family in
every community, and we have made
real progress.
We ended the Trump government
shutdown, which inflicted needless pain
and chaos into the lives of our fellow
Americans and New Mexicans whose
paychecks, financial security, health,
and well-being were held hostage by
the President.
We stood strong and prevailed for the
American people and did not give him
the immoral, illegal border wall.
To improve the safety of our commu-
nities, we sent to the Senate common-
sense, bipartisan gun violence preven-
tion legislation that would make our
children safer.
As vice chair of the Democratic
Women’s Caucus, I am proud that we
have worked to strengthen women’s
personal and financial security by pass-
ing a strong reauthorization of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act, the Debbie
Smith Reauthorization Act, and the
Paycheck Fairness Act to ensure equal
pay for equal work.
To bolster the paychecks and retire-
ment security of working families, we
passed the Raise the Wage Act to in-
crease the Federal minimum wage to
$15 an hour, giving a raise to 33 million
Americans, including 20 million
women. We also passed the Butch
Lewis Act to protect the pensions of
more than 1 million workers and retir-
ees.
To live up to the promises that we
made to our veterans, we have passed
dozens of bipartisan bills, including
fixes to end unjust and unfair taxes on
military families; expanded benefits for
blue water Navy Vietnam veterans ex-
posed to Agent Orange; and legislation
to reduce barriers for women veterans
to access the VA, including an
antiharassment initiative.
To address our climate crisis, we
passed the Climate Action Now Act and
multiple bills to protect our public
lands for generations to come. I have
introduced legislation myself to pro-
mote natural solutions to climate
change, such as H.R. 4269, the Climate
Stewardship Act, and for the adoption
of clean energy, H.R. 5221, the 100%
Clean Economy Act.
I am especially proud to have led the
bipartisan effort on House passage of
the Chaco Cultural Heritage Area Pro-
tection Act to protect my ancestral
homeland from oil and gas drilling.
We have fought for those who have
been the targets of hateful rhetoric and
policies of this administration. We
passed H.R. 6, the American Dream and
Promise Act, to help Dreamers stay
right here in the United States, their
home, the only country they know.
Democrats have taken a stand to end
discrimination against LGBTQ Ameri-
cans by passing the historic Equality
Act, H.R. 5.
To stand up for human rights, we
passed bipartisan legislation to recog-
nize the Armenian genocide as the
atrocity that it was, hold Turkey ac-
countable for attacking our Kurdish al-
lies, reject the President’s disastrous
decisionmaking in Syria, and uphold
America’s commitment to human
rights and the rule of law in Hong
Kong.
In light of the threats our democracy
faces from foes foreign and domestic,
we passed H.R. 1, the For the People
Act; the SAFE Act; and the SHIELD
Act to strengthen our elections and de-
mocracy and boost our defenses against
foreign attacks on these systems. We
passed H.R. 4, the Voting Rights Ad-
vancement Act, to protect the right of
all Americans to participate in our de-
mocracy.
The Democratic House has sent Sen-
ator MCCONNELL more than 275 bipar-
tisan bills, yet he still refuses to take
them up. The American people deserve
and demand action, and we call on Sen-
ator MCCONNELL to put our legislation
up for a vote.
I am proud to have worked alongside
my colleagues in this House majority
to move these important issues forward
for the people.
f
STOP IGNORING CRISIS IN IDLIB,
SYRIA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today again to bring attention to
the travesty happening in Idlib, Syria.
A week ago, Syrian dictator Assad,
his protector Putin, and his Iranian co-
conspirators continued to bomb civil-
ians in the town of Idlib.
The Wisdom House School, a school
supported by my constituents in Ar-
kansas, has had to close for the third
time due to this bombing and the mas-
sive attacks.
I recently watched a video posted on
Twitter of the airstrikes hitting a ci-
vilian home in the same town where
Wisdom House School is located. Many
of the children attending the Wisdom
House School are now orphans. There
are no military targets in this area,
which has been repeatedly bombed by
the Assad regime.
When we look back on this calami-
tous conflict, the United States and
our allies in Europe will hang our
heads in shame for ignoring red lines
that gave a green light to Assad’s
slaughter of his own civilians by the
hundreds of thousands.
FUND NATO TO COUNTER RUSSIA
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker,
since its formation, NATO has served
as the foundation for security between
the United States and our allies in Eu-
rope.
Years ago, the now-29 members
agreed to a goal of spending at least 2
percent of their gross domestic product
on defense. When President Trump
took office, only three countries met
that objective. Now, it is nine. Presi-
dent Trump has done a good job urging
NATO to meet its obligations among
members.
Russia, under Putin, is a threat to
freedom that many in the post-Cold
War world have fought and died for.
For decades, Russia has engaged in
propaganda and political meddling in
the Western democracies. It has in-
vaded Ukraine and annexed Crimea and
territories in Georgia.
NATO members need to meet their
defense spending guidelines now more
than ever. Actions speak louder than
words, and NATO must continue to
counter Russia and Russia’s political
and military actions around the world.
HONORING LIFE AND LEGACY OF JERRY
MCKINNIS
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life and legacy
of one of Arkansas’ great outdoorsmen,
Mr. Jerry McKinnis, who recently
passed away at the age of 82.
A longtime Little Rock, Arkansas,
resident, Jerry was a pioneer in out-
door cable TV programming. He was
best known for his television program
‘‘The Fishin’ Hole,’’ which featured
fishing trips with celebrity guests like
Hall of Fame baseball player Ted Wil-
liams.
Jerry created the show after playing
baseball professionally for a short
time. ‘‘The Fishin’ Hole’’ aired for 44
years and was the longest running
show on ESPN short of ‘‘Sports-
Center.’’
Jerry has been inducted into the
International Game Fish Hall of Fame,
the Arkansas Sports Hall of Fame, the
Arkansas Outdoor Hall of Fame, the
National Fishing Hall of Fame, and the
Bass Fishing Hall of Fame.
Jerry was an inspiration and friend
to many across our State, and I extend
my respect, affection, and prayers to
his friends, family, and loved ones.
CONGRATULATING RACHELLE STEWART
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate Chief Dep-
uty Rachelle Stewart for receiving the
Lifesaving Award from Saline County
Sheriff Rodney Wright.
Stewart responded to an unknown
medical emergency to assist EMS per-
sonnel with a patient who was uncon-
scious and not breathing. Chief Deputy
Stewart quickly recognized the patient
was experiencing an opioid overdose
and administered Narcan to save the
patient’s life. Chief Deputy Stewart’s
action marked the fifth life saved by
Saline County sheriff deputies success-
fully using Narcan in the field.
I extend my congratulations to Chief
Deputy Rachelle Stewart and the Sa-
line County Sheriff’s Office for saving
lives and continuing the hard work of
protecting and serving central Arkan-
sas.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until 2
p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 12 o’clock and 14
minutes p.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.002 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9353
December 9, 2019
b 1400
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. DESAULNIER) at 2 p.m.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
God of the universe, we give You
thanks for giving us another day.
We ask Your blessing in these days to
come. You know well the
contentiousness of this session. Look
into the hearts of all the Members of
this people’s House to discern the good-
will within.
May the goodwill You find be re-
warded with Your grace. May any con-
trary spirit be banished.
In the days that come, help each
Member to understand well and inter-
pret positively, as they are able, the
positions of those with whom they dis-
agree. Grant to each the wisdom of Sol-
omon and to us all the faith and con-
fidence to know that, no matter how
difficult things appear to be, You con-
tinue to walk with our Nation, as You
have done over two centuries.
May all that is done in the people’s
House be for Your greater honor and
glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Speaker,
pursuant to clause 1, rule I, I demand a
vote on agreeing to the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Speaker,
I object to the vote on the ground that
a quorum is not present and make the
point of order that a quorum is not
present.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8, rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
The point of no quorum is considered
withdrawn.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from New York (Mr. ROSE)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. ROSE of New York led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
CONGRATULATING THE TOTTEN-
VILLE PIRATES FOOTBALL TEAM
(Mr. ROSE of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. ROSE of New York. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to congratulate the
Tottenville Pirates football team on an
incredible season that took them all
the way to the New York PSAL cham-
pionship game at Yankee Stadium last
week.
Now, although they came up just
short of their ultimate goal, the Pi-
rates should be incredibly proud of
what they accomplished this season.
After a loss in their season opener, the
Pirates bounced back with a remark-
able 11-game winning streak, including
a dramatic last-second victory in their
first matchup with the eventual cham-
pions, Erasmus Hall.
In the championship game, their star
running back, Roland Dempster, bat-
tled through a hamstring injury until
he literally couldn’t run anymore and
had to be helped off the field by his
teammates.
I think I speak for all of Staten Is-
land when I say how incredibly proud I
am of Coach Brian Neville and the en-
tire Pirates team for putting up a hell
of a fight.
Mr. Speaker, I ask all of my col-
leagues to join me in congratulating
them, particularly the graduating sen-
iors, and wishing them well in what-
ever comes next, both on and off the
field.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, December 9, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on De-
cember 9, 2019, at 10:07 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 743.
That the Senate passed with an amend-
ment H.R. 2486.
With best wishes, I am
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 3 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 5 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
b 1501
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 3 o’clock and
1 minute p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
MSI STEM ACHIEVEMENT ACT
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 4372) to direct Federal
science agencies and the Office of
Science and Technology Policy to un-
dertake activities to improve the qual-
ity of undergraduate STEM education
and enhance the research capacity at
the Nation’s HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs,
and for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4372
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘MSI STEM
Achievement Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) Evidence suggests that the supply of STEM
workers is not keeping pace with the rapidly
evolving needs of the public and private sector,
resulting in a deficit often referred to as a
STEM skills shortage.
(2) According to the Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics, the United States will need one million ad-
ditional STEM professionals than it is on track
to produce in the coming decade.
(3) STEM occupations offer higher wages,
more opportunities for advancement, and a
higher degree of job security than non-STEM
occupations.
(4) The composition of the STEM workforce
does not reflect the current or projected diver-
sity of the Nation, with Hispanics, African
Americans, and other racial and ethnic minori-
ties, significantly underrepresented in the
STEM workforce compared to their presence in
the workforce more generally.
(5) A stronger national commitment to increas-
ing the diversity of the STEM workforce is need-
ed to help address the STEM skills shortage.
(6) According to a 2019 National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine report enti-
tled ‘‘Minority Serving Institutions: America’s
Underutilized Resource for Strengthening the
STEM Workforce’’, two- and four-year minority
serving institutions enroll nearly 30 percent of
all undergraduate students—a percentage that
is expected to grow in the coming years—in the
United States higher education system and play
a critical role in providing important pathways
to STEM-related education, training, and ca-
reers for students of color.
(7) HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs are highly suc-
cessful at educating underrepresented minority
students in STEM fields and can serve as best
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.005 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9354 December 9, 2019
practice models for other colleges and univer-
sities to further expand participation of under-
represented minorities in the STEM workforce.
(8) Increased investment in STEM infrastruc-
ture at HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs has the poten-
tial to increase these institutions’ ability to edu-
cate even more students in the STEM dis-
ciplines.
(9) With the demand for STEM skills exceed-
ing the supply of STEM graduates, success of
HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs in educating and
training science and engineering leaders is in-
creasingly important for United States economic
growth and competitiveness.
SEC. 3. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
REVIEW.
Not later than 3 years after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the
United States shall report to Congress—
(1) an inventory of competitive funding pro-
grams and initiatives carried out by Federal
science agencies that are targeted to HBCUs,
TCUs, and MSIs or partnerships with HBCUs,
TCUs, and MSIs;
(2) an assessment of Federal science agency
outreach activities to increase the participation
and competitiveness of HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs
in the funding programs and initiatives identi-
fied in paragraph (1); and
(3) recommendations of the Comptroller Gen-
eral to increase the participation of and the rate
of success of HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs in com-
petitive funding programs offered by Federal
science agencies.
SEC. 4. RESEARCH AND CAPACITY BUILDING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the National
Science Foundation shall award grants, on a
competitive basis, to institutions of higher edu-
cation or nonprofit organizations (or consortia
thereof) to—
(1) conduct research described in subsection
(b) with respect to HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs;
(2) conduct activities described in subsection
(c) to build the capacity of HBCUs, TCUs, and
MSIs to graduate students who are competitive
in attaining and advancing in the STEM work-
force;
(3) build the research capacity and competi-
tiveness of HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs in STEM
disciplines; and
(4) identify and broadly disseminate effective
models for programs and practices at HBCUs,
TCUs, and MSIs that promote the education
and workforce preparation of minority students
pursuing STEM studies and careers in which
such students are underrepresented.
(b) RESEARCH.—Research described in this
subsection is research on the contribution of
HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs to the education and
training of underrepresented minority students
in STEM fields and to the meeting of national
STEM workforce needs, including—
(1) the diversity with respect to local context,
cultural differences, and institutional structure
among HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs and any asso-
ciated impact on education and research en-
deavors;
(2) effective practices at HBCUs, TCUs, and
MSIs and associated outcomes on student re-
cruitment, retention, and advancement in STEM
fields, including the ability for students to com-
pete for fellowships, employment, and advance-
ment in the workforce;
(3) contributions made by HBCUs, TCUs, and
MSIs to local, regional, and national
workforces;
(4) the unique challenges and opportunities
for HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs in attaining the re-
sources needed for integrating effective practices
in STEM education, including providing re-
search experiences for underrepresented minor-
ity students;
(5) the access of students at HBCUs, TCUs,
and MSIs to STEM infrastructure and any asso-
ciated outcomes for STEM competency;
(6) models of STEM curriculum, learning, and
teaching successful at HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs
for increasing participation, retention, and suc-
cess of underrepresented minority students; and
(7) successful or promising partnerships be-
tween HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs and other insti-
tutions of higher education, private sector and
non-profit organizations, Federal laboratories,
and international research institutions.
(c) CAPACITY BUILDING.—Activities described
in this subsection include the design, develop-
ment, implementation, expansion, and assess-
ment of—
(1) metrics of success to best capture the
achievements of HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs and
students of such institutions to account for in-
stitutional context and missions, faculty invest-
ment, student populations, student needs, and
institutional resource constraints;
(2) enhancements to undergraduate STEM
curriculum at HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs to in-
crease the participation, retention, degree com-
pletion, and success of underrepresented stu-
dents;
(3) professional development programs to in-
crease the numbers and the high-quality prepa-
ration of STEM faculty at HBCUs, TCUs, and
MSIs, including programs to encourage STEM
doctoral students to teach at HBCUs, TCUs,
and MSIs; and
(4) mechanisms for institutions of higher edu-
cation that are not HBCUs, TCUs, or MSIs to
partner with HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs on STEM
education, including the facilitation of student
transfer, mentoring programs for students and
junior faculty, joint research projects, and stu-
dent access to graduate education.
(d) RESEARCH EXPERIENCES.—Grants under
this section may fund the development or expan-
sion of opportunities for the exchange of stu-
dents and faculty to conduct research, includ-
ing through partnerships with institutions of
higher education that are not HBCUs, TCUs, or
MSIs, private sector and non-profit organiza-
tions, Federal laboratories, and international
research institutions.
(e) PARTNERSHIPS.—In awarding grants under
this section, the Director of the National Science
Foundation shall—
(1) encourage HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs and
consortia thereof and partnerships with one or
more HBCU, TCU, or MSI, to submit proposals;
(2) require proposals submitted in partnership
with one or more HBCU, TCU, or MSI include
a plan for establishing a sustained partnership
that is jointly developed and managed, draws
from the capacities of each institution, and is
mutually beneficial; and
(3) encourage proposals submitted in partner-
ship with the private sector, non-profit organi-
zations, Federal laboratories, and international
research institutions, as appropriate.
(f) MSI CENTERS OF INNOVATION.—Grants
under this section may fund the establishment
of no more than five MSI Centers of Innovation
to leverage successes of HBCUs, TCUs, and
MSIs in STEM education and research training
of underrepresented minority students as models
for other institutions, including both HBCUs,
TCUs, and MSIs and institutions of higher edu-
cation that are not HBCUs, TCUs, or MSIs.
Such centers will be located on campuses of se-
lected institutions of higher education and serve
as incubators to allow institutions of higher
education to experiment, pilot, evaluate, and
scale up promising practices.
(g) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to the
Director of the National Science Foundation
$170,000,000 for fiscal year 2020, $175,000,000 for
fiscal year 2021, $180,000,000 for fiscal year FY
2022, $185,000,000 for fiscal year 2023, and
$190,000,000 fiscal year 2024 to carry out this sec-
tion.
SEC. 5. AGENCY RESPONSIBILITIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In consultation with outside
stakeholders and the heads of the Federal
science agencies, the Director shall develop a
uniform set of policy guidelines for Federal
science agencies to carry out a sustained pro-
gram of outreach activities to increase clarity,
transparency, and accountability for Federal
science agency investments in STEM education
and research activities at HBCUs, TCUs, and
MSIs.
(b) OUTREACH ACTIVITIES.—In developing pol-
icy guidelines under subsection (a) the Director
shall include guidelines that require each Fed-
eral science agency—
(1) to designate a liaison for HBCUs, TCUs,
and MSIs responsible for—
(A) enhancing direct communication with
HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs to increase the Fed-
eral science agency’s understanding of the ca-
pacity and needs of such institutions and to
raise awareness of available Federal funding
opportunities at such institutions;
(B) coordinating programs, activities, and ini-
tiatives while accounting for the capacity and
needs of HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs;
(C) tracking Federal science agency invest-
ments in and engagement with HBCUs, TCUs,
and MSIs; and
(D) reporting progress toward increasing par-
ticipation of HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs in grant
programs;
(2) to publish annual forecasts of funding op-
portunities and proposal deadlines, including
for grants, contracts, subcontracts, and cooper-
ative agreements;
(3) to conduct on-site reviews of research fa-
cilities at HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs, as prac-
ticable, and make recommendations regarding
strategies for becoming more competitive in re-
search;
(4) to hold geographically accessible or virtual
workshops on research priorities of the Federal
science agency and on how to write competitive
grant proposals;
(5) to ensure opportunities for HBCUs, TCUs,
and MSIs to directly communicate with Federal
science agency officials responsible for man-
aging competitive grant programs in order to re-
ceive feedback on research ideas and proposals,
including guidance on the Federal science agen-
cy’s peer review process;
(6) to foster mutually beneficial public-private
collaboration among Federal science agencies,
industry, Federal laboratories, academia, and
nonprofit organizations to—
(A) identify alternative sources of funding for
STEM education and research at HBCUs, TCUs,
and MSIs;
(B) provide access to high-quality, relevant re-
search experiences for students and faculty of
HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs;
(C) expand the professional networks of stu-
dents and faculty of HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs;
(D) broaden STEM educational opportunities
for students and faculty of HBCUs, TCUs, and
MSIs; and
(E) support the transition of students of
HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs into the STEM work-
force; and
(7) to publish an annual report that provides
an account of Federal science agency invest-
ments in HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs, including
data on the level of participation of HBCUs,
TCUs, and MSIs as prime recipients/contractors
or subrecipients/subcontractors.
(c) STRATEGIC PLAN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Director,
in collaboration with the head of each Federal
science agency, shall submit to Congress a re-
port containing a strategic plan for each Fed-
eral science agency to increase the capacity of
HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs to compete effectively
for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements
and to encourage HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs to
participate in Federal programs.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In developing a stra-
tegic plan under paragraph (1), the Director
and each head of each Federal science agency
shall consider—
(A) issuing new or expanding existing funding
opportunities targeted to HBCUs, TCUs, and
MSIs;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.003 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9355
December 9, 2019
(B) modifying existing research and develop-
ment program solicitations to incentivize effec-
tive partnerships with HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs;
(C) offering planning grants for HBCUs,
TCUs, and MSIs to develop or equip grant of-
fices with the requisite depth of knowledge to
submit competitive grant proposals and manage
awarded grants;
(D) offering additional training programs and
individualized and timely guidance to grant of-
ficers and faculty researchers at HBCUs, TCUs,
and MSIs to ensure they understand the re-
quirements for an effective grant proposal; and
(E) other approaches for making current com-
petitive funding models more accessible for
under-resourced HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs.
(d) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this Act,
and every 5 years thereafter, the Director shall
report to Congress on the implementation by
Federal science agencies of the policy guidelines
developed under this section.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘Director’’ means
the Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy.
(2) FEDERAL LABORATORY.—The term ‘‘Fed-
eral laboratory’’ has the meaning given such
term in section 4 of the Stevenson-Wydler Tech-
nology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3703).
(3) FEDERAL SCIENCE AGENCY.—The term
‘‘Federal science agency’’ means any Federal
agency with an annual extramural research ex-
penditure of over $100,000,000.
(4) HBCU.—The term ‘‘HBCU’’ has the mean-
ing given the term ‘‘part B institution’’ in sec-
tion 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1061).
(5) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The
term ‘‘institution of higher education’’ has the
meaning given such term in section 101 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
(6) MINORITY SERVING INSTITUTION.—The term
‘‘minority serving institution’’ or ‘‘MSI’’ means
Hispanic-Serving Institutions as defined in sec-
tion 502 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C 1101a); Alaska Native Serving Institutions
and Native Hawaiian-Serving Institutions as de-
fined in section 317 of the Higher Education Act
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059d); and Predominantly
Black Institutions, Asian American and Native
American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions,
and Native American-Serving Nontribal Institu-
tions as defined in section 371 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q(c)).
(7) STEM.—The term ‘‘STEM’’ has the mean-
ing given the term in the STEM Education Act
of 2015 (42 U.S.C. 1861 et seq.).
(8) TCU.—The term ‘‘TCU’’ has the meaning
given the term ‘‘Tribal College or University’’ in
section 316 of the Higher Education Act of 1965
(20 U.S.C. 1059c).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous materials on H.R.
4372, the bill that is under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4372, the MSI STEM Achievement Act,
and I thank Representative WALTZ for
joining me in introducing this bill and
for his commitment to increasing di-
versity in Science, Technology, Engi-
neering, and Math, or STEM fields.
This bill was developed based upon
recommendations in the 2019 National
Academy of Sciences report entitled,
‘‘Minority Serving Institutions: Amer-
ica’s Underutilized Resource for
Strengthening the STEM Workforce.’’
The demographics of our country are
changing, and we must do more to ad-
dress the underrepresentation of mi-
nority students in STEM to keep our
workforce competitive.
As stated in the report, the STEM
readiness of students of color will have
direct implications on America’s eco-
nomic growth, national security, and
global prosperity. The time to act is
now.
Minority-serving institutions have a
long record of success in recruiting, re-
taining, and graduating underrep-
resented minority students in STEM.
However, more investment and out-
reach are needed to enable the MSIs to
realize their potential.
The MSI STEM Achievement Act en-
sures that Federal STEM education
and research funding opportunities are
more accessible to the MSIs. The legis-
lation directs the Government Ac-
countability Office to compile an in-
ventory of Federal science agency pro-
grams targeted to MSIs and to make
recommendations of what more agen-
cies can do to encourage increased par-
ticipation and success for the MSIs in
these programs.
In addition, the legislation author-
izes the National Science Foundation
to support research on the challenges
and successes MSIs have had in con-
tributing to the STEM workforce, in-
cluding approaches to building the re-
search competitiveness of MSIs.
And finally, the bill directs the Office
of Science and Technology Policy to
develop a government-wide strategic
plan and sustained outreach program
to support STEM education and re-
search at the MSIs.
It is important to remember that
these institutions are not a monolith.
Indeed, their focus on meeting the dis-
tinct needs of their students has been
critical to their success. In carrying
out the activities of this act, Federal
science agencies and OSTP should en-
sure that they are accounting for the
diversity among these institutions and
the populations they serve. If we are to
continue to prosper as a Nation, we
must do more to diversify our STEM
workforce.
Fortunately, the more than 700 MSIs
that enroll nearly 30 percent of our Na-
tion’s undergraduates know how to
solve this problem. The MSI STEM
Achievement Act will ensure these in-
stitutions are equipped with the re-
sources they need to lead the way.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this good, bipartisan bill, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to cosponsor
this legislation led by Chairwoman
JOHNSON and Representative MICHAEL
WALTZ, which continues the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Tech-
nology’s bipartisan work to support,
encourage, and develop the next gen-
eration of America’s science, tech-
nology, engineering, mathematics, and
computer science workforce.
Minority-serving institutions, includ-
ing historically Black colleges and uni-
versities, Hispanic-serving institutions,
and Tribal colleges and universities
have a long record of success in re-
cruiting, retaining, and graduating
underrepresented students in STEM
fields.
In my own district, I have seen the
unique value of minority-serving insti-
tutions. For more than 100 years,
Langston University, a historically
Black college and land-grant institu-
tion, has educated students of all back-
grounds. They have influenced people’s
lives beyond the classroom in service
to the community in both rural and
urban Oklahoma. This legislation will
help schools like Langston prepare
their students to fill the STEM jobs of
the 21st century.
Since 1990, employment in STEM oc-
cupations has grown by nearly 80 per-
cent. Over the next decade, with de-
mand continuing to grow and U.S. uni-
versities expected to produce only less
than one-third of the STEM graduates
needed, the STEM shortage is antici-
pated to reach 1 million professionals.
At the same time, minorities are se-
verely underrepresented in STEM
fields, only accounting for 11 percent of
the STEM workforce. To meet this
growing demand, talent from all groups
is essential.
The Trump administration has also
recognized this need by calling for an
increase of diversity, equality, and in-
clusion in Federal STEM programs in
its recent 5-year STEM strategic plan.
This bill that we are considering
today takes steps to meet the adminis-
tration’s call to action by providing for
increased transparency, account-
ability, and accessibility of Federal
STEM education and research funds for
MSIs. Without a diverse talent pool of
Americans with strong STEM knowl-
edge and skills prepared for the jobs of
the future, the U.S. will not be able to
maintain the innovation that supports
key sectors of the economy, including
agriculture, energy, healthcare, and de-
fense.
I, again, thank Chairwoman JOHNSON
and Representative WALTZ for their
leadership. I encourage my colleagues
to support this legislation, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. WALTZ).
Mr. WALTZ. Mr. Speaker, since 1904,
the Bethune Cookman University, a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:23 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.003 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9356 December 9, 2019
historically Black college, has contrib-
uted to a rich and diverse history in
my district. Four thousand students
proudly call this university home in
Florida’s Sixth District, and we are
proud of all of Bethune Cookman’s ac-
complishments, especially in STEM
fields.
Minorities make up nearly 30 percent
of America’s population, but nation-
wide, as my distinguished colleague
from Oklahoma and the administration
have noted, we are seeing a gap in mi-
nority representation in STEM fields.
Believe it or not, minorities only ac-
count for 11 percent of the STEM work-
force.
As we all know, the demand for
STEM fields is at an all-time high.
Over the next decade, the STEM short-
age is anticipated to reach 1 million
professionals. If we want America to
compete and succeed, we must and we
need to make sure our workforce re-
flects our country’s diversity. The bill
we are considering today, the MSI
STEM Achievement Act, would help in-
crease the capacity for minority stu-
dents and STEM curricula and encour-
age partnerships with industry and
Federal laboratories.
In short, this bill will enhance our
domestic workforce, so as to ensure
America continues to compete glob-
ally. If America wants to lead mili-
tarily, economically, and critically in
space, we must lead in STEM.
I would be remiss to not also mention
the importance of women in STEM. As
I have said countless times since I have
been elected, and will continue to say,
from my experiences as a veteran and a
Green Beret fighting all over the globe,
where women thrive in business, where
women thrive in civil society and in
politics, extremism doesn’t, and it is
just that simple. And for that reason,
diversity in STEM is truly a national
security issue.
And in Volusia County, in my dis-
trict in Florida, just north of Cape Ca-
naveral and just north of the Kennedy
Space Center, we are seeing countless
businesses participate in workforce de-
velopment programs like the Space
Coast Consortium Apprenticeship Pro-
gram. This program and so many oth-
ers are making huge strides to advance
STEM curriculum and workforce devel-
opment.
As the Republican lead on the MSI
STEM Achievement Act, I want to
thank Chairwoman JOHNSON and Rank-
ing Member LUCAS for working with
me to improve participation in STEM
at these critically important MSIs.
For America’s continued predomi-
nance in science and technology, I urge
my colleagues to support this impor-
tant bill and for its passage.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
The United States is in a race to re-
main the world leader in science and
technology. The only way we will win
is by utilizing America’s most valuable
resource, our people. This means devel-
oping a diverse, STEM-capable work-
force at every educational level and
from every background.
Creating opportunities for students
to not only develop STEM knowledge
but also to have hands-on experience is
essential. Research shows that stu-
dents, especially those from underrep-
resented minority backgrounds, are
more likely to graduate from science
and engineering programs if they have
opportunities to engage in STEM
course content with peers, participate
in undergraduate research, and join
science clubs and organizations.
This bill will support such STEM
education and training activities at
MSIs, providing these students with
the skills necessary to develop and
flourish in the 21st century. These in-
vestments will help grow our work-
force, improve our economy, and pro-
tect our country.
I, again, would like to thank Chair-
woman JOHNSON and Representative
WALTZ for their leadership, and I en-
courage my colleagues to support this
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I have no further requests for time, and
I simply want to thank all of the Mem-
bers and staff involved in this legisla-
tion. I urge its passage.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4372, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1515
ENGINEERING BIOLOGY RESEARCH
AND DEVELOPMENT ACT OF 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 4373) to provide for a co-
ordinated Federal research initiative
to ensure continued United States
leadership in engineering biology, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4373
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Engineering
Biology Research and Development Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
The Congress makes the following findings:
(1) Cellular and molecular processes may
be used, mimicked, or redesigned to develop
new products, processes, and systems that
improve societal well-being, strengthen na-
tional security, and contribute to the econ-
omy.
(2) Engineering biology relies on a work-
force with a diverse and unique set of skills
combining the biological, physical, chemical,
and information sciences and engineering.
(3) Long-term research and development is
necessary to create breakthroughs in engi-
neering biology. Such research and develop-
ment requires government investment as
many of the benefits are too distant or un-
certain for industry to support alone.
(4) Research is necessary to inform evi-
dence-based governance of engineering biol-
ogy and to support the growth of the engi-
neering biology industry.
(5) The Federal Government can play an
important role by facilitating the develop-
ment of tools and technologies to further ad-
vance engineering biology, including user fa-
cilities, by facilitating public-private part-
nerships, by supporting risk research, and by
facilitating the commercial application in
the United States of research funded by the
Federal Government.
(5) The United States led the development
of the science and engineering techniques
that created the field of engineering biology,
but due to increasing international competi-
tion, the United States is at risk of losing its
competitive advantage if does not invest the
necessary resources and have a national
strategy.
(6) A National Engineering Biology Initia-
tive can serve to establish new research di-
rections and technology goals, improve
interagency coordination and planning proc-
esses, drive technology transfer to the pri-
vate sector, and help ensure optimal returns
on the Federal investment.
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) BIOMANUFACTURING.—The term ‘‘bio-
manufacturing’’ means the utilization of bio-
logical systems to develop new and advance
existing products, tools, and processes at
commercial scale.
(2) ENGINEERING BIOLOGY.—The term ‘‘engi-
neering biology’’ means the application of
engineering design principles and practices
to biological systems, including molecular
and cellular systems, to advance funda-
mental understanding of complex natural
systems and to enable novel or optimize
functions and capabilities.
(3) INITIATIVE.—The term ‘‘Initiative’’
means the National Engineering Biology Re-
search and Development Initiative estab-
lished under section 4.
(4) OMICS.—The term ‘‘omics’’ refers to the
collective technologies used to explore the
roles, relationships, and actions of the var-
ious types of molecules that make up the
cells of an organism.
SEC. 4. NATIONAL ENGINEERING BIOLOGY RE-
SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT INITIA-
TIVE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President, acting
through the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy, shall implement a National
Engineering Biology Research and Develop-
ment Initiative to advance societal well-
being, national security, sustainability, and
economic productivity and competitiveness
through—
(1) advancing areas of research at the
intersection of the biological, physical,
chemical, and information sciences and engi-
neering to accelerate scientific under-
standing and technological innovation in en-
gineering biology;
(2) advancing areas of biomanufacturing
research to optimize, standardize, scale, and
deliver new products and solutions;
(3) supporting social and behavioral
sciences and economics research that ad-
vances the field of engineering biology and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.010 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9357
December 9, 2019
contributes to the development and public
understanding of new products, processes,
and technologies;
(4) supporting risk research, including
under subsection (d);
(5) supporting the development of novel
tools and technologies to accelerate sci-
entific understanding and technological in-
novation in engineering biology;
(6) expanding the number of researchers,
educators, and students with engineering bi-
ology training, including from traditionally
underserved populations;
(7) accelerating the translation and com-
mercialization of engineering biology re-
search and development by the private sec-
tor; and
(8) improving the interagency planning and
coordination of Federal Government activi-
ties related to engineering biology.
(b) INITIATIVE ACTIVITIES.—The activities
of the Initiative shall include—
(1) sustained support for engineering biol-
ogy research and development through—
(A) grants to individual investigators and
teams of investigators, including inter-
disciplinary teams;
(B) projects funded under joint solicita-
tions by a collaboration of no fewer than two
agencies participating in the Initiative; and
(C) interdisciplinary research centers that
are organized to investigate basic research
questions, carry out technology development
and demonstration activities, and increase
understanding of how to scale up engineering
biology processes, including biomanufac-
turing;
(2) sustained support for databases and re-
lated tools, including—
(A) support for curated genomics,
epigenomics, and all other relevant omics
databases, including plant and microbial
databases, that are available to researchers
to carry out engineering biology research;
(B) development of standards for such
databases, including for curation, interoper-
ability, and protection of privacy and secu-
rity; and
(C) support for the development of com-
putational tools, including artificial intel-
ligence tools, that can accelerate research
and innovation using such databases; and
(D) an inventory and assessment of all Fed-
eral government omics databases to identify
opportunities for consolidation and inform
investment in such databases as critical in-
frastructure for the engineering biology re-
search enterprise;
(3) sustained support for the development,
optimization, and validation of novel tools
and technologies to enable the dynamic
study of molecular processes in situ, includ-
ing through grants to investigators at insti-
tutions of higher education and other non-
profit research institutions, and through the
Small Business Innovation Research Pro-
gram and the Small Business Technology
Transfer Program, as described in section 9
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638);
(4) education and training of under-
graduate and graduate students in engineer-
ing biology, in biomanufacturing, in bio-
process engineering, and in areas of com-
putational science applied to engineering bi-
ology;
(5) activities to develop robust mechanisms
for tracking and quantifying the outputs and
economic benefits of engineering biology;
and
(6) activities to accelerate the translation
and commercialization of new products,
processes, and technologies by—
(A) identifying precompetitive research op-
portunities;
(B) facilitating public-private partnerships
in engineering biology research and develop-
ment;
(C) connecting researchers, graduate stu-
dents, and postdoctoral fellows with entre-
preneurship education and training opportu-
nities; and
(D) supporting proof of concept activities
and the formation of startup companies in-
cluding through programs such as the Small
Business Innovation Research Program and
the Small Business Technology Transfer
Program.
(c) EXPANDING PARTICIPATION.—The Initia-
tive shall include, to the maximum extent
practicable, outreach to primarily under-
graduate and minority-serving institutions
about Initiative opportunities, and shall en-
courage the development of research collabo-
rations between research-intensive univer-
sities and primarily undergraduate and mi-
nority-serving institutions.
(d) ETHICAL, LEGAL, ENVIRONMENTAL, SAFE-
TY, SECURITY, AND SOCIETAL ISSUES.—Initia-
tive activities shall take into account eth-
ical, legal, environmental, safety, security,
and other appropriate societal issues by—
(1) supporting research, including in the
social sciences, and other activities address-
ing ethical, legal, environmental, and other
appropriate societal issues related to engi-
neering biology, including integrating re-
search on such topics with the research and
development in engineering biology, and en-
suring that the results of such research are
widely disseminated, including through
interdisciplinary engineering biology re-
search centers described in subsection (b)(1);
(2) supporting research and other activities
related to the safety and security implica-
tions of engineering biology, including out-
reach to increase awareness among feder-
ally-funded researchers at institutions of
higher education about potential safety and
security implications of engineering biology
research, as appropriate;
(3) ensuring that input from Federal and
non-Federal experts on the ethical, legal, en-
vironmental, security, and other appropriate
societal issues related to engineering biology
is integrated into the Initiative; and
(4) ensuring, through the agencies and de-
partments that participate in the Initiative,
that public input and outreach are inte-
grated into the Initiative by the convening
of regular and ongoing public discussions
through mechanisms such as workshops,
consensus conferences, and educational
events, as appropriate.
SEC. 5. INITIATIVE COORDINATION.
(a) INTERAGENCY COMMITTEE.—The Presi-
dent, acting through the Office of Science
and Technology Policy, shall designate an
interagency committee to coordinate engi-
neering biology, which shall be co-chaired by
the Office of Science and Technology Policy,
and include representatives from the Na-
tional Science Foundation, the Department
of Energy, the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration, the National Insti-
tute of Standards and Technology, the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, the National Institutes
of Health, the Bureau of Economic Analysis,
and any other agency that the President
considers appropriate (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘interagency committee’’).
The Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy shall select an additional
co-chairperson from among the members of
the Interagency Committee. The Interagency
Committee shall oversee the planning, man-
agement, and coordination of the Initiative.
The Interagency Committee shall—
(1) provide for interagency coordination of
Federal engineering biology research, devel-
opment, and other activities undertaken pur-
suant to the Initiative;
(2) establish and periodically update goals
and priorities for the Initiative;
(3) develop, not later than 12 months after
the date of enactment of this Act, and up-
date every 3 years, a strategic plan that—
(A) guides the activities of the Initiative
for purposes of meeting the goals and prior-
ities established under (and updated pursu-
ant to) paragraph (2); and
(B) describes—
(i) the Initiative’s support for long-term
funding for interdisciplinary engineering bi-
ology research and development;
(ii) the Initiative’s support for education
and public outreach activities;
(iii) the Initiative’s support for research
and other activities on ethical, legal, envi-
ronmental, safety, security, and other appro-
priate societal issues related to engineering
biology;
(iv) how the Initiative will move results
out of the laboratory and into application
for the benefit of society and United States
competitiveness; and
(v) how the Initiative will measure and
track the contributions of engineering biol-
ogy to United States economic growth and
other societal indicators;
(4) develop a national genomic sequencing
strategy to ensure engineering biology re-
search fully leverages plant, animal, and mi-
crobe biodiversity to enhance long-term in-
novation and competitiveness in engineering
biology in the United States;
(5) propose an annually coordinated inter-
agency budget for the Initiative that is in-
tended to ensure—
(A) the maintenance of a robust engineer-
ing biology research and development port-
folio; and
(B) that the balance of funding across the
Initiative is sufficient to meet the goals and
priorities established for the Program;
(6) develop a plan to utilize Federal pro-
grams, such as the Small Business Innova-
tion Research Program and the Small Busi-
ness Technology Transfer Program as de-
scribed in section 9 of the Small Business
Act (15 U.S.C. 638), in support of the activi-
ties described in section 4(b)(3); and
(7) in carrying out this section, take into
consideration the recommendations of the
advisory committee established under sec-
tion 6, the results of the workshop convened
under section 7, existing reports on related
topics, and the views of academic, State, in-
dustry, and other appropriate groups.
(b) ANNUAL REPORT.—Beginning with fiscal
year 2020, not later than 90 days after sub-
mission of the President’s annual budget re-
quest and each fiscal year thereafter, the
interagency committee shall prepare and
submit to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a
report that includes—
(1) a summarized agency budget in support
of the Initiative for the fiscal year to which
such budget request applies, and for the then
current fiscal year, including a breakout of
spending for each agency participating in the
Program and for the development and acqui-
sition of any research facilities and instru-
mentation; and
(2) an assessment of how Federal agencies
are implementing the plan described in sub-
section (a)(3), and a description of the
amount and number of awards made under
the Small Business Innovation Research Pro-
gram and the Small Business Technology
Transfer Program (as described in section 9
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 638)) in
support of the Initiative.
(c) INITIATIVE OFFICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall estab-
lish an Initiative Coordination Office, with a
Director and full-time staff, which shall—
(A) provide technical and administrative
support to the interagency committee and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.004 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9358 December 9, 2019
the advisory committee established under
section 6;
(B) serve as the point of contact on Federal
engineering biology activities for govern-
ment organizations, academia, industry, pro-
fessional societies, State governments, inter-
ested citizen groups, and others to exchange
technical and programmatic information;
(C) oversee interagency coordination of the
Initiative, including by encouraging and sup-
porting joint agency solicitation and selec-
tion of applications for funding of activities
under the Initiative;
(D) conduct public outreach, including dis-
semination of findings and recommendations
of the advisory committee established under
section 6, as appropriate; and
(E) promote access to, and early applica-
tion of, the technologies, innovations, and
expertise derived from Initiative activities
to agency missions and systems across the
Federal Government, and to United States
industry, including startup companies.
(2) FUNDING.—The Director of the Office of
Science and Technology Policy shall develop
an estimate of the funds necessary to carry
out the activities of the Initiative Coordina-
tion Office, including an estimate of how
much each participating agency described in
subsection (a) will contribute to such funds,
and submit such estimate to Congress no
later than 90 days after the enactment of
this Act.
(3) TERMINATION.—The Initiative Coordina-
tion Office established under this subsection
shall terminate on the date that is 10 years
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
unless a determination is made by the Presi-
dent that such Office is necessary to meet
the economic or national security goals of
the Program.
SEC. 6. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President, acting
through the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy, shall designate or establish
an advisory committee on engineering biol-
ogy research and development (in this sec-
tion referred to as the ‘‘advisory com-
mittee’’) to be composed of not fewer than 12
members, including representatives of re-
search and academic institutions, industry,
and nongovernmental entities, who are
qualified to provide advice on the Initiative.
(b) ASSESSMENT.—The advisory committee
shall assess—
(1) the current state of United States com-
petitiveness in engineering biology, includ-
ing the scope and scale of United States in-
vestments in engineering biology research
and development in the international con-
text;
(2) current market barriers to commer-
cialization of engineering biology products,
processes, and tools in the United States;
(3) progress made in implementing the Ini-
tiative;
(4) the need to revise the Initiative;
(5) the balance of activities and funding
across the Initiative;
(6) whether the strategic plan developed or
updated by the interagency committee es-
tablished under section 5 is helping to main-
tain United States leadership in engineering
biology;
(7) the management, coordination, imple-
mentation, and activities of the Initiative;
and
(8) whether ethical, legal, environmental,
safety, security, and other appropriate soci-
etal issues are adequately addressed by the
Initiative.
(c) REPORTS.—Beginning not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, and not less frequently than once every
3 years thereafter, the advisory committee
shall submit to the President, the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology of
the House of Representatives, and the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation of the Senate, a report on—
(1) the findings of the advisory commit-
tee’s assessment under subsection (b); and
(2) the advisory committee’s recommenda-
tions for ways to improve the Initiative.
(d) APPLICATION OF FEDERAL ADVISORY
COMMITTEE ACT.—Section 14 of the Federal
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.)
shall not apply to the Advisory Committee.
SEC. 7. EXTERNAL REVIEW OF ETHICAL, LEGAL,
ENVIRONMENTAL, AND SOCIETAL
ISSUES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 6 months
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Director of the National Science Foundation
shall enter into an agreement with the Na-
tional Academies of Sciences, Engineering,
and Medicine to conduct a review, and make
recommendations with respect to, the eth-
ical, legal, environmental, and other appro-
priate societal issues related to engineering
biology research and development. The re-
view shall include—
(1) an assessment of the current research
on such issues;
(2) a description of the research gaps relat-
ing to such issues;
(3) recommendations on how the Initiative
can address the research needs identified
pursuant to paragraph (2); and
(4) recommendations on how engineering
biology researchers can best incorporate con-
siderations of ethical, legal, environmental,
and other societal issues into the develop-
ment of research proposals and the conduct
of research.
(b) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—The agreement
entered into under subsection (a) shall re-
quire the National Academy of Sciences, En-
gineering, and Medicine to, not later than 2
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act—
(1) submit to the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a report containing the findings and
recommendations of the review conducted
under subsection (a); and
(2) make a copy of such report available on
a publicly accessible website.
SEC. 8. AGENCY ACTIVITIES.
(a) NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION.—As
part of the Initiative, the National Science
Foundation shall—
(1) support basic research in engineering
biology through individual grants and
through interdisciplinary research centers;
(2) support research on the environmental,
legal, and social implications of engineering
biology;
(3) provide support for research instrumen-
tation for engineering biology disciplines, in-
cluding support for research, development,
optimization and validation of novel tech-
nologies to enable the dynamic study of mo-
lecular processes in situ;
(4) support curriculum development and re-
search experiences for secondary, under-
graduate, and graduate students in engineer-
ing biology and biomanufacturing; and
(5) award grants, on a competitive basis, to
enable institutions to support graduate stu-
dents and postdoctoral fellows who perform
some of their engineering biology research in
an industry setting.
(b) DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE.—As part of
the Initiative, the Director of the National
Institute of Standards and Technology
shall—
(1) establish a bioscience research program
to advance the development of standard ref-
erence materials and measurements and to
create new data tools, techniques, and proc-
esses necessary to advance engineering biol-
ogy and biomanufacturing;
(2) provide access to user facilities with ad-
vanced or unique equipment, services, mate-
rials, and other resources to industry, insti-
tutions of higher education, nonprofit orga-
nizations, and government agencies to per-
form research and testing; and
(3) provide technical expertise to inform
the potential development of guidelines or
safeguards for new products, processes, and
systems of engineering biology.
(c) DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.—As part of
the Initiative, the Secretary of Energy
shall—
(1) conduct and support research, develop-
ment, demonstration, and commercial appli-
cation activities in engineering biology, in-
cluding in the areas of synthetic biology, ad-
vanced biofuel development, biobased mate-
rials, and environmental remediation;
(2) support the development, optimization
and validation of novel, scalable tools and
technologies to enable the dynamic study of
molecular processes in situ; and
(3) provide access to user facilities with ad-
vanced or unique equipment, services, mate-
rials, and other resources, as appropriate, to
industry, institutions of higher education,
nonprofit organizations, and government
agencies to perform research and testing.
(d) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE AD-
MINISTRATION.—As part of the Initiative, the
National Aeronautics and Space Administra-
tion shall—
(1) conduct and support basic and applied
research in engineering biology, including in
synthetic biology, and related to Earth and
space sciences, aeronautics, space tech-
nology, and space exploration and experi-
mentation, consistent with the priorities es-
tablished in the National Academies’ decadal
surveys; and
(2) award grants, on a competitive basis,
that enable institutions to support graduate
students and postdoctoral fellows who per-
form some of their engineering biology re-
search in an industry setting.
(e) ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY.—
As part of the Initiative, the Environmental
Protection Agency shall support research on
how products, processes, and systems of en-
gineering biology will affect or can protect
the environment.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous materials on H.R.
4373, the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 4373,
the Engineering Biology Research and
Development Act of 2019.
I want to thank Ranking Member
LUCAS for joining me in introducing
this legislation.
The term ‘‘engineering biology’’
means the application of engineering
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.004 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9359
December 9, 2019
design, principles, and practices to bio-
logical systems to advance funda-
mental understanding of complex nat-
ural systems and to enable novel func-
tions and capabilities.
Engineering biology research is used
in microbes and plants to grow food
more resilient to climate change, re-
duce our dependency on fossil fuels,
and make more effective drugs to treat
human diseases. Some researchers are
even engineering microbes for environ-
mental cleanup. These are some of our
Nation’s and world’s greatest chal-
lenges, and engineering biology is one
of our greatest tools.
The economy of the 21st century will
be driven by the bioeconomy. Other
countries are making significant in-
vestments in engineering biology re-
search and development. We must rec-
ognize that U.S. leadership is not just
about growing our economy and ensur-
ing that our Nation benefits from the
products of engineering biology; it is
also about leading responsibly.
As China accelerates its own invest-
ments and the tools of engineering bi-
ology are increasingly cheap and acces-
sible to individuals everywhere, we
must also be mindful of the security
implications. The potential for misuse
of this technology to cause harm
makes more urgent our need to invest
strategically in engineering biology re-
search today.
Along with authorizing a Federal en-
gineering biology research initiative,
this bill would also establish a frame-
work for greater coordination of Fed-
eral investments in engineering biol-
ogy; require a national strategy for
those investments; expand public-pri-
vate partnerships; focus on the edu-
cation and training for the next gen-
eration of engineering biology re-
searchers; and address any potential
ethical, security, and societal issues
associated with engineering biology re-
search.
It is past time for the United States
to recognize the significance of this
emerging research area to our eco-
nomic and national security.
I was disappointed by the lack of
such recognition in this administra-
tion’s last budget request but hopeful
to see the tide turning with the con-
vening of a recent White House summit
on the bioeconomy.
I look forward to working with my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle
and with the administration to ensure
that the United States will not lose its
leadership position in this area.
H.R. 4373 is an important bill, and I
urge my colleagues to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 4373, the En-
gineering Biology Research and Devel-
opment Act of 2019.
I was proud to join Chairwoman
JOHNSON, as well as Representatives
JIM SENSENBRENNER and ZOE LOFGREN,
in introducing this bill.
The U.S. was a key driver in biologi-
cal innovation in the 20th century, but
there is increasing global competition.
Other countries recognize the benefits
of biotech technology and are striving
to capture its potential through new
investments and friendly regulations.
H.R. 4373 promotes a national re-
search strategy around engineering bi-
ology to ensure that the U.S. remains
the global leader in biology and bio-
technology.
New gene editing techniques like
CRISPR and the advancement of rapid
gene sequencing are driving innovation
in agriculture, medicine, energy, and
manufacturing. We must keep pace and
set a research and regulatory frame-
work that supports innovation and cre-
ates a marketplace for new ideas and
projects, while setting the safety and
ethical standards for the world to fol-
low.
H.R. 4373 establishes a national engi-
neering biology research and develop-
ment initiative to provide interagency
research coordination and develop a 3-
year strategic plan.
The bill also authorizes research at
the agencies under the Science Com-
mittee’s jurisdiction, including the Na-
tional Science Foundation, the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology, and the Department of Energy.
Last month, the White House con-
vened a summit with the Nation’s fore-
most bioeconomy leaders from indus-
try, academia, and government to dis-
cuss how to maintain America’s leader-
ship in biology for our economic and
national security. I hope that summit,
along with this legislation, will build
momentum for a serious national pub-
lic-private effort to advance and pro-
tect the U.S. bioeconomy.
I urge my colleagues to support this
good, bipartisan bill.
I would note to the chairwoman that
I have no additional speakers, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I have no requests for time, and if the
gentleman is ready to close, then I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
In both the Agriculture Committee
and the Science Committee, we have
discussed biotechnology research and
regulation for years, but I can’t re-
member a more exciting or challenging
time for the field than today. H.R. 4373
will set a national agenda to advance
innovation and help us meet those
challenges.
I appreciate the chairwoman and her
staff for working with us and the biol-
ogy stakeholder community to produce
a good, bipartisan bill. I ask my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself the balance of my time.
I wish to express my appreciation for
Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. LUCAS, Ms.
LOFGREN, and myself, and I have no
further requests for time.
I would simply urge the passage of
this bill, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4373, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY RE-
SEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
ACT OF 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 2051) to provide for Fed-
eral coordination of activities sup-
porting sustainable chemistry, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2051
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Sustainable
Chemistry Research and Development Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds that—
(1) Congress recognized the importance and
value of sustainable chemistry and the role
of the Federal Government in section 114 of
the American Innovation and Competitive-
ness Act (Public Law 114–329);
(2) sustainable chemistry and materials
transformation is a key value contributor to
business competitiveness across many indus-
trial and consumer sectors;
(3) companies across hundreds of supply
chains critical to the American economy are
seeking to reduce costs and open new mar-
kets through innovations in manufacturing
and materials, and are in need of new inno-
vations in chemistry, including sustainable
chemistry;
(4) sustainable chemistry can improve the
efficiency with which natural resources are
used to meet human needs for chemical prod-
ucts while avoiding environmental harm, re-
duce or eliminate the emissions of and expo-
sures to hazardous substances, minimize the
use of resources, and benefit the economy,
people, and the environment; and
(5) a recent report by the Government Ac-
countability Office (GAO–18–307) found that
the Federal Government could play an im-
portant role in helping realize the full inno-
vation and market potential of sustainable
chemistry technologies, including through a
coordinated national effort on sustainable
chemistry and standardized tools and defini-
tions to support sustainable chemistry re-
search, development, demonstration, and
commercialization.
SEC. 3. NATIONAL COORDINATING ENTITY FOR
SUSTAINABLE CHEMISTRY.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Not later than 180
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy shall convene an inter-
agency entity (referred to in this Act as the
‘‘Entity’’) under the National Science and
Technology Council with the responsibility
to coordinate Federal programs and activi-
ties in support of sustainable chemistry, in-
cluding those described in sections 5 and 6.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.013 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9360 December 9, 2019
(b) COORDINATION WITH EXISTING GROUPS.—
In convening the Entity, the Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy
shall consider overlap and possible coordina-
tion with existing committees, subcommit-
tees, or other groups of the National Science
and Technology Council, such as—
(1) the Committee on Environment;
(2) the Committee on Technology;
(3) the Committee on Science; or
(4) related groups or subcommittees.
(c) CO-CHAIRS.—The Entity shall be co-
chaired by the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy and a representative from the
Environmental Protection Agency, the Na-
tional Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology, the National Science Foundation, or
the Department of Energy, as selected by the
Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy.
(d) AGENCY PARTICIPATION.—The Entity
shall include representatives, including sub-
ject matter experts, from the Environmental
Protection Agency, the National Institute of
Standards and Technology, the National
Science Foundation, the Department of En-
ergy, the Department of Agriculture, the De-
partment of Defense, the National Institutes
of Health, the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention, the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, the Office of Management and Budg-
et, and other related Federal agencies, as ap-
propriate.
(e) TERMINATION.—The Entity shall termi-
nate on the date that is 10 years after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 4. ROADMAP FOR SUSTAINABLE CHEM-
ISTRY.
(a) ROADMAP.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Entity
shall—
(1) consult with relevant stakeholders in-
cluding representatives from industry, aca-
demia, the Federal Government, and inter-
national entities to develop and update as
needed a consensus definition of ‘‘sustainable
chemistry’’ to guide the activities under this
Act;
(2) develop a working framework of at-
tributes characterizing and metrics for as-
sessing sustainable chemistry, as described
in subsection (b);
(3) assess the state of sustainable chem-
istry in the United States as a key bench-
mark from which progress under the activi-
ties described in this Act can be measured,
including assessing key sectors of the United
States economy, key technology platforms,
commercial priorities, and barriers to inno-
vation;
(4) coordinate and support Federal re-
search, development, demonstration, tech-
nology transfer, commercialization, edu-
cation, and training efforts in sustainable
chemistry, including budget coordination
and support for public-private partnerships,
as appropriate;
(5) identify methods by which the Federal
agencies can facilitate the development of
incentives for development, consideration
and use of sustainable chemistry processes
and products, including innovative financing
mechanisms;
(6) identify major scientific challenges,
roadblocks, or hurdles to transformational
progress in improving the sustainability of
the chemical sciences; and
(7) identify other opportunities for expand-
ing Federal efforts in support of sustainable
chemistry.
(b) CHARACTERIZING AND ASSESSING SUS-
TAINABLE CHEMISTRY.—The Entity shall de-
velop a working framework of attributes
characterizing and metrics for assessing sus-
tainable chemistry for the purposes of car-
rying out the Act. In developing this frame-
work, the Entity shall—
(1) seek advice and input from stake-
holders as described in subsection (c);
(2) consider existing definitions of or
frameworks characterizing and metrics for
assessing sustainable chemistry already in
use at Federal agencies;
(3) consider existing definitions of or
frameworks characterizing and metrics for
assessing sustainable chemistry already in
use by international organizations of which
the United States is a member, such as the
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development; and
(4) consider any other appropriate existing
definitions of or frameworks characterizing
and metrics for assessing sustainable chem-
istry.
(c) CONSULTATION.—In carrying out the du-
ties described in subsections (a) and (b), the
Entity shall consult with stakeholders quali-
fied to provide advice and information to
guide Federal activities related to sustain-
able chemistry through workshops, requests
for information, and other mechanisms as
necessary. The stakeholders shall include
representatives from—
(1) business and industry (including trade
associations and small- and medium-sized
enterprises from across the value chain);
(2) the scientific community (including the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineer-
ing, and Medicine, scientific professional so-
cieties, and academia);
(3) the defense community;
(4) State, tribal, and local governments, in-
cluding nonregulatory State or regional sus-
tainable chemistry programs, as appropriate;
(5) nongovernmental organizations; and
(6) other appropriate organizations.
(d) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Entity shall submit a report to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works,
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation, and the Committee on Ap-
propriations of the Senate, and the Com-
mittee on Science, Space, and Technology,
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives. In addition to the
elements described in subsections (a) and (b),
the report shall include—
(A) a summary of federally funded, sustain-
able chemistry research, development, dem-
onstration, technology transfer, commer-
cialization, education, and training activi-
ties;
(B) a summary of the financial resources
allocated to sustainable chemistry initia-
tives;
(C) an assessment of the current state of
sustainable chemistry in the United States,
including the role that Federal agencies are
playing in supporting it;
(D) an analysis of the progress made to-
ward achieving the goals and priorities of
this Act, and recommendations for future
program activities;
(E) an assessment of the benefits of ex-
panding existing, federally supported, re-
gional innovation and manufacturing hubs,
centers, and institutes to include sustainable
chemistry and the value of directing the cre-
ation of 1 or more dedicated sustainable
chemistry centers of excellence, hubs, or in-
stitutes; and
(F) an evaluation of steps taken and future
strategies to avoid duplication of efforts,
streamline interagency coordination, facili-
tate information sharing, and spread best
practices among participating agencies.
(2) SUBMISSION TO GAO.—The Entity shall
also submit the report described in para-
graph (1) to the Comptroller General of the
United States for consideration in future
Congressional inquiries.
SEC. 5. AGENCY ACTIVITIES IN SUPPORT OF SUS-
TAINABLE CHEMISTRY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The agencies partici-
pating in the Entity shall carry out activi-
ties in support of sustainable chemistry, as
appropriate to the specific mission and pro-
grams of each agency.
(b) ACTIVITIES.—The activities described in
subsection (a) shall—
(1) incorporate sustainable chemistry into
existing research, development, demonstra-
tion, technology transfer, commercializa-
tion, education, and training programs, that
the agency determines to be relevant, in-
cluding consideration of—
(A) merit-based competitive grants to indi-
vidual investigators and teams of investiga-
tors, including, to the extent practicable,
early career investigators for research and
development;
(B) grants to fund collaborative research
and development partnerships among univer-
sities, industry, and nonprofit organizations;
(C) coordination of sustainable chemistry
research, development, demonstration, and
technology transfer conducted at Federal
laboratories and agencies;
(D) incentive prize competitions and chal-
lenges in coordination with such existing
Federal agency programs; and
(E) grants, loans, and loan guarantees to
aid in the technology transfer and commer-
cialization of sustainable chemicals, mate-
rials, processes, and products;
(2) collect and disseminate information on
sustainable chemistry research, develop-
ment, technology transfer, and commer-
cialization, including information on accom-
plishments and best practices;
(3) raise awareness of sustainable chem-
istry concepts through public outreach ac-
tivities;
(4) expand the education and training of
students at all levels of education, profes-
sional scientists and engineers, and other
professionals involved in all aspects of sus-
tainable chemistry and engineering appro-
priate to that level of education and train-
ing, including through—
(A) partnerships with industry as described
in section 6;
(B) support for the integration of sustain-
able chemistry principles into elementary,
secondary, undergraduate, and graduate
chemistry and chemical engineering cur-
riculum and research training, as appro-
priate to that level of education and train-
ing; and
(C) support for integration of sustainable
chemistry principles into existing or new
professional development opportunities for
professionals including teachers, faculty,
and individuals involved in laboratory re-
search, (product development, materials
specification and testing, life cycle analysis,
and management);
(5) as relevant to an agency’s programs, ex-
amine methods by which the Federal agen-
cies, in collaboration and consultation with
the National Institute of Standards and
Technology, may facilitate the development
or recognition of validated, standardized
tools for performing sustainability assess-
ments of chemistry processes or products;
(6) through programs identified by an agen-
cy, support (including through technical as-
sistance, participation, financial support,
communications tools, awards, or other
forms of support) outreach and dissemina-
tion of sustainable chemistry advances such
as non-Federal symposia, forums, con-
ferences, and publications in collaboration
with, as appropriate, industry, academia, sci-
entific and professional societies, and other
relevant groups;
(7) provide for public input and outreach to
be integrated into the activities described in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.005 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9361
December 9, 2019
this section by the convening of public dis-
cussions, through mechanisms such as public
meetings, consensus conferences, and edu-
cational events, as appropriate;
(8) within each agency, develop metrics to
track the outputs and outcomes of the pro-
grams supported by that agency; and
(9) incentivize or recognize actions that ad-
vance sustainable chemistry products, proc-
esses, or initiatives, including through the
establishment of a nationally recognized
awards program through the Environmental
Protection Agency to identify, publicize, and
celebrate innovations in sustainable chem-
istry and chemical technologies.
(c) LIMITATIONS.—Financial support pro-
vided under this section shall—
(1) be available only for pre-competitive
activities; and
(2) not be used to promote the sale of a spe-
cific product, process, or technology, or to
disparage a specific product, process, or
technology.
(d) AGENCY BUDGET REPORT.—For each of
fiscal years 2021 through 2030, not later than
90 days after submission of the President’s
annual budget request, the Entity shall pre-
pare and submit to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works, the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation,
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate, and the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology, the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and the Committee
on Appropriations of the House of Represent-
atives a report that includes a summarized
agency budget in support of the activities
under this Act for the fiscal year to which
such budget request applies, and for the then
current fiscal year, including a breakout of
spending for each agency participating in
such activities.
SEC. 6. PARTNERSHIPS IN SUSTAINABLE CHEM-
ISTRY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The agencies partici-
pating in the Entity may facilitate and sup-
port, through financial, technical, or other
assistance, the creation of partnerships be-
tween institutions of higher education, non-
governmental organizations, consortia, or
companies across the value chain in the
chemical industry, including small- and me-
dium-sized enterprises, to—
(1) create collaborative sustainable chem-
istry research, development, demonstration,
technology transfer, and commercialization
programs; and
(2) train students and retrain professional
scientists, engineers, and others involved in
materials specification on the use of sustain-
able chemistry concepts and strategies by
methods, including—
(A) developing or recognizing curricular
materials and courses for undergraduate and
graduate levels and for the professional de-
velopment of scientists, engineers, and oth-
ers involved in materials specification; and
(B) publicizing the availability of profes-
sional development courses in sustainable
chemistry and recruiting professionals to
pursue such courses.
(b) PRIVATE SECTOR PARTICIPATION.—To be
eligible for support under this section, a
partnership in sustainable chemistry shall
include at least one private sector organiza-
tion.
(c) SELECTION OF PARTNERSHIPS.—In select-
ing partnerships for support under this sec-
tion, the agencies participating in the Entity
shall also consider the extent to which the
applicants are willing and able to dem-
onstrate evidence of support for, and com-
mitment to, the goals outlined in the road-
map and report described in section 4.
(d) PROHIBITED USE OF FUNDS.—Financial
support provided under this section may not
be used—
(1) to support or expand a regulatory chem-
ical management program at an imple-
menting agency under a State law;
(2) to construct or renovate a building or
structure; or
(3) to promote the sale of a specific prod-
uct, process, or technology, or to disparage a
specific product, process, or technology.
SEC. 7. PRIORITIZATION.
In carrying out this Act, the Entity shall
focus its support for sustainable chemistry
activities on those that achieve, to the high-
est extent practicable, the goals outlined in
the Act.
SEC. 8. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
alter or amend any State law or action with
regard to sustainable chemistry, as defined
by the State.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous materials on H.R.
2051, the bill under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
I rise in support of H.R. 2051, the Sus-
tainable Chemistry Research and De-
velopment Act of 2019.
I want to thank Representatives LI-
PINSKI and MOOLENAAR for introducing
this good, bipartisan bill.
Chemistry touches every aspect of
modern society. As the chemical indus-
try continues to innovate to make our
lives easier, we must do more to mini-
mize the risks to the environment and
to public health. Sustainable chem-
istry practices and principles, once
widely adopted, will provide the pri-
vate sector with tools to meet societal
needs while mitigating negative im-
pacts on the health and safety of future
generations.
Unfortunately, progress in adopting
this approach has been slow. As we
learned during the Science Committee
hearing on this topic earlier this year,
the key challenges include a lack of re-
search, a lack of Federal coordination,
a lack of consensus regarding how sus-
tainability should be measured and as-
sessed, and a need for improved sus-
tainable chemistry education.
This legislation establishes the
framework for Federal leadership to
advance sustainable chemistry. Spe-
cifically, the bill provides for improved
coordination of Federal activities, in-
cluding research and development of
more sustainable chemicals, processes,
and systems.
The bill also supports improved edu-
cation in sustainable chemistry and ex-
pands opportunities for the Federal
Government to partner with industry
to bring innovations to market.
When the Federal science agencies
support our Nation’s scientists and en-
gineers to come up with better solu-
tions to real-world problems, our
brightest minds will always rise to the
challenge.
I urge my colleagues to support this
important legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 2051, the Sus-
tainable Chemistry Research and De-
velopment Act of 2019.
H.R. 2051 provides for Federal coordi-
nation of research and development for
new innovations in chemistry, manu-
facturing, and materials. This bill con-
tinues the Science Committee’s bipar-
tisan commitment to prioritizing fun-
damental research that leads to new
technologies that will drive the Amer-
ican economy into the future.
Chemistry is essential to our econ-
omy and plays a vital role in helping
solve the biggest challenges facing the
Nation and our world. From farming to
medicine, chemical manufacturing
touches our lives every day.
There is market demand for chemical
products that use resources more effi-
ciently and are safer for both humans
and the environment. Consumers also
want these products to be just as effec-
tive, or more effective, than the tradi-
tional chemical products. H.R. 2051 will
help support the research, training,
and standards needed to meet these de-
mands.
It is rare that a bill has the funda-
mental endorsement of both chemical
companies and environmental advo-
cates.
I thank the bill’s sponsors, Rep-
resentative DAN LIPINSKI and Rep-
resentative JOHN MOOLENAAR, for their
leadership on this issue and for devel-
oping a good consensus bill. I encour-
age my colleagues to support it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. MOOLENAAR), who has been a
pleasure to work with, both on sci-
entific matters and on a variety of fi-
nancial service interests, too.
Mr. MOOLENAAR. Mr. Speaker, I
want to thank Congressman DAN LIPIN-
SKI for his leadership on this legisla-
tion. As always, I have enjoyed work-
ing with him and serving with him as
the founding co-chair of the bipartisan
Congressional Chemistry Caucus here
in the House.
Chemistry has improved the daily
lives of every American, and I want to
thank Chairwoman JOHNSON and Rank-
ing Member LUCAS for their leadership
working together to bring the Sustain-
able Chemistry Research and Develop-
ment Act of 2019 to the floor this year.
This legislation will further the incred-
ible progress chemistry has already
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.005 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9362 December 9, 2019
made in the daily lives of people
around the world, with new and excit-
ing products and lifesaving cures and
innovations.
Chemistry also employs hundreds of
thousands of people in good-paying jobs
and has made the country the world
leader in an endless list of industries
and fields. Today’s legislation will help
that progress continue by directing the
Federal Government to improve its co-
ordination of sustainable chemistry re-
search.
The Sustainable Chemistry Research
and Development Act of 2019 will bring
together the Federal Government, the
private sector, and the scientific com-
munity to support groundbreaking re-
search in chemistry and keep our Na-
tion at the forefront of innovation.
I thank my colleagues for their sup-
port.
b 1530
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, to ensure the continued
leadership of the United States in
science and technology, we must invest
in research that will lead to the indus-
tries of the future. The Sustainable
Chemistry Act of 2019 will keep our
country at the forefront of chemistry
innovation and help create new prod-
ucts that will benefit all Americans.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 2051, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I simply wish to thank our authors and
our staff, and I urge passage of this
bill. I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2051, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
BUILDING BLOCKS OF STEM ACT
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (S. 737) to direct the National
Science Foundation to support STEM
education research focused on early
childhood.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 737
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Building
Blocks of STEM Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The National Science Foundation is a
large investor in STEM education and plays
a key role in setting research and policy
agendas.
(2) While studies have found that children
who engage in scientific activities from an
early age develop positive attitudes toward
science and are more likely to pursue STEM
expertise and careers later on, the majority
of current research focuses on increasing
STEM opportunities for middle school-aged
children and older.
(3) Women remain widely underrepresented
in the STEM workforce, and this disparity
extends down through all levels of education.
SEC. 3. SUPPORTING EARLY CHILDHOOD AND EL-
EMENTARY STEM EDUCATION RE-
SEARCH.
In awarding grants under the Discovery
Research PreK–12 program, the Director of
the National Science Foundation shall con-
sider the age distribution of a STEM edu-
cation research and development project to
improve the focus of research and develop-
ment on elementary and prekindergarten
education.
SEC. 4. SUPPORTING FEMALE STUDENTS IN PRE-
KINDERGARTEN THROUGH ELEMEN-
TARY SCHOOL IN STEM EDUCATION.
Section 305(d) of the American Innovation
and Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–
5(d)) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) RESEARCH.—As a component of im-
proving participation of women in STEM
fields, research funded by a grant under this
subsection may include research on—
‘‘(A) the role of teacher training and pro-
fessional development, including effective
incentive structures to encourage teachers
to participate in such training and profes-
sional development, in encouraging or dis-
couraging female students in prekinder-
garten through elementary school from par-
ticipating in STEM activities;
‘‘(B) the role of teachers in shaping percep-
tions of STEM in female students in pre-
kindergarten through elementary school and
discouraging such students from partici-
pating in STEM activities;
‘‘(C) the role of other facets of the learning
environment on the willingness of female
students in prekindergarten through elemen-
tary school to participate in STEM activi-
ties, including learning materials and text-
books, seating arrangements, use of media
and technology, classroom culture, and com-
position of students during group work;
‘‘(D) the role of parents and other care-
givers in encouraging or discouraging female
students in prekindergarten through elemen-
tary school from participating in STEM ac-
tivities;
‘‘(E) the types of STEM activities that en-
courage greater participation by female stu-
dents in prekindergarten through elemen-
tary school;
‘‘(F) the role of mentorship and best prac-
tices in finding and utilizing mentors; and
‘‘(G) the role of informal and after-school
STEM learning opportunities on the percep-
tion of and participation in STEM activities
of female students in prekindergarten
through elementary school.’’.
SEC. 5. SUPPORTING FEMALE STUDENTS IN PRE-
KINDERGARTEN THROUGH ELEMEN-
TARY SCHOOL IN COMPUTER
SCIENCE EDUCATION.
Section 310(b) of the American Innovation
and Competitiveness Act (42 U.S.C. 1862s–
7(b)) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) USES OF FUNDS.—The tools and models
described in paragraph (2)(C) may include—
‘‘(A) offering training and professional de-
velopment programs, including summer or
academic year institutes or workshops, de-
signed to strengthen the capabilities of pre-
kindergarten and elementary school teach-
ers and to familiarize such teachers with the
role of bias against female students in the
classroom;
‘‘(B) offering innovative pre-service and in-
service programs that instruct teachers on
female-inclusive practices for teaching com-
puting concepts;
‘‘(C) developing distance learning programs
for teachers or students, including devel-
oping curricular materials, play-based com-
puting activities, and other resources for the
in-service professional development of teach-
ers that are made available to teachers
through the Internet;
‘‘(D) developing or adapting prekinder-
garten and elementary school computer
science curricular materials that incor-
porate contemporary research on the science
of learning, particularly with respect to fe-
male inclusion;
‘‘(E) developing and offering female-inclu-
sive computer science enrichment programs
for students, including after-school and sum-
mer programs;
‘‘(F) providing mentors for female students
in prekindergarten through elementary
school to support such students in partici-
pating in computer science activities;
‘‘(G) engaging female students in pre-
kindergarten through elementary school,
and their guardians (if such communication
takes place on school premises during other-
wise-scheduled conferences or formal con-
versations between teachers and guardians)
about—
‘‘(i) the difficulties faced by female stu-
dents with regard to maintaining an interest
in participating in computer science activi-
ties; and
‘‘(ii) the potential positive career benefits
of engaging in such activities;
‘‘(H) acquainting female students in pre-
kindergarten through elementary school
with careers in computer science and encour-
aging such students to consider careers in
the computer science field; and
‘‘(I) developing tools to evaluate activities
conducted under this subsection, including
reports for evaluating the effectiveness of
activities under this section.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on S. 737, the bill under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of S. 737, the Building Blocks of STEM
Act.
The demand for computer science
skills is on the rise across all sectors of
the economy. To ensure that we have
the capacity to meet that demand, we
must attract more students to study
computer science. A major challenge
for increasing the number of computer
science graduates is the low participa-
tion of women.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.016 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9363
December 9, 2019
Even as access to high school com-
puter science courses increases, female
participation remains low. At high
schools offering advanced placement
courses in computer science, only 23
percent of the students taking the
exam are girls.
Research shows us that interventions
at the high school level may come too
late. Girls as young as 6 years old are
internalizing gender-based stereotypes
that discourage them from engaging in
STEM activities, including computer
science.
The Building Blocks of STEM Act di-
rects the National Science Foundation
to support research into factors that
contribute to the early adoption of
these stereotypes. The bill also directs
the National Science Foundation to
support the development of models for
intervention to prevent or reverse the
effects of these negative and false
stereotypes.
I thank my colleagues Representa-
tives STEVENS and BAIRD and Senators
ROSEN and CAPITO for their leadership
on this legislation, and I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
How appropriate that today the
House is taking up S. 737, the Building
Blocks of STEM Act, just as the Nation
kicks off a celebration of Computer
Science Education Week.
S. 737, the Building Blocks of STEM
Act, is important, bipartisan legisla-
tion to improve science, technology,
engineering, mathematics, and com-
puter science, or STEM, education. It
directs the National Science Founda-
tion to support STEM research focused
on early childhood education and to
award grants to encourage young girls
to pursue computer science learning.
Studies have found that children who
engage in scientific activities from an
early age develop positive attitudes to-
ward science and are more likely to
pursue STEM expertise and careers.
Across the country, the share of
STEM jobs has expanded significantly,
with STEM employment nearly dou-
bling over the last 30 years. Currently,
there are over half a million open com-
puting jobs in the United States, in
every industry and in every State. This
demand is projected to grow at twice
the rate of any other field, and Amer-
ica is failing to meet it.
We can succeed, though, and we can
do it by encouraging children, particu-
larly young girls, in STEM in early
childhood and sustaining that interest
as they grow.
More students with STEM degrees
means more advanced American tech-
nologies and a more robust economy.
But it is not just about the economy.
STEM graduates have the potential to
develop technologies that can save
thousands of lives, jump-start a new in-
dustry, or even discover new worlds.
It has been shown that female stu-
dents who learn computer science be-
fore college are 10 times more likely to
major in it. By supporting more hands-
on STEM engagement at younger ages,
we are supporting and investing in
America’s future.
I thank Representative BAIRD and
Representative STEVENS for their lead-
ership on this bill. The House pre-
viously passed this legislation in July
and sent it to the Senate for consider-
ation. We are considering it again
today with some minor changes from
our Senate colleagues.
I encourage my colleagues to again
support this legislation and send it to
the President’s desk for his signature.
Mr. Speaker, the love of learning
starts young, and the Building Blocks
of STEM bill promotes this by
prioritizing a focus on early childhood
STEM education. It gives us the oppor-
tunity to encourage girls to get in-
volved and stay engaged in STEM,
helping us improve our educational
programs and diversify the STEM
workforce.
Again, I thank Representative BAIRD
and Representative STEVENS for lead-
ing this bipartisan bill. As the House
did in July, I encourage this body to
again support and unanimously pass
this legislation and send it to the
President’s desk for his signature.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I would like to express my appreciation
for the leadership of Representatives
STEVENS and BAIRD; Senators ROSEN
and CAPITO; and the ranking member,
Mr. LUCAS. I urge that we pass this im-
portant piece of legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of
S. 737, the Building Blocks of STEM Act.
I was proud to join my colleague, the Chair
of the Research and Technology Sub-
committee, Representative Haley Stevens in
introducing the House version of this legisla-
tion, which unanimously passed this Chamber
in July, and am pleased to be speaking today
on the nearly identical Senate version of the
bill.
As one of only two members of Congress
with a PhD in science, I understand the impor-
tance of teaching STEM concepts and prin-
ciples at an early age.
Fostering the natural curiosity that children
possess is critical to expanding their interests
in science, technology, engineering, and math.
Research confirms that kids as young as one,
two, or three are capable of absorbing STEM
concepts.
Equally important is ensuring that we get
more girls involved in the STEM fields, so that
we have as many people as possible contrib-
uting to the knowledge base of our society.
Like the House version, S. 737 directs NSF
to fund research and grants that focus on
early childhood and young women in STEM at
the K through 12 level.
This bill helps ensure we are preparing our
future workforce to fill the jobs of the future.
By passing this important legislation we will
continue America’s global leadership in
science and technology.
I ask my colleagues to support the bill and
send it to the President’s desk for his signa-
ture.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 737.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
IDENTIFYING OUTPUTS OF GEN-
ERATIVE ADVERSARIAL NET-
WORKS ACT
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I move to suspend the rules and pass
the bill (H.R. 4355) to direct the Direc-
tor of the National Science Foundation
to support research on the outputs that
may be generated by generative adver-
sarial networks, otherwise known as
deepfakes, and other comparable tech-
niques that may be developed in the fu-
ture, and for other purposes, as amend-
ed.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4355
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Identifying
Outputs of Generative Adversarial Networks
Act’’ or the ‘‘IOGAN Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Research gaps currently exist on the un-
derlying technology needed to develop tools to
identify authentic videos, voice reproduction, or
photos from manipulated or synthesized con-
tent, including those generated by generative
adversarial networks.
(2) The National Science Foundation’s focus
to support research in artificial intelligence
through computer and information science and
engineering, cognitive science and psychology,
economics and game theory, control theory, lin-
guistics, mathematics, and philosophy, is build-
ing a better understanding of how new tech-
nologies are shaping the society and economy of
the United States.
(3) The National Science Foundation has
identified the ‘‘10 Big Ideas for NSF Future In-
vestment’’ including ‘‘Harnessing the Data Rev-
olution’’ and the ‘‘Future of Work at the
Human-Technology Frontier’’, in with artificial
intelligence is a critical component.
(4) The outputs generated by generative ad-
versarial networks should be included under the
umbrella of research described in paragraph (3)
given the grave national security and societal
impact potential of such networks.
(5) Generative adversarial networks are not
likely to be utilized as the sole technique of arti-
ficial intelligence or machine learning capable
of creating credible deepfakes and other com-
parable techniques may be developed in the fu-
ture to produce similar outputs.
SEC. 3. NSF SUPPORT OF RESEARCH ON MANIPU-
LATED OR SYNTHESIZED CONTENT
AND INFORMATION SECURITY.
The Director of the National Science Founda-
tion, in consultation with other relevant Federal
agencies, shall support merit-reviewed and com-
petitively awarded research on manipulated or
synthesized content and information authen-
ticity, which may include—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.019 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9364 December 9, 2019
(1) fundamental research on digital forensic
tools or other technologies for verifying the au-
thenticity of information and detection of ma-
nipulated or synthesized content, including con-
tent generated by generative adversarial net-
works;
(2) fundamental research on technical tools
for identifying manipulated or synthesized con-
tent, such as watermarking systems for gen-
erated media;
(3) social and behavioral research related to
manipulated or synthesized content, including
the ethics of the technology and human engage-
ment with the content;
(4) research on public understanding and
awareness of manipulated and synthesized con-
tent, including research on best practices for
educating the public to discern authenticity of
digital content; and
(5) research awards coordinated with other
federal agencies and programs including the
Networking and Information Technology Re-
search and Development Program, the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency and the In-
telligence Advanced Research Projects Agency.
SEC. 4. NIST SUPPORT FOR RESEARCH AND
STANDARDS ON GENERATIVE AD-
VERSARIAL NETWORKS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Director of the National
Institute of Standards and Technology shall
support research for the development of meas-
urements and standards necessary to accelerate
the development of the technological tools to ex-
amine the function and outputs of generative
adversarial networks or other technologies that
synthesize or manipulate content.
(b) OUTREACH.—The Director of the National
Institute of Standards and Technology shall
conduct outreach—
(1) to receive input from private, public, and
academic stakeholders on fundamental measure-
ments and standards research necessary to ex-
amine the function and outputs of generative
adversarial networks; and
(2) to consider the feasibility of an ongoing
public and private sector engagement to develop
voluntary standards for the function and out-
puts of generative adversarial networks or other
technologies that synthesize or manipulate con-
tent.
SEC. 5. REPORT ON FEASIBILITY OF PUBLIC-PRI-
VATE PARTNERSHIP TO DETECT MA-
NIPULATED OR SYNTHESIZED CON-
TENT.
Not later than one year after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Na-
tional Science Foundation and the Director of
the National Institute of Standards and Tech-
nology shall jointly submit to the Committee on
Space, Science, and Technology of the House of
Representatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation a report
containing—
(1) the Directors’ findings with respect to the
feasibility for research opportunities with the
private sector, including digital media compa-
nies to detect the function and outputs of gen-
erative adversarial networks or other tech-
nologies that synthesize or manipulate content;
and
(2) any policy recommendations of the Direc-
tors that could facilitate and improve commu-
nication and coordination between the private
sector, the National Science Foundation, and
relevant Federal agencies through the imple-
mentation of innovative approaches to detect
digital content produced by generative adver-
sarial networks or other technologies that syn-
thesize or manipulate content.
SEC. 6. GENERATIVE ADVERSARIAL NETWORK DE-
FINED.
In this Act, the term ‘‘generative adversarial
network’’ means, with respect to artificial intel-
ligence, the machine learning process of at-
tempting to cause a generator artificial neural
network (referred to in this paragraph as the
‘‘generator’’ and a discriminator artificial neu-
ral network (referred to in this paragraph as a
‘‘discriminator’’) to compete against each other
to become more accurate in their function and
outputs, through which the generator and dis-
criminator create a feedback loop, causing the
generator to produce increasingly higher-quality
artificial outputs and the discriminator to in-
creasingly improve in detecting such artificial
outputs.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JOHNSON) and the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. LUCAS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Texas.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on H.R. 4355, the bill under consider-
ation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Texas?
There was no objection.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4355, the Identifying Outputs of
Generative Adversarial Networks Act.
Deepfake technology, which manipu-
lates photos, videos, or audio clips to
produce content that seems real but is
not, has become increasingly common-
place in recent years. This increase in
prevalence has been spurred, in part,
by increases in computing power, wide-
spread availability of images and other
data, and the use of artificial intel-
ligence.
In many cases, the applications of
this technology may be benign, but bad
actors can also use this technology to
spread disinformation and cause great
harm to individuals, organizations, and
society as a whole.
During the Science, Space, and Tech-
nology Committee hearing on online
imposters and disinformation earlier
this year, one of the witnesses showed
us a demonstration of a deepfake video
in which he swapped the likenesses of
two Members of Congress at the hear-
ing.
Despite the spread and potential
harm of deepfake technology, there are
currently no sure-fire methods of iden-
tifying and distinguishing manipulated
content from authentic content. The
ability to differentiate between manip-
ulated and authentic content is essen-
tial to maintaining our national and
economic security and protecting
against malicious use of these tech-
nologies.
H.R. 4355 leverages the strengths of
the National Science Foundation and
the National Institute of Standards
and Technology by directing these
agencies to support research on manip-
ulated or synthesized content in order
to help develop the standards and other
tools necessary to detect this content.
I commend my colleagues Represent-
atives GONZALEZ, STEVENS, and BAIRD
for their excellent leadership on this
bipartisan legislation. I urge all of my
colleagues to join in passing this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. LUCAS. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4355, the Identifying Outputs of Gen-
erative Adversarial Networks Act in-
troduced by Representative ANTHONY
GONZALEZ. This bill addresses the un-
derlying technologies for digital con-
tent commonly referred to as
‘‘deepfakes.’’ This technology uses ma-
chine learning to manipulate videos
and other digital content to produce
misleading and false products.
These technologies are becoming
more sophisticated and, in the wrong
hands, present a serious security
threat. As we know, bad actors are al-
ready using disinformation to disrupt
civil society and try to sow divisions
among Americans.
H.R. 4355 supports the fundamental
research necessary to better under-
stand the underlying technology, to de-
velop tools to identify manipulated
content, and to better understand how
humans interact with this generated
content.
The bill also tasks the National In-
stitute of Standards and Technology
with bringing together the private sec-
tor and government agencies to discuss
how to advance innovation in this area
responsibly.
I applaud Mr. GONZALEZ’ bipartisan
work on this bill and his leadership on
the issue of technology and security.
I thank the chairwoman and her staff
for moving H.R. 4355 forward. There is
a lot of fundamental research that
needs to be done to better understand
the technologies driving deepfakes and
their impact on society. H.R. 4355 will
help support that research.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the bill, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
I would like to express my appreciation
for all the Members who have been
working on this very important bipar-
tisan legislation. I urge its passage,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
b 1545
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JOHNSON) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4355, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
VIRGINIA BEACH STRONG ACT
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I move to suspend the rules and
pass the bill (H.R. 4566) to accelerate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.007 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9365
December 9, 2019
the income tax benefits for charitable
cash contributions for the relief of the
families of victims of the mass shoot-
ing in Virginia Beach, Virginia, on May
31, 2019.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4566
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Virginia
Beach Strong Act’’.
SEC. 2. SPECIAL RULES FOR CONTRIBUTIONS
FOR RELIEF OF THE FAMILIES OF
THE MASS SHOOTING IN VIRGINIA
BEACH.
(a) CLARIFICATION THAT CONTRIBUTION WILL
NOT FAIL TO QUALIFY AS A CHARITABLE CON-
TRIBUTION.—A cash contribution made for
the relief of the families of the dead or
wounded victims of the mass shooting in Vir-
ginia Beach, Virginia, on May 31, 2019, shall
not fail to be treated as a charitable con-
tribution for purposes of section 170 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 merely be-
cause such contribution is for the exclusive
benefit of such families. The preceding sen-
tence shall apply to contributions made on
or after May 31, 2019.
(b) CLARIFICATION THAT PAYMENTS BY
CHARITABLE ORGANIZATIONS TO FAMILIES
TREATED AS EXEMPT PAYMENTS.—For pur-
poses of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
payments made on or after May 31, 2019, and
on or before June 1, 2021, to the spouse or
any dependent (as defined in section 152 of
such Code) of the dead or wounded victims of
the mass shooting in Virginia Beach, Vir-
ginia, on May 31, 2019, by an organization
which (determined without regard to any
such payments) would be an organization ex-
empt from tax under section 501(a) of such
Code shall—
(1) be treated as related to the purpose or
function constituting the basis for such or-
ganization’s exemption under such section;
and
(2) shall not be treated as inuring to the
benefit of any private individual,
if such payments are made in good faith
using a reasonable and objective formula
which is consistently applied with respect to
such victims.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Alabama (Ms. SEWELL) and the gen-
tleman from Nebraska (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Alabama.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I ask unanimous consent that all
Members have 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous materials on the bill
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Alabama?
There was no objection.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of the Virginia Beach Strong
Act, a bill authored by my friend and
colleague from Virginia, Congress-
woman ELAINE LURIA, to ensure that
donations to the victims of the Vir-
ginia Beach shooting are tax deduct-
ible.
Mr. Speaker, the Virginia Beach
community experienced unspeakable
tragedy earlier this year when a mass
shooting at the Virginia Beach Munic-
ipal Center resulted in the deaths of 12
people.
In the face of this terrible tragedy,
leaders throughout the city came to-
gether and quickly established a fund
to support victims, survivors, and their
families. The outpouring of support
from the community was profound,
with over $4 million in donations to the
fund.
Mr. Speaker, unfortunately, these do-
nations are arguably not considered
tax deductible charitable contributions
because they are divided among speci-
fied individuals rather than an organi-
zation. A technical fix in the Tax Code
would address this issue. This legisla-
tion before us today would fix this
issue for the Virginia Beach Tragedy
Fund and ensure that these donations
are tax deductible.
While nothing can reverse the pain of
this terrible tragedy, the bipartisan,
commonsense bill before us today is an
important step toward helping the vic-
tims and their families and
incentivizing further contributions to
the fund. I am proud to stand with the
Virginia Beach community in support
of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this important leg-
islation, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield myself such time as I may
consume.
Mr. Speaker, as we know, a senseless
act of violence struck the Virginia
Beach community on May 31 of this
year. A disgruntled city employee, for
no apparent reason other than he may
have been offended by some negative
reviews of his job performance, walked
into a public works building in Vir-
ginia Beach an hour before closing and
opened fire on innocent and defenseless
people, killing 12 and injuring 6 others.
These kinds of events are hard to un-
derstand, but it is great to see the com-
munity reach out and help. We know
that there are always many folks who
help around these communities when it
is so obvious, and, when confronted
with tragedy, they always respond with
bravery and generosity.
In acknowledging the bravery of
helpers, we would be remiss if we do
not honor the first police officers who
arrived on the scene, who ran toward
danger instead of away from it. They
took down the mass murderer before he
could cause even more bloodshed. In
the process, one of their own was in-
jured in the firefight, his life spared
only by a bulletproof vest.
The bill we are considering and,
hopefully, passing today is about an-
other set of those who helped, those
who also responded with generosity.
As was the case with many other
tragic events in our history, a special
fund was set up to help the victims of
the May 31 shooting. Under normal tax
rules, a special fund like this raises at
least three questions:
First, are the payments to these vic-
tims from the special fund subject to
taxes?
Second, since charities are not sup-
posed to operate for the benefit of spe-
cial individuals, would payments to a
relatively small number of individuals
destroy the tax-exempt status of any
charity or foundation administering
the victims’ fund?
And third, are donations to the spe-
cial fund for victims eligible for a char-
itable tax deduction?
The Virginia Beach Strong Act en-
sures the answers to these questions
match what common sense tells us
they should be:
No, victims of the Virginia Beach
shooting and their families will not be
taxed on these payments to provide
some financial relief for the harm
caused by horrors they suffered.
No, these payments will not threaten
the tax-exempt status of organizations
which make the payments to victims
and their families.
And, lastly, yes, donations to the
Virginia Beach Tragedy Fund will be
eligible for the charitable tax deduc-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, this is our opportunity
to be assisting those who need help, as
well as by clarifying the tax questions
of victims, donors, and charitable orga-
nizations. This should be actually con-
sidered as a no-brainer.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support the Virginia Beach Strong Act,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, I yield 5 minutes to the gentle-
woman from Virginia (Mrs. LURIA).
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, today I
rise in support of my bipartisan and bi-
cameral bill, H.R. 4566, the Virginia
Beach Strong Act.
Just over 6 months ago, our Virginia
Beach community suffered a dev-
astating tragedy. On May 31, 12 won-
derful people lost their lives in a mass
shooting in the Virginia Beach Munic-
ipal Center.
During our great city’s darkest hour,
we showed the world the strength and
resolve that makes us Virginia Beach
Strong. We saw first responders hero-
ically running into building 2, sacri-
ficing their safety to save others; doc-
tors working long hours to provide vic-
tims with expert care; and many other
displays of courage.
May 31, 2019, was a day that will
change Virginia Beach forever. We will
always remember the 12 individuals we
lost that day and their irreplaceable
contributions to our Virginia Beach
Strong community. My heart con-
tinues to grieve for those who lost
their lives, their families, and everyone
who loved them.
Today, many families of the victims
are still facing financial hardships re-
lated to the shooting, in addition to
the unfathomable loss of a loved one.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.022 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9366 December 9, 2019
In the aftermath of May 31, the city
of Virginia Beach established a fund to
help victims, survivors, and their fami-
lies. Unfortunately, a technicality in
the Tax Code means that these dona-
tions will likely not be considered tax
deductible. That is why I introduced
the Virginia Beach Strong Act.
The Virginia Beach Strong Act would
make it easier to help bring urgently
needed support to our community’s
grieving families. This bipartisan bill
would ensure that all donations made
to immediate family members of the
victims on or after May 31 will be con-
sidered tax deductible. It is narrowly
written so it does not make any broad-
er changes to our Tax Code or to the
nonprofit status.
Today, we all have the opportunity
to make a profound difference for the
families that have been through un-
imaginable pain following the Virginia
Beach mass shooting.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank my col-
leagues in the Virginia delegation for
their support, and I urge all of my col-
leagues to vote for H.R. 4566, the Vir-
ginia Beach Strong Act.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, just to add emphasis to the reason
why we are here: We appreciate those
around the community and, actually,
probably around the country who want
to help, certainly, victims in need, and
I would hope that we would adjust our
tax policy accordingly, certainly to
perhaps meet expectations that could
not otherwise be met, but also to en-
courage others to contribute as well.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. SEWELL of Alabama. Mr. Speak-
er, in closing, we must take action to
fix the tax deductibility of these dona-
tions to the Virginia Beach Tragedy
Fund, which has done so much to help
the community recover from this un-
speakable tragedy.
Mr. Speaker, I wish to express my
profound condolences and also con-
gratulate Mrs. LURIA on this wonderful
piece of legislation that will truly ben-
efit those who were tragically lost and
their families, as well as first respond-
ers.
Mr. Speaker, I urge every Member to
support this important legislation. It is
truly bicameral and bipartisan and de-
serves to pass. I support this legisla-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Alabama (Ms.
SEWELL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4566.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
b 1600
COVERT TESTING AND RISK MITI-
GATION IMPROVEMENT ACT OF
2019
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 3469) to direct
the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration to carry out covert testing and
risk mitigation improvement of avia-
tion security operations, and for other
purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3469
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Covert Test-
ing and Risk Mitigation Improvement Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. TSA COVERT TESTING AND RISK MITIGA-
TION IMPROVEMENT.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act
and annually thereafter, the Administrator
of the Transportation Security Administra-
tion shall implement the following:
(1) A system for conducting risk-informed
headquarters-based covert tests of aviation
security operations, including relating to
airport passenger and baggage security
screening operations, that can yield statis-
tically valid data that can be used to iden-
tify and assess the nature and extent of
vulnerabilities to such operations that are
not mitigated by current security practices.
The Administrator shall execute annually
not fewer than three risk-informed covert
testing projects designed to identify sys-
temic vulnerabilities in the transportation
security system, and shall document the as-
sumptions and rationale guiding the selec-
tion of such projects.
(2) A long-term headquarters-based covert
testing program, employing static but risk-
informed threat vectors, designed to assess
changes in overall screening effectiveness.
(b) MITIGATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator of the
Transportation Security Administration
shall establish a system to address and miti-
gate the vulnerabilities identified and as-
sessed pursuant to the testing conducted
under subsection (a).
(2) ANALYSIS.—Not later than 60 days after
the identification of any such vulnerability,
the Administrator shall ensure a vulner-
ability described in paragraph (1) is analyzed
to determine root causes.
(3) DETERMINATION.—Not later than 120
days after the identification of any such vul-
nerability, the Administrator shall make a
determination regarding whether or not to
mitigate such vulnerability. The Adminis-
trator shall prioritize mitigating
vulnerabilities based on their ability to re-
duce risk. If the Administrator determines—
(A) to not mitigate such vulnerability, the
Administrator shall document the reasons
for the decision; or
(B) to mitigate such vulnerability, the Ad-
ministrator shall establish and document—
(i) key milestones appropriate for the level
of effort required to so mitigate such vulner-
ability; and
(ii) a date by which measures to so miti-
gate such vulnerability shall be implemented
by the Transportation Security Administra-
tion.
(4) RETESTING.—Not later than 180 days
after the date on which measures to mitigate
a vulnerability are completed by the Trans-
portation Security Administration pursuant
to paragraph (3)(B)(ii), the Administrator
shall conduct a covert test in accordance
with subsection (a) of the aviation security
operation with respect to which such vulner-
ability was identified to assess the effective-
ness of such measures to mitigate such vul-
nerability.
(c) COMPILATION OF LISTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after completing a covert testing protocol
under subsection (a), the Administrator of
the Transportation Security Administration
shall compile a list (including a classified
annex if necessary) of the vulnerabilities
identified and assessed pursuant to such
testing. Each such list shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
(A) A brief description of the nature of
each vulnerability so identified and assessed.
(B) The date on which each vulnerability
was so identified and assessed.
(C) Key milestones appropriate for the
level of effort required to mitigate each vul-
nerability, as well as an indication of wheth-
er each such milestone has been met.
(D) An indication of whether each vulner-
ability has been mitigated or reduced and, if
so, the date on which each such vulnerability
was so mitigated or reduced.
(E) If a vulnerability has not been fully
mitigated, the date by which the Adminis-
trator shall so mitigate such vulnerability or
a determination that it is not possible to
fully mitigate such vulnerability.
(F) The results of any subsequent covert
testing undertaken to assess whether mitiga-
tion efforts have eliminated or reduced each
vulnerability.
(2) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—The Admin-
istrator shall submit to the Committee on
Homeland Security of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a comprehensive document tracking
the status of the information required under
paragraph (1) together with the Transpor-
tation Security Administration’s annual
budget request.
(d) GAO REVIEW.—Not later than three
years after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Comptroller General of the United
States shall review and submit to the Ad-
ministrator of the Transportation Security
Administration and the Committee on
Homeland Security of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate a report on the effectiveness of the
Transportation Security Administration’s
processes for conducting covert testing
projects that yield statistically valid data
that can be used to assess the nature and ex-
tent of vulnerabilities to aviation security
operations that are not effectively mitigated
by current security operations.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. CLARKE) and the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. HIGGINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.024 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9367
December 9, 2019
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 3469, the Covert Testing
and Risk Mitigation Improvement Act
of 2019.
Before I begin, I would like to take a
moment to recognize my dear friend
and colleague, Chairman Elijah
Cummings, who sponsored this legisla-
tion. Less than 2 months ago, the
House lost a great leader. Chairman
Cummings dedicated his life to fighting
for justice and democracy for his con-
stituents in his native city of Balti-
more and for the American people.
Today, the House will honor his leg-
acy in the best way we can: by passing
a bill he wrote to ensure that TSA does
effective oversight of its airport
screening operations that are essential
to protecting American lives.
Mr. Speaker, the Transportation Se-
curity Administration faces serious
challenges in identifying and resolving
security vulnerabilities in its airport
security operations. Specifically, in
April 2019, the Government Account-
ability Office found that TSA was not
conducting its covert testing of screen-
ing operations in a risk-informed way
and that TSA has limited assurance
that its tests were targeted at the most
likely threats.
H.R. 3469 seeks to make major im-
provements to TSA’s covert testing
processes by requiring TSA to identify,
document, and mitigate security vul-
nerabilities found through these tests.
It requires TSA to develop a risk-in-
formed process for its covert testing
program and conduct at least three
tests a year to identify vulnerabilities
in the transportation security system.
Importantly, H.R. 3469 requires TSA
to document all vulnerabilities it iden-
tifies and how it plans to mitigate
them.
Finally, it requires GAO to submit a
report on the effectiveness of TSA’s
covert testing program within 3 years
of enactment.
Simply put, H.R. 3469 seeks to en-
hance TSA’s capacity to identify and
mitigate vulnerabilities to the security
of our transportation systems.
I urge my House colleagues to sup-
port this legislation, sponsored by our
beloved, departed colleague, to help en-
sure our transportation security sys-
tems are as effective as they can be.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3469, the Covert Testing and
Risk Mitigation Improvement Act of
2019, sponsored by our late colleague,
the greatly admired Elijah Cummings.
H.R. 3469 responds to identified gaps
in the covert testing conducted by the
Transportation Security Administra-
tion on aviation security concerns. It
is critical that our bipartisan congres-
sional oversight be aimed at improving
the security of the traveling public and
the effectiveness of TSA operations.
This legislation not only requires
TSA to develop a system for con-
ducting risk-informed covert tests but
also holds TSA accountable for re-
testing and risk mitigation efforts. The
traveling public deserves the most ef-
fective security, and I support the ef-
forts of H.R. 3469 to improve the
public’s confidence in aviation secu-
rity.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill and honor the legacy of leadership
left by Chairman Cummings.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I have no more speakers, and
I am prepared to close after the gen-
tleman from Louisiana closes.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I would like to make the con-
gresswoman from New York, my col-
league, aware that I have no further
speakers, and I am prepared to close.
Mr. Speaker, I urge adoption of the
bill, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, we all know that the
threats to our Nation’s transportation
security are real. We also know that,
as the main Federal agency responsible
for the security of our transportation
system, TSA has a critical mission for
identifying and mitigating such
threats. To be effective, TSA must
have a risk-informed covert testing re-
gime that allows it to do effective
oversight of its security operations.
H.R. 3469 would improve TSA’s test-
ing programs to ensure they can iden-
tify vulnerabilities to the transpor-
tation system and properly address
them to keep our Nation safe.
Mr. Speaker, as such, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan leg-
islation, H.R. 3469, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
CLARKE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3469.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DHS OPIOID DETECTION
RESILIENCE ACT OF 2019
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 4761) to ensure
U.S. Customs and Border Protection of-
ficers, agents, and other personnel have
adequate synthetic opioid detection
equipment, that the Department of
Homeland Security has a process to up-
date synthetic opioid detection capa-
bility, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4761
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘DHS Opioid
Detection Resilience Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STRATEGY TO ENSURE DETECTION OF
ALL OPIOID PURITY LEVELS AT
PORTS OF ENTRY.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this section, the Commis-
sioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion (CBP) shall—
(1) implement a strategy to ensure de-
ployed chemical screening devices are able
to identify in an operational environment
narcotics at purity levels less than or equal
to 10 percent, or provide ports of entry with
an alternate method for identifying nar-
cotics at lower purity levels; and
(2) require testing of any new chemical
screening devices to understand the abilities
and limitations of such devices relating to
identifying narcotics at various purity levels
before CBP commits to the acquisition of
such devices.
SEC. 3. PLAN TO ENSURE OPIOID DETECTION
EQUIPMENT RESILIENCY.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this section, the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall implement a
plan for the long-term development of a cen-
tralized spectral database for chemical
screening devices. Such plan shall address
the following:
(1) How newly identified spectra will be
collected, stored, and distributed to such de-
vices in their operational environment, in-
cluding at ports of entry.
(2) Identification of parties responsible for
updates and maintenance of such database.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. CLARKE) and the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. HIGGINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days to revise and extend their re-
marks and to include extraneous mate-
rial on this measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, every American com-
munity, in one way or another, has
been impacted by the opioid crisis.
This crisis, already two decades old,
continues to grow and evolve.
According to the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, more than
28,000 people in the United States
overdosed or died from synthetic
opioids in 2017 alone. Virtually all
types of opioids, whether finished her-
oin or potent synthetic opioids such as
fentanyl, cross our borders through our
ports of entry.
Transnational criminal organizations
hide illicit narcotics in legitimate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.027 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9368 December 9, 2019
cross-border cargo, making detection a
significant challenge. The potency of
these narcotics also varies by the
method used to smuggle it into the
country.
With fentanyl, we now know that
shipments coming through our inter-
national mail system often have higher
purity levels than those smuggled in
cargo crossing our land borders. Often,
the majority of fentanyl and other
opioids seized at land ports of entry
have a purity level of less than 10 per-
cent, making it possible to sell these
drugs in our communities faster.
Fighting back against this tactic re-
quires U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection, CBP, to have adequate detec-
tion technology to interject these
opioids before they reach our commu-
nities.
However, in September of 2019, the
Department of Homeland Security,
DHS, Office of Inspector General re-
ported that CBP purchased technology
to screen for synthetic opioids that was
unable to identify fentanyl and other
synthetic opioids with purity levels
below 10 percent.
H.R. 4761, the DHS Opioid Detection
Resilience Act of 2019, is a bipartisan
bill meant to address this capability
gap. It requires CBP to implement a
strategy to ensure its chemical screen-
ing devices can identify narcotics, in-
cluding opioids and synthetic opioids,
that are less than 10 percent in con-
centration.
The bill also requires that CBP fol-
low best practices and good govern-
ment standards by testing new devices
to understand their capabilities and
limitations prior to deployment.
Recognizing that drug traffickers
change their tactics and the chemicals
used as precursors, H.R. 4761 also re-
quires DHS to take steps toward devel-
oping a centralized database for chem-
ical screening devices. This would
mean that, as new chemicals are iden-
tified, their specific signatures will be
more readily detected by the screening
devices used by CBP’s frontline per-
sonnel.
DHS must continually adapt and
stay ahead of the criminal organiza-
tions seeking to exploit our systems.
An effective and enhanced detection
capability is a critical tool to accom-
plishing that mission.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my House col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, November 20, 2019.
Hon. BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN THOMPSON: In recognition
of the desire to expedite consideration of
H.R. 4761, the DHS Opioid Detection Resil-
ience Act of 2019, the Committee on Ways
and Means agrees to waive formal consider-
ation of the bill as to provisions that fall
within the rule X jurisdiction of the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
The Committee on Ways and Means takes
this action with the mutual understanding
that we do not waive any jurisdiction over
the subject matter contained in this or simi-
lar legislation, and the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as the
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. The Committee also
reserves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and would ask that a copy of our exchange of
letter on this matter be included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 4761.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY,
Washington, DC, November 21, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: Thank you for your
letter regarding H.R. 4761, the ‘‘DHS Opioid
Detection Resilience Act of 2019.’’ The Com-
mittee on Homeland Security recognizes
that the Committee on Ways and Means has
a jurisdictional interest in H.R. 4761, and I
appreciate your effort to allow this bill to be
considered on the House floor.
I concur with you that forgoing action on
the bill does not in any way prejudice the
Committee on Ways and Means with respect
to its jurisdictional prerogatives on this bill
or similar legislation in the future, and I
would support your effort to seek appoint-
ment of an appropriate number of conferees
to any House-Senate conference involving
this legislation.
I will include our letters on H.R. 4761 in the
Congressional Record during floor consider-
ation of this bill. I look forward to working
with you on this legislation and other mat-
ters of great importance to this nation.
Sincerely,
BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, U.S. Customs and Bor-
der Protection law enforcement offi-
cers are the first line of defense in pre-
venting the illicit flow of drugs and
contraband from entering our country.
I walked the border with my brothers
and sisters of the thin blue line, and I
have seen what CBP is up against. I
can tell you firsthand that our cartel
adversaries are ruthless and steadfast
in their determination to exploit our
laws and poison our communities.
Transnational drug traffickers oper-
ate like a business, always looking to
capitalize on products high in demand
and high with profit margin. Today,
their focus is fentanyl, a drug 100 times
more powerful than morphine. Just 2
milligrams are enough to be lethal.
Fentanyl and its analogs are being
produced mostly in China, but also in-
creasingly in Mexico. Illicit opioids
enter the United States through the
mail, concealed within vehicles or
cargo coming through the ports of
entry, and in backpacks of cartel drug
runners.
Initially, Chinese drug traffickers
were so confident that fentanyl would
not be interdicted they sent stacks of
it through the mail. The CBP im-
proved, their targeting improved, and
cartels were forced to change their ap-
proach, sending smaller quantities and
rerouting packages through freight for-
warders and other countries to mask
their point of origin.
The 2018 DEA threat assessment stat-
ed that the purity level of the fentanyl
coming across the land border is, on
average, less than 10 percent pure.
However, a recent DHS Office of In-
spector General report found that the
CBP’s small-scale chemical screening
devices cannot identify fentanyl purity
levels of 10 percent or less. This is cru-
cial.
The IG also found that there was no
policy or centralized database in place
to ensure chemical screening devices
had up-to-date spectral libraries essen-
tial to ensuring all analogs and new
opioid forms can be detected. That is
why I am pleased to see the House take
up my bill, H.R. 4761, the DHS Opioid
Detection Resilience Act of 2019.
My bill addresses the gaps in CBP’s
opioid detection capability by requir-
ing the Customs and Border Protection
commissioner to implement a strategy
to ensure chemical screening devices
can identify narcotics in an oper-
ational environment with low purity
levels.
H.R. 4761 also requires DHS to de-
velop a centralized spectral database
for chemical screening devices to en-
sure unity of effort across all compo-
nents they encounter when opioids
cross the field.
b 1615
CBP works tirelessly to prevent this
poison from reaching American com-
munities, and this bill helps law en-
forcement carry out that mission.
I thank Congresswoman CLARKE and
Congressmen ROGERS, MCCAUL, KING,
ROSE, KATKO, and JOYCE for signing on
as original cosponsors and for their
support of this important legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to make
the gentlewoman aware that I have no
further speakers and that I am pre-
pared to close.
I urge the adoption of the bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 4761 is a bipartisan
measure that received the full support
of the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity to address a capability need identi-
fied by the DHS inspector general. The
DHS Opioid Detection Resilience Act
of 2019 seeks to ensure that CBP per-
sonnel have the best and most up-to-
date technology to detect and prevent
opioids from entering the country and
our communities.
Mr. Speaker, I urge passage of H.R.
4761, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
CLARKE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4761.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.029 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9369
December 9, 2019
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
SYNTHETIC OPIOID EXPOSURE
PREVENTION AND TRAINING ACT
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I move to suspend the rules
and pass the bill (H.R. 4739) to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to
protect U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection officers, agents, other per-
sonnel, and canines against potential
synthetic opioid exposure, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4739
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Synthetic
Opioid Exposure Prevention and Training
Act’’.
SEC. 2. PROTECTION AGAINST POTENTIAL SYN-
THETIC OPIOID EXPOSURE WITHIN
U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER PRO-
TECTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle B of title IV of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
211 et seq.) is amended by inserting after sec-
tion 415 the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 416. PROTECTION AGAINST POTENTIAL
SYNTHETIC OPIOID EXPOSURE.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—The Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall
issue a policy that specifies effective proto-
cols and procedures for the safe handling of
potential synthetic opioids, including
fentanyl, by U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection officers, agents, other personnel, and
canines, and to reduce the risk of injury or
death resulting from accidental exposure and
enhance post-exposure management.
‘‘(b) TRAINING.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Together with the
issuance of the policy described in sub-
section (a), the Commissioner of U.S. Cus-
toms and Border Protection shall require
mandatory and recurrent training on the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) The potential risk of opioid exposure
and safe handling procedures for potential
synthetic opioids, including precautionary
measures such as the use of personal protec-
tive equipment during such handling.
‘‘(B) How to access and administer opioid
receptor antagonists, including naloxone,
post-exposure to potential synthetic opioids.
‘‘(2) INTEGRATION.—The training described
in paragraph (1) may be integrated into ex-
isting training under section 411(l) for U.S.
Customs and Border Protection officers,
agents, and other personnel.
‘‘(c) PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT AND
OPIOID RECEPTOR ANTAGONISTS.—Together
with the issuance of the policy described in
subsection (a), the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection shall ensure
the availability of personal protective equip-
ment and opioid receptor antagonists, in-
cluding naloxone, to all U.S. Customs and
Border Protection officers, agents, other per-
sonnel, and canines at risk of accidental ex-
posure to synthetic opioids.
‘‘(d) OVERSIGHT.—To ensure effectiveness of
the policy described in subsection (a)—
‘‘(1) the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and
Border Protection shall regularly monitor
the efficacy of the implementation of such
policy and adjust protocols and procedures,
as necessary; and
‘‘(2) the Inspector General of the Depart-
ment shall audit compliance with the re-
quirements of this section not less than once
each year for the five years after the date of
the enactment of this section.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 415 the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘Sec. 416. Protection against potential syn-
thetic opioid exposure.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. CLARKE) and the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. HIGGINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to be speak-
ing on behalf of my bill, the Synthetic
Opioid Exposure Prevention and Train-
ing Act.
We are at a crucial time in our fight
against the opioid crisis in our Nation.
Less expensive and extremely lethal
synthetic, chemically laced, and de-
rived drugs, rather than first-genera-
tion opioid pharmaceuticals, now drive
the addiction and overdoses that crip-
ple and break the hearts of the neigh-
bors and families of our communities.
We must respond to this changed dy-
namic in the ongoing opioid crisis with
legislation targeted at reducing harm
and saving lives.
Most of these deadly synthetics, such
as fentanyl, are imported into our
country. This bill addresses a specific
threat by seeking to eliminate the risk
of accidental exposure to synthetics for
the workers screening packages and
cargo entering our country.
Much of this screening occurs only a
few miles from the neighborhoods I
represent in New York’s seaports and
at the JFK International Airport’s
International Mail Facility, the largest
mail-screening facility in America,
where, every day, we are finding
fentanyl hidden in packages from
places like China.
Whether cargo and packages are
screened by CBP personnel near my
district or thousands of miles away,
this bill is directly relevant to the
lives of my constituents. Unfortu-
nately, these dangerous and illegally
manufactured substances get distrib-
uted in communities like mine. This is,
of course, true for every district across
this country.
The universal threat posed by syn-
thetic opioids is reflected by my Demo-
cratic and Republican colleagues join-
ing together as cosponsors of this bill.
I am grateful for their support and
hope that we can continue to fight the
opioid crisis as a united and deter-
mined legislative body.
While there is much left to do on this
front, H.R. 4739 takes crucial steps to-
ward enhancing our ability to shut
down the importation of synthetic
opioids. It requires that training for
CBP personnel on synthetics be regu-
larly reviewed and updated to respond
to the developing threat environment.
This includes making sure workers
know how to properly handle synthetic
opioids and how to administer the re-
versal drugs, which can save lives if ac-
cidental exposure occurs.
Furthermore, my bill requires CBP
to ensure that these reversal drugs are
in hand at facilities where opioid
screenings happen. Fentanyl, according
to the CDC, is up to 100 times more po-
tent than morphine or even heroin.
Even the smallest dose can kill unless
drugs like naloxone are available and
quickly administered.
If the workers screening packages for
substances like fentanyl don’t have the
training and tools they need to be con-
fident they can do their job safely,
more of these deadly opioids will make
their way into our communities, and
more families will be added to the
opioid crisis list of victims.
I ask each of my colleagues to sup-
port this bipartisan bill, the Synthetic
Opioid Exposure Prevention and Train-
ing Act.
I reserve the balance of my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS,
Washington, DC, November 20, 2019.
Hon. BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman, Committee on Homeland Security,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN THOMPSON: In recognition
of the desire to expedite consideration of
H.R. 4739, the Synthetic Opioid Exposure
Prevention and Training Act, the Committee
on Ways and Means agrees to waive formal
consideration of the bill as to provisions that
fall within the rule X jurisdiction of the
Committee on Ways and Means.
The Committee on Ways and Means takes
this action with the mutual understanding
that we do not waive any jurisdiction over
the subject matter contained in this or simi-
lar legislation, and the Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as the
bill or similar legislation moves forward so
that we may address any remaining issues
within our jurisdiction. The Committee also
reserves the right to seek appointment of an
appropriate number of conferees to any
House-Senate conference involving this or
similar legislation.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and would ask that a copy of our exchange of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.032 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9370 December 9, 2019
letter on this matter be included in the Con-
gressional Record during floor consideration
of H.R. 4739.
Sincerely,
RICHARD E. NEAL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY,
Washington, DC, November 21, 2019.
Hon. RICHARD NEAL,
Chairman, Committee on Ways and Means,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NEAL: Thank you for your
letter regarding H.R. 4739, the ‘‘Synthetic
Opioid Exposure Prevention and Training
Act.’’ The Committee on Homeland Security
recognizes that the Committee on Ways and
Means has a jurisdictional interest in H.R.
4739, and I appreciate your effort to allow
this bill to be considered on the House floor.
I concur with you that forgoing action on
the bill does not in any way prejudice the
Committee on Ways and Means with respect
to its jurisdictional prerogatives on this bill
or similar legislation in the future, and I
would support your effort to seek appoint-
ment of an appropriate number of conferees
to any House-Senate conference involving
this legislation.
I will include our letters on H.R. 4739 in the
Congressional Record during floor consider-
ation of this bill. I look forward to working
with you on this legislation and other mat-
ters of great importance to this nation.
Sincerely,
BENNIE G. THOMPSON,
Chairman.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I support H.R. 4739 be-
cause of the valuable impact it will
have on Customs and Border Protec-
tion officer safety.
The opioid epidemic continues to
wreak havoc on communities across
the Nation. It touches people from
every age group, race, class, gender,
and background. Parents are losing
their children; children are losing their
parents. It is devastating.
Illegally manufactured opioids from
China and Mexico are pouring into the
United States through our mail system
and across our borders. The first line of
defense against these illicit substances
is the brave men and women of Cus-
toms and Border Protection. They
work tirelessly every day to protect us,
and we must make sure they have the
equipment and training they need to do
it safely.
The safe handling of opioids by CBP
law enforcement officers is crucial, as
just 2 milligrams can be lethal. H.R.
4739 requires the Commissioner of CBP
to establish and regularly update a pol-
icy for the safe handling of synthetic
opioids by officers, agents, canines, and
other personnel.
The bill also requires that protective
equipment and opioid receptor antago-
nists be made available for all relevant
CBP employees and canines. When it
comes to officer safety, we should
never consider ourselves too careful.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to make
the Congresswoman aware that I have
no further speakers on this bill, and I
am prepared to close.
I urge the adoption of the bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, transnational criminal
organizations are constantly devel-
oping new forms of synthetic opioids
and new methods for smuggling these
drugs into our country. To combat
such activity, Congress must ensure
that CBP officers serving on the front
lines are protected from accidental ex-
posure.
This bill is one step of many that
must be taken to slow the opioid crisis
and end the devastation brought to our
communities by this epidemic. By pro-
tecting the CBP officers and agents
who operate as our frontline defenders
against the importation of synthetics,
this bill ensures that they will remain
safe and equipped to respond to the
constantly changing threat posed by
synthetic opioids.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 4739, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
CLARKE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4739.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. CLARKE of New York. Mr.
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY MENTOR-PROTEGE PRO-
GRAM ACT OF 2019
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4727) to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to establish a men-
tor-protege program, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4727
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Homeland Security Mentor-Protégé Pro-
gram Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
MENTOR-PROTÉGÉ PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle H of title VIII of
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C.
451 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 890B. MENTOR-PROTÉGÉ PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Department a mentor-protégé pro-
gram (in this section referred to as the ‘Pro-
gram’) under which a mentor firm enters
into an agreement with a protégé firm for
the purpose of assisting the protégé firm to
compete for prime contracts and sub-
contracts of the Department.
‘‘(b) ELIGIBILITY.—The Secretary shall es-
tablish criteria for mentor firms and protégé
firms to be eligible to participate in the Pro-
gram, including a requirement that a firm is
not included on any list maintained by the
Federal Government of contractors that
have been suspended or debarred.
‘‘(c) PROGRAM APPLICATION AND AP-
PROVAL.—
‘‘(1) APPLICATION.—The Secretary, acting
through the Office of Small and Disadvan-
taged Business Utilization of the Depart-
ment, shall establish a process for submis-
sion of an application jointly by a mentor
firm and the protégé firm selected by the
mentor firm. The application shall include
each of the following:
‘‘(A) A description of the assistance to be
provided by the mentor firm, including, to
the extent available, the number and a brief
description of each anticipated subcontract
to be awarded to the protégé firm.
‘‘(B) A schedule with milestones for achiev-
ing the assistance to be provided over the pe-
riod of participation in the Program.
‘‘(C) An estimate of the costs to be in-
curred by the mentor firm for providing as-
sistance under the Program.
‘‘(D) Attestation that Program partici-
pants will submit to the Secretary reports at
times specified by the Secretary to assist the
Secretary in evaluating the protégé firm’s
developmental progress.
‘‘(E) Attestations that Program partici-
pants will inform the Secretary in the event
of change in eligibility or voluntary with-
drawal from the Program.
‘‘(2) APPROVAL.—Not later than 60 days
after receipt of an application pursuant to
paragraph (1), the head of the Office of Small
and Disadvantaged Business Utilization shall
notify applicants of approval or, in the case
of disapproval, the process for resubmitting
an application for reconsideration.
‘‘(3) RESCISSION.—The head of the Office of
Small and Disadvantaged Business Utiliza-
tion may rescind the approval of an applica-
tion under this subsection if it determines
that such action is in the best interest of the
Department.
‘‘(d) PROGRAM DURATION.—A mentor firm
and protégé firm approved under subsection
(c) shall enter into an agreement to partici-
pate in the Program for a period of not less
than 36 months.
‘‘(e) PROGRAM BENEFITS.—A mentor firm
and protégé firm that enter into an agree-
ment under subsection (d) may receive the
following Program benefits:
‘‘(1) With respect to an award of a contract
that requires a subcontracting plan, a men-
tor firm may receive evaluation credit for
participating in the Program.
‘‘(2) With respect to an award of a contract
that requires a subcontracting plan, a men-
tor firm may receive credit for a protégé
firm performing as a first tier subcontractor
or a subcontractor at any tier in an amount
equal to the total dollar value of any sub-
contracts awarded to such protégé firm.
‘‘(3) A protégé firm may receive technical,
managerial, financial, or any other mutually
agreed upon benefit from a mentor firm, in-
cluding a subcontract award.
‘‘(4) Any other benefits identified by the
Secretary.
‘‘(f) REPORTING.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and annually thereafter, the head of the Of-
fice of Small and Disadvantaged Business
Utilization shall submit to the Committees
on Homeland Security and Small Business of
the House of Representatives a report that—
‘‘(1) identifies each agreement between a
mentor firm and a protégé firm entered into
under this section, including number of
protégé firm participants that are—
‘‘(A) small business concerns;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:21 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.017 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9371
December 9, 2019
‘‘(B) small business concerns owned and
controlled by veterans;
‘‘(C) small business concerns owned and
controlled by service-disabled veterans;
‘‘(D) qualified HUBZone small business
concerns;
‘‘(E) small business concerns owned and
controlled by socially and economically dis-
advantaged individuals;
‘‘(F) women-owned small business con-
cerns;
‘‘(G) historically Black colleges and uni-
versities; and
‘‘(H) minority institutions of higher edu-
cation;
‘‘(2) describes the type of assistance pro-
vided by mentor firms to protégé firms;
‘‘(3) identifies contracts within the Depart-
ment in which a mentor firm serving as the
prime contractor provided subcontracts to a
protégé firm under the Program; and
‘‘(4) assesses the degree to which there has
been—
‘‘(A) an increase in the technical capabili-
ties of protégé firms; and
‘‘(B) an increase in the quantity and esti-
mated value of prime contract and sub-
contract awards to protégé firms for the pe-
riod covered by the report.
‘‘(g) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
‘‘(1) HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGE OR UNI-
VERSITY.—The term ‘historically Black col-
lege or university’ means any of the histori-
cally Black colleges and universities referred
to in section 2323 of title 10, United States
Code, as in effect on March 1, 2018.
‘‘(2) MENTOR FIRM.—The term ‘mentor
firm’ means a for-profit business concern
that is not a small business concern that—
‘‘(A) has the ability to assist and commits
to assisting a protégé to compete for Federal
prime contracts and subcontracts; and
‘‘(B) satisfies any other requirements im-
posed by the Secretary.
‘‘(3) MINORITY INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDU-
CATION.—The term ‘minority institution of
higher education’ means an institution of
higher education with a student body that
reflects the composition specified in section
312(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1058(b)).
‘‘(4) PROTÉGÉ FIRM.—The term ‘protégé
firm’ means a small business concern, a his-
torically Black college or university, or a
minority institution of higher education
that—
‘‘(A) is eligible to enter into a prime con-
tract or subcontract with the Department;
and
‘‘(B) satisfies any other requirements im-
posed by the Secretary.
‘‘(5) SMALL BUSINESS ACT DEFINITIONS.—The
terms ‘small business concern’, ‘small busi-
ness concern owned and controlled by vet-
erans’, ‘small business concern owned and
controlled by service-disabled veterans’,
‘qualified HUBZone small business concern’,
and ‘small business concern owned and con-
trolled by women’ have the meaning given
such terms, respectively, under section 3 of
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). The
term ‘small business concern owned and con-
trolled by socially and economically dis-
advantaged individuals’ has the meaning
given such term in section 8(d)(3)(C) of the
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C)).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 890A the
following new item:
‘‘Sec. 890B. Mentor-protégé program.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN) and the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. HIGGINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 4727, the Department of
Homeland Security Mentor-Protege
Program Act of 2019.
Since the very earliest days of the
Department of Homeland Security, it
has operated a mentor-protege program
to encourage large businesses to help
small businesses build their capacity to
compete for government contracts.
However, this important program was
never codified into law. H.R. 4727 not
only authorizes the existing program
but improves it.
Small businesses, including women-,
veteran-, and minority-owned firms,
are the backbone of our economy, but
far too often, complex Federal con-
tracting requirements shut them out of
the Federal marketplace.
Building and sustaining a reliable
pool of small business vendors is crit-
ical to ensuring that DHS and its ever-
evolving contracting needs are met and
that America’s security is enhanced.
H.R. 4727 seeks to build and sustain
this pool by incentivizing large busi-
nesses to provide technical, manage-
rial, financial assistance, and subcon-
tracting opportunities to small busi-
nesses. This bill requires participating
businesses to commit to a mentor-pro-
tege relationship for 3 years to help es-
tablish long-term relationships be-
tween large and small contractors.
Additionally, to ensure that Congress
can monitor the effectiveness of the
program in an ongoing way, it requires
DHS to annually report on program
participation and the benefits con-
ferred upon small businesses.
Enactment of H.R. 4727 will ensure
the continued and lasting success of
the mentor-protege program, a vital
small business program.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
pass this commonsense legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4727, the Department of Homeland Se-
curity Mentor-Protege Program Act of
2019.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity has an important mission to pro-
tect this Nation, but they cannot do it
on their own. For many functions, DHS
relies on contractors to get the job
done.
H.R. 4727 would expand the con-
tractor pool that DHS relies on by cre-
ating a mentor-protege program to
help small businesses grow their tech-
nical capabilities.
b 1630
I support the legislation and the cre-
ation of this program at DHS, modeled
after a similar one at the Department
of Defense. Under the program, larger
contractors would develop agreements
with smaller firms to provide assist-
ance and to potentially involve the
smaller firm in DHS contracts at a sub-
contractor level.
To provide transparency into this
program, the Office of Small and Dis-
advantaged Business Utilization will
report annually to Congress. This will
allow us to evaluate the benefit of this
program and its progress in developing
the contractor base.
I would like to thank Representative
MCEACHIN for introducing H.R. 4727 and
for his work to grow the capability of
small businesses that contract for the
DHS.
In closing, Mr. Speaker, I do urge the
adoption of the bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, formally
authorizing the Department of Home-
land Security’s mentor-protege pro-
gram will ensure the continued success
of this important small business pro-
gram.
DHS is to be commended in its ear-
liest days for setting this program up.
I thank the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. MCEACHIN) for introducing this
bill to help grow partnerships between
small businesses and DHS.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 4727, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Michigan (Ms.
SLOTKIN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4727.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EMERGING TRANSPORTATION
SECURITY THREATS ACT OF 2019
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3318) to require the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to es-
tablish a task force to conduct an anal-
ysis of emerging and potential future
threats to transportation security, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3318
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Emerging
Transportation Security Threats Act of 2019’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.015 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9372 December 9, 2019
SEC. 2. EMERGING AND FUTURE THREATS TASK
FORCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Ad-
ministrator of the Transportation Security Ad-
ministration, in consultation with the Director
of National Intelligence and the intelligence
community (as such term is defined in section
3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50
U.S.C. 3003(4))) and the heads of other Federal
agencies, as determined appropriate by the Ad-
ministrator, shall establish a task force to con-
duct an analysis of emerging and potential fu-
ture threats to transportation security.
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—The task force established
under subsection (a) shall be comprised of em-
ployees of the Department of Homeland Security
who, in carrying out the analysis required
under such subsection, shall consult with the
Director of National Intelligence and the intel-
ligence community and the heads of Federal
agencies, as determined appropriate by the Ad-
ministrator.
(c) DEADLINE.—Not later than 270 days after
the Administrator establishes the task force
under subsection (a), the task force shall submit
to the Administrator the analysis required under
such subsection.
(d) ELEMENTS.—The analysis required under
subsection (a) shall include emerging and poten-
tial future threats posed by the following:
(1) Evolving tactics by terrorist organizations
that may pose a catastrophic risk to an aviation
or surface transportation entity.
(2) Explosive and explosive devices or attacks
involving the use of explosives that may cause
catastrophic damage to an aviation or surface
transportation system.
(3) Chemical or biological agents being re-
leased in either aviation or surface transpor-
tation systems.
(4) Cyberthreat actors seeking to undermine
confidence in transportation systems or cause
service disruptions that jeopardize transpor-
tation security.
(5) Unmanned aerial systems with the capa-
bility of inflicting harm on transportation tar-
gets.
(6) Individuals or groups seeking to attack
soft targets, public areas, or crowded spaces of
transportation systems, including attacks
against Transportation Security Administration
employees and other security personnel.
(7) Foreign actors seeking to exploit
vulnerabilities posed by the inconsistent or in-
adequate security screening protocols at last
point of departure airports with direct flights to
the United States.
(8) Information sharing challenges within the
Federal Government and among partner govern-
ments.
(9) Information sharing challenges between
the Administration or other relevant Federal
agencies and transportation stakeholders, in-
cluding air carriers, airport operators, surface
transportation operators, and State and local
law enforcement.
(10) Growth in passenger volume in both the
aviation and surface transportation sectors.
(e) MITIGATION.—Not later than 120 days after
the completion of the analysis required under
subsection (a), the Administrator of the Trans-
portation Security Administration shall develop,
as appropriate, a threat mitigation strategy for
each of the threats examined in such analysis,
and—
(1) assign appropriate resources of the Admin-
istration to address such threats, based on cal-
culated risk; or
(2) provide recommendations through the De-
partment of Homeland Security to the appro-
priate Federal department or agency responsible
for addressing such threats.
(f) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT.—When car-
rying out the analysis required under subsection
(a), the Administrator of the Transportation Se-
curity Administration shall engage transpor-
tation stakeholders referred to in subsection
(b)(9) and account for security concerns of
transportation operators by—
(1) convening not fewer than three industry
day events for such transportation stakeholders
to hear from relevant public and private sector
security partners and provide feedback on
threats such transportation stakeholders iden-
tify as emerging;
(2) developing strategies to solicit feedback on
a consistent basis from such transportation
stakeholders across all modes of transportation
and providing consistent responses to stake-
holder concerns;
(3) improving the quality, timeliness, and rel-
evancy of information sharing products dissemi-
nated by the Administration to such transpor-
tation stakeholders, including classified infor-
mation sharing products;
(4) coordinating security incident response
and communications drills, including tabletop
exercises, to improve incident preparedness and
response capabilities across transportation
modes and among transportation systems;
(5) encouraging regular communication be-
tween Federal Security Directors, Field Intel-
ligence Officers, Federal Air Marshal Special
Agents in Charge, and such transportation
stakeholders;
(6) establishing regular opportunities for sen-
ior Administration leadership to engage with
such transportation stakeholders regarding
changes in the threat environment and how the
Administration can offer security support to ad-
dress such changes; and
(7) briefing the Aviation Security Advisory
Committee and the Surface Transportation Se-
curity Advisory Committee on the efforts of the
task force established pursuant to subsection
(a).
(g) BRIEFING TO CONGRESS.—The Adminis-
trator of the Transportation Security Adminis-
tration shall brief the Committee on Homeland
Security of the House of Representatives and
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation of the Senate on the results of
the analysis required under subsection (a) and
relevant mitigation strategies developed in ac-
cordance with subsection (c).
(h) NON-APPLICABILITY OF FACA AND PRA.—
The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C.
App.) and the Paperwork Reduction Act (44
U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) shall not apply to the task
force established under subsection (a).
SEC. 3. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Comptroller General of the United States shall
conduct a review of the feasibility, risks, costs,
and potential threat mitigation benefits of the
Transportation Security Administration deploy-
ing the agency’s passenger and property screen-
ing assets to conduct screening in areas or fa-
cilities prior to passenger arrival at airport ter-
minals.
(b) STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT.—In con-
ducting the review required under subsection
(a), the Comptroller General of the United
States shall consult with the Transportation Se-
curity Administration, airport operators, air
carriers, businesses that operate in airports,
labor groups representing the Transportation
Security Administration and transportation sec-
tor personnel, and other stakeholders.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN) and the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. HIGGINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to support
H.R. 3318, the Emerging Transportation
Security Threats Act of 2019.
Millions of people travel every day
and rely on a secure transportation
system to get them to their destina-
tion safely. Terrorists and other nefar-
ious actors are constantly looking for
new ways to attack and disrupt our Na-
tion’s transportation systems. All it
takes is one successful attack for the
public to lose confidence in the system
as a whole.
We must ensure that our security
systems remain one step ahead of ne-
farious actors and that all entities re-
sponsible for transportation security
are collaborating and sharing informa-
tion in an effective manner to help pre-
vent an attack. This bill is a good step
in this direction.
Importantly, it requires the TSA, in
consultation with the intelligence
community and other relevant Federal
agencies, to establish a task force to
analyze emerging and future threats to
transportation security. Having indi-
viduals from across the Federal Gov-
ernment work together to assess
emerging threats will help promote
collaboration and efficiency across the
agencies.
After the analysis is complete, H.R.
3318 requires TSA to develop a threat
mitigation strategy for each threat the
task force identifies. These mitigation
strategies will be important tools for
TSA as they consider how best to pre-
vent potential threats from occurring.
Finally, the bill requires the Govern-
ment Accountability Office to conduct
a review to determine the costs and
benefits of conducting screening prior
to passenger arrival at an airport ter-
minal.
Mr. Speaker, we must do all that we
can to prevent an attack on our trans-
portation systems. This bill promotes
collaboration to put our security agen-
cies in a better position to identify and
mitigate threats.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my House col-
leagues to support this legislation, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 3318, the Emerging Transpor-
tation Security Threats Act of 2019,
sponsored by my good friend and col-
league, the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. JOYCE).
This legislation establishes a task
force aimed at improving the security
of the traveling public by bringing to-
gether relevant Federal authorities and
transportation security stakeholders.
The task force established by this
legislation will look at emerging and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.014 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9373
December 9, 2019
potential future threats to transpor-
tation security from a number of
threat vectors, including
cybersecurity, explosives, public area
security, and evolving terrorist at-
tacks.
This bill also directs the Adminis-
trator of the TSA to develop relevant
threat mitigation plans in close coordi-
nation with transportation security
stakeholders and appropriate Federal
agencies.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Pennsylvania for his leadership
on this issue.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I have
no more speakers, and I am prepared to
close after the gentleman from Lou-
isiana closes.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. JOYCE).
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today in support of my
bill, H.R. 3318, the Emerging Transpor-
tation Security Threats Act of 2019.
This legislation will ensure that Home-
land Security is forward-looking in re-
gard to threats facing America’s trans-
portation systems.
My district, Pennsylvania’s 13th, is
home to the Flight 93 National Memo-
rial in Somerset County, which serves
as a stark reminder of the heroism of
ordinary Americans and why, as a Con-
gress, we must act to protect our Na-
tion against threats to the homeland.
Oftentimes, the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration faces criticism
from Congress, stakeholders, and the
traveling public that the agency is too
reactionary to evolving threats and not
proactive enough in mitigating emerg-
ing threats to transportation.
H.R. 3318 seeks to improve collabora-
tion among the TSA, the intelligence
community, other Federal agencies,
and transportation security stake-
holders by creating a task force to con-
duct an analysis of emerging threats to
transportation security. Once estab-
lished, this task force will examine
threats posed by evolving terrorist tac-
tics, explosive devices, chemical and
biological agents, cyber actors, un-
manned aerial systems, and inadequate
information sharing, among other se-
curity challenges.
For each threat examined by the
task force established in this legisla-
tion, the TSA is directed to develop a
mitigation strategy to protect the
traveling public and identify needed se-
curity enhancements. This bill ensures
that each of these efforts will include
close collaboration with transportation
stakeholders on the development of se-
curity strategies, improved informa-
tion sharing practices, and regular
interactions with senior TSA leader-
ship on security matters.
Finally, this legislation requires the
Government Accountability Office to
conduct a review ensuring that the
TSA effectively implements the bill’s
requirements.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentleman
from Louisiana, CLAY HIGGINS, for his
support of this bill and for working to
bring it to the floor today. I urge all of
my colleagues to support this legisla-
tion.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I urge adoption of the bill,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, securing
our Nation’s transportation systems
from successful attack requires the
collaboration of all stakeholders re-
sponsible for transportation security.
I thank the gentleman from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. JOYCE) for bringing this leg-
islation forward, and I urge passage of
H.R. 3318.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Michigan (Ms.
SLOTKIN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3318, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
AND CIVIL LIBERTIES AUTHOR-
IZATION ACT
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4713) to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to make certain im-
provements in the Office for Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties of the De-
partment of Homeland Security, and
for other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4713
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Homeland Security Office of Civil Rights
and Civil Liberties Authorization Act’’.
SEC. 2. OFFICER FOR CIVIL RIGHTS AND CIVIL
LIBERTIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 705 of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 345) is
amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘ES-
TABLISHMENT OF’’; and
(2) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and
inserting the following new subsections:
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—There is established
within the Department an Office for Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties. The head of such
Office is the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil
Liberties, who shall report directly to the
Secretary.
‘‘(b) RESPONSIBILITIES.—The Officer for
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties shall carry
out the following responsibilities:
‘‘(1) Oversee compliance with constitu-
tional, statutory, regulatory, policy, and
other requirements relating to the civil
rights and civil liberties of individuals af-
fected by the programs and activities of the
Department.
‘‘(2) Integrate civil rights and civil lib-
erties protections into all programs and ac-
tivities of the Department.
‘‘(3) Conduct civil rights and civil liberties
impact assessments, as appropriate, includ-
ing prior to the implementation of new De-
partment regulations, initiatives, programs,
or policies.
‘‘(4) Conduct periodic reviews of policies,
procedures, and activities of the Department
relating to civil rights and civil liberties.
‘‘(5) Provide policy advice, recommenda-
tions, and other technical assistance relating
to civil rights and civil liberties to the Sec-
retary and to heads of components, direc-
torates, and offices and other personnel
within the Department.
‘‘(6) Review, assess, and investigate com-
plaints, including complaints filed by mem-
bers of the public, and information indi-
cating possible abuses of civil rights or civil
liberties at the Department, unless the In-
spector General of the Department deter-
mines that any such complaint should be in-
vestigated by the Inspector General.
‘‘(7) Initiate reviews, investigations, and
assessments of the administration of the pro-
grams and activities by the Department re-
lating to civil rights and civil liberties, as
the Officer determines necessary.
‘‘(8) Coordinate with the Privacy Officer to
ensure that—
‘‘(A) programs, policies, and procedures in-
volving civil rights, civil liberties, and pri-
vacy considerations are addressed in an inte-
grated and comprehensive manner; and
‘‘(B) Congress receives appropriate reports
regarding such programs, policies, and proce-
dures.
‘‘(9) Lead the equal employment oppor-
tunity programs of the Department, includ-
ing complaint management and adjudica-
tion, workforce diversity, and promotion of
the merit system principles.
‘‘(10) Make publicly available through ac-
cessible communications channels, including
the website of the Department—
‘‘(A) information on the responsibilities
and functions of, and how to contact, the Of-
fice; and
‘‘(B) summary of reports of investigations
that result in final recommendations that
are issued by the Officer upon completion of
investigations carried out pursuant to para-
graph (6); and
‘‘(C) summaries of impact assessments
issued by the Officer and carried out pursu-
ant to paragraph (3) or (7).
‘‘(11) Engage with individuals and commu-
nities whose civil rights and civil liberties
may be affected by programs and activities
of the Department, including by informing
such individuals and communities about re-
port and redress processes and advising the
Secretary and heads of components, direc-
torates, offices, and other personnel within
the Department of concerns raised by such
individuals and communities.
‘‘(c) COORDINATION WITH INSPECTOR GEN-
ERAL.—
‘‘(1) AUTHORITY TO INVESTIGATE POSSIBLE
ABUSES.—The Officer for Civil Rights and
Civil Liberties may investigate any matter
referred to in paragraph (6) or (7) of sub-
section (b) after fulfilling the coordination
requirements under paragraph (2) with re-
spect to such matter.
‘‘(2) COORDINATION REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(A) REFERRAL OF MATTERS TO INSPECTOR
GENERAL.—Before initiating any investiga-
tion described under paragraph (1), the Offi-
cer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties shall
refer the matter and all related complaints
to the Inspector General of the Department.
‘‘(B) INSPECTOR GENERAL RESPONSIBIL-
ITIES.—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.039 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9374 December 9, 2019
‘‘(i) DETERMINATION AND NOTIFICATION.—
Not later than 5 business days after the re-
ceipt of a matter referred under subpara-
graph (A), the Inspector General shall—
‘‘(I) make a determination regarding
whether the Inspector General intends to ini-
tiate an audit or investigation of the matter
referred under subparagraph (A); and
‘‘(II) notify the Officer of such determina-
tion.
‘‘(ii) AUDITS AND INVESTIGATIONS.—If the
Inspector General notifies the Officer for
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties that the In-
spector General intends to initiate an audit
or investigation, the Inspector General
shall—
‘‘(I) initiate such audit or investigate by
not later than 90 days after providing such
notification; or
‘‘(II) not later than three days after the
end of the 90-day period specified in sub-
clause (I), notify the Officer that such audit
or investigation was not initiated.
‘‘(C) PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE.—At the re-
quest of the Inspector General, the Officer
for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties may pro-
vide assistance to the Inspector General on
any investigation or audit initiated by the
Inspector General based on a referral under
subparagraph (A).
‘‘(D) INVESTIGATION BY OFFICER.—The Offi-
cer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties may
investigate a matter referred to the Inspec-
tor General under subparagraph (A) only if—
‘‘(i) the Inspector General notifies the Offi-
cer for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties that
the Inspector General does not intend to ini-
tiate an audit or investigation relating to
that matter; or
‘‘(ii) the Inspector General provides notifi-
cation under subparagraph (B)(ii)(II) that an
audit or investigation was not initiated.
‘‘(d) TRANSPARENCY.—
‘‘(1) COMPLAINTS.—In the case of a com-
plaint made concerning allegations of abuses
of civil rights and civil liberties under para-
graph (6) of subsection (b), the Officer for
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties shall—
‘‘(A) provide to the individual who made
the complaint notice of the receipt of such
complaint within 30 days of receiving the
complaint; and
‘‘(B) inform the complainant of the deter-
mination of the Officer regarding the initi-
ation of a review, assessment, or investiga-
tion within the Office, a referral to the In-
spector General of the Department, or any
other action taken.
‘‘(2) INVESTIGATIONS.—In the case of an in-
vestigation initiated by the Officer pursuant
to paragraph (6) or (7) of subsection (b), upon
the conclusion of the investigation, the Offi-
cer shall produce a report on the investiga-
tion which—
‘‘(A) shall include the findings and rec-
ommendations of the Officer;
‘‘(B) a summary of which shall be made
publicly available;
‘‘(C) shall not include any personally iden-
tifiable information related to any indi-
vidual involved in such investigation; and
‘‘(D) may include a classified appendix, as
the Officer determines appropriate.
‘‘(3) SUBMITTAL TO HEADS OF OPERATIONAL
COMPONENTS.—The Officer shall transmit a
copy of each report produced under para-
graph (2) to the Secretary and to the rel-
evant head of each relevant operational com-
ponent of the Department.
‘‘(4) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—Upon the con-
clusion of any investigation conducted by
the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Lib-
erties under paragraph (6) or (7) of subsection
(b), the Officer shall submit to Congress a re-
port on the investigation, which shall be pre-
pared and submitted without any prior com-
ment or amendment by the Secretary, Dep-
uty Secretary, or any other officer or em-
ployee of the Department, unless the Officer
seeks such comment.
‘‘(e) COMPONENT CIVIL RIGHTS AND CIVIL
LIBERTIES OFFICER.—The head of each of the
operational components of the Department
shall designate a career appointee (as such
term is defined in section 3132 of title 5,
United States Code) from such component as
the Officer for Civil Rights and Civil Lib-
erties of that component. The Officer for
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of each such
component shall coordinate with and provide
information to the Officer for Civil Rights
and Civil Liberties of the Department on
matters related to civil rights and civil lib-
erties within the components.
‘‘(f) ACCESS TO INFORMATION.—The Officer
for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of the De-
partment—
‘‘(1) shall have access to all records, re-
ports, audits, reviews, documents, papers,
recommendations, and other materials avail-
able to the Department that relate to pro-
grams and operations with respect to the re-
sponsibilities of the Officer under subsection
(b); and
‘‘(2) may, to the extent the Officer deter-
mines necessary, and subject to the approval
of the Secretary—
‘‘(A) issue a subpoena to require the pro-
duction, by any person other than a Federal
agency, of all information, documents, re-
ports, answers, records, accounts, papers,
and other documentary evidence necessary
in the performance of the responsibilities of
the Officer under this section; and
‘‘(B) administer to or take from any person
an oath, affirmation, or affidavit, whenever
necessary in the performance of the respon-
sibilities of the Officer under this section.
‘‘(g) ANNUAL REPORT.—Not later than
March 31 of each year, the Officer for Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties of the Department
shall submit directly to the President, the
President of the Senate, the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, and the appro-
priate committees and subcommittees of
Congress, a report on the implementation of
this section during the year preceding the
year during which the report is submitted.
Each such report shall include, for the year
covered by the report—
‘‘(1) any allegations of abuse described
under subsection (b)(6) and any actions by
the Department or a component, directorate,
or office of the Department that the Officer
identifies as responsive to such allegations;
‘‘(2) a list of Department programs and ac-
tivities for which civil rights and civil lib-
erties impact assessments were conducted,
or policy advice, recommendations, or other
technical assistance was provided;
‘‘(3) any recommendations issued by the
Officer to the Secretary or the head of a
component, directorate, or office, together
with information on the status of the imple-
mentation of such recommendations;
‘‘(4) information on the diversity and equal
employment opportunity activities of the
Department, including information on com-
plaint management and adjudication of
equal employment opportunity complaints
and efforts to ensure compliance throughout
the Department with equal employment op-
portunity requirements;
‘‘(5) a description of any efforts to engage
with individuals and communities whose
civil rights and civil liberties may be af-
fected by activities carried out by the De-
partment, including public meetings; and
‘‘(6) information on total staffing for the
Office of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, in-
cluding—
‘‘(A) the number of full-time, part-time
and contract support personnel; and
‘‘(B) information on the number of employ-
ees whose primary responsibilities include
supporting the Officer in carrying out para-
graph (9) of subsection (b).’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The item relat-
ing to section 705 in section 1(b) of the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 is amended to read
as follows:
‘‘SEC. 705. OFFICER FOR CIVIL RIGHTS AND CIVIL
LIBERTIES.’’.
SEC. 3. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW.
Not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller
General of the United States shall submit to
Congress a report on subsection (b)(11) of sec-
tion 705 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002
(6 U.S.C. 345), as amended by section 2.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN) and the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. HIGGINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 4713, the Department of
Homeland Security Office of Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties Authoriza-
tion Act.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity Office of Civil Rights and Civil
Liberties, which I will call CRCL, is
the primary office responsible for inte-
grating civil rights and civil liberties
protections into DHS policies, pro-
grams, and procedures.
Every day, DHS personnel interact
with millions of people from across the
country and around the world. For this
reason, it is imperative that the De-
partment’s CRCL officer has the au-
thority to ensure that DHS pursues
policies and programs that are in line
with constitutionally protected civil
rights and civil liberties.
Under current law, the CRCL officer
is authorized to assist the leaders
throughout the Department in appro-
priately incorporating civil rights and
civil liberties in DHS policies and pro-
cedures. However, there have been in-
stances where CRCL was not afforded
the opportunity to weigh in on DHS
programs and policies that clearly im-
pact individuals’ and communities’
civil rights and civil liberties.
For example, it has been reported
that CRCL was not consulted when the
Trump administration instituted the
family separation policy at the south-
ern border. It has also been reported
that the Office was not consulted prior
to the January 2017 travel ban that
barred individuals from Muslim-major-
ity countries from entering the United
States.
The bill before us today seeks to en-
sure that CRCL has a seat at the table
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.016 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9375
December 9, 2019
when new programs and policies are
being considered within DHS.
H.R. 4713, which was introduced by
the gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN),
promotes the involvement of CRCL
early in the policymaking process and
ensures the Office is empowered, when
necessary, to prevent DHS from pur-
suing policies that violate individuals’
civil rights and civil liberties.
To strengthen the integration of civil
rights and civil liberties across the De-
partment, H.R. 4713 requires the des-
ignation of CRCL officers within each
DHS component.
Additionally, H.R. 4713 would confer
the CRCL officer the same authorities
that currently rest with the DHS pri-
vacy officer to carry out its respon-
sibilities.
For instance, today, DHS compo-
nents are not required to provide infor-
mation to the CRCL officer that may
be needed for a civil liberties investiga-
tion. Under H.R. 4713, the CRCL officer
would have the authority to access all
Department records necessary to carry
out its work, including investigations.
The CRCL officer would also have the
authority, with the support of the DHS
Secretary, to subpoena non-Federal en-
tities to acquire information, docu-
ments, reports, and other materials
necessary to carry out CRCL investiga-
tions.
Lastly, the bill would increase trans-
parency and accountability within the
Department. Specifically, H.R. 4713
makes CRCL more responsive and ac-
cessible to members of the public who
file complaints by requiring the Office
to provide individuals with notices of
receipt within 30 days of a complaint.
The bill also requires CRCL to make
publicly available its reports and re-
views of Department programs and sub-
mit those reports to Congress.
We know that the CRCL does impor-
tant work and that caseload is grow-
ing. This year alone, the Office re-
viewed DHS policies relating to the hu-
manitarian crisis at the border, dis-
aster assistance, and a Department-
wide antiharassment policy, just to
name a few items.
Given Congress’ strong interest in
the work of the Department’s CRCL of-
ficer, it is troubling that the last an-
nual report that we have received here
in Congress was for fiscal year 2017. In-
creased public reporting will allow us
to work together to improve account-
ability of the Department.
I appreciate that the Committee on
Homeland Security came together on a
bipartisan basis to support this meas-
ure, and I urge my colleagues to do the
same.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1645
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 4713,
the Department of Homeland Security
Office of Civil Rights and Civil Lib-
erties Authorization Act.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation will
give the Department of Homeland Se-
curity Office of Civil Rights and Civil
Liberties more tools to conduct its in-
vestigations.
The bill does not significantly broad-
en the authority of CRCL; it is in-
tended to grant CRCL the authorities
necessary to conduct meaningful in-
quiries into allegations of abuse of
civil rights and civil liberties within
DHS.
The bill specifically outlines mecha-
nisms to ensure that there is coordina-
tion with other entities at DHS who
conduct investigations of violations of
civil rights. DHS already has numerous
officers engaged in investigating such
violations, and we want to ensure that
the new authority granted to CRCL is
not used to engage in duplicative ac-
tivities or investigations.
H.R. 4713 also grants CRCL access to
DHS documents on programs and oper-
ations, provides it with subpoena pow-
ers and the authority to administer an
oath or take an affidavit. These au-
thorities should be exercised only in
the rarest of the circumstances and
only after approval by the Secretary.
DHS and its components should view
cooperation with CRCL as standard op-
erating procedure and provide relevant
documents when requested. However,
in utilizing the authority provided,
CRCL must also respect generally ac-
cepted exceptions to document produc-
tion.
Finally, the bill requires the issuance
of a report after an investigation. Al-
though not required, I expect CRCL to
seek the guidance of the Secretary and
the components whenever possible dur-
ing an investigation to ensure that it is
conducted in a fair and equitable man-
ner.
We have made some changes to the
bill at the request of DHS. To the ex-
tent that DHS continues to have con-
cerns, I encourage the majority to
work with the Department as this bill
moves to the Senate to address out-
standing issues.
Mr. Speaker, I support this bill, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GREEN).
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding me
the time and for her outstanding serv-
ice as a member of this august body. I
would also like to thank my friend
from Louisiana, my home State, for his
outstanding presentation as it relates
to this piece of legislation.
Seated next to the gentleman from
Louisiana is our dear friend, who is co-
sponsoring this piece of legislation, Mr.
TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. TAY-
LOR for all that he has done to bring
this to fruition. And, of course, we
could not do this without saying a
word about the chairperson of the full
committee, Mr. THOMPSON. I want to
thank Mr. THOMPSON for not only
bringing this legislation to my atten-
tion but, also, allowing it to get to the
floor, such that we might have this op-
portunity for passage.
I would like to address immediately
the concern that my friend raised
about this piece of legislation not
being perfect, and I confess that it
isn’t. I do think it is good legislation,
but I want to allay any consternation
that Members may have.
Mr. Speaker, I have already spoken
to staff, and I have agreed that we
should be flexible in trying to work to
make sure that what we present to the
Senate and what we ultimately get
from the Senate will be something that
we can all agree to. Just as we have
been able to bring this to the floor with
bipartisan support, I would like to see
bicameral support and continue this bi-
partisan relationship. I think it is an
imperative for us if we are going to do
this in an effective way.
One thing to talk about very briefly,
of course, is the subpoena power. I
think this is a thing that some people
are afraid might somehow be abused. I
am concerned. I believe that this type
of authority should be handled with
the greatest degree of sensitivity.
Mr. Speaker, we pledge to you to do
all that we can to make sure that, as
we move forward, that level of sensi-
tivity is something that we embrace in
a holistic way so that all parties con-
cerned will ultimately conclude that
we have come up with the perfect for-
mula to get this to the President for
his signature.
I would like to say this, finally: This
piece of legislation is something that I
think is sorely needed. What it does is
it will confer upon the CRCL officer
the same authorities granted to DHS
privacy officers. That same level of au-
thority is something that I believe
would be of great benefit to the Depart-
ment and to the people that the De-
partment will embrace by way of their
services.
Mr. Speaker, I thank all of my
friends and colleagues, and I am going
to be as pithy as I can be and simply
say ‘‘amen’’ to what has been said.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. TAYLOR), my
friend.
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague from Texas’ Ninth Dis-
trict for his work on this piece of legis-
lation.
I rise in support of H.R. 4713, the De-
partment of Homeland Security Office
of Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Au-
thorization Act.
Every day millions of Americans
interact with officials and representa-
tives of the Department of Homeland
Security, most frequently at airports
across this country. In fact, the Trans-
portation Security Administration
screens approximately 2.2 million pas-
sengers every single day. Last year,
TSA screened over 813 million individ-
uals.
With more than 240,000 dedicated
DHS employees working hard every
single day—and I mean every single
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.042 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9376 December 9, 2019
day; they do not take a day off, the De-
partment of Homeland Security—they
are keeping our Nation safe. While
there is no doubt that this is a massive
undertaking, we must also work to en-
sure the civil rights and liberties of
every single American are upheld by
the Department of Homeland Security.
H.R. 4713, the bill before us today,
safeguards the civil rights of Ameri-
cans by increasing accountability and
transparency. Just as the dedicated
men and women who work to protect
our homeland, ensuring the constitu-
tional rights of all Americans are pro-
tected is critically important for us to
maintain a free society.
Increasing transparency and account-
ability is not a partisan issue, and I
urge my colleagues to vote in favor of
H.R. 4713.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I have
no more speakers, and I am prepared to
close.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I am prepared to close. I urge
adoption of the bill, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I would
be remiss if I did not also take just a
half a second to urge the Department
of Homeland Security, in crafting their
budget request for next cycle, to pro-
vide adequate resources for the CRCL
to ensure that the office can do its
work.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the rest of my
colleagues to join by passing H.R. 4713,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Michigan (Ms.
SLOTKIN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4713, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
INLAND WATERS SECURITY
REVIEW ACT
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4402) to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to conduct an in-
land waters threat analysis, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4402
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Inland Wa-
ters Security Review Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Homeland Security
of the House of Representatives;
(B) the Committee on Homeland Security
and Government Affairs of the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation of the Senate.
(2) INLAND WATERS.—The term ‘‘inland wa-
ters’’ has the meaning given such term in
section 83.03 of title 33, Code of Federal Reg-
ulations.
SEC. 3. INLAND WATERS THREAT ANALYSIS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
submit to the appropriate congressional
committees an inland waters threat analysis
that includes an identification and descrip-
tion of the following:
(1) Current and potential terrorism and
criminal threats posed by individuals and
groups seeking to—
(A) enter the United States through inland
waters; or
(B) exploit security vulnerabilities on in-
land waters.
(2) Security challenges at United States in-
land waters ports regarding—
(A) terrorism and instruments of terror en-
tering the United States; and
(B) criminal activity, as measured by the
total flow of illegal goods and illicit drugs,
related to the inland waters.
(3) Security mitigation efforts with respect
to the inland waters to—
(A) prevent terrorists and instruments of
terror from entering the United States; and
(B) reduce criminal activity related to the
inland waters.
(4) Vulnerabilities related to cooperation
between State, local, Tribal, and territorial
law enforcement, or international agree-
ments, that hinder effective security,
counterterrorism, anti-trafficking efforts,
and the flow of legitimate trade with respect
to inland waters.
(5) Metrics and performance measures used
by the Department of Homeland Security to
evaluate inland waters security, as appro-
priate.
(b) ANALYSIS REQUIREMENTS.—In preparing
the threat analysis required under sub-
section (a), the Secretary of Homeland Secu-
rity shall consider and examine the fol-
lowing:
(1) Technology needs and challenges.
(2) Personnel needs and challenges.
(3) The roles of State, local, Tribal, and
territorial law enforcement, as well as pri-
vate sector partners and the public, relating
to inland waters security.
(4) The need for cooperation among Fed-
eral, State, local, Tribal, territorial, and
international partner law enforcement, as
well as private sector partners and the pub-
lic, relating to inland waters security.
(5) The challenges posed by geography with
respect to inland waters security.
(c) CLASSIFIED THREAT ANALYSIS.—To the
extent possible, the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall submit the threat analysis re-
quired under subsection (a) in unclassified
form. The Secretary may submit a portion of
the threat analysis in classified form if the
Secretary determines that such is appro-
priate.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN) and the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. HIGGINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
4402, the Inland Waters Security Re-
view Act. This one is very close to my
heart.
Maritime security is an integral part
of our homeland security; however,
most terrorism assessments related to
maritime security have focused on the
risks of terrorism on the high seas or
on coastal areas.
In the United States, we have mas-
sive inland water systems that present
unique security challenges. In Michi-
gan, for instance, from where I hail, we
have 3,288 miles of coastline, second
only to Alaska—take that, California
and Florida—so inland waters are a big
deal to us. Maritime security is not
just for our oceans but also for our
Great Lakes, which represent a huge
part of our U.S.-Canada border.
As a Michiganian who came to Con-
gress to protect the Great Lakes, I am
pleased to support this legislation,
which requires the Department of
Homeland Security to take a good,
hard look at security threats to these
vital waterways.
Specifically, H.R. 4402 would require
DHS to submit an analysis of the cur-
rent and potential terrorism and crimi-
nal threats, as well as security chal-
lenges, with respect to our Nation’s in-
land waters.
In producing this assessment, DHS
must consider technology, personnel,
law enforcement cooperation, public-
private partnerships, and challenges
posed by geography. This assessment
will provide Congress and the public
with vital information regarding the
threats facing our inland waters.
I am pleased to be an original cospon-
sor of H.R. 4402, a bipartisan bill that
was reported out of committee by
unanimous consent. I thank my col-
league on the Homeland Security com-
mittee, Mrs. LESKO, for her leadership
on this bill.
With that, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4402, the Inland Waters Secu-
rity Review Act sponsored by my
friend and colleague, the ranking mem-
ber of the Transportation and Mari-
time Security Subcommittee, Rep-
resentative DEBBIE LESKO.
H.R. 4402 will improve the security
awareness of the Department of Home-
land Security and the United States
Coast Guard for threats and vulnerabil-
ities on America’s inland water sys-
tems. These important arteries for
commerce face unique challenges re-
lated to illegal drugs and smuggling. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.043 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9377
December 9, 2019
is important that the Coast Guard con-
tinues to work diligently with relevant
stakeholders to address these chal-
lenges.
This legislation would also ensure
that Federal authorities are working in
close partnership with their State,
local, Tribal, territorial, and private
sector partners to identify and address
security issues related to America’s in-
land waters.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative
LESKO for her leadership on this bipar-
tisan legislation. I urge my colleagues
to support the bill; I urge adoption of
the bill; and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, America
is home to over 3 million miles of
lakes, rivers, and streams, including
more than 25,000 miles of navigable wa-
ters.
It is critically important that we
have a complete picture of the security
and criminal threats that inland wa-
ters face. H.R. 4402 would do just that.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman from Arizona for introducing
this legislation, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Michigan (Ms.
SLOTKIN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4402.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
WEATHERIZING INFRASTRUCTURE
IN THE NORTH AND TERRORISM
EMERGENCY READINESS ACT OF
2019
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3669) to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to conduct a collec-
tive response to a terrorism exercise
that includes the management of cas-
cading effects on critical infrastruc-
ture during times of extreme cold
weather, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3669
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the
‘‘Weatherizing Infrastructure in the North
and Terrorism Emergency Readiness Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. EXERCISE ON TERRORIST ATTACK DUR-
ING EXTREME COLD.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In addition to, or as part
of exercise programs currently carried out
by the Department of Homeland Security, to
enhance domestic preparedness for ter-
rorism, promote the dissemination of home-
land security information, and test the
homeland security posture of the United
States, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
acting through appropriate offices and com-
ponents of the Department, shall develop and
conduct a collective response to terrorism
exercise that includes management of cas-
cading effects on critical infrastructure (as
such term is defined in section 1016(e) of Pub-
lic Law 107–56 (42 U.S.C. 5195c(e))), such as an
extreme cold weather event caused by a
polar vortex.
(b) EXERCISE REQUIREMENTS.—The exercise
required under subsection (a) shall include a
scenario involving the following:
(1) An extreme cold weather event, such as
an event caused by a polar vortex, with re-
spect to access to critical services.
(2) Any cascading effects on critical infra-
structure.
(3) How the effects of a successful terrorist
attack against critical infrastructure could
be mitigated by emergency managers, State
officials, and appropriate private sector and
community stakeholders.
(4) How the resilience of communities that
could be impacted by such an attack could
be bolstered.
(5) Coordination with appropriate Federal
departments and agencies, and State, local,
Tribal, and territorial agencies.
(6) Coordination with appropriate private
sector and community stakeholders.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 60 days after
the completion of the exercise required
under subsection (a), the Secretary of Home-
land Security shall, consistent with the pro-
tection of classified information, submit to
the Committee on Homeland Security of the
House of Representatives and the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs of the Senate an after-action report
presenting the initial findings of such exer-
cise, any immediate and longer-term plans
for incorporating lessons learned into future
operations of the Department of Homeland
Security, and any proposed legislative
changes informed by such exercise.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN) and the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. HIGGINS)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
b 1700
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous material on this
measure.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of my own bill, H.R. 3669, the
Weatherizing Infrastructure in the
North and Terrorism Emergency Read-
iness Act of 2019 or, as we like to call
it, the WINTER Act.
Terrorism is a persistent threat to
the United States. We need to be pre-
pared to confront terrorism in all situ-
ations, even during extreme weather
events. As climate change continues to
change weather patterns, extreme win-
ter storms will become more common.
The effects of climate change
produce more snowfall during winter
storms as a warmer planet evaporates
more water into the atmosphere, and
that moisture means heavier snowfall
and worse storms.
Given what we know, we must make
sure we are prepared to act if a ter-
rorist attack were to take place during
an extreme cold event. This is why I in-
troduced H.R. 3669, the WINTER Act.
In recent years, the Nation has expe-
rienced several extreme cold weather
events, such as the polar vortex during
the winter of 2019. This one was very
specific and personal to the State of
Michigan.
Last winter, in my State, tempera-
tures reached as low as negative 43 de-
grees Fahrenheit during the polar vor-
tex. During that time we had a fire, an
accidental fire at one of our gas facili-
ties, causing it to shut down, and re-
sulting in a gas shortage in our State.
As a result, our Governor had to go on
television and ask all Michiganians to
turn down their thermostats below 65
degrees to ensure that we didn’t lose
power across the State and were able
to keep our warming stations, our hos-
pitals, our homeless shelters open.
The dangers that result from cold
weather aren’t unique to Michigan.
Across the U.S., over 6,000 people died
from hypothermia or exposure to cold
between 2006 and 2010, equating to over
1,000 deaths per year.
During these extreme cold weather
events, infrastructure and emergency
services are critical, and any disrup-
tion poses a serious threat to the
health and safety of Americans in the
affected area.
Last winter’s events made me realize
that if we had a critical infrastructure
attack in the middle of winter, particu-
larly in places in the northern half of
the country, we would be extremely
vulnerable. If terrorists choose to take
advantage of any of these cir-
cumstances to amplify the deadly im-
pacts of an attack, our elderly, our
families, and our first responders could
be put in the most danger.
This bipartisan bill directs the De-
partment of Homeland Security to de-
velop and conduct a terrorism training
exercise that addresses the effects of a
successful terrorist attack on critical
infrastructure during extreme cold
weather.
This exercise will help determine the
best way for emergency managers,
State and local officials, and commu-
nity stakeholders to mitigate the im-
pacts of such an attack and help keep
people safe.
Mr. Speaker, this is an important
bill. I urge my colleagues to support it,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I rise today in support of H.R. 3669,
the Weatherizing Infrastructure in the
North and Terrorism Emergency Read-
iness Act—the WINTER Act—of 2019.
This legislation seeks to better posi-
tion the United States government and
relevant State, local, and private sec-
tor agencies to be able to respond to a
terrorist attack during an extreme cold
weather event.
An extreme weather event, such as a
polar vortex, has the potential to se-
verely impact our daily lives, damage
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.046 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9378 December 9, 2019
our critical infrastructure, and leave
America incredibly vulnerable to ter-
rorist attack.
H.R. 3669 requires the Secretary of
Homeland Security to develop and con-
duct an exercise to respond to ter-
rorism during extreme weather events.
The bill also requires the Secretary
to produce an after-action report to
Congress, presenting the findings of the
exercise and plans for quickly incor-
porating those lessons learned for fu-
ture operations of the Department.
As the threat of terrorism continues
to evolve, we must be prepared to re-
spond to any scenario.
I thank the gentlewoman from Michi-
gan for her leadership on this bill. I
urge all Members to join me in sup-
porting the bill, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I have
no more speakers, and I am prepared to
close after the gentleman from Lou-
isiana closes.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I would like the Congress-
woman to be aware that I have no fur-
ther speakers, and I am prepared to
close.
I urge adoption of the bill, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
The passage of the WINTER Act
would ensure that the Department of
Homeland Security is doing its part to
improve preparedness and response to
terrorism in the event of extreme cold.
I ask my colleagues to support H.R.
3669; winter is coming; and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from Michigan (Ms.
SLOTKIN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3669.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ESTHER MARTINEZ NATIVE AMER-
ICAN LANGUAGES PROGRAMS
REAUTHORIZATION ACT
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(S. 256) to amend the Native American
Programs Act of 1974 to provide flexi-
bility and reauthorization to ensure
the survival and continuing vitality of
Native American languages.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 256
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Esther Mar-
tinez Native American Languages Programs
Reauthorization Act’’.
SEC. 2. NATIVE AMERICAN LANGUAGES GRANT
PROGRAM.
Section 803C of the Native American Pro-
grams Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 2991b–3) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b)(7)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ‘‘10’’
and inserting ‘‘5’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)(i), by striking ‘‘15’’
and inserting ‘‘10’’; and
(2) in subsection (e)(2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘or 3-year basis’’ and in-
serting ‘‘3-year, 4-year, or 5-year basis’’; and
(B) by inserting ‘‘, 4-year, or 5-year’’ after
‘‘on a 3-year’’.
SEC. 3. REAUTHORIZATION OF NATIVE AMER-
ICAN LANGUAGES PROGRAM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 816(e) of the Na-
tive American Programs Act of 1974 (42
U.S.C. 2992d(e)) is amended by striking ‘‘such
sums’’ and all that follows through the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘$13,000,000 for
each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024.’’.
(b) TECHNICAL CORRECTION.—Section 816 of
the Native American Programs Act of 1974
(42 U.S.C. 2992d) is amended in subsections
(a) and (b) by striking ‘‘subsection (e)’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘subsection
(d)’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Ar-
izona (Mr. GRIJALVA) and the gen-
tleman from South Dakota (Mr. JOHN-
SON) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on the
measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge my
colleagues to support S. 256, the Esther
Martinez Native American Languages
Programs Reauthorization Act.
The United States has a trust respon-
sibility to support indigenous peoples
in this country. The survival of indige-
nous peoples’ languages is fundamental
to the success of Native communities
and the survival of traditional Native
cultures.
The history of the United States tells
us about the deliberate efforts to elimi-
nate indigenous peoples’ languages and
cultures through forced assimilation,
boarding school forced attendance,
treaties that have not been honored,
and promises not kept.
According to UNESCO, 74 Native lan-
guages stand to disappear within the
next decade. Scholars project that only
20 Native languages will be spoken by
the year 2050. The linguistic and cul-
tural genocide is real and demands ac-
tion.
The Esther Martinez language pro-
gram has been a tool that was created
to address this stark reality. This lan-
guage program is named in honor of a
New Mexico Tewa teacher and story-
teller, Esther Martinez, who is known
and honored for her dedication and ef-
forts in revitalizing her people’s lan-
guage.
The Esther Martinez Initiative funds
immersion programs that are success-
ful in preserving and revitalizing Na-
tive languages, both to indigenous
communities, Alaska Native, and Na-
tive Hawaiian students.
Today, grants provided under Esther
Martinez’ program have empowered
Native communities to establish lan-
guage immersion programs that are
successfully reviving Native languages
and improving Native economies.
This grant has been used to develop
curriculums rooted in Native language
based on traditional values and beliefs
in subject areas that obviously include
language, mathematics, science, and
social studies.
Esther Martinez grants also support
children’s books in Native languages,
the development of language assess-
ment tools, and the intergenerational
programs to support regular use of Na-
tive language with children at home.
Importantly, they also provide fund-
ing to train Native language teachers
to use the language immersion cur-
riculum developed by the Tribe and/or
school.
The powerful link between language
and identity for Native people is essen-
tial in the development of successful
students and communities. These lan-
guage immersion programs have prov-
en to be the best model for developing
fluent speakers and successful stu-
dents.
S. 256 reauthorizes the Esther Mar-
tinez program for $13 million annually,
increases the maximum duration of the
grant, and reduces the number of pro-
gram enrollees needed to qualify for a
grant.
The survival of Native languages is
fundamental to the success of Native
communities and the survival of tradi-
tional Native cultures.
I would like to thank my colleagues
Representative LUJÁN and Senator
UDALL for leading the effort, and for
the support of Representative
HAALAND.
I urge my colleagues to support S.
256, the Esther Martinez Native Amer-
ican Languages Programs Reauthoriza-
tion Act.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Greetings, my relative, in Lakota is
‘‘How mitakuye.’’
I am honored to join the chairman,
my colleague from Arizona, to usher
this important legislation through the
House after its passage through the
Senate.
Now, South Dakota and Arizona both
have rich Native American history and
culture, and we are here tonight to cel-
ebrate, to cherish, and, yes, to sustain
that culture.
The Esther Martinez Native Amer-
ican Languages Programs Reauthoriza-
tion Act was introduced in 2006 by my
friend Heather Wilson, who was a Con-
gresswoman from New Mexico before
she moved to South Dakota. This reau-
thorization of her bill will empower
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.049 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9379
December 9, 2019
Native American Tribes to continue
teaching languages like Lakota and
Dakota to future generations.
Let there be no mistake. There is
pressing need for this work. Fewer
than 1 percent of Lakota and Dakota
Native Americans are fluent in either
of those languages. That means there
are just 2,000 Lakota and Dakota fluent
speakers in the world. We are losing
those speakers too quickly because of
old age, and their ranks have declined
by 65 percent in the last 15 years.
Unfortunately, it is not just Lakota
and Dakota that are threatened. There
are 175 Native languages spoken in this
country today, and there are estimates
that, 30 years from now, fewer than 20
will be spoken.
Why does this matter? Why do we
care? Why are we gathered here to-
night for such a just cause?
It is because, Mr. Speaker, as we all
know, language is the lifeblood of cul-
ture. Language opens a doorway for all
of us, a doorway into understanding of
peoples, into understanding their past,
and maybe, most interestingly, under-
standing their future. That is powerful
insight.
Now, for example, Lakota-speaking
Native Americans may say, ‘‘mitakuye
oyasin,’’ which means, we are all re-
lated. But this, to me, is the most fas-
cinating part about this, Mr. Speaker,
you wouldn’t just say that when you
are around people with whom you are
related. You would say that in a broad-
er group of people, to demonstrate an
interconnectedness, part of a larger
family, that we have similar values and
dreams and fears; there is a human
condition.
Now, English doesn’t quite have a
phrase like that. The fact that Lakota
does tells us a lot about the Lakota
people.
This program, these dollars, are hav-
ing an impact in Indian Country. For
years, Lakota was, along with dozens
of other Native languages, designated
as ‘‘severely threatened.’’ Its status
was recently changed to a ‘‘reawak-
ening language.’’
That is an acknowledgment that
projects funded by this program,
projects that are working today in
communities in South Dakota like
Eagle Butte and Porcupine, are making
a difference.
So, Mr. Speaker, I would say thank
you, ‘‘pilamaye yelo.’’
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, it is
my pleasure to yield 5 minutes to the
gentleman from New Mexico (Mr.
LUJÁN), a leader in this effort on this
legislation.
b 1715
Mr. LUJÁN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of the Esther
Martinez Native American Languages
Programs Reauthorization Act.
With the passage of this legislation,
Congress has made monumental
progress to affirm Native communities
honoring their heritage by speaking
the languages gifted to them by their
creators.
Today, we recognize the only existing
Federal Native language education
grant programs. These programs give
our first Americans crucial support to
protect their languages from extinc-
tion.
Today is a historic moment, a bless-
ing, and I want to offer thanks to the
people who made this achievement pos-
sible.
We owe our deepest gratitude to Es-
ther Martinez of Ohkay Owingeh Pueb-
lo, who ensured Tewa is spoken across
New Mexico. Her passion for her cul-
ture and tradition is what brought us
together today.
To the educators who work every day
to ensure Native languages are here for
future generations, thank you.
I thank my colleague Senator TOM
UDALL, who has made reauthorization
of these programs a top priority for
more than a decade and successfully se-
cured passage of the legislation in the
U.S. Senate.
I would also like to recognize Con-
gressman GRIJALVA, Mr. Speaker, for
his leadership on behalf of Tribes and
Native peoples.
I am deeply grateful for my col-
leagues Congresswomen HAALAND and
TORRES SMALL, Chairmen YOUNG and
COLE, Congresswomen MCCOLLUM and
GABBARD, and Chairman SCOTT for join-
ing together to ensure this legislation
had its day on the House floor.
I thank and recognize all the Pueblo,
Apache, and Navajo leaders from New
Mexico, including those in the gallery
today.
With the permission of her family, I
am honored to celebrate the legacy
that Esther Martinez and her Pueblo
have shared with the world.
New Mexico boasts a rich history and
diversity that includes 23 Native Na-
tions and seven indigenous language
groups found nowhere else on Earth.
Esther Martinez, a master educator
and linguist, dedicated her life to the
Tewa language, which today is spoken
across six northern Pueblos in my dis-
trict and in Hopi-Tewa in Arizona.
As a child whose first language was
Tewa, Mrs. Martinez attended a gov-
ernment-run Indian boarding school
where nearly everything that made her
a Pueblo woman was banned, including
her language.
Her experience is not unique. Genera-
tions of Native families had their chil-
dren torn from their arms, bound for
schools that forced English and West-
ern education on Native students.
Despite living through a period of
overt racism with Federal policies
aimed at exterminating Native culture,
Mrs. Martinez defied the odds by re-
turning to Ohkay Owingeh. She raised
her children and family to speak the
Tewa dialect. Esther went on to teach
many more as a linguist, a school-
teacher, and the director of bilingual
education for her Pueblo.
Her legacy lives on in the sounds of
Tewa being spoken in her community.
Her son Tony and daughters Marie and
Josephine are raising their children
and grandchildren with Tewa in their
homes. Her daughter Mercedes is a reg-
ular attendee at adult language classes
taught by one of Esther Martinez’ pro-
teges.
Esther Martinez’ grandson, former
Lieutenant Governor Matthew Mar-
tinez, a doctor of American studies and
American Indian studies, advances his
culture at Santa Fe’s Museum of In-
dian Arts and Culture. He is also teach-
ing Tewa to his youngest son.
Today, we pass this legislation know-
ing that it will help Native commu-
nities protect their languages for gen-
erations to come. I urge my colleagues
to join me in supporting this important
legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from ref-
erencing occupants of the gallery.
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, for 46 years, the 120,000 Alas-
kan Natives in our country have had a
champion working for them, fighting
for them, advocating for them. He is
the dean of this House and the former
chairman of the Indian Affairs Sub-
committee.
Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
Alaska (Mr. YOUNG.)
(Mr. YOUNG asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. Mr. JOHN-
SON has done a great job. That was a
great presentation. I am very proud of
him.
Each person who has spoken on this
legislation really put it in context
about the Esther Martinez program
started in 2006. I happened to be a co-
sponsor of that bill. I watched it pass
and become a reality, and it has
worked.
What we are doing is reauthorizing a
program that allows a culture to be re-
tained through languages. In Alaska,
we have 20 Native languages and 40-
some dialects.
As the gentleman said, we lost that
for a long period of time. Language is
what keeps the culture together. It is
important for the past, important for
the present, and important for the fu-
ture.
The University of Alaska has a pro-
gram, the Alaska Native Language
Center, which has worked very well
since the 1970s. We were well ahead
with this program, and we want to con-
tinue it.
We have an innovative Alaska Native
Cultural Charter School in Anchorage
that teaches Yupik to all the students
so there is an exchange, not just Na-
tive, but between other races, so they
understand the language.
I believe this is one of the best pro-
grams that we are able to achieve. The
funding probably is still inadequate,
but it is a continuation of good work
by this Congress.
I thank each one of you who has been
participating in this, especially Rep-
resentative LUJÁN. I am a little bit
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.051 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9380 December 9, 2019
concerned, if I may. I don’t want to
speak about the other body, but we
know who it is. They have taken Mr.
LUJÁN’s bill and sort of put their name
on it, but we will forgive them because
we will get it done.
This is good legislation. I also would
like to thank Representative PRICE,
who co-chairs the American Languages
Caucus with me.
Again, congratulations. This is good
legislation. The chairman has done
well, and let’s continue to act.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Minnesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM).
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of S. 256, the Esther Mar-
tinez Native American Languages Pro-
grams Reauthorization Act.
There are many critical needs in In-
dian Country, and the Federal Govern-
ment has an obligation to fulfill our
trust and Tribal responsibilities. This
commitment includes reauthorizing
the Esther Martinez Immersion grants
so that Congress ensures Indian stu-
dents have the opportunity to study,
learn, and speak their Tribal lan-
guages.
The National Congress of American
Indians says it best: A language ‘‘en-
compasses and expresses a worldview
shaped by centuries, in some cases tens
of thousands of years of experience,
knowledge, practices, spiritual beliefs,
and relationships between a people, its
neighbors, and its environment, which
cannot be replicated in any other
tongue.’’
Language is paramount to one’s iden-
tity. The gift of language allows a per-
son to carry their culture from their
ancestors to the present and on to the
next generation to come.
Esther Martinez grants have empow-
ered Tribes to establish immersion pro-
grams, making it possible for more
Tribal communities to maintain their
Native languages and pass along cen-
turies-old cultural heritage.
These grants will benefit not only
Native American Tribal Nations across
the country but also Native Hawaiians,
Native Alaskans, and Pacific Islander
communities, giving them the ability
to protect and rejuvenate indigenous
languages.
Without urgent action to reauthorize
these grants, too many communities
risk losing the Native languages of
their ancestors.
As chair emeritus of the Native
American Caucus, I have worked to in-
crease funding for Esther Martinez pro-
grams, and I will continue to make Na-
tive languages and their preservation
and education a priority.
Mr. Speaker, as the 116th Congress
moves forward, we must prioritize our
Federal trust and treaty obligations.
We must do so in a way that respects
Native culture and strengthens Native
communities. Reauthorizing the Esther
Martinez Native American Language
Preservation Act brings us one step
closer to this goal.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this legislation,
and in the words of the Ojibwe,
‘‘miigwech.’’
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
We are not here in this body to reau-
thorize feel-good programs. We are
gathered here tonight not to reauthor-
ize a feel-good program but to author-
ize a program that works, that makes a
difference.
The evidence is clear. Students who
participate in these programs, they do
learn language skills. They also are
more likely to graduate high school.
They are more likely to have high aca-
demic achievement. They are more
likely to be successful in their commu-
nities. That is what the data tells us.
We cannot let up now.
These programs are working in a va-
riety of States and a variety of commu-
nities. If we want a robust and healthy
Native American culture in this coun-
try, we need to have a healthy and ro-
bust Native American language envi-
ronment in this country. The Esther
Martinez Native American Language
Preservation Act is important, a crit-
ical component of that framework, of
that environment.
I ask my colleagues, I beseech them
tonight, to reauthorize this program
that is doing so much good throughout
our country. I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
My Speaker, I thank my colleagues
across the aisle and, in particular, Mr.
YOUNG, my friend from the committee.
When I first came to Congress, this is
one of the first bills that he sponsored.
I was very proud to vote for it then,
and I encourage all of my colleagues
today to be very proud to vote for it
now.
The reauthorization is $13 million,
and it is an amount of money that goes
very far in Indian Country, an amount
of money that many could argue
should be more, but the point today is
to reauthorize.
By reauthorization and seed money,
which is so important to the Native
youth and children, I think we make a
statement as a Congress that we, too,
join in reaffirming the revitalization,
the preservation of both language and
culture among the first Americans in
this country. We say to them that what
they bring as persons, as a Tribe, as a
people is vital, too, and enriches the
fabric of this Nation of ours.
I am proud to be here. I urge all of
my colleagues to support this bill. It is
a good piece of legislation that does
good work and will continue to do good
work. Mr. Speaker, I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
GRIJALVA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, S. 256.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 27 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1831
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. PETERS) at 6 o’clock and
31 minutes p.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 729, TRIBAL COASTAL RE-
SILIENCY ACT
Mr. MORELLE, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–330) on the resolution (H.
Res. 748) providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 729) to amend the Coastal
Zone Management Act of 1972 to au-
thorize grants to Indian Tribes to fur-
ther achievement of Tribal coastal
zone objectives, and for other purposes,
which was referred to the House Cal-
endar and ordered to be printed.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 4761, and
H.R. 4739; and
Agreeing to the Speaker’s approval of
the Journal, if ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
DHS OPIOID DETECTION
RESILIENCE ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4761) to ensure U.S. Customs
and Border Protection officers, agents,
and other personnel have adequate syn-
thetic opioid detection equipment, that
the Department of Homeland Security
has a process to update synthetic
opioid detection capability, and for
other purposes, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.052 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9381
December 9, 2019
CLARKE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 393, nays 1,
not voting 36, as follows:
[Roll No. 655]
YEAS—393
Abraham
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—1
Amash
NOT VOTING—36
Aderholt
Brooks (IN)
Carter (TX)
Clyburn
Crawford
Davis, Danny K.
Emmer
Gabbard
Gooden
Hartzler
Hunter
Keating
Kennedy
Kind
King (NY)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Lawson (FL)
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Luetkemeyer
Lynch
Marchant
McEachin
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Palazzo
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Rutherford
Serrano
Soto
Stewart
Wilson (FL)
Yoho
b 1900
Mr. ARRINGTON changed his vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
SYNTHETIC OPIOID EXPOSURE
PREVENTION AND TRAINING ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 4739) to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to protect U.S.
Customs and Border Protection offi-
cers, agents, other personnel, and ca-
nines against potential synthetic
opioid exposure, and for other pur-
poses, on which the yeas and nays were
ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
CLARKE) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 393, nays 0,
not voting 37, as follows:
[Roll No. 656]
YEAS—393
Abraham
Adams
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lipinski
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.055 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9382 December 9, 2019
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—37
Aderholt
Brooks (IN)
Carter (TX)
Clyburn
Crawford
Davis, Danny K.
Gabbard
Gooden
Hartzler
Hunter
Keating
Kennedy
Kind
King (NY)
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Lawson (FL)
Lieu, Ted
Loebsack
Luetkemeyer
Lynch
Marchant
McEachin
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Palazzo
Rooney (FL)
Rush
Rutherford
Serrano
Soto
Stewart
Torres (CA)
Wilson (FL)
Yoho
b 1909
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on agree-
ing to the Speaker’s approval of the
Journal, which the Chair will put de
novo.
The question is on the Speaker’s ap-
proval of the Journal.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
b 1915
MOMENT OF SILENCE HONORING
THE LIVES AND MEMORY OF
THREE BRAVE MINNESOTA NA-
TIONAL GUARDSMEN
(Mr. EMMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. EMMER. Madam Speaker, on De-
cember 5, Minnesotans learned of the
disappearance of a Minnesota National
Guard UH–60 Black Hawk helicopter
carrying three National Guardsmen
during a maintenance test flight.
Unfortunately, this fateful flight,
which originated from St. Cloud, Min-
nesota, saw the lives of Chief Warrant
Officer 2 James A. Rogers, Jr., Chief
Warrant Officer 2 Charles P. Nord, and
Sergeant Kort M. Plantenberg all trag-
ically lost that day.
Today my colleagues and I join to-
gether to honor the memories of these
brave Minnesotans and to send our
deepest sympathies to their families
and loved ones.
Whether deployed overseas or train-
ing here at home, members of our
Armed Forces routinely put their lives
at risk to ensure the safety and secu-
rity of our Nation.
We pray these families are able to
find some peace and comfort during
this tragic time and that they know
that their fellow Minnesotans and their
Nation mourn with them.
We are eternally grateful for their
loved ones’ sacrifice and service to our
great State of Minnesota and to the
Nation. Their memories and legacies
will never be forgotten.
In honor of James A. Rogers, Jr.,
Charles P. Nord, and Kort M.
Plantenberg, I ask that all Members
and guests in the gallery rise for a mo-
ment of silence to honor these heroes.
f
HONORING QUILLA TALMADGE
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor East Orange City Coun-
cilwoman Quilla Talmadge. Council-
woman Talmadge has served the citi-
zens of East Orange with distinction
for 30 years.
Her political career started as presi-
dent of her third ward neighborhood. It
continued with her active leadership as
a member of her local Parent Teacher
Association, local NAACP, and the Na-
tional Council of Negro Women, among
many others.
She has won numerous awards for her
community and church involvement.
Recently, the New Jersey State
League of Municipalities inducted her
into the Elected Officials Hall of Fame.
Councilwoman Talmadge is retiring
from the city council this year, but she
has left a legacy that will be remem-
bered for many years to come.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me and the residents of East Or-
ange in commending her service to her
community.
f
PEARL HARBOR REMEMBRANCE
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, this past weekend, we
remembered and reflected on the 78th
anniversary of the devastating naval
base attack in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.
This act of war against our Nation
prompted our entry into World War II.
The surprise attack by the Japanese
on the morning of December 7, 1941,
left 2,403 people dead. Among them
were members of the U.S. Navy, Army,
Marines, as well as civilians.
It was one of the deadliest attacks in
U.S. history. President Franklin Dela-
no Roosevelt described it as a ‘‘date
which will live in infamy.’’
Madam Speaker, let us honor the
lives of those brave Americans who
perished on that day 78 years ago.
As President Roosevelt said: ‘‘No
matter how long it may take us to
overcome this premeditated invasion,
the American people in their righteous
might will win through to absolute vic-
tory.’’
And we did.
May God bless all of our Pearl Harbor
victims and survivors.
f
12 DAYS OF SALT
(Ms. SHERRILL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Speaker, on
this fourth day of SALT, my constitu-
ents have said to me that the SALT
cap has impacted their ability to en-
gage in charitable giving.
Capping SALT deductions will sub-
stantially reduce the number of
itemizers and, therefore, will reduce
the number of households that will
benefit from the tax incentive for char-
itable giving.
The Tax Policy Center estimates
that only 8 percent of all households
will take the charitable gift deduction
in 2018, compared to 21 percent in 2017.
While people give generously to char-
ities for many reasons, studies clearly
show a positive relationship between
the existence of a tax incentive and the
amount donated.
The reductions in giving that will re-
sult from this bill will be devastating
to charities and to the people, commu-
nities, and causes that depend on them.
New Jersey’s charities and nonprofit
organizations provide critical services
to our community that range from pro-
viding support services to individuals
suffering from addiction to providing
shelter for battered women and their
children and providing disaster relief.
Additionally, New Jersey charities
employ almost 10 percent of the State’s
private workforce.
The programs, services, and eco-
nomic benefits provided by nonprofits
are critical factors in making New Jer-
sey an attractive place to live, work, or
start a business. The SALT cap puts all
of this at risk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.021 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9383
December 9, 2019
SUPPORT DEMOCRACY AND FREE-
DOM FOR THE PEOPLE OF
JAMMU AND KASHMIR
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WATKINS. Madam Speaker,
today I rise in support of democracy
and freedom for the people of Jammu
and Kashmir and the importance of
protecting religious minorities in the
region.
In August, the Indian Government
rescinded article 370 of their Constitu-
tion, repealing autonomy of the region;
and, since then, it has been cut off
through widespread communications
blackouts. There have been curfews,
and some 4,000 people have been de-
tained, which includes children as
young as 9 years old. There have been
reported human rights abuses and
deaths resulting from inaccessibility to
healthcare.
Madam Speaker, this situation can-
not stand, and I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H. Res. 745,
which urges the Indian Government to
uphold the democratic values upon
which it was founded.
f
MASS SHOOTING AT THE NAVAL
AIR STATION IN PENSACOLA,
FLORIDA
(Mr. CRIST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CRIST. Madam Speaker, last
week, the Sunshine State was dev-
astated by the 393rd mass shooting of
2019.
On December 6, a gunman opened fire
at the Naval Air Station in Pensacola,
Florida, killing three and wounding
eight. One of the victims is Pinellas
County’s very own Mohammed
Haitham.
Nineteen-year-old Mo, as he was
known to his family and friends, was a
track star at Lakewood High School in
St. Petersburg and a shining example
of all the best our community has to
offer.
He joined the Navy to serve his coun-
try shortly after finishing high school,
with a dream of graduating from flight
school.
Our Nation was robbed of a sailor,
and a St. Pete family was robbed of a
son.
My heart goes out to Mo’s family and
loved ones as they try to make sense of
the senseless.
Madam Speaker, we stand with the
Haitham family. The entire commu-
nity is behind them.
I pray for all those affected in Pensa-
cola, and I pray for Congress to take
action on gun violence.
f
CONGRATULATING ST. TERESA’S
VOLLEYBALL TEAM
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to con-
gratulate Coach Brad Dalton and the
St. Teresa volleyball team on their
first IHSA volleyball championship.
Last month, the Bulldogs played the
Breese Mater Dei Knights for the Class
2A title and won the championship in
two sets.
Although it was St. Teresa’s fourth
time competing in the State tour-
nament, this was their best finish ever.
The Bulldogs earned the school’s first
ever State championship title in
volleyball—and first in Macon County
history.
Offensively, the Bulldogs pulled off 21
kills and 3 aces in the first set, with an
equally intimidating defense that
racked up 32 digs, total.
In the second set, the teams tied 11
times, but an ace by senior Abby Rob-
inson followed by a remarkable dig fin-
ished the match 26–24.
Coach Dalton said: ‘‘We fought and
we fought. This is a big win for every-
body in our program.’’
A historic win to cap off a whirlwind
of a season. Congratulations to Coach
Dalton and the entire Bulldog team.
f
RURAL GREEN PARTNERSHIP
(Mrs. BUSTOS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to share with you a framework
of principles to give rural America a
seat at the table as we work to combat
climate change. I call it the Rural
Green Partnership.
For generations, farm families in Illi-
nois have worked hard to provide food
for our country and for the world, but
this year has brought a challenging
growing season. Farmers have seen
shifting weather patterns and severe
flooding delay and even prevent plant-
ing and harvesting.
Rural economies in Illinois and
across the country depend on a stable
climate to survive. Weather chaos
means it is more difficult to grow our
crops and put food on the table.
I am proud to put forward the Rural
Green Partnership, and if we follow the
principles in this plan, we can lower
greenhouse gas emissions and spur eco-
nomic growth.
Madam Speaker, I say to my col-
leagues: It is our moral and economic
imperative to address this climate cri-
sis and its impact on rural America.
I urge them to join me in enacting
the policies outlined in the Rural
Green Partnership so we can provide
our farming communities with more
than just a path forward but, also, an
opportunity to prosper.
f
RECOGNIZING VETERAN OF THE
MONTH JOHN THIES
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to bring recognition to 30-year
U.S. Army veteran Sergeant Major
John Thies.
During his three decades of service to
our Nation, mostly as a Special Forces
Green Beret, he faced combat oper-
ations in Panama, Kuwait, Iraq, and
Afghanistan.
Among the many highlights of his il-
lustrious career was his participation
with the third Operational Detachment
Alpha to infiltrate Afghanistan fol-
lowing the attacks on September 11,
2001.
As a servicemember in all of these
conflicts, John and his fellow warriors
helped to bring down dictators, defeat
insurgencies, and create conditions for
the establishment of democracy. More
importantly, his sacrifices brought
hope to the suffering and peace to
those in need of relief.
I believe Sergeant Major Thies’
former commanders and peers summa-
rized his career and impact well in
sharing that he was one of the finest
noncommissioned officers they had
ever served with. That is high praise
from our Nation’s finest.
Madam Speaker, I thank John. I
thank him for putting us before him-
self. We and our families slept better
knowing he was on alert.
f
LIFT THE CAP ON THE STATE AND
LOCAL TAX DEDUCTION
(Mr. CISNEROS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. CISNEROS. Madam Speaker, I
rise today on behalf of the taxpayers in
my district and urge my colleagues to
quickly pass bipartisan legislation to
lift the cap on the State and local tax
deduction.
Capping the deduction hurts home-
owners and undermines State and local
efforts to invest in our roads, schools,
teachers, and first responders.
Setting the cap at $10,000 for both in-
dividuals and joint filers unfairly pun-
ishes married couples.
Richard from Walnut wrote that
while he and his wife are trying to plan
for their retirement, ‘‘the net result of
the cap was less money in my pocket.’’
Kyle from Yorba Linda wrote to me:
‘‘This new marriage penalty is a slap in
the face to those of us who are trying
to grow our roots in your district.’’
I introduced bipartisan legislation
with my colleagues, Representative
SHERRILL from New Jersey along with
Republican Representatives PETER
KING and ELISE STEFANIK.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of my con-
stituents, I urge my colleagues to join
us in support of this legislation before
the year’s end.
f
b 1930
25TH ANNIVERSARY OF PENN
STATE CREW TEAM
(Mr. KELLER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.061 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9384 December 9, 2019
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. KELLER. Madam Speaker, this
month, Penn State celebrates its 25th
anniversary. On behalf of the people of
Pennsylvania’s 12th Congressional Dis-
trict, I congratulate them on their rich
history of success.
The crew team at Penn State started
with humble beginnings in the winter
of 1994. While they had no equipment,
the team possessed a passion for the
sport and a will to do whatever was
necessary to make the team successful.
In an example we can all be proud of,
Penn State crew’s first Schoenbrod was
borrowed from Bucknell University,
another great institution of higher
education in Pennsylvania’s 12th Con-
gressional District.
Later, through hard work at fund-
raising by selling concessions at foot-
ball games, cleaning Beaver Stadium,
and selling crew apparel, the team was
finally able to purchase its own equip-
ment in the fall of 1995. From there,
the program has never looked back.
Penn State crew men’s and women’s
teams have had a proud record of
achievement that should make them
very proud: sweeping podiums and in-
spiring a new generation of crew par-
ticipants from experienced rowers to
novices.
Again, Madam Speaker, on behalf of
the people of Pennsylvania’s 12th Con-
gressional District, I congratulate
Penn State crew on celebrating their
25th anniversary.
f
PUERTO RICAN ACTION
COMMITTEE
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
today, I would like to acknowledge the
Puerto Rican Action Committee of
southern New Jersey, an organization
dedicated to supporting the Hispanic
community in our area.
PRAC was originally created in 1971
to promote economic opportunities for
agricultural workers and has since ex-
panded its vision to encourage social,
cultural, and economic actions that
better the lives of Hispanic individuals.
The organization has several programs
in place to celebrate the vibrant cul-
ture of these people and to provide edu-
cational opportunity for the sur-
rounding communities.
The PRAC of southern New Jersey
has implemented Hispanic culture,
arts, heritage, entertainment, and
sporting initiatives to bring people to-
gether and to foster a sense of good
community. Among all Hispanic indi-
viduals in south Jersey, community is
so important.
The group also offers cultural diver-
sity training programs to local compa-
nies in order to encourage a diverse
workforce and to open job opportuni-
ties for minorities across the entire re-
gion.
PRAC has been fundamental in lift-
ing up the Hispanic members of our
community, and we thank them for the
great work they do to make south Jer-
sey an inclusive and prosperous place.
f
CONGRATULATING FRISCO
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
(Mr. TAYLOR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker,
today, I rise with my fellow Texan, Dr.
BURGESS, to congratulate the Frisco
Chamber of Commerce on earning a 5-
star accreditation from the United
States Chamber of Commerce.
Frisco is home to some of the most
innovative and booming businesses in
Texas and throughout the entire coun-
try. Partnering with approximately
1,300 member businesses who represent
more than 75,000 employees, the Frisco
Chamber of Commerce goes above and
beyond to provide the business commu-
nity with a powerful voice through its
advocacy efforts and partnerships.
The Frisco Chamber of Commerce re-
ceived the highest accreditation award-
ed by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce
as a result of their effective organiza-
tional procedures and community in-
volvement.
After earning this accreditation, the
Frisco Chamber of Commerce is now
among the top 2 percent of chambers in
the Nation to receive this prestigious
designation.
I ask my colleagues in the House of
Representatives to join me in con-
gratulating the Frisco Chamber of
Commerce on this tremendous achieve-
ment.
f
HONORING DAVID MIXNER
(Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York asked and was given permis-
sion to address the House for 1 minute
and to revise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor my friend, David
Mixner, the legendary civil rights ac-
tivist, best-selling author, and humani-
tarian known throughout the world for
championing LGBT equality,
healthcare, non-violence, and human
rights for nearly 60 years.
I had the privilege of working and
learning from David, an experience I
will never forget, when I worked as
White House staff secretary to Presi-
dent Bill Clinton. In the mode of our
own JOHN LEWIS, David inspired a gen-
eration of us with his pioneering work
for equality and documented those
struggles in his seminal autobiography,
‘‘Stranger Among Friends.’’
David’s leadership and wisdom
shaped—indeed, made possible—my ca-
reer and the careers of so many of us.
He taught us to never tire of the fight
and to always wage it with love.
From his early work with Harvey
Milk defeating discriminatory laws
against LGBT teachers, to demanding
real action in funding to combat the
AIDS epidemic when our government
was failing our community, David
changed our Nation for the better. I
know I speak for an entire LGBT com-
munity and our many allies in thank-
ing David for his decades of activism.
At this very moment, he is giving
what may be his final public perform-
ance in New York City before begin-
ning his retirement. While I so wish I
could be there tonight, my presence
here, in this Chamber, in many ways is
itself a tribute to David’s lifetime of
work.
And while the public phase of David’s
career may be drawing to a close, I
know David’s words and deeds will live
on for many generations to come. He
represents the best of America. He is a
true patriot and a stranger no more.
f
U.S. NATIONAL GUARD BIRTHDAY
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, this Friday is the
383rd birthday of the U.S. National
Guard. Established in 1636, the Na-
tional Guard is the oldest military or-
ganization in America. Its members
served during times of war and emer-
gency to keep American families safe
and secure.
This anniversary allows us to come
together to honor those who have
risked their lives to protect our free-
dom. These sacrifices show that free-
dom is not free.
South Carolina is fortunate for the
service of Adjutant General Van
McCarty appointed by Governor Henry
McMaster in the tradition of retiring
Adjutant General Bob Livingston.
As a veteran of the Army National
Guard and the father of three Army
National Guardsmen who have served
in Iraq, Egypt, and Afghanistan, I ap-
preciate servicemembers, veterans, and
military families. I am grateful for the
resolve our servicemembers have to
protect American families. I am thank-
ful to celebrate this birthday of the mi-
litia filled with brave, self-sacrificing
men and women.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
CHEMISTRY RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
(Mr. LIPINSKI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker,
today, the House passed a bipartisan
bill that Mr. MOOLENAAR joined me in
introducing, H.R. 2051, the Sustainable
Chemistry Research and Development
Act.
Chemical products are part of our ev-
eryday lives, from toothpaste, to sham-
poo, cosmetics, dish soap, clothing, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:51 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.064 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9385
December 9, 2019
even Legos. Because these products are
all around us, we need to prioritize the
development of chemicals that are af-
fordable, meet our needs, and are
green, meaning that they protect our
health and the environment.
By supporting research and edu-
cational efforts in green chemistry, my
bill will ensure that American compa-
nies have the workforce and tools they
need to create safer and more environ-
mentally friendly products, while cre-
ating new American jobs.
H.R. 2051 is commonsense legislation
that is a win for American workers and
our health and environment.
Madam Speaker, I urge the Senate to
act quickly and pass this bill.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
BOARD OF VISITORS TO THE
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
ACADEMY
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
HAYES). The Chair announces the
Speaker’s appointment, pursuant to 10
U.S.C. 9445(a), and the order of the
House of January 3, 2019, of the fol-
lowing Member on the part of the
House to the Board of Visitors to the
United States Air Force Academy:
Ms. SPEIER, California
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 7 o’clock and 40 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 2125
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. LANGEVIN) at 9 o’clock
and 25 minutes p.m.
f
CONFERENCE REPORT ON S. 1790,
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZA-
TION ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Mr. SMITH of Washington submitted
the following conference report and
statement on the bill (S. 1790) to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military con-
struction, and for defense activities of
the Department of Energy, to prescribe
military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes:
(For conference report and state-
ment, see proceedings of the House of
December 9, 2019, published in Book II.)
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois (at the
request of Mr. HOYER) for today.
f
SENATE BILL REFERRED
A bill of the Senate of the following
title was taken from the Speaker’s
table and, under the rule, referred as
follows:
S. 743. An act to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the soldiers of the 5307th Com-
posite Unit (Provisional), commonly known
as ‘‘Merrill’s Marauders’’, in recognition of
their bravery and outstanding service in the
jungles of Burma during World War II; to the
Committee on Financial Services; in addi-
tion, to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. SMITH of Washington. Mr.
Speaker, I move that the House do now
adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 9 o’clock and 26 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, December 10, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
3223. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Significant New Use Rules
on Certain Chemical Substances (18-4) [EPA-
HQ-OPPT-2018-0697; FRL-10002-30] (RIN: 2070-
AB27) received December 3, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3224. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Significant New Use Rules
on Certain Chemical Substances (18-2) [EPA-
HQ-OPPT-2018-0649; FRL-10001-47] (RIN: 2070-
AB27) received December 3, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3225. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Fenpyroximate; Pesticide
Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0162; FRL-
10002-00] received December 3, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
3226. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Findings of Failure To Sub-
mit a Clean Air Act Section 110 State Imple-
mentation Plan for Interstate Transport for
the 2015 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality
Standards (NAAQS) [EPA-HQ-OAR-2019-0603;
FRL-10002-78-OAR] received December 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
3227. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Propamocarb; Pesticide
Tolerances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0623; FRL-
10000-33] received December 3, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
3228. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Significant New Use Rules
on Certain Chemical Substances (18-3) [EPA-
HQ-OPPT-2018-0650; FRL-10001-94] (RIN: 2070-
AB27) received December 3, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3229. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Illinois;
Sulfur Dioxide [EPA-R05-OAR-2018-0072;
FRL-10002-81-Region 5] received December 3,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
3230. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Mis-
souri; Revisions to Cross-State Air Pollution
Rule Annual Trading Program and Rescis-
sion of Clean Air Interstate Rule [EPA-R07-
OAR-2019-0337; FRL-10000-20-Region 7] re-
ceived December 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
3231. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Wis-
consin; Title V Operation Permit Program
[EPA-R05-OAR-2018-0285; FRL-10002-80-Re-
gion 5] received December 3, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
3232. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Etoxazole; Pesticide Toler-
ances [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0644; FRL-10000-97]
received December 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3233. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; ID; Up-
date to CRB Fee Billing Procedures [EPA-
R10-OAR-2019-0403; FRL-10002-75-Region 10]
received December 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
3234. A letter from the Director, Defense
Security Cooperation Agency, Department of
Defense, transmitting Transmittal No. 20-0A,
pursuant to the reporting requirements of
Section 36(b)(5)(C) of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
3235. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
18-083, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
3236. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
19-056, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
3237. A letter from the Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Legislative Affairs, Department of
State, transmitting Transmittal No. DDTC
19-070, pursuant to the reporting require-
ments of Section 36(c) of the Arms Export
Control Act; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
3238. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Office of Strategic Operations and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09DE7.066 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9386 December 9, 2019
Regulatory Affairs, Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting the De-
partment’s Major notice — Medicare Pro-
gram; CY 2020 Inpatient Hospital Deductible
and Hospital and Extended Care Services Co-
insurance Amounts [CMS-8071-N] (RIN: 0938-
AT76) received December 4, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
3239. A letter from the Regulations Coordi-
nator, Office of Strategic Operations and
Regulatory Affairs, Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services, Department of Health
and Human Services, transmitting the De-
partment’s Major notice — Medicare Pro-
gram; CY 2020 Part A Premiums for the Un-
insured Aged and for Certain Disabled Indi-
viduals Who Have Exhausted Other Entitle-
ment [CMS-8072-N] (RIN: 0938-AT77) received
December 4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
3240. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
of Defense, International Security Affairs,
Department of Defense, transmitting a re-
port; jointly to the Committees on Armed
Services and Foreign Affairs.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia: Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor. H.R. 3. A bill to establish
a fair price negotiation program, protect the
Medicare program from excessive price in-
creases, and establish an out-of-pocket max-
imum for Medicare part D enrollees, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–324, Pt. 3). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 5038. A bill to amend the Immigra-
tion and Nationality Act to provide for
terms and conditions for nonimmigrant
workers performing agricultural labor or
services, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–328, Pt. 1). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 5035. A bill to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to extend expir-
ing provisions relating to the retransmission
of signals of television broadcast stations,
and for other purposes; with an amendment
(Rept. 116–329). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. MORELLE: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 748. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 729) to
amend the Coastal Zone Management Act of
1972 to authorize grants to Indian Tribes to
further achievement of Tribal coastal zone
objectives, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–
330). Referred to the House Calendar.
Ms. WATERS: Committee on Financial
Services. H.R. 3621. A bill to amend the Fair
Credit Reporting Act to remove adverse in-
formation for certain defaulted or delinquent
private education loan borrowers who dem-
onstrate a history of loan repayment, and for
other purposes; with an amendment (Rept.
116–331). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 2328. A bill to reauthorize
and extend funding for community health
centers and the National Health Service
Corps; with amendments (Rept. 116–332, Pt.
1). Ordered to the printed.
Mr. SMITH of Washington: Committee of
Conference. Conference report on S. 1790. An
act to authorize appropriations for fiscal
year 2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense, for military construc-
tion, and for defense activities of the Depart-
ment of Energy, to prescribe military per-
sonnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for
other purposes (Rept. 116–333). Ordered to be
printed.
DISCHARGE OF COMMITTEE
Pursuant to clause 2 of rule XIII, the
Committees on Ways and Means, Edu-
cation and Labor, and Financial Serv-
ices discharged from further consider-
ation. H.R. 5038 referred to the Com-
mittee of the Whole House on the state
of the Union.
f
REPORTED BILL SEQUENTIALLY
REFERRED
Under clause 2 of rule XII, bills and
reports were delivered to the Clerk for
printing, and bills referred as follows:
Mr. PALLONE: Committee on Energy and
Commerce. H.R. 2328. A bill to reauthorize
and extend funding for community health
centers and the National Health Service
Corps, with an amendment; referred to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure for a period ending not later than
January 29, 2020, for consideration of such
provisions of the bill as fall within the juris-
diction of that committee pursuant to clause
1(r) of rule X.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. WALDEN (for himself, Mr.
BRADY, Ms. FOXX of North Carolina,
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. BURGESS,
Mr. NUNES, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. SEN-
SENBRENNER, Mr. SCALISE, Ms. CHE-
NEY, Mr. UPTON, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr.
LATTA, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, Mr. OLSON, Mr. MCKIN-
LEY, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. GRIFFITH,
Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio,
Mr. LONG, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. FLORES,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. MULLIN,
Mr. HUDSON, Mr. CARTER of Georgia,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. PALMER, Mr.
COLE, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. ABRAHAM,
Mr. KELLER, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr.
FERGUSON, Mr. KUSTOFF of Ten-
nessee, Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. GRAVES of Lou-
isiana, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. BAIRD, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Mr. MURPHY of North
Carolina, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. ALLEN,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. NEWHOUSE,
Mr. BABIN, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. RICE of South Carolina,
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina, Mr.
PENCE, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mr. BALDERSON, Mr.
ADERHOLT, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. CRENSHAW,
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
JOHNSON of South Dakota, Mr. GREEN
of Tennessee, Mrs. MILLER, Ms.
STEFANIK, Mr. BANKS, Mr. COMER, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. DIAZ-BALART, Mr.
AMODEI, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. BUDD, Mr.
COOK, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma,
Mr. CHABOT, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. CURTIS,
Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. STEIL, Mr. JOYCE
of Ohio, Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr.
GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. STAUBER, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska,
Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr. MARCHANT, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. ESTES, Mr.
REED, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr.
WENSTRUP, Mrs. ROBY, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. HURD of Texas,
Mr. WATKINS, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr.
TURNER, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr.
GUEST, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mrs. WAGNER,
Mr. WALTZ, Mr. WRIGHT, and Mr.
GIBBS):
H.R. 19. A bill to provide for certain re-
forms with respect to the Medicare program
under title XVIII of the Social Security Act,
the Medicaid program under title XIX of
such Act, the Food and Drug Administration,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committees on Ways and Means, and the
Judiciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 5360. A bill to require the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System to
collect more data on race and wealth, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER (for her-
self and Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington):
H.R. 5361. A bill to improve and coordinate
interagency Federal actions and provide as-
sistance to States for responding to public
health challenges posed by emerging con-
taminants, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Science,
Space, and Technology, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. GABBARD (for herself and Mr.
CASE):
H.R. 5362. A bill to amend the Food, Agri-
culture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990
to authorize spittlebug research and exten-
sion grants, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Agriculture.
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 5363. A bill to reauthorize mandatory
funding programs for historically Black col-
leges and universities and other minority-
serving institutions, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms.
NORTON, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. CLAY,
Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi, and Mr. BROWN of Maryland):
H.R. 5364. A bill to require the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to establish an
annual reference price for insulin products
for purposes of Federal health programs, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committees on Ways and Means, Armed
Services, Veterans’ Affairs, Oversight and
Reform, and Natural Resources, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. FLORES (for himself, Mr.
LONG, and Mr. STEUBE):
H.R. 5365. A bill to require the Federal
Communications Commission to approve or
deny a license transfer application within 180
days of submission, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09DE7.000 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H9387
December 9, 2019
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Mr. SARBANES, and Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia):
H.R. 5366. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Commerce, acting through the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration, to provide grants
supporting research on the conservation, res-
toration, or management of oysters in the
Chesapeake Bay; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. BURCHETT:
H.R. 5367. A bill to prohibit the provision of
foreign assistance to border countries that
are not taking adequate measures to stop
child pornography from entering the United
States; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 5368. A bill to provide for secure dis-
closure of tax-return information to carry
out the Higher Education Act of 1965, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 5369. A bill to require the imposition
of sanctions pursuant to the Global
Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability
Act to combat corruption and human rights
violations perpetrated by officials in the
Mexican Government, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs,
and in addition to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. GOSAR (for himself and Mr.
STANTON):
H.R. 5370. A bill to require the General
Services Administration to remove a deed
restriction on property located in Prescott,
Arizona, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 5371. A bill to authorize grantees of
Department of Justice grants to set up task
forces on policing in local communities, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for him-
self and Ms. SCHRIER):
H.R. 5372. A bill to clarify that employees
of safety net health plans are eligible for
loan forgiveness under the Public Service
Loan Forgiveness Program; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, and
Ms. DEGETTE):
H.R. 5373. A bill to reauthorize the United
States Anti-Doping Agency, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mrs. AXNE (for herself, Ms. CHE-
NEY, Mr. BACON, and Mr. SMITH of Ne-
braska):
H. Res. 749. A resolution recognizing the
50th anniversary of Taco John’s and cele-
brating the contributions the company and
its franchise owners provide to local commu-
nities across the country; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mr.
WALBERG, and Mr. NUNES):
H. Res. 750. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
individual choice in health insurance should
be protected; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, and Mr. GRIJALVA):
H. Res. 751. A resolution reaffirming the
partnership between the United States and
the African Union and recognizing the im-
portance of diplomatic, security, and trade
relations; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself and Mr.
WILSON of South Carolina):
H. Res. 752. A resolution supporting the
rights of the people of Iran to free expres-
sion, condemning the Iranian regime for its
crackdown on legitimate protests, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Ms. JAYAPAL (for herself, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. LARSEN of Washington,
Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mrs. RODGERS of Wash-
ington, Mr. KILMER, Ms. SCHRIER, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, and Mr. HECK):
H. Res. 753. A resolution commemorating
the life of William D. Ruckelshaus; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. SIRES (for himself, Mr. ROONEY
of Florida, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
COSTA, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. MCCAUL,
Mr. YOHO, Mr. GUEST, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, and Mr. SMITH of New
Jersey):
H. Res. 754. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the United States should continue to support
the people of Nicaragua in their peaceful ef-
forts to promote democracy and human
rights, and use the tools under United States
law to increase political and financial pres-
sure on the government of Daniel Ortega; to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. WALDEN:
H.R. 19.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 and Clause 3
of the United States Constitution.
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 5360.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER:
H.R. 5361.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 5362.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The United States Constitution including
Article 1, Section 8.
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 5363.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 5364.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. FLORES:
H.R. 5365.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. BROWN:
H.R. 5366.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. BURCHETT:
H.R. 5367.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV,
Section 3, Clause 2. The Congress shall
have Power to dispose of and make all need-
ful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States; and nothing in this Constitu-
tion shall be so construed as to Prejudice
any Claims of the United States, or of any
particular State.
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 5368.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 5369.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. GOSAR:
H.R. 5370.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 (the Prop-
erty Clause).
Under this clause, Congress has the power
to dispose of and make all needful rules and
regulations respecting the territory or other
property belonging to the United States. By
virtue of this enumerated power, Congress
has govememtning autghority over the
lands, territories, or other property of the
United States—and with this authority Con-
gress is vested with the power to all owners
in fee, the ability to sell, lease dispose, ex-
change, convey, or simply preserve land. The
Supreme Court has described the enumerated
grant as one ‘‘without limintation’’ Kleppe v
New Mexico, 426 U.S. 529, 542–543 (1976) (‘‘And
while the furthest reaches of the power
granted by the Property Clause have not
been definitely resolved, we have repeatedly
observed that the power over the public land
thus entrusted to Congress is wihtout limita-
tion.’’) The conveyance codified by this leg-
islation is thus constitutional.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 5371.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 18 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. SMITH:
H.R. 5372.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18. To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. THOMPSON:
H.R. 5373.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:16 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09DE7.100 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H9388 December 9, 2019
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 33: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 141: Mr. CASTRO of Texas and Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 208: Mr. CASE and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 218: Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina
and Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 344: Mr. GOTTHEIMER and Mr.
WITTMAN.
H.R. 570: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 571: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 649: Mr. FOSTER, Mrs. LEE of Nevada,
and Mr. GOODEN.
H.R. 808: Mr. GUEST.
H.R. 895: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 912: Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. COSTA, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
PASCRELL, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. PHILLIPS, and
Ms. PLASKETT.
H.R. 935: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1002: Ms. HOULAHAN and Ms. JOHNSON
of Texas.
H.R. 1043: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 1139: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1173: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 1175: Ms. DEAN and Mr. DAVID P. ROE
of Tennessee.
H.R. 1179: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1220: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 1227: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1301: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1367: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN and Ms.
SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 1379: Mrs. RADEWAGEN.
H.R. 1400: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1435: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1528: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1530: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 1542: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1597: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
CARTWRIGHT, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, and Mrs.
LURIA.
H.R. 1695: Mr. MCCAUL and Mr. TAKANO.
H.R. 1754: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. VARGAS, Ms.
WILSON of Florida, Ms. PRESSLEY, and Ms.
ADAMS.
H.R. 1784: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 1786: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1814: Mr. CALVERT and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1840: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1873: Mr. SERRANO.
H.R. 1901: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1943: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 1948: Mr. PASCRELL and Ms. PLASKETT.
H.R. 1975: Mr. MOULTON and Mr.
GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1987: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 2000: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 2137: Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 2222: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2258: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 2283: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 2300: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 2301: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2349: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2374: Mr. POSEY.
H.R. 2411: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2431: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2466: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 2482: Ms. TLAIB and Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 2568: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2584: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2599: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2653: Mr. SCHIFF and Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.R. 2668: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2731: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington and
Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2732: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 2742: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 2802: Mr. MARSHALL, Mrs. AXNE, and
Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2858: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2895: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 2896: Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 2897: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 2990: Mr. THORNBERRY.
H.R. 3073: Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr. SOTO, and
Mr. KIND.
H.R. 3082: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 3107: Mr. ROUZER, Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York, and
Mr. KIM.
H.R. 3113: Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. BASS, and Mr.
YARMUTH.
H.R. 3373: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H.R. 3415: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 3503: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 3517: Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H.R. 3524: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 3561: Mr. HILL of Arkansas and Mr.
KIND.
H.R. 3584: Mr. ADERHOLT, Ms. CRAIG, Mr.
CARTER of Georgia, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
GOODEN, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mrs. MURPHY of Florida, and Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 3598: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 3645: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 3693: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 3927: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 3937: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3956: Mr. RUSH and Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 3961: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 4069: Mr. WALKER.
H.R. 4142: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 4194: Miss RICE of New York, Ms.
UNDERWOOD, and Mr. LAMBORN.
H.R. 4227: Mr. KHANNA, Mr. LUETKEMEYER,
Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. HURD of Texas.
H.R. 4228: Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 4229: Mr. KHANNA, Mr. OLSON, and Mr.
MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4232: Mr. BERA.
H.R. 4278: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 4283: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 4404: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 4429: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 4464: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 4508: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 4512: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 4527: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 4589: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 4794: Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 4817: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 4821: Mr. MCADAMS and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 4864: Mrs. LURIA, Mr. BISHOP of Geor-
gia, and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 4881: Mr. KING of Iowa and Mrs. ROBY.
H.R. 4900: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 4996: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 5004: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 5038: Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. DELGADO, Mr.
KIND, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Mr. RUIZ, Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. BASS, and
Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 5044: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 5048: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 5063: Mr. SOTO and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 5082: Mr. CLINE.
H.R. 5127: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 5170: Mr. HIGGINS of New York.
H.R. 5185: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 5191: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 5199: Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 5221: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 5260: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 5289: Mr. RIGGLEMAN, Mr. HARRIS, and
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 5294: Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 5297: Mr. BALDERSON and Mr. VELA.
H.R. 5299: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. ROSE of
New York, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 5306: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 5309: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Mr.
MCEACHIN.
H.R. 5315: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 5340: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 5343: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H. Con. Res. 27: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H. Con. Res. 50: Mr. STEUBE, Mr. TIMMONS,
Mr. ZELDIN, and Mr. WRIGHT.
H. Con. Res. 68: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H. Res. 91: Mr. PAPPAS.
H. Res. 214: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H. Res. 299: Ms. MATSUI.
H. Res. 452: Ms. MCCOLLUM and Mr.
LANGEVIN.
H. Res. 527: Ms. SÁNCHEZ and Mr. SHERMAN.
H. Res. 727: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H. Res. 732: Mr. PAPPAS.
H. Res. 736: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H. Res. 742: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
N O T I C E
For conference report and statement, see proceedings of the House of December 9, 2019, published in Book II.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8633 E:\CR\FM\A09DE7.027 H09DEPT1
aiking
on
DSK30JT082PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6897
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2019 No. 196
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Mighty God, we thank You for all the
marvelous things You have already
done for our Nation and world. Mar-
velous are Your works. We are grateful
for the beauty of the Earth and the glo-
ries of the skies. We praise You for the
love that surrounds us and for Your
mercies that are new each day.
Lord, guide our Senators. May they
continue to look to You as their help-
er, defender, and friend. Inspire them
to always trust in Your unfailing love
as they depend on You to do for them
what they can’t accomplish with their
strength alone.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to address the Sen-
ate for 1 minute as in morning busi-
ness.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
S. 2543
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I and
my friend Senator WYDEN released an
updated version of our bipartisan Pre-
scription Drug Pricing Reduction Act.
This bill will now deliver even more
savings for seniors and Americans with
disabilities. When I say ‘‘more,’’ it will
be more than the bill that was voted
out of the Senate Committee on Fi-
nance on a 19-to-9 vote during the last
week of July. The bill will also help
pay for critical health programs. Bil-
lions of dollars saved in out-of-pocket
costs are also a result of the bill and
billions of dollars allocated for
healthcare programs that tens of mil-
lions of Americans rely upon.
What I just said will be accomplished
all without spending a dime more of
taxpayer dollars. That is because Big
Pharma, our pharmaceutical industry
of the United States, will finally be
held accountable. Taxpayers shouldn’t
be put on the hook for unlimited sub-
sidies from the Federal Treasury to big
companies that make billions in prof-
its.
I don’t often quote the Washington
Post about legislation I put in, but the
Washington Post recently wrote that
our bill was the ‘‘drug pricing bill with
the best chances of passing Congress.’’
Over the weekend, President Trump
applauded the work my friend Senator
WYDEN and I have done to improve our
bipartisan legislation. The President
was very supportive of it even before
we made these changes. That is be-
cause, in the Congress of the United
States today, it is the only significant
bipartisan legislation that exists to ad-
dress the skyrocketing costs of pre-
scription drugs.
The Senate must demonstrate cour-
age and finally pass this very impor-
tant bill because very few Members of
Congress can miss the cry of their citi-
zens that drug pricing is too high, and
they expect Congress to do something
about it. This bill answers that cry and
should soon get a vote.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, as
the end of the year approaches and the
House Democratic majority continues
to pour its time and attention into im-
peaching the President, a number of
key legislative items remain out-
standing.
For weeks, my Republican colleagues
have been pleading with our Demo-
cratic friends in Congress to put aside
their impeachment obsession long
enough to complete some basic work
for the American people.
We have explained that American
families cannot afford for Washington
Democrats to obsess over impeachment
and obstruct the things we absolutely
have to do.
So I am pleased that the last several
days have brought at least some initial
conversations that sanity and progress
may be breaking through. We are still
a long way from the finish line, but
this week begins on a cautiously opti-
mistic note. It appears that Democrats’
willingness to block these basic gov-
erning items may be finally giving
way.
The National Defense Authorization
Act is our annual must-pass vehicle
laying out Congress’s plan for address-
ing military funding and meeting the
needs of our servicemembers. It is a re-
sponsibility that this body has dis-
charged in a bipartisan manner every
year, without fail, for 58 years.
That is why it was so disheartening
that Democratic leadership in both the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE6.000 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6898 December 9, 2019
House and the Senate broke with tradi-
tion and used this year’s NDAA process
to insist on all manner of partisan
items, including nongermane domestic
policy changes. This partisan approach
left the future of the Pentagon’s most
urgent missions in the lurch.
So I am encouraged that bicameral
negotiations, with participation from
the White House, reached a conclusion
last week. Most of the partisan de-
mands predictably fell away. The re-
sult is not either side’s ideal bill, but it
is one that should be able to pass both
Chambers under the circumstances. I
hope the bipartisan conference report
will be signed and moved quickly
through each Chamber so Congress can
finally fulfill our responsibility to
America’s Armed Forces for another
year.
Then there is the appropriations
process—another fundamental respon-
sibility which, for the good of the Na-
tion, is historically approached with a
bipartisan willingness to find common
ground.
It seemed like that might again be
the case when a bicameral, bipartisan
deal was struck by the President and
the Speaker of the House back in July,
but then, when negotiations resumed
in earnest back in September, some of
our Democratic colleagues realized
they weren’t really ready to part with
partisan poison pills. They ignored
their own agreement and months of
stalemate ensued.
Fortunately, our appropriators are
working hard to salvage the process.
Last month, Chairman SHELBY and
Chairwoman LOWEY and our other col-
leagues reached a deal on sub-
committee allocations. I understand
their hard work continued in earnest
over this past weekend, with the goal
of producing bills that both Chambers
could consider before the end of this
year.
I am grateful to colleagues on both
sides of the aisle for their hard work. I
hope this progress continues, and we
can consider appropriations measures
this month.
Now, there is still one more major
piece of bipartisan legislation awaiting
action by House Democrats. For
months, Speaker PELOSI and House
Democrats have been slow-walking
President Trump’s landmark trade
agreement with Mexico and Canada.
Month after month, House Democrats
kept 176,000 new American jobs in
limbo, but, finally, after weeks of a
full-court press from Republicans in
the House and the Senate, we are see-
ing hopeful signals that Speaker
PELOSI’s months-long stalling cam-
paign may at long last be coming to an
end. Reports suggest the Speaker may
finally allow the House to vote in the
near future. For our country’s sake, I
certainly hope so.
So what has been true for months is
especially true now that time is
short—it is going to take bipartisan
collaboration and hard work for any of
these outstanding legislative priorities
to become law.
Even if House Democrats do finally
relent and allow these key priorities to
move forward, it is now the eleventh
hour, and it will require consent and
cooperation for the Senate to consider
legislation in a timely fashion.
I ask for that collaborative spirit
from my colleagues on both sides in
the Senate as we move forward. We Re-
publicans have been ready and eager
for weeks to legislate on these key pri-
orities. I hope these reports are accu-
rate that leading Democrats may fi-
nally—finally—be willing to let Con-
gress govern, and I hope we can move
forward at a brisk pace and in a bipar-
tisan way.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Patrick J. Bumatay, of California, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT—CALENDER
NO. 535
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that with re-
spect to the Halpern nomination, the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table and the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
E-CIGARETTES
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, after
months of headlines about the dangers
of vaping and a litany of mysterious
medical conditions, we hit a pretty
concerning milestone last week—
vaping-related lung injuries have now
been reported in all 50 States.
Alaska became State No. 50 with the
identification of a teen suffering from
these illnesses. I said a teen. The teen
reported regularly vaping both nicotine
and THC products, and while I am glad
to hear the patient is recovering, it
highlights the need for immediate ac-
tion to this public health emergency.
Nationwide, nearly 28 percent of high
school students and 1 in 10 middle
school students are using e-cigarettes.
That is just to the best of our knowl-
edge.
Folks at home are struggling to re-
spond to these growing numbers, and
parents and teachers and others are
trying to figure out how to get their
arms around this problem.
Last year, 19 percent of Texas high
school students had used an e-cigarette
in the last 30 days, and all of these re-
cent cases lead me to believe that this
number has gone up and gone up sig-
nificantly.
It is, I believe, a growing epidemic,
but folks in North Texas are bearing
the brunt of it. More than half of all
the vaping-related injuries at home oc-
curred in North Texas. It is also home
to the first vaping-related death in the
State.
Last Friday, I visited the University
of North Texas Health Science Center
in Fort Worth to learn more about the
dangers of e-cigarettes and the commu-
nity-led efforts to curb their use.
Let me be clear. When we are talking
about adults making choices on what
to put in their body, I will leave those
choices to the individual adult, but if
we are talking about children exposing
themselves to a chemical that is ad-
dictive, which may lead to a life—even
if they avoid some of the immediate
public health consequences, it may
lead to a lifetime of addiction and
worse.
We heard from a pulmonary spe-
cialist that a lot of kids she talks to
don’t understand the risk of e-ciga-
rettes. They think that because these
devices aren’t subject to the same reg-
ulations and restrictions as traditional
cigarettes, they are somehow different
and safer.
We got to hear from a teen who cer-
tainly had that mindset. Sixteen-year-
old high school junior Anna Carey is
one of the many students in her high
school using e-cigarettes, and she ad-
mits to becoming rather quickly ad-
dicted to the nicotine.
She said she began to display symp-
toms like those we have seen across
the country. She was extremely lethar-
gic and would experience random and
severe pains in her chest.
Two initial x rays came back clear.
So her doctors released her, but her
symptoms continued. Eventually, she
was admitted to the Cook Children’s
Hospital and diagnosed with chemical-
induced pneumonia in both lungs.
That, Anna told us, was her wake-up
call.
I am glad to report that Anna has
fully recovered and is using her story
to help educate and alert her fellow
teens from going down the same path.
Everyone who participated in our dis-
cussion in Fort Worth last Friday
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09DE6.002 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6899
December 9, 2019
agreed that there is no single action or
initiative that can put this outbreak to
rest. We need to work together, not
only the Federal Government but State
and local governments, parents, teach-
ers, and communities, to combat this
crisis from every angle.
During our conversations we talked
about the need for action by the Food
and Drug Administration, something
our colleagues on the HELP Committee
have been examining. We also talked
about the need to do more to educate
our kids about the risks of e-cigarette
use to stop them from picking up these
devices in the first place.
One of the easiest ways we can do
that is to make it more difficult for
children to purchase vaping devices
from online retailers, but, unfortu-
nately, our current laws make that dif-
ficult to enforce. We are not talking
about changing the age restrictions to
purchase these devices, but merely the
manner in which these devices are pur-
chased in a way that avoids the age re-
strictions on their consumption.
For traditional cigarettes, consumers
are able to make purchases online, but
there are clear guardrails in place to
prevent children from skirting the age
restrictions. At the time of the deliv-
ery, the buyer has to sign and show an
ID proving that they are an adult. That
just makes common sense. You have to
show an ID when you purchase ciga-
rettes at a gas station or convenience
store, and it shouldn’t be any different
when you purchase these devices on-
line.
But e-cigarettes are on a different
playing field. As often is the case, de-
velopments in the real world can out-
pace Congress’s ability to respond, and
this is, perhaps, a prime example of
that.
Anyone, no matter how old or young,
can go online and buy e-cigarettes and
have them delivered to their front
door—no questions asked, no age verifi-
cation, no ID, no nothing—and that is
wrong.
Kids can be resourceful, you better
believe, in taking advantage of this
loophole. In fact, a recent survey found
that a third of underage e-cigarette
users bought them online.
There is no reason why e-cigarettes
should be subject to lesser restrictions
than traditional cigarettes. They are
just as addictive and dangerous. After
hearing from a number of constituents
who share my concerns about teen
vaping, I introduced legislation to
make it more difficult for our children
to get their hands on these devices.
The Preventing Online Sales of E-
Cigarettes to Children Act would put in
place the same safeguards for e-ciga-
rettes as traditional cigarettes pur-
chased online.
Just to be clear, we are talking about
protecting children. We are not talking
about limiting adults’ rights to use
these devices.
This bill would require online retail-
ers to verify the age of a customer, re-
lease deliveries only to an adult show-
ing a proper ID, and to comply with all
State and local tobacco taxes.
These are commonsense reforms, and
they have garnered broad bipartisan
support. More than a quarter of the
Senators in this body are cosponsors of
this bill, and it recently passed by
voice vote in the House of Representa-
tives. When we are talking about pass-
ing consensus legislation that makes
just common sense, well, this is as easy
as it comes.
We need to do everything in our
power to turn the tide on this wave of
addiction to protect our children from
these dangerous substances.
I appreciate Dr. Michael Williams
and the folks at the UNT Health
Science Center for hosting such an im-
portant discussion and for their work
to educate the public on e-cigarettes
and the dangers associated with their
use, particularly by minor children.
I want to thank my colleagues who
have thrown their support behind this
legislation. It is a bipartisan bill, as
demonstrated by the chief cosponsors
on the other side, Senators FEINSTEIN
and VAN HOLLEN.
I can’t imagine why anybody would
want to hold such a commonsense bill
up, and I hope we will be able to send
it to the President before we head
home for the holidays.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I ask unani-
mous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
WYOMING WOMEN’S SUFFRAGE DAY
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, today I
would like to speak on a topic very im-
portant to my wife Diana, to me, and,
for that matter, to all of Wyoming, and
it should be important to all of Amer-
ica. It is a topic of great importance in
Wyoming. It is a topic at the core of
what makes Wyoming the Equality
State. It is Wyoming Women’s Suffrage
Day tomorrow.
I recently had the pleasure of intro-
ducing and, along with my friend Sen-
ator BARRASSO, passing S. Res. 430,
which recognizes tomorrow, December
10, 2019, as Wyoming Women’s Suffrage
Day.
Wyoming Women’s Suffrage Day
celebrates the contribution of women
to our great State and Wyoming’s
place in history as the trailblazer for
women’s suffrage. One hundred and
fifty years ago, on December 10, 1869,
the Wyoming territory approved the
first law in legislative history recog-
nizing women’s inherent right to vote
and to hold public office—50 years be-
fore the enactment of the 19th Amend-
ment to the Constitution in 1920.
This historic step even preceded Wyo-
ming statehood. The young territory
granted women the right to vote 20
years before becoming the 44th State
admitted to the Union.
In fact, when Congress invited Wyo-
ming to join the Union, they demanded
that women’s suffrage be revoked, and
the Wyoming legislature—an all-men’s
legislature—said: ‘‘We will remain out
of the Union 100 years rather than
come in without the women.’’ This pio-
neering spirit is truly remarkable and
something I keep in front of my mind
every day as I continue my work in the
Senate.
Wyoming was not going to allow the
acknowledgement of women’s right to
vote to be ceremonial or artificial. In
fact, 1 short year after recognizing
women’s right to vote, women began
holding public office throughout Wyo-
ming, serving as the first women in the
United States to do so.
In 1870, Esther Hobart Morris became
the first female justice of the peace,
serving in South Pass City, WY. That
year, Wyoming also saw the country’s
first all-female jury and the first
woman bailiff in the room, Martha
Symon Boies. Later, in 1894, Estelle
Reel Meyer became Wyoming’s super-
intendent of public instruction—the
first female in the country to be elect-
ed to a statewide position. From 1920 to
1921, Jackson, WY, was the first town
in the United States governed com-
pletely by women. These trailblazing
women embodied the cowboy values we
hold dear and showed that Wyoming
truly has earned its title as an Equal-
ity State.
Just as they did in 1869, women’s
voices and their votes continue to help
build our economy and guide our de-
mocracy. Throughout history, Wyo-
ming has been home to many remark-
able women and today still recognizes
how important women are to the suc-
cess of the State. This continued dedi-
cation to being the Equality State has
made Wyoming home to trailblazing
women’s organizations, such as the
Wyoming Women’s Legislative Caucus,
a nonpartisan caucus that advocates
for the support and leadership of
women in all levels of government, and
Climb Wyoming, which helps single
mothers transition to long-term self-
sufficiency through better paying jobs,
including nontraditional jobs. That is
the key to Wyoming’s economy. Climb
Wyoming does this through innovative
programming that goes far beyond just
job training. The Wyoming Women’s
Business Center supports aspiring fe-
male entrepreneurs and business own-
ers through educational tools to help
them plan, start, and grow successful
businesses. As a former small business
owner myself, I know how important
these businesses are to the fabric of our
great State.
Wyoming Women’s Suffrage Day is a
testament to the contributions women
make and have made and will continue
to make in Wyoming and the values
that make our State stand out as an
example to the rest of the country. I
look forward to working with Senator
BARRASSO and Congresswoman CHENEY
to ensure Wyoming continues to do
things the cowboy way, striving to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09DE6.004 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6900 December 9, 2019
hold the tradition of excellence and eq-
uity and equality well into the future.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The clerk will call the
roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent that the order for the
quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Patrick J. Bumatay, of California,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit.
Mitch McConnell, Tom Cotton, John
Boozman, Mike Crapo, Thom Tillis,
Chuck Grassley, Jerry Moran, Kevin
Cramer, John Barrasso, Mike Braun,
Joni Ernst, Pat Roberts, John Cornyn,
Roy Blunt, John Thune, Lindsey Gra-
ham, Roger F. Wicker.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Patrick J. Bumatay, of California,
to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Ninth Circuit, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER), the
Senator from Idaho (Mr. RISCH), the
Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS), the Senator from Florida
(Mr. RUBIO), the Senator from Ne-
braska (Mr. SASSE), and the Senator
from South Carolina (Mr. SCOTT).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea’’ and the
Senator from Florida (Mr. RUBIO)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator
from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), and the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 47,
nays 41, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 386 Ex.]
YEAS—47
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Roberts
Romney
Scott (FL)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—41
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—12
Alexander
Bennet
Booker
Harris
Klobuchar
Risch
Rounds
Rubio
Sanders
Sasse
Scott (SC)
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 47, the nays are 41.
The motion is agreed to.
The Senator from North Carolina.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the
postcloture time on the Bumatay nom-
ination expire at 12:15 p.m. on Tuesday,
December 10, and that if confirmed, the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table and the
President be immediately notified of
the Senate’s action.
I further ask unanimous consent that
notwithstanding rule XXII, following
the cloture vote on the VanDyke nomi-
nation, the Senate proceed to legisla-
tive session and to the immediate con-
sideration of Calendar No. 290, S. 2740.
I further ask unanimous consent that
there be 2 minutes of debate, equally
divided between the leaders and their
designees, and that upon the use or
yielding back of that time, the bill be
considered read a third time and the
Senate vote on the passage of the bill
with no intervening action or debate
and that the Senate then resume exec-
utive session.
Finally, I ask unanimous consent
that at 12 noon, on Wednesday, Decem-
ber 11, the Senate proceed to legisla-
tive session and to the immediate con-
sideration of H.R. 2333, which was re-
ceived from the House, and that the
bill be considered read a third time and
the Senate vote on its passage with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
S. 2942
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
rise today to say how pleased I am to
join with the Senator from New Hamp-
shire in introducing S. 2942, a bill to re-
vise the tax treatment of certain con-
tributions to the capital of corpora-
tions.
S. 2942 corrects a provision in the 2017
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that disquali-
fied government grants to corporations
from treatment as tax-free contribu-
tions to capital. The provision resulted
in the imposition of income tax on all
such grants. At the same time, a com-
panion provision in the act imposed in-
come tax on ‘‘contributions in aid of
construction,’’ CIAC, to regulated
water utilities, reversing a long-
standing rule of prior law that shielded
regulated water utilities from tax on
such payments. The term CIAC refers
to payments—from either govern-
mental sources or other sources that
are used by a utility to expand its
physical plant.
Our bill corrects the TCJA, first, by
restoring the tax exemption for CIAC
received by water utilities. That
change will ensure that Alaskans,
along with all water utility customers
around the country, who make pay-
ments to a water utility to help the
utility expand its service territory or
otherwise improve its physical plant
will not thereby saddle the utility with
a tax charge that could translate into
an increase in rates for water service
or that, alternatively, could be passed
back to the payer of the CIAC.
There is no plausible basis for taxing
CIAC received by water utilities and
thereby saddling the utility and its
customers with the tax charge. CIAC
does not at all resemble normal tax-
able income received by a business in
exchange for goods or services. In fact,
our bill specifically precludes the util-
ity from including CIAC in its rate
base and thereby earning a return on
it.
The treatment of CIAC as taxable in-
come might not matter if water utili-
ties could expense the cost of the cap-
ital improvements funded through
CIAC. The expensing deduction would
offset the income. But under the TCJA,
regulated utilities do not qualify for
expensing. Thus, they incur the tax on
the receipt of CIAC and pass the tax on
to the payer of the CIAC.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09DE6.006 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6901
December 9, 2019
One unintended consequence of the
taxability of CIAC, coupled with the in-
eligibility of regulated utilities for ex-
pensing, is the creation of an unjustifi-
able incentive for the development of
water infrastructure outside regulated
utilities—i.e. outside the companies
that are best equipped to build and
manage the infrastructure. The incen-
tive exists because non-utility corpora-
tions, unlike regulated utilities, qual-
ify for expensing and can thus elimi-
nate the tax on the receipt of CIAC.
Our bill eliminates the incentive by re-
storing the tax exemption for CIAC re-
ceived by regulated water utilities.
The other correction our bill makes
in the TCJA is to reverse the rule in
the act that treats all government
grants to corporations as taxable in-
come. Under prior law, government
grants that were not in the nature of
ordinary purchases of goods or services
could qualify as tax-free contributions
of capital.
The TCJA failed to distinguish
among different types of government
grants in writing the new rule. For ex-
ample, there is no apparent reason why
government grants made to spur in-
vestment in rural broadband infra-
structure should be taxable. The effect
of the tax is to reduce the value and ef-
fectiveness of the grants. Nor should
tax logically be imposed on grants in-
tended to spur investment that would
protect the environment or public
health, including Investment in water
infrastructure.
There are, of course, types of govern-
ment grants that could probably be
taxed without adverse consequences.
One example would be grants made to
influence corporate decisions on the lo-
cation of corporate headquarters or fa-
cilities.
To create a simple starting point, our
bill simply eliminates the TCJA rule
taxing government grants. As the Fi-
nance Committee and leadership con-
sider the issue, we anticipate that, this
time around, they will take the time to
consider more carefully which types of
grants should be taxable and which
should be tax-free. At a minimum, the
broadband and environmental grants
described above should be tax-free, but
there are probably many similar types
of grants that should have the same
treatment.
Mr. President, I look forward to
working with the Senator from New
Hampshire and with the members of
the Finance Committee to craft sen-
sible corrections to the TCJA to re-
store the tax exemption for CIAC re-
ceived by water utilities and restore
the tax exemption for government
grants received by corporations where
the grants are demonstrably in the
public interest.
f
THE BALKANS
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, it is of
the utmost importance that we recog-
nize that the Balkan region is critical
to U.S. interests in Europe due to the
implications in the region surrounding
security, counterterrorism, cyber secu-
rity, and implementation of 5G. It is a
strategically significant region and a
primary target of Russian malign in-
fluence.
Each year I have the honor of hosting
a Balkan Roundtable Security Forum
with leaders from the Balkans and
Members of Congress. NATO’s role in
southeastern Europe is critical for the
support of our interests in the region.
Integration of the Balkans into NATO,
the EU, and other partnerships with
our friends in the region has long been
an important goal, given the mounting
threat posed by Russians continued be-
havior. In a time where our strategic
competitors are seeking to expand
their influence, it is critical that our
friends in the Balkan region know that
the United States is here to support
them and work together to counter our
common foes.
It is clearly stated in the President’s
National Security Strategy, the Na-
tional Defense Strategy, and the Na-
tional Military Strategy that Europe
and the Trans-Atlantic NATO Alliance
are paramount to our national secu-
rity, and this includes the integration
of our allies on the Balkan Peninsula.
We have made significant strides in
adapting our capabilities in many
areas, including cyber, to meet the
growing threats in the region, but we
must continue to work with our part-
ners to counter the evolving threats
from Russia and China and preserve a
Europe that is whole, free, and at
peace.
f
TRIBUTE TO MAYO BODDIE
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, today I
rise to honor and praise a great man,
Mayo Boddie, who has lived a long and
admirable life as a successful business-
man and dedicated servant to the peo-
ple of North Carolina and his country.
Mr. Boddie was born on December 6,
1929, on a farm in Nash County, NC.
The son of Nick and Lucy Boddie, Mr.
Boddie learned the value of hard work
and perseverance at an early age. In
1962, along with his brother Nick and
his uncle, Carleton Noell, Mayo Boddie
opened his first Hardee’s restaurant in
Fayetteville, NC. Fast food was a rel-
atively new concept back then, but the
new company, Boddie-Noell, knew the
recipe for success.
Today, he is chairman of Boddie-
Noell Enterprise, headquartered in
Rocky Mount in the great State of
North Carolina. Under Mr. Boddie’s
leadership, Boddie-Noell Enterprises
operates more than 350 Hardee’s res-
taurants and is the popular brand’s
largest franchisee. Despite their rapid
growth and expansion throughout the
Carolinas, Virginia, and Kentucky,
Boddie-Noell has maintained a close-
knit family culture in which every in-
dividual is treated with dignity and re-
spect. To Mayo Boddie, the secret of
his success is ‘‘our people.’’
His devoted leadership never went
unnoticed. In 1987, he received the
North Carolina Jaycees Outstanding
Boss of the Year Award. In 1991, he was
named Master Entrepreneur of the
Year for North Carolina by Inc. Maga-
zine. In 2000, Mayo and his brother,
Nick, were named NC Restaurant Asso-
ciation’s Restaurateurs of the Year.
At the age of 90 years old, celebrating
a recent birthday, Mayo Boddie con-
tinues to be very active in his commu-
nity of Rocky Mount and Eastern
North Carolina. He still serves as an
advisory board member for the NC Wes-
leyan College Entrepreneurial Center
and continues to serve on the East
Carolina Council BSA executive board.
He remains an active member of First
Presbyterian Church in Rocky Mount
and has been active in the Boy Scouts
since 1941. His support for scouting is
legendary. In honor of this support, one
of the Scout reservations in Beaufort
County—Camp Bonner—was renamed
Camp Boddie.
Mr. President, it is obvious Mr.
Boddie is well respected and loved
among many who know him, and I am
proud to honor him and his life-long
and innovative service to the great
State of North Carolina, along with his
many accomplishments throughout his
lifetime.
f
RECOGNIZING MILITARY MISSIONS
IN ACTION
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I rise
today to pay tribute to Military Mis-
sions in Action, MMIA, an organization
with locations in Fuquay-Varina and
Southern Pines, NC, that is doing tre-
mendous work throughout the State of
North Carolina for Active-Duty
servicemembers, veterans, and mili-
tary families.
Mr. Mike Dorman founded MMIA in
2008 after a 20-year career in the U.S.
Coast Guard. Since then, MMIA has
worked tirelessly to accomplish a wide
array of support for servicemembers,
veterans, and their families. MMIA
conducts a number of operations each
year such as: Operation Building Hope,
which gathers volunteers to make
modifications and repairs necessary for
safe and independent living for vet-
erans with disabilities; Homes for Heal-
ing, through which volunteers provide
new and gently used furniture and
household goods to formerly homeless
veterans; Operation Rescue Christmas,
which provides holiday assistance to
low-income veteran and military fami-
lies through gift cards, new toys, and
monetary support; and Fill the Foot-
locker whereby comforts from home,
health, and hygiene items are packaged
and shipped to deployed
servicemembers.
MMIA completes the operations men-
tioned above in addition to many other
projects in community engagement and
support with the help of volunteers and
other collaborators. To date, MMIA has
completed 710 building projects, as-
sisted over 30,500 homeless veterans,
provided furniture and household goods
to 463 families, shipped over 58,000 care
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:21 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE6.002 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6902 December 9, 2019
packages to deployed servicemembers,
and assisted 1,620 children through Op-
eration Rescue Christmas.
I would like to thank and recognize
the men and women of MMIA and all of
the volunteers for their continued dedi-
cation and support for the large serv-
icemember and veteran populations of
the State of North Carolina and their
families.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO JORDAN EMBREE
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Jordan for
his hard work as an intern in my Wash-
ington, DC, office. I recognize his ef-
forts and contributions to my office as
well as to the State of Wyoming.
Jordan is a native of California. He is
a graduate of Wheaton College, where
he studied international relations and
French. He has demonstrated a strong
work ethic, which has made him an in-
valuable asset to our office. The qual-
ity of his work is reflected in his great
efforts over the last several months.
I want to thank Jordan for the dedi-
cation he has shown while working for
me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JASMINE SLUSSER
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Jasmine for
her hard work as an intern in my
Washington, DC, office. I recognize her
efforts and contributions to my office
as well as to the State of Wyoming.
Jasmine is a native of Pennsylvania.
She is a student at George Washington
University, where she is studying pub-
lic health. She has demonstrated a
strong work ethic, which has made her
an invaluable asset to our office. The
quality of her work is reflected in her
great efforts over the last several
months.
I want to thank Jasmine for the dedi-
cation she has shown while working for
me and my staff. It was a pleasure to
have her as part of our team. I know
she will have continued success with
all of her future endeavors. I wish her
all my best on her next journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JEREMIAH
WORDEMAN
∑ Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
would like to take the opportunity to
express my appreciation to Jeremiah
for his hard work as an intern in my
Washington, DC, office. I recognize his
efforts and contributions to my office
as well as to the State of Wyoming.
Jeremiah is a native of Cheyenne. He
is a student at Laramie County Com-
munity College, where he is studying
political science. He has demonstrated
a strong work ethic, which has made
him an invaluable asset to our office.
The quality of his work is reflected in
his great efforts over the last several
months.
I want to thank Jeremiah for the
dedication he has shown while working
for me and my staff. It is a pleasure to
have him as part of our team. I know
he will have continued success with all
of his future endeavors. I wish him all
my best on his journey.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO JULLIANE FRAZIER
∑ Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, on
Friday, December 31, 2019, Julliane
Frazier, a lifelong resident of Mary-
land, will retire from Amtrak after an
extraordinary 40 years of service.
Julie joined Amtrak in December
1980 when President Jimmy Carter was
just leaving the White House and Ron-
ald Reagan was about to be sworn in.
In May of the following year, Amtrak
celebrated its 10th anniversary. The
number of current Amtrak employees
with 40 or more years of service is
fewer than 20; the number of retirees is
not much more. Julie therefore joins a
small but elite group of Amtrak em-
ployees who have been the founders
and builders of America’s passenger
railroad.
Over the years, Julie has seen the
growth and maturity of an organiza-
tion whose existence was born of great
uncertainty. For most of her career,
she served as the senior executive as-
sistant for the Government Affairs De-
partment, serving and assisting the
vice presidents who guided and man-
aged Amtrak’s relations with the Fed-
eral Government and with Congress.
Amtrak’s CEOs, who worked in their
Union Station offices next door to gov-
ernment affairs, often relied on Julie
as well because she was quick to com-
plete assignments and was loyal to her
colleagues in pursuit of Amtrak’s im-
portant mission. While it would appear
at first blush that the vice president of
government affairs runs the office, it
was clear to anyone who spent time
there that Julie was really the one in
charge. She is the consummate profes-
sional.
Julie has said that while she will
miss the pace of work, she will miss
the people she worked with most of all.
Having spent 40 years in the organiza-
tion and having celebrated good times
while coping with hard times, Julie
formed many close and deep friend-
ships. She will be truly missed by all
who worked with her, but her service
will be appreciated for years to come.
I ask my colleagues to join me in
thanking Julliane Frazier for her serv-
ice and wishing her many happy and
healthy years in retirement with her
husband Phil and her sons Zack, Max,
and Austin.∑
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:03 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 4. An act to amend the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 to revise the criteria for deter-
mining which States and political subdivi-
sions are subject to section 4 of the Act, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2534. An act to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to prohibit certain se-
curities trading and related communications
by those who possess material, nonpublic in-
formation.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 4. An act to amend the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 to revise the criteria for deter-
mining which States and political subdivi-
sions are subject to section 4 of the Act, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
H.R. 2534. An act to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to prohibit certain se-
curities trading and related communications
by those who possess material, nonpublic in-
formation; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–3424. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Acquisition),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report of a
delay in submission of the quarterly excep-
tion Selected Acquisition Reports (SARs) for
the Army, Navy, and Air Force; to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations; and Armed Serv-
ices.
EC–3425. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Regulatory Capital Rule: Simplifications to
the Capital Rule Pursuant to the Economic
Growth and Regulatory Paperwork Reduc-
tion Act of 1996; Revised Effective Date’’
(RIN3064–AF18) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on December 4, 2019;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE6.005 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6903
December 9, 2019
EC–3426. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Regulatory Capital Rule: Capital Sim-
plification for Qualifying Community Bank-
ing Organizations’’ (RIN3064–AE91) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on December 4, 2019; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs .
EC–3427. A communication from the Direc-
tor of Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Re-
moval of Transferred OTS Regulations Re-
garding Deposits’’ (RIN3064–AF07) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
December 4, 2019; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–3428. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, Federal Transit Administra-
tion, Department of Transportation, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule
entitled ‘‘Transportation Infrastructure
Management’’ (RIN2132–AB37) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on De-
cember 2, 2019; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–3429. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; CY 2020 Inpatient Hos-
pital Deductible and Hospital and Extended
Care Services Coinsurance Amounts’’
(RIN0938–AT76) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on December 4, 2019;
to the Committee on Finance.
EC–3430. A communication from the Regu-
lations Coordinator, Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Medicare Program; CY 2020 Part A Pre-
miums for the Uninsured Aged and for Cer-
tain Disabled Individuals Who Have Ex-
hausted Other Entitlement’’ (RIN0938–AT77)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
EC–3431. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 23–174, ‘‘Sexual Assault Victims’
Rights Amendment Act of 2019’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–3432. A communication from the Gen-
eral Counsel and Acting Chief Executive and
Administrative Officer, Merit Systems Pro-
tection Board, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the Board’s Agency Financial Report for
fiscal year 2019; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–3433. A communication from the Acting
Administrator of the Small Business Admin-
istration, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Administration’s Semiannual Report from
the Office of the Inspector General for the
period from April 1, 2019 through September
30, 2019; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–3434. A communication from the Chair-
man, Federal Maritime Commission, trans-
mitting, pursuant to law, the Commission’s
Semiannual Report of the Inspector General
for the period from April 1, 2019 through Sep-
tember 30, 2019; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–3435. A communication from the Dep-
uty Secretary of Defense, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, the Department’s Semiannual
Report of the Inspector General for the pe-
riod from April 1, 2019 through September 30,
2019; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
EC–3436. A communication from the Acting
Chief of the Office of Regulatory Affairs, Bu-
reau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Ex-
plosives, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Rules of Practice in Explosives Li-
cense and Permit Proceedings (2007R–5P);
Revisions Reflecting Changes Consistent
With the Homeland Security Act of 2002’’
(RIN1140–AA40) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on December 4, 2019;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
EC–3437. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Transportation, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report entitled ‘‘The U.S. De-
partment of Transportation’s Status of Ac-
tions Addressing the Safety Issue Areas on
the National Transportation Safety Board’s
(NTSB) Most Wanted List’’; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3438. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of the Federal Trade Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Commis-
sion’s fifteenth annual report on ethanol
market concentration; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3439. A communication from the Dep-
uty Bureau Chief, Wireline Competition Bu-
reau, Federal Communications Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Bridging the Digital Divide
for Low-Income Consumers, Lifeline and
Link Up Reform and Modernization, Tele-
communications Carriers Eligible for Uni-
versal Service Support’’ ((FCC 19–111) (WC
Docket Nos. 17–287, 11–42, and 09–197)) re-
ceived during adjournment of the Senate in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
November 26, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3440. A communication from the Chief
of the Pricing Policy Division, Wireline
Competition Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Reform of
Certain Part 61 Tariff Rules’’ ((FCC 19–107)
(WC Docket Nos. 18–276, and 18–276)) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 26, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3441. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Federal Maritime Commission,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Licensing, Registration, Fi-
nancial Responsibility Requirements, and
General Duties for Ocean Transportation
Intermediaries’’ (RIN3072–AC73) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on No-
vember 26, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3442. A communication from the Asso-
ciate Managing Director, Office of Managing
Director, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Misuse of Internet
Protocol (IP) Captioned Telephone Service;
Telecommunications Relay Services and
Speech-to-Speech Services for Individuals
with Hearing and Speech Disabilities’’ ((FCC
19–83) (CG Docket No. 13–24, and 03–123)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 2, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3443. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Magnu-
son-Stevens Act Provisions; Fisheries Off
West Coast States; Pacific Coast Groundfish
Fishery; Trawl Logbook’’ (RIN0648–BI74) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on November 19, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3444. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; Reef Fish Fishery of the
Gulf of Mexico; Modifications to Individual
Fishing Quota Programs’’ (RIN0648–BG83) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3445. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Authorize Recreational Quota
Entity To Participate in the Halibut IFQ
Program’’ (RIN0648–BG57) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Decem-
ber 4, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3446. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder, Scup, Black Sea
Bass Fisheries; 2018 and Projected 2019 Scup
Specifications and Announcement of Final
2018 Summer Flounder and Black Sea Bass
Specifications; Correction’’ (RIN0648–XF669)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on December 4, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3447. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; 2019 Commercial Closure
for Atlantic Migratory Group Cobia’’
(RIN0648–XS011) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on December 4, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–3448. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Trawl Catcher
Vessels in the Central Regulatory Area of
the Gulf Alaska’’ (RIN0648–XY018) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on December 4, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3449. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Sablefish in the Central Regu-
latory Area of the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–
XG996) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on December 4, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr. ENZI,
and Ms. MCSALLY):
S. 2997. A bill to revise and extend health
workforce programs under title VII of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE6.013 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6904 December 9, 2019
Public Health Service Act; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BRAUN (for himself, Ms.
SINEMA, and Mr. ROBERTS):
S. 2998. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to clarify that payment of
taxes on deferred foreign income in install-
ments shall not prevent credit or refund of
overpayments or increase estimated taxes;
to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. MORAN, and Mrs. SHA-
HEEN):
S. 2999. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow individuals with
direct primary care service arrangements to
remain eligible individuals for purposes of
health savings accounts; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 3000. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to allow PDP sponsors of
prescription drug plans and Medicare Advan-
tage organizations offering MA–PD plans to
share with enrollees a portion of savings
from switching to lower cost therapeutic al-
ternative medications; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr.
CRAPO):
S. 3001. A bill to provide for certain exten-
sions with respect to the Medicare and Med-
icaid programs under titles XVIII and XIX of
the Social Security Act, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. CANTWELL:
S. 3002. A bill to amend the Trade Facilita-
tion and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 to
increase amounts transferred to the Trade
Enforcement Trust Fund and to require the
use of certain amounts in the fund to imple-
ment labor obligations in a free trade agree-
ment with Mexico, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Finance.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, and Ms. WARREN):
S. Res. 448. A resolution designating De-
cember 3, 2019, as ‘‘National Phenyl-
ketonuria Awareness Day’’; considered and
agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 117
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. REED) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 117, a bill to prohibit discrimination
against individuals with disabilities
who need long-term services and sup-
ports, and for other purposes.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from North
Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) and the Senator
from Hawaii (Mr. SCHATZ) were added
as cosponsors of S. 133, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to the United States merchant
mariners of World War II, in recogni-
tion of their dedicated and vital service
during World War II.
S. 160
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 160, a bill to amend title
18, United States Code, to protect pain-
capable unborn children, and for other
purposes.
S. 400
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
400, a bill to gather information about
the illicit production of illicit fentanyl
in foreign countries and to withhold bi-
lateral assistance from countries that
do not have emergency scheduling pro-
cedures for new illicit drugs, cannot
prosecute criminals for the manufac-
ture or distribution of controlled sub-
stance analogues, or do not require the
registration of tableting machine and
encapsulating machines.
S. 877
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
877, a bill to prohibit the sale of shark
fins, and for other purposes.
S. 944
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 944, a bill to enhance the
security operations of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration and
the stability of the transportation se-
curity workforce by applying a unified
personnel system under title 5, United
States Code, to employees of the
Transportation Security Administra-
tion who are responsible for screening
passengers and property, and for other
purposes.
S. 1032
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1032, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify the def-
inition of income for purposes of deter-
mining the tax-exempt status of cer-
tain corporations.
S. 1105
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. BENNET) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1105, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to establish
and maintain a registry for certain in-
dividuals who may have been exposed
to per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances
due to the environmental release of
aqueous film-forming foam on military
installations.
S. 1123
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1123, a bill to transfer and limit Execu-
tive Branch authority to suspend or re-
strict the entry of a class of aliens.
S. 1153
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1153, a bill to explicitly
make unauthorized access to Depart-
ment of Education information tech-
nology systems and the misuse of iden-
tification devices issued by the Depart-
ment of Education a criminal act.
S. 1174
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1174, a bill to provide that
12 weeks of leave made available to a
Federal employee shall be paid leave,
and for other purposes.
S. 1254
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1254, a bill to require the
Secretary of Transportation to review
and report on certain laws, safety
measures, and technologies relating to
the illegal passing of school buses, and
for other purposes.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. UDALL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1263, a bill to require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to estab-
lish an interagency task force on the
use of public lands to provide medical
treatment and therapy to veterans
through outdoor recreation.
S. 1352
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1352, a bill to establish a
Federal Advisory Council to Support
Victims of Gun Violence.
S. 1392
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1392, a bill to direct the
Comptroller General of the United
States to conduct an assessment of the
responsibilities, workload, and vacancy
rates of suicide prevention coordina-
tors of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, and for other purposes.
S. 1575
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1575, a bill to direct the Secretary of
State to make available to the Direc-
tor of the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention copies of consular re-
ports of death of United States citi-
zens, and for other purposes.
S. 1583
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1583, a bill to amend the Lead-Based
Paint Poisoning Prevention Act to pro-
vide for additional procedures for fami-
lies with children under the age of 6,
and for other purposes.
S. 1657
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1657, a bill to provide as-
sistance to combat the escalating bur-
den of Lyme disease and other tick and
vector-borne diseases and disorders.
S. 1764
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from New
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE6.015 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6905
December 9, 2019
Mexico (Mr. UDALL) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1764, a bill to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to require
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion to ensure just and reasonable
charges for telephone and advanced
communications services in the correc-
tional and detention facilities.
S. 1820
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) and the Sen-
ator from Rhode Island (Mr. REED)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1820, a
bill to improve the integrity and safety
of horseracing by requiring a uniform
anti-doping and medication control
program to be developed and enforced
by an independent Horseracing Anti-
Doping and Medication Control Au-
thority.
S. 1830
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1830, a bill to enhance the security of
the United States and its allies, and for
other purposes.
S. 1831
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1831, a bill to amend chap-
ter 44 of title 18, United States Code, to
prohibit the distribution of 3D printer
plans for the printing of firearms, and
for other purposes.
S. 1908
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1908, a bill to amend the
Richard B. Russell National School
Lunch Act to improve the efficiency of
summer meals.
S. 2022
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2022, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for improve-
ments to the specially adapted housing
program of the Department of Veterans
Affairs, and for other purposes.
S. 2282
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2282, a bill to amend the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance
Act to enable Indian Tribes and trib-
ally designated housing entities to
apply for, receive, and administer
grants and subgrants under the Con-
tinuum of Care Program of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
S. 2289
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the names of the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Sen-
ator from Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2289, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to provide for an extension
of the energy credit and the credit for
residential energy efficient property.
S. 2417
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2417, a bill to provide for
payment of proceeds from savings
bonds to a State with title to such
bonds pursuant to the judgment of a
court.
S. 2461
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2461, a bill to designate a portion
of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge
as wilderness.
S. 2529
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2529, a bill to amend the
Commodity Exchange Act and the Se-
curities Exchange Act of 1934 to modify
provisions relating to whistleblower in-
centives and protection, and for other
purposes.
S. 2547
At the request of Mr. ROMNEY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2547, a bill to state the policy of
the United States with respect to the
expansion of cooperation with allies
and partners in the Indo-Pacific region
and Europe regarding the People’s Re-
public of China.
S. 2741
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) and the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2741, a bill to amend
title XVIII of the Social Security Act
to expand access to telehealth services,
and for other purposes.
S. 2754
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. COTTON) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2754, a bill to
create jobs and drive innovation and
economic growth in the United States
by supporting and promoting the man-
ufacture of next-generation tech-
nologies, including refrigerants, sol-
vents, fire suppressants, foam blowing
agents, aerosols, and propellants.
S. 2765
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr.
LANKFORD) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2765, a bill to improve Federal fiscal
controls and the congressional budget
process.
S. 2766
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from West
Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2766, a bill to support
and expand civic engagement and polit-
ical leadership of adolescent girls
around the world, and other purposes.
S. 2777
At the request of Mr. GRASSLEY, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) and the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2777, a bill to
assist States, tribes, territories, coun-
ties, and cities in implementing the
Family First Prevention Services Act,
and for other purposes.
S. 2794
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2794, a bill to provide for
the creation of the Missing Armed
Forces Personnel Records Collection at
the National Archives, to require the
expeditious public transmission to the
Archivist and public disclosure of Miss-
ing Armed Forces Personnel records,
and for other purposes.
S. 2809
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Min-
nesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2809, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to im-
pose a surtax on high income individ-
uals.
S. 2827
At the request of Mr. BROWN, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2827, a bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish within the
National Park Service the U.S. Afri-
can-American Burial Grounds Net-
work, and for other purposes.
S. 2836
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2836, a bill to prohibit the Sec-
retary of Health and Human Services
from taking any action to implement,
enforce, or otherwise give effect to the
final rule, entitled ‘‘Protecting Statu-
tory Conscience Rights in Health Care;
Delegations of Authority’’.
S. 2855
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from
North Dakota (Mr. HOEVEN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2855, a bill to re-
quire the Secretary to conduct a study
and issue a report on the affordability
of insulin.
S. 2898
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mrs. HYDE-SMITH), the Senator
from New Mexico (Mr. UDALL), the Sen-
ator from Montana (Mr. TESTER), the
Senator from Montana (Mr. DAINES),
the Senator from Louisiana (Mr. CAS-
SIDY), the Senator from New York (Mr.
SCHUMER), the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 2898, a bill to amend
title 5, United States Code, to provide
for a full annuity supplement for cer-
tain air traffic controllers.
S. 2960
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE6.017 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6906 December 9, 2019
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2960, a bill to require individuals fish-
ing for Gulf reef fish to use certain de-
scending devices, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2974
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2974, a bill to require the
Postmaster General to establish a com-
prehensive organizational strategy to
combat the use of the mail in the dis-
tribution of illicit drugs.
S. CON. RES. 21
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Con. Res. 21, a concurrent resolution
strongly condemning human rights vio-
lations, violence against civilians, and
cooperation with Iran by the Houthi
movement and its allies in Yemen.
S. CON. RES. 23
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
names of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) and the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. Con. Res. 23, a concur-
rent resolution honoring the 75th Anni-
versary of the Battle of the Bulge
fought during World War II, recog-
nizing the valiant efforts of the Allied
Forces in December 1944, and remem-
bering those who made the ultimate
sacrifice, all of which contributed to
the Allied victory in the European The-
ater.
S. RES. 142
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 142, a resolution condemning
the Government of the Philippines for
its continued detention of Senator
Leila De Lima, calling for her imme-
diate release, and for other purposes.
S. RES. 260
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 260, a resolution recognizing the
importance of sustained United States
leadership to accelerating global
progress against maternal and child
malnutrition and supporting the com-
mitment of the United States Agency
for International Development to glob-
al nutrition through the Multi-Sec-
toral Nutrition Strategy.
S. RES. 371
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 371, a resolution reaffirming
the support of the United States for
the people of the Republic of South
Sudan and calling on all parties to up-
hold their commitments to peace and
dialogue as outlined in the 2018 revital-
ized peace agreement.
S. RES. 375
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 375, a resolution recognizing
the 75th anniversary of the Warsaw
Uprising.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. REED (for himself, Mr.
ENZI, and Ms. MCSALLY):
S. 2997. A bill to revise and extend
health workforce programs under title
VII of the Public Health Service Act;
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. REED. Mr. President, I am
pleased to be introducing the Title VII
Health Care Workforce Act of 2019 with
Senator ENZI. This critical legislation
would reauthorize funding for the Title
VII health professions programs to help
strengthen the distribution, quality,
and diversity of the health professions
workforce so it is better prepared to
meet the Nation’s evolving and emerg-
ing health care needs.
The Title VII health professions pro-
grams have a longstanding history of
increasing the supply of primary care
professionals, expanding access to care
in rural and urban underserved areas,
and developing a workforce that re-
flects the nation’s diversity and the
needs of patients. At a time when the
Country is facing health provider
shortages, it is critical that we con-
tinue to support the programs that ad-
vance our health care workforce, such
as: scholarships for disadvantaged stu-
dents, public health and preventive
medicine, geriatrics training, area
health education centers, oral health
training, and primary care medicine.
These education and training pro-
grams guide current and aspiring
health professionals to high-demand
careers in areas of greatest need, and
this legislation will take an important
step in ensuring that these programs
can continue to serve students and pa-
tients for years to come. I look forward
to working with stakeholders sup-
porting these efforts, including the
American Association of Medical Col-
leges, as well as my colleague, Senator
ENZI, to pass the Title VII Health Care
Workforce Act of 2019, in addition to
the bipartisan Investment in Tomor-
row’s Pediatric Health Care Workforce
Act I introduced with Senator CASSIDY,
as these bills proceed though the legis-
lative process.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 448—DESIG-
NATING DECEMBER 3, 2019, AS
‘‘NATIONAL PHENYLKETONURIA
AWARENESS DAY’’
Mr. ISAKSON (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, and Ms. WARREN) submitted the
following resolution; which was consid-
ered and agreed to:
S. RES. 448
Whereas phenylketonuria (in this preamble
referred to as ‘‘PKU’’) is a rare, inherited
metabolic disorder that is characterized by
the inability of the body to process the es-
sential amino acid phenylalanine, and which
causes intellectual disability and other neu-
rological problems, such as memory loss and
mood disorders, when treatment is not start-
ed within the first few weeks of life;
Whereas PKU is also referred to as
Phenylalanine Hydroxylase Deficiency;
Whereas newborn screening for PKU was
initiated in the United States in 1963 and was
recommended for inclusion in State newborn
screening programs under the Newborn
Screening Saves Lives Act of 2007 (Public
Law 110–204);
Whereas approximately 1 out of every
15,000 infants in the United States is born
with PKU;
Whereas PKU is treated with medical
foods;
Whereas the 2012 Phenylketonuria Sci-
entific Review Conference affirmed the rec-
ommendation of lifelong dietary treatment
for PKU made by the National Institutes of
Health Consensus Development Conference
Statement in 2000;
Whereas, in 2014, the American College of
Medical Genetics and Genomics and Genetic
Metabolic Dieticians International published
medical and dietary guidelines on the opti-
mal treatment of PKU;
Whereas medical foods are medically nec-
essary for children and adults living with
PKU;
Whereas adults with PKU who discontinue
treatment are at risk for serious medical
issues, such as depression, impulse control
disorder, phobias, tremors, and pareses;
Whereas women with PKU must maintain
strict metabolic control before and during
pregnancy to prevent fetal damage;
Whereas children born from untreated
mothers with PKU may have a condition
known as ‘‘maternal phenylketonuria syn-
drome’’, which can cause small brains, intel-
lectual disabilities, birth defects of the
heart, and low birth weights;
Whereas, although there is no cure for
PKU, treatment involving medical foods,
medications, and restriction of
phenylalanine intake can prevent progres-
sive, irreversible brain damage;
Whereas access to health insurance cov-
erage for medical foods varies across the
United States and the long-term costs asso-
ciated with caring for untreated children and
adults with PKU far exceed the cost of pro-
viding medical foods treatment;
Whereas access to medical foods can pre-
vent detrimental effects on individuals with
PKU, their families, and society;
Whereas scientists and researchers are
hopeful that breakthroughs in PKU research
will be forthcoming;
Whereas researchers across the United
States are conducting important projects in-
volving PKU; and
Whereas the Senate is an institution that
can raise awareness of PKU among the gen-
eral public and the medical community:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates December 3, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Phenylketonuria Awareness Day’’;
(2) encourages all people in the United
States to become more informed about
phenylketonuria and the role of medical
foods in treating phenylketonuria; and
(3) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of
this resolution to the National PKU Alli-
ance, a nonprofit organization dedicated to
improving the lives of individuals with
phenylketonuria.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE6.019 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6907
December 9, 2019
NATIONAL PHENYLKETONURIA
AWARENESS DAY
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of S. Res.
448, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 448) designating De-
cember 3, 2019, as ‘‘National Phenyl-
ketonuria Awareness Day’’.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. TILLIS. I ask unanimous consent
that the resolution be agreed to, the
preamble be agreed to, and the motions
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 448) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 10, 2019
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Tuesday, December
10; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Bumatay nomination
under the previous order; finally, that
the Senate recess from 12:30 p.m. until
2:15 p.m. to allow for the conference
meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, if there is
no further business to come before the
Senate, I ask unanimous consent that
it stand adjourned under the previous
order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:34 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
December 10, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
JAMES E. MCPHERSON, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNDER
SECRETARY OF THE ARMY, VICE RYAN MCCARTHY, RE-
SIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FINCH FULTON, OF ALABAMA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION, VICE CARLOS A.
MONJE, JR.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
J. BRETT BLANTON, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ARCHITECT OF
THE CAPITOL FOR THE TERM OF TEN YEARS, VICE STE-
PHEN T. AYERS.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G09DE6.012 S09DEPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1557
December 9, 2019
CHUCK CAHN
HON. DONALD NORCROSS
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. NORCROSS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the retirement of Cherry
Hill Township Mayor Chuck Cahn, and to
honor and commend his service and dedica-
tion to the residents of the community.
The Honorable Chuck Cahn has served as
Cherry Hill’s Mayor since January 2, 2012.
During his tenure as Mayor of Cherry Hill
Township, the town and residents have experi-
enced economic success, reduced long-term
debts, and renewed use of underutilized prop-
erties allowing many new businesses to join
the community.
Raised in the Haddontowne section of the
town, Mayor Cahn is a life-long Cherry Hill
Township native and growing up he attended
the local public schools. After high school, the
Mayor went on to earn a dual degree in Eco-
nomics and Business from Rutgers College.
Following graduation, he became President
and CEO of his family’s business, Stewart
Business Systems and expanded the business
from a small office equipment company into a
successful technology company, employing
more than 250 people in eight offices in three
states.
On January 2, 2012, Chuck Cahn became
Mayor of Cherry Hill Township, New Jersey.
During his term, Mayor Cahn fought for a fis-
cally responsible and transparent government.
He implemented policies to help attract hun-
dreds of new businesses to Cherry Hill and
established a Business Council to serve as a
forum for local business leaders to voice their
ideas and solutions to local issues. Mayor
Cahn also focused on preserving a family
friendly, close-knit community by making a
Citizens Cabinet, allowing government to be
more accessible for everyone.
Throughout his career, Mayor Cahn served
on countless business, community service and
charitable leadership boards and for his
boundless dedication to serve his community,
he has received many achievement awards.
He and his wife, Stephanie, have been mar-
ried for almost forty years and are the proud
parents of three children; David (Remy), Mat-
thew and Elizabeth. He is also the proud
grandfather of Jamie and Asher.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
honoring Mayor Chuck Cahn, of Cherry Hill,
New Jersey, a dedicated public servant who,
for the eight years and over the course of his
life, has fought tirelessly for the prosperity of
the residents of Cherry Hill, New Jersey.
CELEBRATING OPERATION
REFUGE’S 11TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Operation Refuge, an outstanding
charitable organization in Inkster, Michigan.
Operation Refuge was officially founded in
2008, but the seeds of the organization were
planted eight years before. In 2000, Mother’s
Pantry began operating out of Christ Temple
City of Refuge Church and grew out of Mother
Greenwood’s vision to serve vulnerable com-
munities. There was an increased need for
food assistance after the nearby GM plant
closed down. People were suddenly out of
work and struggling to meet basic needs. As
a pantry without borders and Inkster’s only cli-
ent-choice food pantry, Mother’s Pantry con-
tinues to fulfill the emergency food needs of
communities under Operation Refuge’s um-
brella.
Staff and volunteers identified another perti-
nent community need and began tutoring
youth. In 2008, Gap Dwellers after school tu-
toring evolved into Camp Inspire to address a
lack of opportunity for girls of color in Science,
Technology, Engineering, Arts and Math
(STEAM) fields. Camp Inspire began as a
summer program for girls that helps them rec-
ognize their potential through life-changing ex-
periences and exposure to STEAM projects.
Camp Inspire is one of Operation Refuge’s
most successful programs, drawing in more
participants each year. In addition to its Lead-
ers in Training (LIT) program which helps
teens develop the skills they already have in-
side, Operation Refuge is making a huge im-
pact among the young people of Inkster and
Wayne County.
Please join me in salute to Operation Ref-
uge, its volunteers, and staff on more than a
decade of service.
f
HONORING MS. DELANEY DESKIN
HON. KEN BUCK
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. BUCK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Delaney Deskin of Longmont, Colo-
rado. Delaney was one of only 550 under-
graduate or graduate students in the United
States to be awarded the Department of
State’s Critical Language Scholarship for
2019. As part of this prestigious honor she
traveled to Jaipur, India during the summer of
2019 to study Hindi.
The intensive study of foreign languages is
one of the most important ways to prepare our
young people for the globalized 21st century
economy. The scholarship program increases
America’s engagement with the world and in-
creases national competitiveness while shar-
ing American values and culture abroad. Many
program alumni go on to distinguished careers
in public service using the skills they gained
through the scholarship program.
I commend Delaney for her commitment to
serving as an exemplary citizen ambassador
for the United States. Her selection for this in-
credible honor is a testament to years of hard
work and determination. Madam Speaker, it is
an honor to recognize Delaney Deskin for her
many accomplishments, including being
awarded the Critical Language Scholarship.
f
HONORING THE 90TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE DAUGHTERS OF
PENELOPE
HON. JOHN P. SARBANES
OF MARYLAND
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. SARBANES. Madam Speaker, I am
pleased today to congratulate the Daughters
of Penelope on the 90th anniversary of its
founding and commend the organization for its
commitment to public service and civic en-
gagement.
Since its founding in 1929, the Daughters of
Penelope has been a preeminent organization
of women of Hellenic descent and
Philhellenes. The Daughters of Penelope
works to improve the status and well-being of
women and their families and to provide
women the opportunity to make significant
contributions to their communities.
By providing financial support and assist-
ance to victims of natural disasters, donating
children’s books to libraries and schools and
contributing to the preservation of our national
landmarks, the Daughters of Penelope has
truly made a lasting impact on American soci-
ety.
The Daughters of Penelope instills in all its
members the spirit of philotimo, a belief in
civic duty and volunteerism. I am proud to
honor the Daughters today, and I believe that
this organization will remain a pillar in commu-
nities across the country for years to come.
I congratulate the Daughters of Penelope for
all its accomplishments, and I thank the orga-
nization for its commitment to public service.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE LOCAL
TASK FORCES ON 21ST CENTURY
POLICING ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Local Task Forces on 21st Cen-
tury Policing Act, which would assist localities
in carrying out the recommendations of the
federal Task Force on 21st Century Policing
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K09DE8.001 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1558 December 9, 2019
and the Department of Justice’s Office of
Community Oriented Policing Services, both of
which have detailed the need to strengthen re-
lations between local communities and local
law enforcement. The bill would provide grants
to local governments to create local task
forces on 21st century policing to bring police,
representatives of the community and public
officials together to identify best policing prac-
tices for local police and other ways to
strengthen relations between the community
and police departments. No new funds are
needed. Existing funds from the Department of
Justice would support local governments es-
tablishing the task forces by listing these task
forces as an acceptable use of Byrne Justice
Assistance Grants. Given the continuing con-
troversy surrounding police shootings of un-
armed African American men, with no solu-
tions in sight, this bill is more timely every day.
The task forces, modeled after the federal
Task Force on 21st Century Policing, would
allow local communities to identify the best
ways to create an effective partnership be-
tween local law enforcement and the commu-
nities they serve, while reducing crime, in-
creasing trust and combating racial profiling.
The task forces could create a partnership to
implement practical policing practices accept-
able to all concerned.
The creation of task forces could be an im-
portant step toward easing the tensions be-
tween local law enforcement and many com-
munities. In addition, the task forces could
serve to engage local law enforcement and
local stakeholders in a transparent public
problem-solving process instead of the current
situation that encourages parties to choose
sides.
f
THANKING DAVID LAURITZEN FOR
HIS EFFORT TO HELP OTHERS
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the wonderful work by David
Lauritzen, an eight-year-old boy from Katy,
TX. He’s on a mission to bring joy to children
battling cancer.
David is a cancer survivor, who received
treatment at various hospitals over the course
of his life. That experience means he under-
stands the pain that children fighting this dis-
ease go through. So, when his mother asked
him how he wanted to commemorate Child-
hood Cancer Awareness Month a couple of
years ago, he said that he wanted to make
them smile.
Starting by collecting coins in a jar, David
and his parents began the nonprofit David’s
Toy Project, Inc. to do just that. They have
made it their mission to buy toys for kids un-
dergoing cancer treatment and just last year
raised almost $12,000.
The light of goodness radiates through
David and his family, and the smiles he brings
to the faces of children shine just as bright.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, we thank David for his
courage and caring spirit that warms the
hearts of others.
UYGHUR HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY
ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I include in the
RECORD an exchange of letters between me
and the Chair of the Committee on Intelligence
on S. 178, the Uyghur Human Rights Policy
Act of 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, December 2, 2019.
Hon. ADAM B. SCHIFF,
House Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SCHIFF: I am writing to
you concerning S. 178, the Uyghur Human
Rights Policy Act of 2019. I appreciate your
willingness to work cooperatively on this
legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the House Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence
under House Rule X, and that your Com-
mittee will forgo action on S. 178 to expedite
floor consideration. I further acknowledge
that the inaction of your Committee with re-
spect to the bill does not waive any future
jurisdictional claim over the matters con-
tained in the bill that fall within your juris-
diction. I will also support the appointment
of House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence conferees during any House-Sen-
ate conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, PER-
MANENT SELECT COMMITTEE ON IN-
TELLIGENCE,
Washington, DC, December 6, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: I write in reply to
your letter of December 2, 2019, regarding S.
178—legislation referred in the House as the
Uyghur Human Rights Policy Act, and
passed on the House floor as amended as the
Uighur Intervention and Global Humani-
tarian Unified Response Act of 2019.
Provisions of S. 178 fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the House Permanent Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence (‘‘Committee’’), as set
forth by House Rule X.
Nevertheless, the Committee worked with
the Committee on Foreign Affairs to ensure
the legislation’s expeditious consideration
on the House floor—but without waiving any
potential jurisdictional claims as to subjects
addressed by S. 178.
I am grateful for our continuing work to-
gether, on this and other important meas-
ures regarding human rights and other mat-
ters. I very much look forward to S. 178’s
swift enactment into law.
Sincerely,
ADAM B. SCHIFF,
Chairman.
HONORING MAYOR PRO-TEM
ROGER HAAS FOR 22 YEARS OF
SERVICE TO THE CITY OF
KANNAPOLIS
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mayor Pro-Tem Roger Haas for 22
years of public service to the City of
Kannapolis, located in North Carolina’s Eighth
Congressional District.
Over the years, Roger has played an instru-
mental role in shaping the history of
Kannapolis. He was first elected to the
Kannapolis City Council in 1997 and retires
today as Mayor Pro-Tem. Admired by his col-
leagues, Roger has twice been appointed as
Mayor Pro-Tem due to his innovative vision for
our community.
Roger has led a career of distinction and is
an effective, prolific leader. He has served on
the boards of the Kannapolis Rotary Club,
American Red Cross, Kannapolis Chamber of
Commerce, United Way, Concord-Kannapolis
Transit Authority; and as the Cabarrus County
Tourism Authority Chair, Partners for Progress
Chair, and Cabarrus County Planning & Zon-
ing Commission Chair.
During his tenure with the Kannapolis City
Council, Roger worked tirelessly to construct
the Kannapolis Train Station, North Carolina
Research Campus, Albemarle waterline, and
Kannapolis City Hall & Police Headquarters.
More recently, he has been a key figure in the
redevelopment of downtown Kannapolis and
due to his leadership, the Kannapolis Cannon
Ballers Sports & Entertainment Venue will
open next year.
An extraordinary public servant, Roger has
guided Kannapolis through a period of
unpredicted growth. I know I speak for every-
one in our community when I say we are truly
grateful for his unwavering service and cannot
thank him enough. I would like to offer my sin-
cerest appreciation and wish him success in
his future endeavors.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring Mayor Pro-Tem Roger Haas for his
22 years of public service to our community.
f
JACK LEE BRINGS AMERICA INTO
THE INTERNATIONAL ASTRON-
OMY OLYMPIAD
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to commend Seven Lakes High School sopho-
more Jack Lee for helping organize the United
States’ first team to the International Astron-
omy Olympiad.
Jack went above and beyond to be able to
take part in the Olympiad. When he learned
that the United States did not have a team to
field for the competition, Jack took the bull by
the horns and contacted Rice University to or-
ganize one. His goal was to start a trend so
that future teams would represent the United
States in the Olympiads for years to come.
With incredible determination and drive,
Jack—with help from team leader and Rice
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09DE8.001 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1559
December 9, 2019
University professor Patricia Reiff and team
coach Franklyn Pacheco—fielded a team to
compete in this year’s International Astronomy
Olympiad in Piatra Neamt, Romania.
Jack’s tenacity and dedication to making his
goals a reality show his incredible character
and spirit. On behalf of the Twenty-Second
Congressional District of Texas, he makes our
Katy community very proud.
f
HONORING TURLOCK IRRIGATION
DISTRICT MANAGER CASEY
HASHIMOTO
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor outgoing Turlock Irrigation District (TID)
Manager Casey Hashimoto. In his three dec-
ades with the district, Mr. Hashimoto has been
a consummate professional whose dedication
and determination has positively benefited the
people and businesses served by TID.
Since beginning his tenure as General Man-
ager in 2010, Mr. Hashimoto has been instru-
mental in keeping electricity rates some of the
lowest in California while also improving the
reliability of TID’s water and electrical sys-
tems. During his time with as General Man-
ager, Mr. Hashimoto has overseen efforts
such as design and construction the Hughson-
Grayson high voltage transmission line and
TID’s new state-of-the-art Power Control Cen-
ter, both of which have helped TID improve
their energy efficiency and adapt to the de-
mands of the changing Western energy mar-
kets.
Most notably, Mr. Hashimoto has worked
tirelessly on the Don Pedro Hydroelectric
Project, having led efforts on the complex and
complicated relicensing of the 203-megawatt
Don Pedro dam, reservoir, and powerhouse.
Mr. Hashimoto and his team oversaw a multi-
million-dollar extension and upgrade to the
Don Pedro Project while continuing to work
with numerous stakeholders, federal agencies,
tribes, scientists, and recreational outfitters to
ensure this project remained a vital resource
of the San Joaquin Valley for generations to
come.
In addition to his work for TID, Mr.
Hashimoto has been active in many influential
utility industry organizations, including the
California Municipal Utilities Association, the
Norwest Power Pool, the Association of Cali-
fornia Water Agencies, and the American Pub-
lic Power Association. It is evident that his ac-
complishments and industry expertise will con-
tinue to make positive impacts in our Valley
and the water and power industry long after
Mr. Hashimoto’s retirements.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in honoring a man whose profes-
sionalism and determination has benefited
many of the water and power users of Califor-
nia’s San Joaquin Valley. It is both fitting and
appropriate that we honor Casey Hashimoto
as he retires from his role as General Man-
ager of Turlock Irrigation District. I wish Casey
and his family the best as he embarks on this
new phase of life.
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
REGARDING UNITED STATES EF-
FORTS TO RESOLVE THE
ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICT
THROUGH A NEGOTIATED TWO-
STATE SOLUTION
SPEECH OF
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Friday, December 6, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, I will vote in
support of H. Res. 326, a non-binding resolu-
tion reiterating the U.S. House of Representa-
tives’ support for long-standing U.S. policy to
resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict through
a negotiated two-state solution.
I have consistently supported a two-state
solution throughout my time in Congress.
While there is no perfect solution to this com-
plex and heated conflict, I believe a negotiated
two-state solution between Israeli and Pales-
tinian leaders is a viable framework to achieve
security, peace, and address the legitimate
needs of both peoples.
Furthermore, I am pleased that H. Res. 326
condemns actions by the Trump administration
and the Israeli government under Prime Min-
ister Benjamin Netanyahu which have severely
undermined the possibility of a two-state solu-
tion.
For example, H. Res. 326 puts the House of
Representatives on the record as opposing
unilateral annexation of territory. This is an im-
portant rebuke of Israeli Prime Minister Ben-
jamin Netanyahu’s disturbing announcement
that he plans to annex large swathes of the
occupied Palestinian territories, a move that I
strongly oppose.
Additionally, I am opposed to President
Trump’s decision to discontinue bilateral as-
sistance to the Palestinians and U.S. contribu-
tions to the United Nations Relief and Works
Agency (UNRWA). That’s why I am pleased
H. Res. 326 states that ‘‘it is in the United
States’ interest to continue promoting the se-
curity, stability, and humanitarian well-being of
Palestinians and their neighbors by resuming
the provision of foreign assistance pursuant to
United States law.’’
I am also pleased this resolution opposes
the Trump administration’s continued
greenlighting of Israeli settlement expansion in
the West Bank. This declaration is especially
timely given the Trump administration’s recent
outrageous reversal of the decades-long U.S.
position that Israeli settlements in the occu-
pied Palestinian territories are against inter-
national law. I also joined my colleagues in
signing a letter condemning President Trump’s
reversal.
However, while I support this resolution, I
believe it should have gone further to address
additional actions by the Trump administration
and the Netanyahu government which have
severely undermined a two-state solution.
For example, H. Res. 326 fails to condemn
the Trump administration’s decision to recog-
nize the city of Jerusalem as the Israeli capital
and to relocate the U.S. Embassy to Jeru-
salem, and it fails to denounce the Netanyahu
government’s continued human rights abuses,
including demolition of Palestinian homes and
villages, military detention of Palestinian chil-
dren, and more. Protecting human rights, re-
gardless of any ongoing tension between
Israelis and Palestinians, should be a funda-
mental American value.
Additionally, the original text of H. Res.
326—which I cosponsored—included a call for
an ‘‘end to the occupation’’ of Palestinian terri-
tory. Unfortunately, this language was re-
moved from the final version brought to the
floor.
As an ally of Israel, the United States in-
vests more than $3 billion in aid to Israel an-
nually, and H. Res. 326 reiterates U.S. sup-
port for this aid. Accordingly, I believe it is only
appropriate that lawmakers voice their legiti-
mate concerns with Israeli policies in a con-
structive way, as I have done throughout my
time in Congress and will continue to do.
Unfortunately, recent rhetoric over U.S.-
Israeli relations and the Israeli-Palestinian con-
flict has devolved into a divisive—and even
partisan—war of words. It is only through
thoughtful, respectful, nuanced debate that
Congress can productively contribute towards
resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and
addressing the legitimate needs of both peo-
ples. The bottom line is it is critical that the
U.S. pursue policies that will move Israelis and
Palestinians towards a negotiated, two-state
solution, and I will continue to push the Trump
administration and Congress to do so.
f
HONORING MS. KIMMI LEWIS
HON. KEN BUCK
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. BUCK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor and celebrate the life and legacy of Col-
orado State Representative Kimmi Lewis of
Las Animas, Colorado.
Kimmi was proud to serve her community in
the Colorado House of Representatives, hav-
ing represented the 64th district from 2016
until her passing on December 6, 2019. In this
role, Kimmi was a champion for Colorado’s
farmers and ranchers, advocating for their
needs and priorities as a member of the Agri-
culture, Livestock, and Natural Resources
Committee. She will be remembered as a
treasured member of the community who
worked tirelessly to improve the lives of Colo-
radans.
Beyond her service in the state legislature,
Kimmi served as the President of the Trinidad/
Las Animas County Republican Women’s Club
for the past thirty years. In 2007, she received
the La Junta Chamber of Commerce Agricul-
tural Award for her efforts to prevent the ex-
pansion of the Pinon Canyon Maneuver Site,
and in 2009, she received the Southern Colo-
rado Livestock Association Cattlewoman of the
Year award in honor of her ‘‘dedication and
lifetime commitment to our industry, commu-
nity and our country.’’
Madam Speaker, I would like to honor Rep.
Kimmi Lewis for all her contributions in service
of Eastern Colorado and recognize the pro-
found legacy that she leaves behind. It is an
honor to celebrate her impact on our commu-
nity and state.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE8.005 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1560 December 9, 2019
KATY AMERICAN LEGION POST 164
REMEMBERS OUR FALLEN WAR-
RIORS
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize American Legion Post 164 in
Katy, Texas for their efforts to honor our fallen
service members this holiday season.
As Americans, we know that some of our
military service members make the ultimate
sacrifice to protect and preserve our way of
life. The Wreaths Across America program is
a solemn way to honor and remember our fall-
en heroes by distributing a token of our appre-
ciation and remembrance at this time of year.
American Legion Post 164 worked incredibly
hard gathering sponsors to fund their goal of
placing 450 wreaths this year. They surpassed
this goal in their gracious efforts to remember
our fallen warriors, securing enough sponsors
to fund over 500 wreaths for the Magnolia
Cemetery.
On behalf of the Twenty-Second Congres-
sional District of Texas, I thank Post 164 for
their valiant work to ensure our fallen service
members are never forgotten during the holi-
days and throughout the year.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ADAM KINZINGER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. KINZINGER. Madam Speaker, I was not
present to cast votes on Friday, December 6.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 652, YEA on Roll Call
No. 653, and NAY on Roll Call No. 654.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE STILLWATER,
MINNESOTA ROTARY CLUB
HON. BETTY McCOLLUM
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the centennial anniversary of
the Stillwater, Minnesota Rotary Club. Since
its founding in 1919, Stillwater Rotary Club
has actively advanced the mission of Rotary
International by providing service to others,
promoting integrity, and fostering world under-
standing, goodwill, and peace through fellow-
ship of business, professional, and community
leaders.
Stillwater Rotary Club was begun just 14
years after Rotary International was founded
by Chicago attorney Paul Harris in 1905.
Community leaders in Stillwater shared a de-
sire to serve their community in fellowship with
one another, and so joined together to begin
the Stillwater Rotary Club. At the time, most
Rotary Clubs were located in larger cities, but
following World War I, as smaller communities
like Stillwater returned to normal, they sought
to refocus to improve their communities.
Stillwater’s club charter was sponsored by the
St. Paul and Minneapolis clubs, and was for-
mally presented to the Stillwater club on Sep-
tember 26, 1919. Today the club has over 60
members from diverse personal and profes-
sional backgrounds and are a part of the larg-
er community of 1.2 million Rotarians world-
wide.
Throughout their 100 years, the Stillwater
Rotary Club has become a prominent commu-
nity organization as it has chartered new clubs
in the area, supported numerous local and
international charities, and completed many
community service projects. From its earliest
years, the club made great contributions to the
community, demonstrating the Rotary motto of
‘‘Service Above Self’’. The Stillwater Club
sponsored the creation of a bathhouse at Lily
Lake Beach, a barge terminal in Stillwater, a
tourist camp on the Saint Croix River, and a
Scout cabin on Big Marine Lake. In 1927 their
seven-year project of lighting Main Street in
Stillwater came to fruition; a major accomplish-
ment for the club. They also sponsored the
founding of the Washington County Historical
Society in 1934, a non-profit educational insti-
tution that remains active today with the mis-
sion to collect, preserve, and disseminate the
vibrant history of Washington County and the
greater State of Minnesota.
Today, Kathleen Elbert leads the Stillwater
Rotary Club and the organization continues to
be a leader in service. Their annual Taste of
the Valley event raises funds for non-profit or-
ganizations like the American Cancer Society
and the Boy Scouts of America, as well as
local groups including Stillwater Area High
School and the St. Croix Valley Learning Cen-
ter. The club also takes on international serv-
ice endeavors through their sponsorship of a
hospital in Tanzania, construction of roads in
Guatemala, and support of Rotary Inter-
national’s efforts to eradicate polio worldwide
among other initiatives.
Rotarians worldwide utilize an ethical guide
called the Four-Way Test which asks the fol-
lowing questions: Is it the truth? Is it fair to all
concerned? Will it build goodwill and better
friendships? Will it be beneficial to all con-
cerned? These questions are especially pre-
scient today. Stillwater Rotarians have served
their community for a century in agreement
with these principles, setting an example for
all of us to remember to be truthful, to be fair,
to build goodwill and grow in our friendships,
and to live our lives in service for others.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing the members of the Stillwater Rotary
Club on its 100 years of serving the commu-
nity.
f
CITIZENSHIP FOR CHILDREN OF
MILITARY MEMBERS AND CIVIL
SERVANTS ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 4803, the Citizenship
for Children of Military Members and Civil
Servants Act.
I applaud Judiciary Chairman JERROLD NAD-
LER (D–NY) and House Judiciary Ranking
Member DOUG COLLINS (R–GA) for introducing
this bipartisan legislation aimed to fix a prob-
lem in current citizenship laws.
The current citizenship law implemented by
this Administration in October, serves as a dis-
advantage to certain children who are born
abroad and reside with a parent serving over-
seas in the military or as a federal government
employee.
Under current law, such children are re-
quired to establish U.S. residency in order to
obtain citizenship, which can be difficult when
a parent is stationed overseas.
This small but important change is the nec-
essary fix for U.S. armed forces and in federal
government positions overseas.
I am glad we could work together to intro-
duce this bipartisan legislation that provides
greater flexibility and support to those who
have dedicated their careers to serving our
nation.
American citizens who are deployed mem-
bers of our military or government officials
working abroad should have confidence their
children will receive U.S. citizenship.
Military families are already making tremen-
dous sacrifices to serve our country abroad
and the children should not have to be penal-
ized.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting H.R. 4803 because our military fami-
lies should not have to deal with the bureauc-
racy of this Administration for their children to
be United States citizens.
f
RECOGNIZING THE HEROISM OF
CANYON GATE VOLUNTEER
FIREFIGHTERS
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Community Volunteer Fire
Department in Canyon Gate for their heroic
actions saving the lives of three pets from a
burning home.
For many, pets can be a part of our families
nearly as much as our brothers, sisters, moth-
ers and fathers are. Losing a pet is hard for
everyone, especially in times of tragedy.
The Community Volunteer Fire Department
went above and beyond in their duties to
make sure a family did not have to go through
that pain. While a TX–22 family was away,
their house unfortunately caught fire with their
three pets—a cat, a dog and a kitten—trapped
on the first floor. These heroes risked their
lives to ensure that these pets were reunited
with their families in the face of disaster.
We send our heartfelt appreciation to the
Community Volunteer Fire Department and all
our firefighters in TX–22 who put their lives on
the line each and every day to rescue those
in danger—be they people or pets. On behalf
of the Twenty-Second Congressional District
of Texas, they make our community very
proud.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE8.009 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1561
December 9, 2019
CONGRATULATING STEPHEN
JOHNSON
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, today I
wish to congratulate Dr. Stephen G. Johnson,
a researcher at Idaho National Laboratory
(INL). At its recent annual meeting in Wash-
ington, D.C., the American Nuclear Society
(ANS) honored Dr.Johnson as a Fellow, which
is the highest member status presented to an
individual. Dr. Johnson was recognized for his
outstanding accomplishments in nuclear
science and technology, specifically high-
lighting his work in rebuilding the national radi-
oisotope power system program for NASA’s
deep space exploration.
Dr. Johnson holds a bachelor’s degree with
a double major in mathematics and chemistry
from Lake Superior State University of Michi-
gan and a Ph.D. in physical chemistry from
Iowa State University. He currently serves as
the director of the Space Nuclear Power and
Isotope Technologies Division at INL’s Mate-
rials and Fuels Complex.
During his tenure at INL, Dr. Johnson has
successfully reestablished the Radioisotope
Power Systems program, initiated the Tech-
nical Integration Office for Radioisotope Power
Systems, and most recently named the Na-
tional Technical Director, for the Department
of Energy’s (DOE) national Space Nuclear
Power program. Steve and his staff focus on
cross-cutting initiatives, mission planning sce-
narios for nuclear power systems for DOE
customers, such as NASA, and providing re-
sources for various other needs for DOE’s
Space Nuclear Power department.
For the last few years, Steve has been a
regular visitor to Capitol Hill, presenting an
overview of the Department of Energy space
power work for NASA at lunches hosted by
the Foundation For Nuclear Studies. This
summer, my staff and I had the pleasure of
visiting Dr. Johnson in his facility where they
were assembling the radioisotope thermo-
electric generator that will power the Mars
2020 Rover.
It is a great privilege to congratulate Dr. Ste-
phen G. Johnson on receiving this prestigious
recognition, and I am grateful for his excep-
tional work in the field of nuclear science and
technology. His accomplishments are a re-
minder of the many skilled researchers and
scientists currently working and living in Idaho.
Congratulations to Steve on his accomplish-
ments and I thank him for all of his hard work.
f
CAMERON MILLER PRESERVING
THE MEMORIES OF A WORLD
WAR II VETERAN
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to highlight CW39 Director of Operations Cam-
eron Miller’s effort to preserve history and the
memory of those who served our nation in
combat.
Cameron recently took a trip to New Orle-
ans and visited the World War II museum,
bringing with him a box from home full of old
wartime photos from a family friend and WWII
veteran named Jack. While there, he learned
about the history contained within the pictures
and how to ensure their stories can be passed
down for generations to come.
Cameron then shared his story on tele-
vision, instructing others on the importance of
preserving pictures and other key items from
our history so that the service of veterans is
remembered for generations.
I thank Cameron for honoring our veterans’
service in the best way possible—by pre-
serving their memories and sharing their sto-
ries. On behalf of the Twenty-Second Con-
gressional District of Texas, he makes Texas
and our veteran community proud.
f
ADVANCING MUTUAL INTERESTS
AND GROWING OUR SUCCESS ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 565, ‘‘The Advancing
Mutual Interests and Growing Our Success
Act’’ or AMIGOS Act.
Despite deep ties with Portugal, it remains
one of only five EU countries whose citizens
are ineligible for E–1 and E–2 visas.
Under the Immigration and Nationality Act,
nationals of countries with which the United
States maintains a treaty of commerce and
navigation may be admitted temporarily to the
United States to engage in international trade,
an E–1 visa, or to develop and direct an in-
vestment enterprise, E–2 visa.
E–1 and E–2 visas may be granted to indi-
vidual traders and investors or to employees
of organizational traders and investors.
Applicants for E–1 and E–2 visas must gen-
erally demonstrate the existence of a bilateral
treaty of commerce and navigation between
the applicant’s country of nationality and the
United States.
Some treaties allow for the admission of
both E–1 and E–2 nonimmigrants, while oth-
ers allow for the admission of only E–1 or E–
2 nonimmigrants.
In addition, the visa applicant must be a na-
tional of the treaty country.
If the applicant is an employee of an organi-
zational trader or investor, both the applicant
and the organization must possess the nation-
ality of the treaty country.
The nationality of the organization is deter-
mined by the nationality of the individual own-
ers—at least 50 percent of the organization
must be owned by nationals of the treaty
country.
The enterprise must be more than marginal
and must generate income beyond that which
is required to provide a minimal living for the
investor and their family.
An individual investor must be coming to the
United States to develop and direct the busi-
ness.
An applicant who is an employee of an or-
ganizational trader or investor must be coming
to the United States to fulfill an executive or
supervisory position or possess skills that are
essential to the firm’s U.S. operations.
Spouses and minor children accompanying
or following to join the principal E–1 or E–2
nonimmigrant will be admitted for the same
period of stay as the principal trader or inves-
tor.
Congress has the ability to take action to
improve the historical relationship between the
United States and Portugal.
If H.R. 565 is enacted, Portuguese nationals
would become eligible for E–1 and E–2 visas,
but only after an agreement for reciprocal
treatment between Portugal and the United
States is finalized.
In 2012, Congress passed—and the presi-
dent signed into law—H.R. 3992 to permit
Israeli nationals to participate in the E–2 treaty
investor program. However, Israeli nationals
did not have the ability to apply for E–2 visas
until May 1, 2019, when an agreement with
Israel was finalized and took effect.
It was favorably reported by the House Judi-
ciary Committee without amendment by voice
vote; passed by the House on motion to sus-
pend the rules (371 to 0) and passed by the
Senate, without amendment, by Unanimous
Consent.
Similarly, S. 2245, the ‘‘Knowledgeable
Innovators and Worthy Investors (KIWI) Act,’’
became law on August 1, 2018, but New Zea-
landers were unable to apply for E–1 and E–
2 visas until June 10, 2019 when an agree-
ment for reciprocal treatment took effect.
It was Discharged by the Senate Judiciary
Committee by Unanimous Consent and
passed by the Senate without amendment by
Unanimous Consent; passed by the House on
motion to suspend the rules by voice vote.
The last two bills to add countries to the E–
1 and E–2 visa programs passed Congress
without controversy.
Portugal is a longstanding United States
ally, with ‘‘bilateral ties dating from the earliest
years of the United States, when Portugal rec-
ognized the United States in 1791 following
the Revolutionary War.’’
The United States is also Portugal’s largest
trading partner outside the European Union
(EU), with bilateral trade in goods and serv-
ices reaching $8 billion in 2018, a 9 percent
increase from the previous year.
Similarly, U.S. direct investment in Portugal
reached $2.1 billion in 2017, with U.S. compa-
nies playing a significant role, investing in the
Portuguese banking, pharmaceutical, and
chemical industries.
Both countries have also agreed to a bilat-
eral income tax agreement to prevent double
taxation.
Portuguese participation in the E–1 and E–
2 visa programs will deepen an already strong
bilateral trade and investment relationship, and
benefit business communities in both coun-
tries.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 565, ‘‘The Advancing
Mutual Interests and Growing Our Success
Act’’ or AMIGOS Act.
f
HONORING DALE WILKERSON FOR
HIS SERVICE TO OUR NATION
HON. MARK E. GREEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor the life and service of
an upstanding American citizen, Dale
Wilkerson.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09DE8.014 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1562 December 9, 2019
After serving twenty years in the U.S. Air
Force, where he earned the Air Force Com-
mendation Medal and the Humanitarian Serv-
ice Medal, Mr. Wilkerson began working for
the National Park Service in 1994 as a branch
chief for contracting, property, and financial
management at the Natchez Trace Parkway.
In 2010, Mr. Wilkerson was temporarily as-
signed to the NPS Southeast Regional Office
in Atlanta to serve as the acting regional
comptroller. In that role he directed the annual
fiscal year closing process for more than sixty
park units in the region, with the execution of
obligations totaling more than $245 million.
From August 2012 through December 2013,
he served as the Acting Superintendent of the
Natchez Trace Parkway, Tupelo National Bat-
tlefield, Brices Cross Roads National Battle-
field Site, and the Natchez Trace National
Scenic Trail, where he was responsible for
leading and managing the eighth most visited
NPS unit in the country.
In 2015, Mr. Wilkerson was appointed as
the Superintendent of the Shiloh National Mili-
tary Park. Over the last four years, he has
performed a remarkable job of managing and
overseeing all aspects of the Shiloh National
Military Park.
I ask my colleagues in the United States
House of Representatives to join me in con-
gratulating Mr. Wilkerson on his retirement
from the National Park Service as Super-
intendent of Shiloh National Battlefield and his
forty-six years of service in our nation’s mili-
tary and in the National Park Service.
f
ANTI-CORRUPTION DAY
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, today is International Anti-Corruption
Day, recognizing the need for governments
and civil societies around the world to be vigi-
lant in the fight against bribes and abuse of
power for personal gain.
According to the United Nations, every year
$1 trillion is paid in bribes while an estimated
$2.6 trillion are stolen through corruption,
more than five percent of global GDP.
No more is this on clearer display today
than across the Middle East, which is wit-
nessing a revival of the 2011 Arab Spring pro-
tests in places like Lebanon, Iraq, Iran and in
towns and cities across Syria. Peaceful pro-
testers are demanding an end to abusive poli-
cies and practices by government officials who
seek little else than their own profit—always at
the expense of the peoples’ fundamental
rights. The persistence of protestors today de-
spite increasingly violent government re-
sponses indicates a point of no return. The
brazen willingness to sacrifice their lives sig-
nals just how precarious these citizens’ lives
have become under their governments.
Syria is ground zero for what happens when
corrupt governments refuse reform and re-
spond to peaceful demands with violence. The
Assad regime continues to leech Syrians of
their basic human rights, uprooting their lives,
indiscriminately bombing his own people, and
deliberately starving them while blaming the
United States and other Western states for the
dismal conditions of his country and the Syrian
people. And all for the sake of protecting the
power and interests of corrupt officials who
are part of the Assad network, including Fahd
Darwish, Samer Al-Debbes, Samir Anis Has-
san, Samer Awees, Kanaan Kanaan, Tamim
Badr, Mahran Khonda, Osama Ali Zayoud,
Iyad Habib Baytnjaneh, Tarif Akhras, and
Fares Shehabi, among others. The United
States must target these individuals for expo-
sure and sanctions for their corruption and
theft from the Syrian people.
And in response to these widespread cries
for change, the United States must continue to
pursue a relentless campaign against corrup-
tion everywhere. Without such accountability,
perpetrators within and partners of corrupt
governments will boldly continue, extending
the suffering of innocent civilians around the
world. If the United States does not dem-
onstrate its commitment with action, nefarious
actors and businessmen around the world will
feel emboldened to engage in corrupt prac-
tices. On International Anti-Corruption Day, we
must stand with those calling out for change.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. TOM EMMER
OF MINNESOTA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. EMMER. Madam Speaker, on Decem-
ber 6th, I was unable to cast my vote on two
pieces of legislation. If present, I would have
voted NAY on H. Res. 326 (RC No. 652), YEA
on the Motion to Recommit H.R. 4 (RC No.
653), and NAY on passage of H.R. 4 (RC No.
654).
f
KAZAKHSTAN FOREIGN MIN-
ISTER’S VISIT TO WASHINGTON
HON. STEVE CHABOT
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, as co-chair
of the U.S.-Kazakhstan Congressional Cau-
cus, I am pleased to rise today to welcome
Kazakhstan’s newly-appointed Foreign Min-
ister, Mukhtar Tileuberdi, to the U.S. Capitol
during his inaugural visit to Washington, D.C.
this week. Minister Tileuberdi is an experi-
enced Kazakh diplomat and statesman.
Throughout his career, he was posted in
Kazakhstan’s diplomatic missions in South
Korea, Israel, and served as Ambassador to
Malaysia with concurrent accreditation to Indo-
nesia, Brunei Darussalam, and the Philippines.
He also served as Ambassador of Kazakhstan
to the Swiss Confederation and with concur-
rent accreditation to the Principality of Liech-
tenstein and the Vatican. Additionally, he
served as the Permanent Representative of
Kazakhstan to the United Nations Office and
other international organizations in Geneva. I
look forward to working with the Minister in his
new role, as we continue to grow the impor-
tant bilateral relationship between Kazakhstan
and the United States.
Madam Speaker, as you may know, the
United States and Kazakhstan held first meet-
ing of the U,S.-Kazakhstan Enhanced Stra-
tegic Partnership Dialogue in January 2018,
following former President Nazarbayev’s visit
to Washington. The most recent series of
these bilateral talks took place last week and
focused heavily on continued cooperation on
issues of aviation, counterterrorism, and infor-
mation sharing, among other topics.
Along with my fellow co-chair of the U.S.-
Kazakhstan Caucus, we look forward to our
meeting with Minister Tileuberdi to discuss
how the United States and Kazakhstan can
continue to promote security and stability
across Central Asia through Kazakhstan’s
strong support for nuclear non-proliferation as
well the U.S.-Kazakhstan Enhanced Strategic
Partnership Dialogue, military cooperation, and
C5+1 multilateral meetings.
Cooperation between the United States and
Kazakhstan has never been stronger.
Kazakhstan has been a strategic partner in Af-
ghanistan and in the fight against violent ex-
tremism, and has been a leader in repatriating
foreign fighters and their families from Syria
and Iraq. On behalf of my fellow U.S.-
Kazakhstan Caucus members, we welcome
the opportunity to deepen the bilateral partner-
ship, and we look forward to hosting future
presidential and high-level delegation visits on
Capitol Hill.
f
HONORING THE REV. DR.
JACQUELINE A. THOMPSON
HON. BARBARA LEE
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Ms. LEE of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the Rev. Dr. Jacqueline A.
Thompson in celebration of her installation as
the Senior Pastor of the Allen Temple Baptist
Church in Oakland, California.
Rev. Thompson was raised by a mother
who believed in the importance of church. In
her own words at the age of 12, Dr. Thomp-
son realized that church was ‘‘not to be just
about singing and having a good time in the
Lord. But rather there was a purpose and a
mandate with a measurable objective’’.
After graduating from College with a Bach-
elor of Arts Degree in 1993, Dr. Thompson
began teaching history and politics. While
teaching allowed her to positively impact lives
in her community and while she loved teach-
ing, she felt called to impact lives in a different
way.
In 1995, Dr. Thompson followed her calling
and returned to her church family and was li-
censed to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ.
She was later ordained in 1998 by the Rev-
erend Dr. J. Alfred Smith, Sr. at Allen Temple
Baptist Church.
Later she attended Howard University
School of Divinity where she excelled in aca-
demic scholarship, preaching and ministry. As
a result, she received several awards includ-
ing The Who’s Who Among Students in Amer-
ican Colleges and Universities, The Ford
Foundation Fellowship, and The Nannie Helen
Burroughs Award.
During her time at Howard University, she
served as the Minister of Youth at the Shiloh
Baptist Church of Washington, D.C. Her love
for teaching and affinity with youth allowed the
young people in the Ministry to flourish under
her leadership.
Dr. Thompson graduated from Howard Uni-
versity in 1998 earning a Master of Divinity
Degree with honors.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09DE8.017 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1563
December 9, 2019
In 2001, she was appointed Executive Di-
rector of the Shiloh Family Life Center Foun-
dation, Inc. In this leadership position Dr.
Thompson raised over 5 million dollars for
non-profit outreach. This money allowed the
church to grow and foster their Afterschool
program, Senior Center, Day Care Center,
HIV/AIDS program, Human Services Program,
Community Computer Center, Debutante Pro-
gram and Teen Mothers’ Empowerment Pro-
gram.
In 2010, Dr. Thompson was installed as the
Assistant Pastor of the Allen Temple Baptist
Church—the first woman to ever serve in this
capacity. In 2013, Dr. Thompson became a
Doctor of Ministry in African American Church
Leadership at Fuller Theological Seminary in
Pasadena, California.
Dr. Thompson has demonstrated that she is
the right woman, for the right time, who has
come ‘‘for such a time as this’’ to lead such a
spirit filled congregation. Her sense of justice
to serve the ‘‘least of these, our brothers and
sisters’ in the manner described by our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ, will continue to be
a hallmark of this historic church.
Today, I join the Allen Temple Church Fam-
ily and the greater East Bay community in
celebrating her installation, as the first female
Senior Pastor in the Church’s 100-year his-
tory. As we look ahead to this new season in
our church history, let us continue as Micah
6:8 reminds us ‘‘to do justice, love mercy and
walk humbly with your God.’’
On behalf of California’s 13th Congressional
District, we congratulate Rev. Dr. Jacqueline
A. Thompson, as she is installed as the next
pastor of the historic Allen Temple Baptist
Church.
f
COMMEMORATING YAYA CLUB’S
FASHION SHOW BENEFITING
FAMILIES WITH ACTIVE-DUTY
PARENTS
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to salute the Katy Boutique YaYa Club for
their first annual ‘‘Runway for Heroes’’ fashion
show and the mission behind it.
As the holiday season approaches, many
families with military parents deployed far from
home will not be able to celebrate with them.
This is hard on everyone in the family, espe-
cially the children. That’s why this Veterans
Day, the YaYa Club Boutique put on a fashion
show with volunteer models to raise money to
buy toys for the children of our military fami-
lies. In their efforts, they raised over $8,000.
Additionally, YaYa Club will be delivering the
gifts in person to the children.
I was incredibly heartwarming to see YaYa
Club doing such a great service for the TX–22
community. I thank them for helping spread
more love this holiday season across Katy. On
behalf of the Twenty-Second Congressional
District of Texas, their actions embody the
spirit of giving and the spirit of Texas.
HONORING GARY FRUGOLI
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in memory of Gary Frugoli, who passed
away on November 19, 2019, at the age of 72
after a lifetime of exemplary public service to
his community.
Born in 1947, Mr. Frugoli moved with his
family as a toddler to Marin where his parents
owned and operated Marin Produce. He at-
tended San Rafael High school where he was
a star football player and continued to play
football at Chico State University. He grad-
uated in 1969 with a degree in Political
Science and Recreation. After college, Mr.
Frugoli worked for the San Rafael Parks and
Recreation Department, but soon joined the
San Rafael Police Department where he
worked his way up the ranks from motorcycle
officer to detective with the Major Crimes Task
Force and the San Rafael SWAT team. During
his time at the San Rafael Police Department,
Mr. Frugoli met and fell in love with his wife,
Lori who was working as a meter maid at the
time. The couple was married in 1980 and
later had a daughter named Amy.
Mr. Frugoli’s passion for public service
grew, and in 1981, he was elected to the San
Rafael City Council where he served with dis-
tinction. During his tenure on the San Rafael
City Council, Mr. Frugoli developed a reputa-
tion for supporting business and housing
growth which were not popular issues at the
time. In 1989, after losing his re-election bid,
the Frugoli family moved to Novato where he
continued to perform community service
through a variety of activities and where the
family enjoyed time recreating outdoors. Pro-
fessionally, he worked for Pacific Coast Title
while he was on the San Rafael City Council
and then for Cal Title when he moved to
Novato.
Active in many aspects of Marin County,
one of Mr. Frugoli’s favorite causes was the
San Francisco-Marin Food Bank, where he
consistently raised funds to help feed local
families. He also served as president of the
San Rafael Rotary Club and was an active
member of the Sonoma County Trailblazers.
He was a Little League coach and a founding
member of the Marin Athletic Foundation,
which focused on the importance of combining
sports and educational opportunities. He
served on the Marin Builder’s Association
Board of Directors, the Marin County Services
Area No. 20, the Fish and Wildlife Commis-
sion, and his homeowner’s association. In
2010, Mr. Frugoli was named the Marin Coun-
ty Italian American Citizen of the Year.
Mr. Frugoli was a well-respected community
leader who will be remembered for his ebul-
lience and willingness to always step up to
help people out. He is survived by his wife
Lori, his daughter Amy, his brother Victor, his
sister Virginia Kerbs, and many nieces and
nephews. While he will be greatly missed, Mr.
Frugoli’s legacy will live on through the indel-
ible positive impact he had on his friends and
family and the community at large.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. KATIE PORTER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, I was un-
able to be present for votes on December 6,
2019. Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 652, NAY on Roll Call
No. 653, and YEA on Roll Call No. 654.
f
GOOD CONDUCT TIME CREDITS
FOR CERTAIN ELDERLY NON-
VIOLENT OFFENDERS
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, December 3, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 4018, the legislation
which provides that the amount of time that an
elderly offender must serve before being eligi-
ble for placement in home detention is to be
reduced by the amount of Good Time Credits
earned by the prisoner, and for other pur-
poses.
This legislation would ensure that elderly of-
fenders become eligible for the pilot program
at a point in time that takes into account any
good conduct time credits they may have ac-
cumulated in the course of their time in prison
under the Second Chance Act.
This change is important for at least three
reasons:
(1) the elderly offender pilot program should
be consistent with the way the Bureau of Pris-
ons (BOP) calculates other transfers, which in-
cludes credit for good conduct time,
(2) offenders who otherwise have satisfac-
tory behavior should not lose good conduct
time solely due to their elderly status, and
(3) one of the goals of the pilot program is
to save taxpayer dollars, and older inmates
tend to be more costly for BOP to house.
Mr. Speaker, I support this legislation be-
cause it is long overdue and provides much
needed relief to persons who no longer war-
rant incarceration.
To promote prisoner reentry and improve
community reintegration, I co-sponsored and
advocated for passage of the Second Chance
Act, which Congress enacted in April 2008.
The Second Chance Act expanded existing
offender reentry grant programs at DOJ and
created a wide array of targeted grant-funded
pilot programs.
The Second Chance Act reauthorization im-
proved programs by:
broadening programs to cover reentry
courts,
expanding grant eligibility to nonprofits,
bolstering support for programs targeting of-
fenders with histories of homelessness, sub-
stance abuse, or mental illness, and
makes the existing elder release pilot pro-
gram permanent and broadens eligibility.
The Second Chance Act also established an
elderly offender release program for those in-
dividuals over the age of 65 who have served
the greater of ten years or 75 percent of their
sentence.
The Act has been consistently funded by
Congress since its enactment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09DE8.021 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1564 December 9, 2019
Since its inception, the Second Chance Act
has resulted in more than 800 grant awards in
49 states and the District of Columbia to gov-
ernment agencies and nonprofits for reentry
programming designed to provide services
that can help reduce recidivism and increase
public safety.
The data shows that this investment in our
returning population lowers recidivism, saves
money and reduces crime.
Nearly one out of three Second Chance Act
grantees is a community or faith-based organi-
zation and includes funding for federal pro-
grams through the Bureau of Prisons. The
data shows that this investment in our return-
ing population lowers recidivism, saves money
and reduces crime.
The Second Chance Act has been a suc-
cess and its reauthorization was an essential
part of any meaningful criminal justice reform
effort. Through grants, the Second Chance Act
encourages the development of evidence-
based reentry programming to improve out-
comes for those returning to families and com-
munities.
Grantees provide vital resources, including
employment training, drug treatment, family
programming, and so much more.
Reauthorization had broad bipartisan sup-
port in Congress and from nearly 700 organi-
zations across the political spectrum.
The Second Chance Act has played an im-
portant role in the impressive advances Texas
has made over the last decade in criminal jus-
tice and juvenile justice reform.
Texas has received over 28 Second Chance
Act grant awards to date, totaling over
$11,932,289.
One recipient, the Texas Juvenile Justice
Department, has used it to provide family-fo-
cused reentry services and comprehensive
case management to gang-affiliated youth.
The City of Dallas used its funding to sup-
port a program for women who have a sub-
stance abuse diagnosis and are pregnant or
have children who are 5 and under.
The women received comprehensive family-
based support and co-occurring substance
use and mental health services on an inpatient
and outpatient basis.
This change is especially significant be-
cause the fastest growing segment of inmates
are those age 50 and older, and they cost far
more.
As an original co-sponsor of the Second
Chance Reauthorization Act of 2017, I am
very proud to have played a part in the devel-
opment of the Federal Prisoner Reentry Initia-
tive for our citizens over 60 years old.
For the previous several Congresses, I in-
troduced the Federal Prison Bureau Relief Act
to amend the federal criminal code to require
the Bureau of Prisons (BOP) to release early
an offender who has completed at least half of
his or her prison sentence if such offender
has:
(1) attained age 45,
(2) committed no violent offenses, and
(3) received no institutional disciplinary vio-
lations.
The bill modified provisions related to com-
putation of a federal prisoner’s good time
credit.
Specifically, it allowed an eligible federal
prisoner to earn a maximum good time credit
of 54 days per year of the sentence imposed
(instead of 54 days per year of the sentence
actually served).
It also permitted the Bureau of Prisons to
restore good time credit previously denied,
based on a prisoner maintaining good behav-
ior.
These modifications applied to an ongoing
prison sentence imposed on or after Novem-
ber 1, 1987.
A bipartisan consensus is developing across
this country in support of such a policy.
Allowing this group of nonviolent offenders
to go home to their families is both beneficial
to the inmates as well as in the best interest
of the United States.
There is a continuing need for re-entry pro-
grams.
Due to the dramatic growth in the size of
the prison population, the issue of prisoner re-
entry has emerged as one of the most critical
and complex dilemmas facing the American
criminal justice system.
The United States is the world’s leader in in-
carceration.
According to the Prison Policy Initiative
Mass Incarceration, the American criminal jus-
tice system holds almost:
2.3 million people in 1,719 state prisons,
109 federal prisons,
1,772 juvenile correctional facilities, 3,163
local jails, and
80 Indian Country jails as well as in military
prisons, immigration detention facilities, civil
commitment centers, state psychiatric hos-
pitals, and prisons in the U.S. territories.
These trends resulted in prison over-
crowding despite increasing evidence that
large-scale incarceration is not the most effec-
tive means of public safety.
The result was that an incredibly low num-
ber of prisoners over 60 years of age were re-
leased to home confinement under the pilot
program.
Passing H.R. 4018 will not fix the entire
criminal justice system, but it is another impor-
tant step in our effort to make it a more just
and humane system for our elderly non-violent
offenders with reentry into our communities.
f
RECOGNIZING THE FRISCO
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, I rise
with my fellow Texas Congressman, Dr. BUR-
GESS, to congratulate the Frisco Chamber of
Commerce on earning a 5-Star Accreditation
from the United States Chamber of Com-
merce.
Frisco is home to some of the most innova-
tive and booming businesses in Texas and
throughout the entire country. Partnering with
approximately 1,300 member businesses who
represent more than 75,000 employees, the
Frisco Chamber of Commerce goes above
and beyond to provide the business commu-
nity with a powerful voice through its advocacy
efforts and partnerships.
The Frisco Chamber received the highest
accreditation awarded by the U.S. Chamber
as a result of their effective organizational pro-
cedures and community involvement. After
earning this accreditation, the Frisco Chamber
is now among the top two percent of Cham-
bers in the nation to receive this Prestigious
designation.
I ask my colleagues in the House of Rep-
resentatives to join me in congratulating the
Frisco Chamber of Commerce on this tremen-
dous achievement.
f
RECOGNIZING DAVID HOBBS, THE
SECRETARY GENERAL OF THE
NATO PARLIAMENTARY ASSEM-
BLY
HON. GERALD E. CONNOLLY
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, December 9, 2019
Mr. CONNOLLY. Madam Speaker, on be-
half of myself and Rep. MIKE TURNER of Ohio,
I rise to recognize David Hobbs, the Secretary
General of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly.
He will step down from his position on Decem-
ber 31, 2019 after decades of stellar service to
the Assembly and to the national parliaments
of all NATO countries, including the United
States Congress.
David Hobbs took up his post as Secretary
General of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly
in January 2008, following his election by the
heads of national delegations to that body. He
had previously served on the Assembly’s staff
for many years and drew on this long experi-
ence to help transform the institution.
David Hobbs holds degrees in physics and
defense from Manchester University and
King’s College in London. After working in the
UK civil service and the private sector, he
joined Aberdeen University’s Centre for
Defence Studies, where he published studies
on nuclear forces and policy. His expertise
gave him unique insight not only into the con-
duct of the Cold War, but also informed his
understanding of the strategies Western allies
followed to ultimately prevail in it.
David Hobbs joined the NATO Parliamen-
tary Assembly in 1983 as Director of its
Science and Technology Committee. In 1987,
he assumed additional responsibilities as Di-
rector of Committees and Studies and was
tasked with coordinating the work of all five of
the Assembly’s Committees.
Mr. Hobbs played a central role in driving
the Assembly’s adaptation following the col-
lapse of the Soviet Union, and ensuring that
national parliaments and their members
helped forge a new security order that placed
democratic values at its very core. It was at
this time that the Assembly began to reach out
to the new parliaments of former Communist
countries to assist in their democratic develop-
ment. David Hobbs was part of a team that
established a set of conferences and training
programmes, including the Rose-Roth Semi-
nars named after late Senator Bill Roth and
Congressman Charlie Rose, which worked
with parliamentarians from Europe’s new de-
mocracies on security sector reform, par-
liamentary oversight, and preparation for
membership in NATO itself.
Mr. Hobbs was appointed Deputy Secretary
General of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly
in November 1997.
In addition to his responsibilities at the
NATO Parliamentary Assembly, from 1996 to
2007 David Hobbs served as the Chairman of
the Euro-Atlantic Foundation, an NGO which
provided computing and I.T. assistance to par-
liaments in Central and Eastern Europe. From
1993 to 2005, he was a member of the re-
search advisory council of the Chemical and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09DE8.025 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1565
December 9, 2019
Biological Arms Control Institute, and from
2009 to 2014 he was a member of the Senior
Steering Group for NATO’s Special Operations
Headquarters. He wrote extensively on the po-
litical and military implications of new tech-
nology.
As the Assembly’s Secretary General, David
Hobbs made it a top priority to maintain and
strengthen the trans-Atlantic link through par-
liamentary dialogue and cooperation. He trav-
elled to the United States with parliamentary
delegations 37 times between 2003 and 2019
to ensure that European political leaders bet-
ter understood strategic policy decision-mak-
ing in the United States and to introduce Euro-
pean national legislators to their counterparts
in the House of Representatives and the Sen-
ate. He often accompanied the President and
Vice Presidents of the NATO PA on visits to
the halls of Congress for bilateral discussions
with members of Congress and their staffs.
Those efforts paid off, and the Assembly is
now considered the primary vehicle for Con-
gressional outreach to allied nations and their
political leaders.
As a member and now chairman of the
United States delegation to the NATO PA, I
have witnessed first hand David Hobbs’ com-
mitment to the trans-Atlantic bond and to
NATO, his understanding of U.S. politics and
policies and ability to work with members from
both sides of the aisle on a bipartisan basis.
As our predecessors have, the current mem-
bers of the United States delegation to the
NATO PA and I have come to rely on his ex-
pertise, unfailingly sound judgement, and
shrewd insights.
David Hobbs is also known and appreciated
for his quick wit and friendliness and has long
made parliamentarians and staff feel welcome
and essential to the life of the Assembly. His
strong management skills and vision reinvigo-
rated the secretariat in Brussels and helped
the Assembly adjust to an increasingly per-
ilous and complex security environment char-
acterized by new challenges like terrorism,
cyber-attacks, hybrid warfare, and an ever
more revanchist Russia.
It should hardly be surprising that this vital
institution dedicated to parliamentary diplo-
macy flourished under David Hobbs’ steward-
ship. He leaves the NATO Parliamentary As-
sembly a stronger and more vibrant organiza-
tion. He has dedicated himself to preserving
history’s greatest alliance, which requires
great patience, diplomacy, hard work, and
faith. Mr. Hobbs’s tenure will be remembered
for his grace, the active listening he deployed
to ensure that everyone always felt heard, the
respect he showed all delegates and staff, and
the stability he brought to this vital alliance.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, De-
cember 10, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
DECEMBER 11
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider S. 2204, to
allow the Federal Communications
Commission to carry out a pilot pro-
gram under which voice service pro-
viders could block certain automated
calls, S. 2363, to amend the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 to establish a
Telecommunications Workforce Devel-
opment Advisory Council within the
Federal Communications Commission,
S. 2381, to require review by the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office of
screening protocols of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration relat-
ing to breast milk and formula, S. 2638,
to amend title 49, United State Code,
to require small hub airports to con-
struct areas for nursing mothers, S.
2661, to amend the Communications
Act of 1934 to designate 9–8-8 as the
universal telephone number for the
purpose of the national suicide preven-
tion and mental health crisis hotline
system operating through the National
Suicide Prevention Lifeline and
through the Veterans Crisis Line, S.
2730, to establish and ensure an inclu-
sive transparent Drone Advisory Com-
mittee, S. 2786, to establish a Federal
advisory committee to provide policy
recommendations to the Secretary of
Transportation on positioning the
United States to take advantage of
emerging opportunities for Arctic mar-
itime transportation, S. 2802, to amend
the Marine Mammal Protection Act of
1972 to reauthorize and modify the
John H. Prescott Marine Mammal Res-
cue and Response Grant Program, S.
2881, to require the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to make not less
than 280 megahertz of spectrum avail-
able for terrestrial use, S. 2898, to
amend title 5, United States Code, to
provide for a full annuity supplement
for certain air traffic controllers, S.
2909, to extend the authority of the Na-
tional Aeronautics and Space Adminis-
tration to enter into leases of non-ex-
cess property of the Administration, S.
2964, to amend title 49, United States
Code, to extend the authority of the
Secretary of Transportation to issue
non-premium aviation insurance, S.
2979, to improve drug testing for trans-
portation-related activities, and S.
2981, to reauthorize and amend the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration Commissioned Officer
Corps Act of 2002; to be immediately
followed by a hearing to examine the
nomination of Thomas B. Chapman, of
Maryland, to be a Member of the Na-
tional Transportation Safety Board.
SD–G50
Committee on Foreign Relations
Business meeting to consider S. 2641, to
promote United States national secu-
rity and prevent the resurgence of
ISIS, S. 2547, to state the policy of the
United States with respect to the ex-
pansion of cooperation with allies and
partners in the Indo-Pacific region and
Europe regarding the People’s Republic
of China, S. 2977, to extend the termi-
nation of sanctions with respect to
Venezuela under the Venezuela Defense
of Human Rights and Civil Society Act
of 2014, S. 1310, to strengthen participa-
tion of elected national legislators in
the activities of the Organization of
American States and reaffirm United
States support for Organization of
American States human rights and
anti-corruption initiatives, S. 1830, to
enhance the security of the United
States and its allies, S. 704, to
prioritize the efforts of and enhance co-
ordination among United States agen-
cies to encourage countries in Central
and Eastern Europe to diversify their
energy sources and supply routes, in-
crease Europe’s energy security, and
help the United States reach its global
energy security goals, S. 1189, to re-
quire the Secretary of State to deter-
mine whether the Russian Federation
should be designated as a state sponsor
of terrorism and whether Russian-spon-
sored armed entities in Ukraine should
be designated as foreign terrorist orga-
nizations, S. 482, to strengthen the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, to
combat international cybercrime, and
to impose additional sanctions with re-
spect to the Russian Federation, S.J.
Res. 4, requiring the advice and con-
sent of the Senate or an Act of Con-
gress to suspend, terminate, or with-
draw the United States from the North
Atlantic Treaty and authorizing re-
lated litigation, S. Con. Res. 23, hon-
oring the 75th Anniversary of the Bat-
tle of the Bulge fought during World
War II, recognizing the valiant efforts
of the Allied Forces in December 1944,
and remembering those who made the
ultimate sacrifice, all of which contrib-
uted to the Allied victory in the Euro-
pean Theater, S. Res. 142, condemning
the Government of the Philippines for
its continued detention of Senator
Leila De Lima, calling for her imme-
diate release, S. Res. 152, expressing
the importance of the United States al-
liance with the Republic of Korea and
the contributions of Korean Americans
in the United States, S. Res. 260, recog-
nizing the importance of sustained
United States leadership to accel-
erating global progress against mater-
nal and child malnutrition and sup-
porting the commitment of the United
States Agency for International Devel-
opment to global nutrition through the
Multi-Sectoral Nutrition Strategy, S.
Res. 297, commending the Inter-Amer-
ican Foundation (IAF) on the occasion
of its 50th anniversary for its signifi-
cant accomplishments and contribu-
tions to the economic and social devel-
opment of the Americas, S. Res. 343,
congratulating the people of the Czech
Republic and the people of the Slovak
Republic on the 30th anniversary of the
Velvet Revolution, the 26th anniver-
sary of the formation of the Czech Re-
public and the Slovak Republic, and
the 101st anniversary of the declaration
of independence of Czechoslovakia, S.
Res. 371, reaffirming the support of the
United States for the people of the Re-
public of South Sudan and calling on
all parties to uphold their commit-
ments to peace and dialogue as out-
lined in the 2018 revitalized peace
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09DE8.028 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1566 December 9, 2019
agreement, S. Res. 374, expressing sup-
port for the designation of October 23,
2019, as a national day of remembrance
of the tragic terrorist bombing of the
United States Marine Corps barracks
in Beirut, Lebanon, in 1983, S. Res. 375,
recognizing the 75th anniversary of the
Warsaw Uprising, S. Res. 385, cele-
brating the 30th anniversary of the fall
of the Berlin Wall, the reunification of
both Germany and Europe, and the
spread of democracy around the world,
S. Res. 395, recognizing the 40th anni-
versary of the Iran Hostage Crisis, H.R.
2744, to authorize the Administrator of
the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development to prescribe the
manner in which programs of the agen-
cy are identified overseas, H.R. 133, to
promote economic partnership and co-
operation between the United States
and Mexico, an original resolution ex-
pressing serious concern about wide-
spread irregularities in Bolivia’s Octo-
ber 20, 2019, general elections and sup-
porting the convening of new elections
in Bolivia at the earliest possible date,
the nomination of Sung Y. Kim, of
California, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Indonesia, Department of
State, and other pending calendar busi-
ness.
S–116
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the Inspec-
tor General’s report on alleged abuses
of the Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Act.
SH–216
2 p.m.
Commission on Security and Cooperation
in Europe
To receive a briefing on Albania’s leader-
ship in Europe.
RHOB–2253
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold closed hearings to examine an
update on the situation and United
States strategy in Afghanistan.
SVC–217
Committee on Indian Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 1853, to
require Federal law enforcement agen-
cies to report on cases of missing or
murdered Indians, and S. 2365, to
amend the Indian Health Care Improve-
ment Act to authorize urban Indian or-
ganizations to enter into arrangements
for the sharing of medical services and
facilities; to be immediately followed
by a hearing to examine the nomina-
tion of Michael D. Weahkee, of New
Mexico, to be Director of the Indian
Health Service, Department of Health
and Human Services.
SD–628
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to
be Administrator of the Small Business
Administration.
SR–428A
DECEMBER 12
10 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To receive a closed briefing on national
security issues in the Middle East.
SVC–217
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Security
To hold hearings to examine expanding
opportunities, challenges, and threats
in the Arctic, focusing on the Coast
Guard Arctic Strategic Outlook.
SD–562
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Business meeting to consider S. 225, to
provide for partnerships among State
and local governments, regional enti-
ties, and the private sector to preserve,
conserve, and enhance the visitor expe-
rience at nationally significant battle-
fields of the American Revolution, War
of 1812, and Civil War, S. 242, to require
the Secretary of Agriculture to release
reversionary and reserved interests in
certain land in the Coconino National
Forest in the State of Arizona, S. 258,
to prohibit oil and gas leasing on the
National Forest System land in the
Ruby Mountains Ranger District lo-
cated in the Humboldt-Toiyabe Na-
tional Forest, Elko and White Pine
Counties, Nevada, S. 298, to establish
the Springfield Race Riot National His-
toric Monument in the State of Illi-
nois, S. 327, to amend the Federal
Lands Recreation Enhancement Act to
provide for a lifetime National Rec-
reational Pass for any veteran with a
service-connected disability, S. 389, to
authorize the Society of the First In-
fantry Division to make modifications
to the First Division Monument lo-
cated on Federal land in Presidential
Park in the District of Columbia, S.
430, to extend the Secure Rural Schools
and Community Self-Determination
Act of 2000, S. 434, to provide for a re-
port on the maintenance of Federal
land holdings under the jurisdiction of
the Secretary of the Interior, S. 490, to
designate a mountain ridge in the
State of Montana as ‘‘B–47 Ridge’’, S.
499, to amend the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act to apply to territories
of the United States, to establish off-
shore wind lease sale requirements, to
provide dedicated funding for coral reef
conservation, S. 526, to withdraw cer-
tain Bureau of Land Management land
from mineral development, S. 641, to
update the map of, and modify the
maximum acreage available for inclu-
sion in, the Yucca House National
Monument, S. 774, to adjust the bound-
ary of the Santa Monica Mountains Na-
tional Recreation Area to include the
Rim of the Valley Corridor, S. 1152, to
provide for the transfer of administra-
tive jurisdiction over certain parcels of
Federal land in Arlington, Virginia, S.
1262, to designate certain land adminis-
tered by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment and the Forest Service in the
State of Oregon as wilderness and na-
tional recreation areas, to withdraw
certain land located in Curry County
and Josephine County, Oregon, from all
forms of entry, appropriation, or dis-
posal under the public land laws, loca-
tion, entry, and patent under the min-
ing laws, and operation under the min-
eral leasing and geothermal leasing
laws, S. 1890, to provide for grants for
energy efficiency improvements and re-
newable energy improvements at pub-
lic school facilities, S. 2108, to amend
section 6903 of title 31, United States
Code, to provide for additional popu-
lation tiers, S. 2393, to promote a 21st
century energy workforce, S. 2399, to
amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to
improve State loan eligibility for
projects for innovative technology, S.
2660, to establish a grant program for
wind energy research, development,
and demonstration, S. 2666, to promote
the development of renewable energy
on public land, and H.R. 617, to author-
ize the Department of Energy to con-
duct collaborative research with the
Department of Veterans Affairs in
order to improve healthcare services
for veterans in the United States.
SD–366
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
Business meeting to consider S. 2971, to
amend and reauthorize the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act, S. 2080,
to amend the Public Health Service
Act to increase the number of perma-
nent faculty in palliative care at ac-
credited allopathic and osteopathic
medical schools, nursing schools, social
work schools, and other programs, in-
cluding physician assistant education
programs, to promote education and
research in palliative care and hospice,
and to support the development of fac-
ulty careers in academic palliative
medicine, S. 2683, to establish a task
force to assist States in implementing
hiring requirements for child care staff
members to improve child safety, S.
2927, to amend the Public Health Serv-
ice Act to provide that the authority of
the Director of the National Institute
on Minority Health and Health Dispari-
ties to make certain research endow-
ments applies with respect to both cur-
rent and former centers of excellence,
an original bill entitled, ‘‘Title VII Re-
authorization’’, and the nomination of
Crosby Kemper III, of Missouri, to be
Director of the Institute of Museum
and Library Services.
SD–430
Committee on Rules and Administration
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of J. Brett Blanton, of Virginia, to
be Architect of the Capitol.
SR–301
2 p.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
DECEMBER 18
10 a.m.
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:18 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M09DE8.000 E09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1338
Monday, December 9, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6897–S6907
Measures Introduced: Six bills and one resolution
were introduced, as follows: S. 2997–3002, and S.
Res. 448. Pages S6903–04
Measures Passed:
National Phenylketonuria Awareness Day: Sen-
ate agreed to S. Res. 448, designating December 3,
2019, as ‘‘National Phenylketonuria Awareness
Day’’. Page S6907
Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation
and Reform Act—Agreement: A unanimous-con-
sent agreement was reached providing that notwith-
standing Rule XXII, following the vote on the mo-
tion to invoke cloture on the nomination of Law-
rence VanDyke, of Nevada, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Senate proceed to
legislative session and to the immediate consider-
ation of S. 2740, to amend the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act to clarify the regulatory frame-
work with respect to certain nonprescription drugs
that are marketed without an approved new drug ap-
plication; that there be 2 minutes of debate equally
divided between the two Leaders, or their designees,
and that upon the use or yielding back of time, the
bill be considered read a third time and Senate vote
on passage of the bill, with no intervening action or
debate, and Senate resume executive session.
Page S6900
Support for Suicide Prevention Coordinators
Act—Agreement: A unanimous-consent agreement
was reached providing that at 12:00 noon, on
Wednesday, December 11, 2019, Senate proceed to
legislative session and to the immediate consider-
ation of H.R. 2333, to direct the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States to conduct an assessment
of the responsibilities, workload, and vacancy rates of
Department of Veterans Affairs suicide prevention
coordinators, which was received from the House,
and the bill be considered read a third time, and
Senate vote on passage of the bill, with no inter-
vening action or debate. Page S6900
Bumatay Nomination—Agreement: Senate re-
sumed consideration of the nomination of Patrick J.
Bumatay, of California, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit. Pages S6898–S6900
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 47 yeas to 41 nays (Vote No. EX. 386), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S6900
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that the post-cloture time on the nomination
expire at 12:15 p.m., on Tuesday, December 10,
2019. Page S6900
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the nomination, at
approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, December 10,
2019. Page S6907
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
James E. McPherson, of Virginia, to be Under
Secretary of the Army.
Finch Fulton, of Alabama, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Transportation.
J. Brett Blanton, of Virginia, to be Architect of
the Capitol for the term of ten years. Page S6907
Messages from the House: Page S6902
Measures Referred: Page S6902
Executive Communications: Pages S6902–03
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6904–06
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S6906
Additional Statements: Page S6902
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—386) Page S6900
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1339
December 9, 2019
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:34 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday, De-
cember 10, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S6907.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 15 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 19, 5360–5373; and 6 resolutions, H.
Res. 749–754 were introduced. Pages H9386–87
Additional Cosponsors: Page H9388
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 3, to establish a fair price negotiation pro-
gram, protect the Medicare program from excessive
price increases, and establish an out-of-pocket max-
imum for Medicare part D enrollees, and for other
purposes, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–324,
Part 3);
H.R. 5038, to amend the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to provide for terms and conditions for
nonimmigrant workers performing agricultural labor
or services, and for other purposes, with an amend-
ment (H. Rept. 116–328, Part 1);
H.R. 5035, to amend the Communications Act of
1934 to extend expiring provisions relating to the
retransmission of signals of television broadcast sta-
tions, and for other purposes, with an amendment
(H. Rept. 116–329);
H. Res. 748, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 729) to amend the Coastal Zone Manage-
ment Act of 1972 to authorize grants to Indian
Tribes to further achievement of Tribal coastal zone
objectives, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–330);
H.R. 3621, to amend the Fair Credit Reporting
Act to remove adverse information for certain de-
faulted or delinquent private education loan bor-
rowers who demonstrate a history of loan repayment,
and for other purposes, with an amendment (H.
Rept. 116–331);
H.R. 2328, reauthorize and extend funding for
community health centers and the National Health
Service Corps; with amendments (H. Rept. 116–332,
Part 1); and
Conference report on S. 1790, to authorize appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020 for military activities
of the Department of Defense, for military construc-
tion, and for defense activities of the Department of
Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for
such fiscal year, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–333). Pages H9385-86
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Horsford to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H9351
Recess: The House recessed at 12:14 p.m. and re-
convened at 2 p.m. Pages H9352–53
Journal: The House agreed to the Speaker’s approval
of the Journal by voice vote. Pages H9353, H9382
Recess: The House recessed at 2:05 p.m. and recon-
vened at 3:01 p.m. Page H9353
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
MSI STEM Achievement Act: H.R. 4372, amend-
ed, to direct Federal science agencies and the Office
of Science and Technology Policy to undertake ac-
tivities to improve the quality of undergraduate
STEM education and enhance the research capacity
at the Nation’s HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs;
Pages H9353–56
Engineering Biology Research and Development
Act of 2019: H.R. 4373, amended, to provide for
a coordinated Federal research initiative to ensure
continued United States leadership in engineering
biology; Pages H9356–59
Sustainable Chemistry Research and Develop-
ment Act of 2019: H.R. 2051, amended, to provide
for Federal coordination of activities supporting sus-
tainable chemistry; Pages H9359–62
Building Blocks of STEM Act: S. 737, to direct
the National Science Foundation to support STEM
education research focused on early childhood;
Pages H9362–63
Identifying Outputs of Generative Adversarial
Networks Act: H.R. 4355, amended, to direct the
Director of the National Science Foundation to sup-
port research on the outputs that may be generated
by generative adversarial networks, otherwise known
as deepfakes, and other comparable techniques that
may be developed in the future; Pages H9363–64
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1340 December 9, 2019
Virginia Beach Strong Act: H.R. 4566, to accel-
erate the income tax benefits for charitable cash con-
tributions for the relief of the families of victims of
the mass shooting in Virginia Beach, Virginia, on
May 31, 2019; Pages H9364–66
Covert Testing and Risk Mitigation Improve-
ment Act of 2019: H.R. 3469, to direct the Trans-
portation Security Administration to carry out covert
testing and risk mitigation improvement of aviation
security operations; Pages H9366–67
DHS Opioid Detection Resilience Act of 2019:
H.R. 4761, to ensure U.S. Customs and Border Pro-
tection officers, agents, and other personnel have
adequate synthetic opioid detection equipment, that
the Department of Homeland Security has a process
to update synthetic opioid detection capability, by a
2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 393 yeas to 1 nay, Roll No.
655; Pages H9367–69, H9380–81
Synthetic Opioid Exposure Prevention and
Training Act: H.R. 4739, to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to protect U.S. Customs and
Border Protection officers, agents, other personnel,
and canines against potential synthetic opioid expo-
sure; Pages H9369–70, H9381–82
Department of Homeland Security Mentor-Pro-
tege Program Act of 2019: H.R. 4727, to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to establish a
mentor-protégé program; Pages H9370–71
Emerging Transportation Security Threats Act of
2019: H.R. 3318, amended, to require the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to establish a task
force to conduct an analysis of emerging and poten-
tial future threats to transportation security;
Pages H9371–73
Department of Homeland Security Office of
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties Authorization
Act: H.R. 4713, amended, to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to make certain improvements
in the Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties of
the Department of Homeland Security;
Pages H9373–76
Inland Waters Security Review Act: H.R. 4402,
to require the Secretary of Homeland Security to
conduct an inland waters threat analysis;
Pages H9376–77
Weatherizing Infrastructure in the North and
Terrorism Emergency Readiness Act of 2019:
H.R. 3669, to require the Secretary of Homeland Se-
curity to conduct a collective response to a terrorism
exercise that includes the management of cascading
effects on critical infrastructure during times of ex-
treme cold weather; and Pages H9377–78
Esther Martinez Native American Languages
Programs Reauthorization Act: S. 256, to amend
the Native American Programs Act of 1974 to pro-
vide flexibility and reauthorization to ensure the sur-
vival and continuing vitality of Native American
languages. Pages H9378–80
Recess: The House recessed at 5:27 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:31 p.m. Page H9380
Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force
Academy—Appointment: The Chair announced
the Speaker’s appointment of the following Member
on the part of the House to the Board of Visitors
to the United States Air Force Academy: Representa-
tive Speier. Page H9385
Recess: The House recessed at 7:40 p.m. and recon-
vened at 9:25 p.m. Page H9385
Senate Referral: S. 743 was referred to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services and the Committee on
House Administration. Page H9385
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H9353.
Quorum Calls Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes devel-
oped during the proceedings of today and appear on
pages H9381, H9381–82. There were no quorum
calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 12 noon and ad-
journed at 9:26 p.m.
Committee Meetings
THE IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY INTO
PRESIDENT DONALD J. TRUMP:
PRESENTATIONS FROM THE HOUSE
PERMANENT SELECT COMMITTEE ON
INTELLIGENCE AND HOUSE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Impeachment Inquiry into
President Donald J. Trump: Presentations from the
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence
and House Judiciary Committee’’. Testimony was
heard from Berry Berke, Majority Counsel, House
Committee on the Judiciary; Stephen Castor, Minor-
ity Counsel, House Committee on the Judiciary and
House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence;
and Daniel Goldman, Majority Counsel, House Per-
manent Select Committee on Intelligence.
TRIBAL COASTAL RESILIENCY ACT
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 729, the ‘‘Tribal Coastal Resiliency Act’’
[Coastal and Great Lakes Communities Enhancement
Act]. The Committee granted, by nonrecord vote, a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1341
December 9, 2019
structured rule providing for consideration of H.R.
729, the ‘‘Tribal Coastal Resiliency Act’’. The rule
provides one hour of general debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Natural Resources.
The rule waives all points of order against consider-
ation of the bill. The rule provides that an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–40 shall be con-
sidered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be
considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against provisions in the bill, as amended. The
rule makes in order only those further amendments
printed in the Rules Committee report and amend-
ments en bloc described in section 3 of the resolu-
tion. Each amendment printed in the report may be
offered only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in the re-
port, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be
subject to a demand for division of the question. The
rule waives all points of order against the amend-
ments printed in the report or amendments en bloc
described in section 3 of the resolution. The rule
provides that the chair of the Committee on Natural
Resources or his designee may offer amendments en
bloc consisting of amendments printed in the Rules
Committee report not earlier disposed of. Amend-
ments en bloc shall be considered as read, shall be
debatable for 20 minutes equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee Natural Resources or their des-
ignees, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall
not be subject to a demand for division of the ques-
tion. The rule provides one motion to recommit
with or without instructions. Testimony was heard
from Representatives Case, Bishop of Utah, and
Morelle.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D1316)
H.R. 5277, to amend section 442 of title 18,
United States Code, to exempt certain interests in
mutual funds, unit investment trusts, employee ben-
efit plans, and retirement plans from conflict of in-
terest limitations for the Government Publishing Of-
fice. Signed December 5, 2019. (Public Law
116–78)
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
DECEMBER 10, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: busi-
ness meeting to consider the nominations of Mitchell A.
Silk, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of the
Treasury, Brian D. Montgomery, of Texas, to be Deputy
Secretary, and David Carey Woll, Jr., of Connecticut, and
John Bobbitt, of Texas, both to be an Assistant Secretary,
all of the Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and Peter J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to be Inspector
General, Export-Import Bank; to be immediately followed
by an oversight hearing to examine the Securities and Ex-
change Commission, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the upcoming implementation of the
International Maritime Organization’s new global sulfur
standard for marine fuels, which is set to take effect on
January 1, 2020, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
encryption and lawful access, focusing on evaluating ben-
efits and risks to public safety and privacy, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property, to hold an
oversight hearing to examine modernization of the United
States Copyright Office, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Agriculture, Subcommittee on Livestock
and Foreign Agriculture, hearing entitled ‘‘The Imple-
mentation of Farm Bill International Food Assistance and
Development Programs’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Military
Personnel, hearing entitled ‘‘Diversity in Recruiting and
Retention: Increasing Diversity in the Military—What
the Military Services are Doing’’, 2 p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations, hearing entitled ‘‘Securing
the U.S. Drug Supply Chain: Oversight of FDA’s Foreign
Inspection Program’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Proposals
to Achieve Universal Health Care Coverage’’, 10:30 a.m.,
2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 1731, the ‘‘Cybersecurity Disclosure Act of
2019’’; H.R. 2445, the ‘‘Self-Employed Mortgage Access
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4545, the ‘‘Private Loan Disability
Discharge Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5287, the ‘‘Fair Student
Loan Debt Collection Practices Act’’; H.R. 5294, the
‘‘Student Borrowers Protections Act’’; H.R. 5332, the
‘‘Protecting Your Credit Score Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5330,
the ‘‘Consumer Protections for Medical Debt Collections
Act’’; H.R. 5322, the ‘‘Ensuring Diversity in Community
Banking Act of 2019’’; H.R. 5315, the ‘‘Expanding Op-
portunities for Minority Depository Institutions (MDIs)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1342 December 9, 2019
Act’’; legislation electing majority members to the Sub-
committee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and
Capital; legislation establishing the Task Force on Artifi-
cial Intelligence; and legislation establishing the Task
Force on Financial Technology, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the
Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Haiti on the Brink: Assessing U.S. Policy
Toward a Country in Crisis’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and Nonprolifera-
tion, hearing entitled ‘‘Authoritarianism with Chinese
Characteristics: Political and Religious Human Rights
Challenges in China’’, 1:30 p.m., 2200 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Middle East, North Africa, and
International Terrorism, hearing entitled ‘‘The Way For-
ward in Iraq’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Need for Comprehensive
National Paid Family and Medical Leave’’, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Economic and Consumer Policy,
hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Carcinogens in Talc and the
Best Methods for Asbestos Detection’’, 1 p.m., 2154 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R. 3,
the ‘‘Lower Drug Costs Now Act of 2019’’ [Elijah E.
Cummings Lower Drug Costs Now Act of 2019]; and
H.R. 5038, the ‘‘Farm Workforce Modernization Act of
2019’’, 3 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Energy, hearing entitled ‘‘Research and Innovation to
Address the Critical Materials Challenge’’, 10 a.m., 2318
Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions, Oversight and Regulations, hearing entitled ‘‘Re-
view of the SBA’s 504/CDC Loan Program’’, 10 a.m.,
2360 Rayburn.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of December 10 through December 13,
2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
the nomination of Patrick J. Bumatay, of California,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Patrick
J. Bumatay, Senate will vote on the motion to in-
voke cloture on the nomination of Lawrence Van-
Dyke, of Nevada, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Ninth Circuit, and on passage of S. 2740,
Over-the-Counter Monograph Safety, Innovation, and
Reform Act.
On Wednesday, Senate will vote on passage of H.R.
2333, Support for Suicide Prevention Coordinators
Act, at 12:00 noon.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Armed Services: December 11, to hold
closed hearings to examine an update on the situation and
United States strategy in Afghanistan, 2:30 p.m.,
SVC–217.
December 12, Full Committee, to receive a closed
briefing on national security issues in the Middle East, 10
a.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: De-
cember 10, business meeting to consider the nominations
of Mitchell A. Silk, of New York, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of the Treasury, Brian D. Montgomery, of Texas,
to be Deputy Secretary, and David Carey Woll, Jr., of
Connecticut, and John Bobbitt, of Texas, both to be an
Assistant Secretary, all of the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, and Peter J. Coniglio, of Virginia,
to be Inspector General, Export-Import Bank; to be im-
mediately followed by an oversight hearing to examine
the Securities and Exchange Commission, 10 a.m.,
SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: De-
cember 11, business meeting to consider S. 2204, to
allow the Federal Communications Commission to carry
out a pilot program under which voice service providers
could block certain automated calls, S. 2363, to amend
the Communications Act of 1934 to establish a Tele-
communications Workforce Development Advisory Coun-
cil within the Federal Communications Commission, S.
2381, to require review by the Government Account-
ability Office of screening protocols of the Transportation
Security Administration relating to breast milk and for-
mula, S. 2638, to amend title 49, United State Code, to
require small hub airports to construct areas for nursing
mothers, S. 2661, to amend the Communications Act of
1934 to designate 9–8–8 as the universal telephone num-
ber for the purpose of the national suicide prevention and
mental health crisis hotline system operating through the
National Suicide Prevention Lifeline and through the
Veterans Crisis Line, S. 2730, to establish and ensure an
inclusive transparent Drone Advisory Committee, S.
2786, to establish a Federal advisory committee to pro-
vide policy recommendations to the Secretary of Trans-
portation on positioning the United States to take advan-
tage of emerging opportunities for Arctic maritime trans-
portation, S. 2802, to amend the Marine Mammal Protec-
tion Act of 1972 to reauthorize and modify the John H.
Prescott Marine Mammal Rescue and Response Grant
Program, S. 2881, to require the Federal Communications
Commission to make not less than 280 megahertz of
spectrum available for terrestrial use, S. 2898, to amend
title 5, United States Code, to provide for a full annuity
supplement for certain air traffic controllers, S. 2909, to
extend the authority of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration to enter into leases of non-excess
property of the Administration, S. 2964, to amend title
49, United States Code, to extend the authority of the
Secretary of Transportation to issue non-premium aviation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1343
December 9, 2019
insurance, S. 2979, to improve drug testing for transpor-
tation-related activities, and S. 2981, to reauthorize and
amend the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Adminis-
tration Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002; to be
immediately followed by a hearing to examine the nomi-
nation of Thomas B. Chapman, of Maryland, to be a
Member of the National Transportation Safety Board, 10
a.m., SD–G50.
December 12, Subcommittee on Security, to hold hear-
ings to examine expanding opportunities, challenges, and
threats in the Arctic, focusing on the Coast Guard Arctic
Strategic Outlook, 10 a.m., SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: December 10,
to hold hearings to examine the upcoming implementa-
tion of the International Maritime Organization’s new
global sulfur standard for marine fuels, which is set to
take effect on January 1, 2020, 10 a.m., SD–366.
December 12, Full Committee, business meeting to
consider S. 225, to provide for partnerships among State
and local governments, regional entities, and the private
sector to preserve, conserve, and enhance the visitor expe-
rience at nationally significant battlefields of the Amer-
ican Revolution, War of 1812, and Civil War, S. 242,
to require the Secretary of Agriculture to release rever-
sionary and reserved interests in certain land in the
Coconino National Forest in the State of Arizona, S. 258,
to prohibit oil and gas leasing on the National Forest
System land in the Ruby Mountains Ranger District lo-
cated in the Humboldt-Toiyabe National Forest, Elko
and White Pine Counties, Nevada, S. 298, to establish
the Springfield Race Riot National Historic Monument
in the State of Illinois, S. 327, to amend the Federal
Lands Recreation Enhancement Act to provide for a life-
time National Recreational Pass for any veteran with a
service-connected disability, S. 389, to authorize the Soci-
ety of the First Infantry Division to make modifications
to the First Division Monument located on Federal land
in Presidential Park in the District of Columbia, S. 430,
to extend the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-
Determination Act of 2000, S. 434, to provide for a re-
port on the maintenance of Federal land holdings under
the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, S. 490,
to designate a mountain ridge in the State of Montana
as ‘‘B–47 Ridge’’, S. 499, to amend the Outer Conti-
nental Shelf Lands Act to apply to territories of the
United States, to establish offshore wind lease sale re-
quirements, to provide dedicated funding for coral reef
conservation, S. 526, to withdraw certain Bureau of Land
Management land from mineral development, S. 641, to
update the map of, and modify the maximum acreage
available for inclusion in, the Yucca House National
Monument, S. 774, to adjust the boundary of the Santa
Monica Mountains National Recreation Area to include
the Rim of the Valley Corridor, S. 1152, to provide for
the transfer of administrative jurisdiction over certain par-
cels of Federal land in Arlington, Virginia, S. 1262, to
designate certain land administered by the Bureau of
Land Management and the Forest Service in the State of
Oregon as wilderness and national recreation areas, to
withdraw certain land located in Curry County and Jose-
phine County, Oregon, from all forms of entry, appro-
priation, or disposal under the public land laws, location,
entry, and patent under the mining laws, and operation
under the mineral leasing and geothermal leasing laws, S.
1890, to provide for grants for energy efficiency improve-
ments and renewable energy improvements at public
school facilities, S. 2108, to amend section 6903 of title
31, United States Code, to provide for additional popu-
lation tiers, S. 2393, to promote a 21st century energy
workforce, S. 2399, to amend the Energy Policy Act of
2005 to improve State loan eligibility for projects for in-
novative technology, S. 2660, to establish a grant pro-
gram for wind energy research, development, and dem-
onstration, S. 2666, to promote the development of re-
newable energy on public land, and H.R. 617, to author-
ize the Department of Energy to conduct collaborative re-
search with the Department of Veterans Affairs in order
to improve healthcare services for veterans in the United
States, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: December 11, business
meeting to consider S. 2641, to promote United States
national security and prevent the resurgence of ISIS, S.
2547, to state the policy of the United States with re-
spect to the expansion of cooperation with allies and part-
ners in the Indo-Pacific region and Europe regarding the
People’s Republic of China, S. 2977, to extend the termi-
nation of sanctions with respect to Venezuela under the
Venezuela Defense of Human Rights and Civil Society
Act of 2014, S. 1310, to strengthen participation of
elected national legislators in the activities of the Organi-
zation of American States and reaffirm United States sup-
port for Organization of American States human rights
and anti-corruption initiatives, S. 1830, to enhance the
security of the United States and its allies, S. 704, to
prioritize the efforts of and enhance coordination among
United States agencies to encourage countries in Central
and Eastern Europe to diversify their energy sources and
supply routes, increase Europe’s energy security, and help
the United States reach its global energy security goals,
S. 1189, to require the Secretary of State to determine
whether the Russian Federation should be designated as
a state sponsor of terrorism and whether Russian-spon-
sored armed entities in Ukraine should be designated as
foreign terrorist organizations, S. 482, to strengthen the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, to combat inter-
national cybercrime, and to impose additional sanctions
with respect to the Russian Federation, S.J. Res. 4, re-
quiring the advice and consent of the Senate or an Act
of Congress to suspend, terminate, or withdraw the
United States from the North Atlantic Treaty and author-
izing related litigation, S. Con. Res. 23, honoring the
75th Anniversary of the Battle of the Bulge fought dur-
ing World War II, recognizing the valiant efforts of the
Allied Forces in December 1944, and remembering those
who made the ultimate sacrifice, all of which contributed
to the Allied victory in the European Theater, S. Res.
142, condemning the Government of the Philippines for
its continued detention of Senator Leila De Lima, calling
for her immediate release, S. Res. 152, expressing the im-
portance of the United States alliance with the Republic
of Korea and the contributions of Korean Americans in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1344 December 9, 2019
the United States, S. Res. 260, recognizing the impor-
tance of sustained United States leadership to accelerating
global progress against maternal and child malnutrition
and supporting the commitment of the United States
Agency for International Development to global nutrition
through the Multi-Sectoral Nutrition Strategy, S. Res.
297, commending the Inter-American Foundation (IAF)
on the occasion of its 50th anniversary for its significant
accomplishments and contributions to the economic and
social development of the Americas, S. Res. 343, con-
gratulating the people of the Czech Republic and the
people of the Slovak Republic on the 30th anniversary of
the Velvet Revolution, the 26th anniversary of the forma-
tion of the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, and
the 101st anniversary of the declaration of independence
of Czechoslovakia, S. Res. 371, reaffirming the support of
the United States for the people of the Republic of South
Sudan and calling on all parties to uphold their commit-
ments to peace and dialogue as outlined in the 2018 revi-
talized peace agreement, S. Res. 374, expressing support
for the designation of October 23, 2019, as a national day
of remembrance of the tragic terrorist bombing of the
United States Marine Corps barracks in Beirut, Lebanon,
in 1983, S. Res. 375, recognizing the 75th anniversary
of the Warsaw Uprising, S. Res. 385, celebrating the
30th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall, the reuni-
fication of both Germany and Europe, and the spread of
democracy around the world, S. Res. 395, recognizing the
40th anniversary of the Iran Hostage Crisis, H.R. 2744,
to authorize the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development to prescribe the
manner in which programs of the agency are identified
overseas, H.R. 133, to promote economic partnership and
cooperation between the United States and Mexico, an
original resolution expressing serious concern about wide-
spread irregularities in Bolivia’s October 20, 2019, gen-
eral elections and supporting the convening of new elec-
tions in Bolivia at the earliest possible date, the nomina-
tion of Sung Y. Kim, of California, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Indonesia, Department of State, and other
pending calendar business, 10 a.m., S–116, Capitol.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: De-
cember 12, business meeting to consider S. 2971, to
amend and reauthorize the Child Abuse Prevention and
Treatment Act, S. 2080, to amend the Public Health
Service Act to increase the number of permanent faculty
in palliative care at accredited allopathic and osteopathic
medical schools, nursing schools, social work schools, and
other programs, including physician assistant education
programs, to promote education and research in palliative
care and hospice, and to support the development of fac-
ulty careers in academic palliative medicine, S. 2683, to
establish a task force to assist States in implementing hir-
ing requirements for child care staff members to improve
child safety, S. 2927, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to provide that the authority of the Director of the
National Institute on Minority Health and Health Dis-
parities to make certain research endowments applies with
respect to both current and former centers of excellence,
an original bill entitled, ‘‘Title VII Reauthorization’’, and
the nomination of Crosby Kemper III, of Missouri, to be
Director of the Institute of Museum and Library Services,
10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Indian Affairs: December 11, business
meeting to consider S. 1853, to require Federal law en-
forcement agencies to report on cases of missing or mur-
dered Indians, and S. 2365, to amend the Indian Health
Care Improvement Act to authorize urban Indian organi-
zations to enter into arrangements for the sharing of med-
ical services and facilities; to be immediately followed by
a hearing to examine the nomination of Michael D.
Weahkee, of New Mexico, to be Director of the Indian
Health Service, Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: December 10, to hold hear-
ings to examine encryption and lawful access, focusing on
evaluating benefits and risks to public safety and privacy,
10 a.m., SD–226.
December 10, Subcommittee on Intellectual Property,
to hold an oversight hearing to examine modernization of
the United States Copyright Office, 2:30 p.m., SD–226.
December 11, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the Inspector General’s report on alleged abuses of
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, 10 a.m.,
SH–216.
Committee on Rules and Administration: December 12, to
hold hearings to examine the nomination of J. Brett
Blanton, of Virginia, to be Architect of the Capitol, 10
a.m., SR–301.
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Decem-
ber 11, to hold hearings to examine the nomination of
Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to be Administrator of the
Small Business Administration, 2:30 p.m., SR–428A.
Select Committee on Intelligence: December 10, to hold
closed hearings to examine certain intelligence matters,
2:30 p.m., SH–219.
December 12, Full Committee, to receive a closed
briefing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House Committees
Committee on Agriculture, December 11, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Long-
worth.
December 11, Subcommittee on Commodity Ex-
changes, Energy, and Credit, hearing entitled ‘‘Review of
Credit Conditions: Report from Agricultural Lenders’’, 2
p.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Armed Services, December 11, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Policy in Syria and the
Broader Region’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
December 11, Subcommittee on Intelligence and
Emerging Threats and Capabilities, hearing entitled ‘‘Cli-
mate Change in the Era of Strategic Competition’’, 2
p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, December 12, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Education
Department’s Implementation of Borrower Defense’’, 9
a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, December 11, Full Com-
mittee, continue markup on H.R. 1731, the ‘‘Cybersecu-
rity Disclosure Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2445, the ‘‘Self-Em-
ployed Mortgage Access Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4545, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1345
December 9, 2019
‘‘Private Loan Disability Discharge Act of 2019’’; H.R.
5287, the ‘‘Fair Student Loan Debt Collection Practices
Act’’; H.R. 5294, the ‘‘Student Borrowers Protections
Act’’; H.R. 5332, the ‘‘Protecting Your Credit Score Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 5330, the ‘‘Consumer Protections for
Medical Debt Collections Act’’; H.R. 5322, the ‘‘Ensur-
ing Diversity in Community Banking Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 5315, the ‘‘Expanding Opportunities for Minority
Depository Institutions (MDIs) Act’’; legislation electing
majority members to the Subcommittee on Investor Pro-
tection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital; legislation estab-
lishing the Task Force on Artificial Intelligence; and leg-
islation establishing the Task Force on Financial Tech-
nology, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, December 12, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day Hearing’’, 9:30
a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, December 11, Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties; and Sub-
committee on Transportation and Maritime Security of
the House Committee on Homeland Security, joint hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Righting the Ship: The Coast Guard Must
Improve its Processes for Addressing Harassment, Bul-
lying, and Retaliation’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
December 11, Subcommittee on Government Oper-
ations, hearing entitled ‘‘FITARA 9.0’’, 2 p.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, December 11, Subcommittee on
Legislative and Budget Process, hearing entitled ‘‘Solving
an Epidemic: Addressing Human Trafficking Around
Major Events like the Super Bowl and the Need for
Cross-Jurisdictional Solutions’’ [Original Jurisdiction
Hearing], 10:30 a.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, December
11, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Boeing 737
MAX: Examining the Federal Aviation Administration’s
Oversight of the Aircraft’s Certification’’, 10 a.m., 2167
Rayburn.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, December 11, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Creating a Climate Resil-
ient America: Smart Finance for Strong Communities’’, 2
p.m., 210 Cannon.
Joint Meetings
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe: Decem-
ber 11, to receive a briefing on Albania’s leadership in
Europe, 2 p.m., 2253, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1346 December 9, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, December 10
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Patrick J. Bumatay, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nomination at 2:15 p.m.
Following disposition of the nomination of Patrick J.
Bumatay, Senate will vote on the motion to invoke clo-
ture on the nomination of Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit,
and on passage of S. 2740, Over-the-Counter Monograph
Safety, Innovation, and Reform Act.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Tuesday, December 10
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of H.R. 729—
Tribal Coastal Resiliency Act (Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Buck, Ken, Colo., E1557, E1559
Chabot, Steve, Ohio, E1562
Connolly, Gerald E., Va., E1564
Costa, Jim, Calif., E1559
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E1559
Emmer, Tom, Minn., E1562
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E1558
Green, Mark E., Tenn., E1561
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E1558
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E1563
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1560, E1561, E1563
Kinzinger, Adam, Ill., E1560
Lee, Barbara, Calif., E1562
McCollum, Betty, Minn., E1560
Norcross, Donald, N.J., E1557
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1557
Olson, Pete, Tex., E1558, E1558, E1560, E1560, E1561,
E1563
Porter, Katie, Calif., E1563
Sarbanes, John P., Md., E1557
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E1561
Taylor, Van, Tex., E1564
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1557
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E1562
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:22 Dec 10, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D09DE9.REC D09DEPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
