Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H5273
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019 No. 114
House of Representatives
The House met at 2 p.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. CLAY).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
July 9, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable WM. LACY
CLAY to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving and gracious God, we give
You thanks for giving us another day.
As the Members of this assembly re-
turn from days away celebrating our
Nation’s birth, may they return rested
and ready to assume the difficult work
which must be done.
We pray for the needs of the Nation,
the world, and all of creation. Bless
those who seek to honor You and serve
each other and all Americans in this
House through their public service.
May the words and deeds of this place
reflect an earnest desire for justice,
and may men and women in govern-
ment build on the tradition of equity
and truth that represents the noblest
heritage of our people.
May Your blessing, O God, be with us
this day and every day to come, and
may all we do be for Your greater
honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
JOYCE) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
GROWING OUR ECONOMY
(Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Mr.
Speaker, Congress has exactly 3 weeks
to pass the USMCA before we break for
our August work period, and we owe it
to our constituents to get the job done.
The USMCA will benefit every dis-
trict in America, as it will lead to
176,000 new jobs and grow the U.S.
economy by an additional $68 billion.
This agreement will also be a huge
benefit to my constituents. Pennsylva-
nia’s 13th District is made up of so
many hardworking dairy farmers who
have struggled in recent years. This
deal will unleash new markets and
bring our industry back to life.
Instead of hauling Robert Mueller be-
fore a committee to rehash a case that
is already closed, Congress should be
putting all of our efforts into making
the USMCA agreement law.
During July, my focus will be on
passing the USMCA and growing our
economy for years to come. I urge all
of my colleagues to join me in this
mission.
f
PREVENTING LYME DISEASE
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of
H.R. 3073, the TICK Act, which would
help combat the rise of tickborne and
bloodborne illnesses across the coun-
try. These diseases are rapidly becom-
ing a serious and growing threat to
public health with more than 300,000 es-
timated cases annually.
In my home State of Pennsylvania
alone, ticks are a common threat to
those who explore our vast network of
trails and public lands in Pennsyl-
vania.
While ticks carry a variety of harm-
ful diseases, Lyme disease is one of the
most prevalent. Currently, there are no
uniformly accepted treatment options
for patients with chronic symptoms of
Lyme disease.
The TICK Act would develop a na-
tional strategy to prevent and treat
Lyme and other diseases, including
those spread by mosquitos and fleas. It
would also authorize the Centers for
Disease Control to award grants to
State health departments to support
early detection and diagnosis, improve
treatment, and raise public awareness.
I am proud to cosponsor H.R. 3073,
and I urge my colleagues to cosponsor
this legislation to prevent and treat
Lyme and other vector-borne diseases.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM CHAIR OF
HOUSE REPUBLICAN CONFERENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Chair of the House
Republican Conference:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, July 8, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to clause
5(b)(1) of Rule X, I am writing to inform you
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:11 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.000 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5274 July 9, 2019
that Rep. Justin Amash has resigned as a
member of the House Republican Conference.
Sincerely,
LIZ CHENEY,
Chair, House Republican Conference.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
SPEAKER
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE,
July 9, 2019.
Hon. ELIJAH CUMMINGS,
Rayburn House Office Building,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN CUMMINGS: This letter is to
advise you that Representative JUSTIN
AMASH’s election to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform has been automatically va-
cated pursuant to clause 5(b) of rule X effec-
tive today.
Best regards,
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 4:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 6 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1631
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 4 o’clock and
31 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PROTECTING AFFORDABLE MORT-
GAGES FOR VETERANS ACT OF
2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1988) to clarify seasoning require-
ments for certain refinanced mortgage
loans, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 1988
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. SEASONING REQUIREMENTS FOR CER-
TAIN REFINANCED MORTGAGE
LOANS.
(a) GINNIE MAE.—Paragraph (1) of section
306(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.
1721(g)(1)) is amended by striking the second
sentence (as added by section 309(b) of Public
Law 115–174).
(b) VETERANS LOANS.—Section 3709 of title
38, United States Code, is amended by strik-
ing subsection (c) and inserting the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(c) LOAN SEASONING.—Except as provided
in subsection (d) and notwithstanding sec-
tion 3703 of this title or any other provision
of law, a loan to a veteran for a purpose spec-
ified in section 3710 of this title that is a refi-
nance may not be guaranteed or insured
under this chapter until the date that is the
later of—
‘‘(1) the date on which the borrower has
made at least six consecutive monthly pay-
ments on the loan being refinanced; and
‘‘(2) the date that is 210 days after the first
payment due date of the loan being refi-
nanced.’’.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act may be construed to restrict or oth-
erwise modify the authorities of the Govern-
ment National Mortgage Association.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks on this
legislation and to insert extraneous
material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, last year, when Con-
gress passed S. 2155, it included as sec-
tion 309 a bill sponsored by Senators
TILLIS and WARREN titled Protecting
Veterans from Predatory Lending Act
of 2018.
That provision put new requirements
in place to protect veteran borrowers
from the aggressive and deceptive mar-
keting practices of lenders pushing
mortgage refinance deals.
However, the drafting of this provi-
sion caused some unintended con-
sequences; specifically, an estimated
2,500 loans that were in full compliance
with all requirements at the time were
later denied Ginnie securitization sim-
ply because they were in the process of
being refinanced or securitized when
the law became effective.
Senators WARREN and TILLIS weighed
in with Ginnie Mae, stating that it was
not their intention to orphan those
loans and have urged Ginnie Mae to ad-
dress the issue.
However, Ginnie believes legislation
is needed to grandfather these or-
phaned loans and address other admin-
istrative issues that have resulted from
the slight differences between the new
requirements in S. 2155 and Ginnie’s
prior requirements.
That is why we are here today with
the bill from the gentleman from Geor-
gia, H.R. 1988, which is a reasonable
step to address what were clearly unin-
tended consequences of the previous
legislation. I am pleased to support
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. SCOTT and
Mr. ZELDIN for introducing this bill,
urge Members to vote ‘‘yes,’’ and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1988, the Protecting Affordable Mort-
gages for Veterans Act, introduced by
my friend, the gentleman from Georgia
(Mr. DAVID SCOTT).
This bill is an important continu-
ation of work that our colleague LEE
ZELDIN from Long Island, who is a lieu-
tenant colonel in the Army Reserve,
started last Congress to better protect
our Nation’s veterans from financial
fraud.
This Congress, I was pleased to join
Congressmen SCOTT and ZELDIN as an
original cosponsor of this legislation,
along with my colleague on the House
Veterans’ Affairs Committee, Congress-
man LEVIN, to assist with advancing
this bill through both this committee,
the Financial Services Committee, and
the House Veterans’ Affairs Com-
mittee.
Last year, Congress enacted S. 2155,
the most pro-growth banking bill in a
generation. Section 309 of that legisla-
tion included a provision to impose a
new seasoning requirement for the
securitization of loans insured by the
VA.
This provision addresses the ques-
tionable practice of churning; that is,
the refinancing of a home loan over
and over again just to generate fees
and profits for lenders with a slight
short-term benefit for the borrower but
at an increased life-of-the-loan cost.
Unfortunately, that provision cre-
ated a technical issue for a group of VA
loans that fell into no-man’s land, if
you will, between the date on which
the mortgage was issued and the tech-
nical requirements of the new law, in-
creasing the risk to lenders and mak-
ing the loans less attractive to inves-
tors.
Congressmen ZELDIN and SCOTT took
quick action to correct this unintended
consequence, but Congress ran out of
time last year and it did not become
law.
The bill we are considering today,
H.R. 1988, is a continuation of their ef-
forts to address this unintended prob-
lem and ensure that these VA loans re-
ceive the equitable treatment they de-
serve.
To some, this bill today might seem
to be just a technical fix, but it is an
important one. Our Nation’s veterans
should not be subject to suspect prac-
tices like churning.
I am pleased that this bill, along
with the ongoing efforts of the VA loan
securitizer Ginnie Mae, will stamp out
churning and better protect veterans.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 1988 and, once again, com-
mend my colleague from Georgia (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:11 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.003 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5275
July 9, 2019
DAVID SCOTT), and I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Georgia (Mr. DAVID
SCOTT), a senior member of the Com-
mittee on Financial Services and spon-
sor of H.R. 1988.
Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Speaker, I thank Chairwoman WATERS
for her support and encouragement to
us to continue this.
Mr. Speaker, I want to make this
opening statement because it is very
important for us to realize the impor-
tance of this bill because, today, ac-
cording to the latest data from the
Veterans Administration, we are losing
20 of our military veterans every single
day to suicide.
This is a clarion call from our vet-
erans for help, and what we are doing
today is one small step. But, as I will
explain as I go on, we are doing much,
much more because we need to bring
this suicide rate to a stop.
So much of it is caused by dis-
appointment, discouragement, and giv-
ing up. But, after today, with this vote,
we will send a powerful message to this
Nation and especially to our precious
veterans that help is indeed on the
way.
Now, I first of all want to thank my
bipartisan friends Mr. ANDY BARR, Mr.
ZELDIN, all of them, for this is truly a
bipartisan effort, and I thank them for
their support as we move forward with
this.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I want to take my
time and I want to go through this, and
I want folks to really understand why
this is so important. Mr. BARR touched
on it.
Last year, when Congress passed S.
2155, which was called the Economic
Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Con-
sumer Protection Act, it included a set
of bipartisan reforms to refinancing re-
quirements for loans to protect our
veterans from the predatory act of loan
churning.
Mr. Speaker, this shows you the devi-
ousness of it, that here you have these
predatory lenders who are out here tar-
geting our veterans and charging them
over and over for the same payment on
these refinancings.
How devious—how evil—can you be
to do this to our veterans over and over
again? And they do this to generate
these fees and profits for these preda-
tory lenders, while offering little to no
benefit for our veteran homeowners—
just using them.
So, in order to prevent this, S. 2155
codified new refinancing requirements,
requiring lenders to demonstrate a ma-
terial benefit to consumers when fi-
nancing their mortgages and allowing
for the initial loan to mature for at
least 210 days before a borrower can re-
finance.
Now, these reforms were necessary to
ensure that our veterans are ade-
quately protected from these bad ac-
tors, these predatory lenders, so that
our veterans can have access to the
safe and affordable homeownership op-
portunities that they have earned and
deserve.
Upon implementation of S. 2155, how-
ever, as Mr. BARR mentioned, a tech-
nical error in the language of S. 2155
caused a deviation in how this 210-day
seasoning period was calculated, be-
tween what was written in the text and
the requirement in place at Ginnie
Mae.
For those who may not know, Ginnie
Mae is the Government National Mort-
gage Association.
Now, this, combined with the lack of
clarity around time lines to implement
these new requirements, has caused
2,500 refinanced veteran loans that met
Federal requirements at the time of
closing and were guaranteed by the VA
to be barred from this Government Na-
tional Mortgage Association, Ginnie
Mae’s securitization, which resulted in
making these veteran loans orphan
loans.
They are there but no longer eligible
for the secondary investment market
opportunities that they deserve, de-
spite meeting all Federal require-
ments, as well as backing from the VA,
and it is clear that it was not the in-
tent of Congress to orphan these vet-
eran loans.
But, rather, our intent when we
passed the Senate bill was to ensure
that there were strong and enduring
protections in place to prevent future
loan churning.
Can you imagine somebody sending
you a bill and you paying for the same
thing over and over? How evil is that?
This bill that we have today will put
a stop to that predatory type lending
and the abuse that it has caused our
veterans.
And this is also necessary, Mr.
Speaker, because it preserves liquidity
while maintaining strong refinancing
requirements to keep these bad actors
out and ensuring that our veterans, our
men and women of the military who
have served our country through their
outstanding bravery, their courage,
their great sacrifice for us, have access
now to safe and affordable home owner-
ship opportunities.
b 1645
Mr. Speaker, without this needed leg-
islative fix, VA lenders may need to
sell or refinance these mortgages at a
loss, causing damage to the VA home
loan market and potentially hindering
their ability to originate similar loans
in the future or raising borrowing costs
and rates for other qualified veterans
who will be suffering the same abuse.
Mr. Speaker, as I mentioned before, I
am especially proud to have worked
with my colleagues on this: Mr. LEE
ZELDIN on the Financial Services Com-
mittee; Ms. WATERS, our chairwoman;
and Mr. ANDY BARR, who sits on this
committee. I also want to mention Mr.
MIKE LEVIN, who sits on the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs.
We provided bipartisan common
sense to fix this for our beloved vet-
erans. Through this bipartisan work of
my colleagues on these two commit-
tees, we have been able to move this
bill through the House, ensuring that
the dream of homeownership continues
to be preserved for our Nation’s pre-
cious veterans, to whom we owe the
deepest debt of gratitude.
Mr. Speaker, I mentioned in my re-
marks about this great tragedy, and I
want to take this opportunity to let
veterans who may be hearing this dis-
cussion this afternoon know that this
Congress stands with and around them,
and there are Members of Congress
that have many bills and many dif-
ferent programs to get financial re-
sources.
Dr. BUCSHON, my Republican col-
league, and I, for example, have a proc-
ess going where we are addressing the
shortage of psychiatrists. We are work-
ing with the American Psychiatric As-
sociation and the American Medical
Association to pay those doctors’ stu-
dent tuitions and give them scholar-
ships so that they can come into the
VA to work.
For the project I am working on with
my good friend, Senator JOHNNY ISAK-
SON over in the Senate, we are trying
to get more resources to open up more
health clinics for our VA. And there
are other things going.
I want people to know that down in
my home State of Georgia, in my dis-
trict, in the next month, on August 10,
the doctors, nurses, and hospitals all
over Atlanta, Georgia, are coming to-
gether, giving their time, along with
the top administrators from the VA.
They will be there in Jonesboro at
Mundy’s Mill High School.
We can cut down this suicide rate. It
is a shame. It is a disgrace for this
country. We are doing something about
it in this Congress. Members on both
sides of the aisle understand that this
isn’t a Democratic problem or a Repub-
lican problem. It is America’s problem,
and our veterans deserve our help.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, again, I
thank my friend, the gentleman from
Georgia, for his bipartisanship and his
willingness to fight for veterans. I ap-
preciate that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ZELDIN), my Republican
colleague on the House Financial Serv-
ices Committee, a veteran himself and
a servicemember who has been a cham-
pion on legislating this fix.
Mr. ZELDIN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Ranking Member BARR for his leader-
ship, not just for yielding time. This is
something that he has been working on
himself, putting a lot of heart, passion,
and thought into.
I thank Congressman DAVID SCOTT
for his incredible leadership on this im-
portant bipartisan effort. He laid it out
so eloquently just now, the many as-
pects of not just this issue but the need
to fight for veterans.
There are many people who are here
in the gallery, millions of people at
home watching C–SPAN, shocked at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:11 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.006 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5276 July 9, 2019
what they are seeing, as Republicans
and Democrats in the House and the
Senate work together to get a bill
through committee, through the Cham-
bers, and to the President’s desk to be-
come law. The beneficiaries will be our
Nation’s veterans.
I rise today to urge passage of H.R.
1988, the Protecting Affordable Mort-
gages for Veterans Act. It provides
more than a technical fix. It is impor-
tant for recently issued loans refi-
nanced by the Department of Veterans
Affairs to remain eligible for the sec-
ondary market.
This fix is essential to prevent a li-
quidity crisis in the veterans home
loan market and ensure that the brave
men and women who have served our
Nation in uniform have access to af-
fordable mortgages.
Through passage of this bill, we can
ensure that VA home loans are not ad-
versely impacted by issues in the vet-
erans mortgage market created by the
unintended consequences of S. 2155.
The Economic Growth, Regulatory
Relief, and Consumer Protection Act,
S. 2155, became law in May 2018 and
contained some very important bipar-
tisan reforms to protect veterans from
predatory lending and deceptive mar-
keting. These provisions are essential
to protect the VA home loan market,
but unclear timelines laid out in the
legislation, and the way that Ginnie
Mae chose to implement the require-
ments of the new law, have left an esti-
mated 2,500 or more VA home loans
boxed out of the secondary market.
These mortgages are now considered
orphan loans because they are no
longer eligible for Ginnie Mae
securitization, even though they met
all Federal requirements and are
backed by the VA.
This bill would prevent a govern-
ment-triggered liquidity crisis in the
VA mortgage market by fixing this
problem and restoring eligibility for
these orphaned loans.
Addressing this issue ensures that
veteran homeowners or prospective
home buyers who have earned access to
the VA home loan program through
their military service aren’t hurt by a
fluke in S. 2155.
Without this bill, potential damage
to the overall VA home loan market is
likely because VA lenders may have to
sell or finance these orphaned mort-
gages at a loss. This would have a neg-
ative impact on the brave men and
women who have served our country
and deserve a path to homeownership
in order to achieve the American
Dream.
If lenders aren’t able to securitize VA
home loans through Ginnie Mae, clos-
ing costs and borrowing costs could go
up, and opportunities to borrow or refi-
nance could go down.
Mr. Speaker, veterans have some of
the lowest default and foreclosure rates
in the Nation. They have earned access
to VA home loans through their self-
less service to our country.
Even one VA home loan negatively
impacted by a minor mistake is one
too many when it comes to giving our
veterans access to homeownership.
That is why we must pass this bipar-
tisan bill and send it to the President’s
desk to become law as soon as possible.
Again, I thank my lead bipartisan co-
sponsors, Congressmen DAVID SCOTT
and ANDY BARR, and MIKE LEVIN. I
thank Chairwoman WATERS for her ef-
forts and Ranking Member MCHENRY.
This was a truly bipartisan effort from
the committee. Everyone came to-
gether and worked together to get to
this important point, a huge bipar-
tisan, bicameral win coming for our
Nation’s veterans.
I urge adoption of this important bi-
partisan bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to avoid references
to occupants of the gallery.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I would
inquire, through the Chair, if my col-
league has any remaining speakers on
his side.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I am pre-
pared to close.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I am prepared to
close.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Once again, I thank the sponsor of
this legislation, the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. DAVID SCOTT).
I thank the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ZELDIN) for his continued
leadership on this legislation.
I thank the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. LEVIN), whom I have the
privilege of serving with on the Vet-
erans Affairs’ Committee as well, for
his leadership in getting this bipar-
tisan legislation to the House floor and
to this point.
I thank the chairwoman of our full
committee, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS), for her lead-
ership in helping navigate this legisla-
tion forward.
Mr. Speaker, in conclusion, this is an
important piece of legislation. It is bi-
partisan recognition of a problem cre-
ated unintentionally by a law passed
last year, and it is about providing two
basic protections for veterans: pro-
tecting veterans who are seeking the
dream of homeownership from preda-
tory practices and from this practice of
churning, and preserving liquidity in
the secondary market for VA loans,
which, in a nutshell, means that our
veterans will have access to more af-
fordable housing.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my friends on
the other side of the aisle, and I thank
Mr. ZELDIN for his leadership.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
H.R. 1988 will address some unin-
tended administrative complications
that resulted from implementing laws
that were put in place to help protect
veterans from unscrupulous lenders.
I thank Mr. SCOTT and Mr. ZELDIN for
working in a bipartisan manner to
bring H.R. 1988 before the House. I urge
my colleagues to join me in supporting
this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1988, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION
REFORM ACT OF 2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2515) to amend the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 to amend the defi-
nition of whistleblower, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2515
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Whistle-
blower Protection Reform Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. WHISTLEBLOWER.
Section 21F of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78u–6) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(6)—
(A) by striking ‘‘(6) WHISTLEBLOWER.—The
term’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘(6) WHISTLEBLOWER.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term’’; and
(B) by adding the following new subpara-
graph at the end:
‘‘(B) SPECIAL RULE.—Solely for the pur-
poses of subsection (h)(1), the term ‘whistle-
blower’ shall also include any individual who
takes an action described in subsection
(h)(1)(A), or 2 or more individuals acting
jointly who take an action described in sub-
section (h)(1)(A).’’; and
(2) in subsection (h)(1)(A)—
(A) in clause (ii), by striking ‘‘or’’ at the
end;
(B) in clause (iii), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iv) in providing information regarding
any conduct that the whistleblower reason-
ably believes constitutes a violation of any
law, rule, or regulation subject to the juris-
diction of the Commission to—
‘‘(I) a person with supervisory authority
over the whistleblower at the whistle-
blower’s employer, where such employer is
an entity registered with or required to be
registered with the Commission, a self-regu-
latory organization, or a State securities
commission or office performing like func-
tions; or
‘‘(II) such other person working for the em-
ployer described under subclause (I) who has
the authority to investigate, discover, or ter-
minate misconduct.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.008 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5277
July 9, 2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I thank Representative GREEN, the
chairman of the Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations, for work-
ing with the gentleman from Michigan
(Mr. HUIZENGA) to craft this timely
piece of legislation to ensure that all
whistleblowers reporting suspected se-
curities law violations are protected
from retaliation by their employers.
In the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress pro-
vided the Securities and Exchange
Commission the authority to reward
whistleblowers who voluntarily provide
the SEC with original information that
leads to a successful enforcement ac-
tion with monetary sanctions exceed-
ing $1 million.
b 1700
Realizing that these whistleblowers
may be deterred by their employers,
Congress also required the SEC to issue
regulations to protect them from retal-
iatory efforts, such as firing or demo-
tion; but in 2018, the Supreme Court
held that whistleblowers who report al-
leged misconduct internally but not to
the SEC are not protected by the
antiretaliation provisions of Dodd-
Frank. This is not what Congress in-
tended. Indeed, requiring whistle-
blowers to race to the SEC in order to
be protected discourages them from re-
porting their suspicions to their superi-
ors.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce high-
lighted the importance of internal re-
porting in its 2010 letter to the SEC,
stating: ‘‘The experience of the many
companies with robust internal report-
ing programs, as well as the empirical
evidence, demonstrate that all stake-
holders benefit when those with knowl-
edge of potential securities law viola-
tions report internally, thus enabling
management to promptly investigate
and take remedial action.’’
By clarifying that whistleblowers
who only report alleged misconduct to
the employers are also protected by the
antiretaliation provisions in the Dodd-
Frank Act, this bill would encourage
employees to communicate potential
securities law violations to their em-
ployers without fear of being fired be-
fore they are able to report to the SEC.
Again, I thank Chairman GREEN and
Mr. HUIZENGA for pushing this impor-
tant bill, and I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting it.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
I rise in support of H.R. 2515, the
Whistleblower Protection Reform Act
of 2019.
I would like to thank my colleagues,
Congressman GREEN and Congressman
HUIZENGA, for their work on this com-
monsense, bipartisan legislation.
Mr. Speaker, whistleblowers play a
very important role in rooting out bad
behavior that harms the market as
well as mom-and-pop investors. Addi-
tionally, businesses have a self-interest
in detecting and eliminating illegal ac-
tivity as swiftly as possible within
their organizations. To that end, clari-
fying the concept of encouraging em-
ployees to report alleged securities
fraud activities to their employers
without fear of retaliation just makes
simple common sense.
Businesses typically strive to comply
with the law, and they have incentives
to do so from market pressures, but it
is also because unlawful activity hurts
the company itself and it hurts its in-
vestors, driving down the company’s
value, tarnishing the company’s rep-
utation, repelling business partners
and customers, and damaging the over-
all marketplace. That is why, frankly,
the vast majority of actors in the pri-
vate sector do the right thing.
For these reasons, many companies
have implemented strong internal re-
porting measures to detect and miti-
gate potential wrongdoing before harm
spreads. But if internal whistleblowers
who report potential securities law vio-
lations internally are not protected
from retaliation, what good are these
internal reporting systems that these
companies have voluntarily estab-
lished?
That notion might seem counterintu-
itive, but last year, in the Digital Real-
ty Trust case, the Supreme Court held
that the whistleblower antiretaliation
protections of the Dodd-Frank Act do
not extend to internal whistleblowers;
only those who report to the SEC are
protected from retaliation.
Now, this is not an error in the Su-
preme Court’s judgment; it is simply a
faithful interpretation of the flawed
drafting of the Dodd-Frank law. This
bill solves this problem by amending
section 922 of Dodd-Frank to clarify
that whistleblowers who report alleged
misconduct internally with their em-
ployers but not to the SEC are pro-
tected by Dodd-Frank’s antiretaliation
provisions.
By clarifying that Dodd-Frank’s
antiretaliation protections also apply
to internal whistleblowers, this bill ad-
dresses the Supreme Court’s interpre-
tation and aligns Dodd-Frank’s whis-
tleblower protections with other major
whistleblower laws.
Again, I want to thank Congressman
GREEN and Congressman HUIZENGA for
this important bipartisan legislation,
which I proudly support. I urge all of
my colleagues to join me in supporting
H.R. 2515.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Texas (Mr. GREEN), the
chairman of the Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations and the
sponsor of H.R. 2515.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I
am honored to present this legislation,
but I am more honored to acknowledge
something that is exceedingly impor-
tant.
The chairwoman of the committee,
the Honorable MAXINE WATERS, has,
under her leadership in this Congress,
produced many pieces of bipartisan leg-
islation. This is but a continuation of
her legislative record. I want to com-
mend her for her efforts, and I would
also like to salute Mr. MCHENRY and
the persons who are across the aisle for
their efforts, as well, in producing bi-
partisan legislation.
I thank Mr. BARR for his assistance
and his help. He is the Oversight rank-
ing member, and he and I will be work-
ing together on many pieces of legisla-
tion.
I am honored today to say that this
piece of legislation was born as a result
of honorable intentions metamor-
phosing into unintended consequences,
honorable intentions.
When we passed Dodd-Frank in 2010,
we sought to add additional protec-
tions for whistleblowers above and be-
yond what was accorded in Sarbanes-
Oxley. In so doing, with the best of in-
tentions, we found that this legislation
was taken before the Supreme Court of
the United States of America, and the
Supreme Court concluded—and I don’t
quarrel with their conclusion, but the
Supreme Court concluded that the leg-
islation would apply only if the person
who was a whistleblower took the con-
cern to the SEC first.
I don’t quarrel with what the Su-
preme Court ruled. This is why we have
this piece of legislation to correct the
best of intentions that metamorphosed
into unintended consequences.
Let’s talk for just a moment about
whistleblowers.
It is exceedingly important to do this
because I want people to know that
whistleblowers are extraordinary peo-
ple in the sense only of they do ex-
traordinary things. They are really or-
dinary people, but they do extraor-
dinary things.
These are the people who are willing
to put their livelihoods on the line.
These are the people who are willing to
take that step that many of us would
not take because, when you take that
step as a whistleblower, you will some-
times stand alone. But they understand
that it is better to stand alone than
never to stand at all, and in so doing,
they are protecting us: consumers,
members of the public.
So I commend the whistleblowers of
the world who take these extraor-
dinary steps.
But we also want to do more than
commend them. We want to protect
them. This legislation will protect
those who are willing to step forward,
those who will see something and say
something, something that we encour-
age people to do.
You can’t encourage people to see
something and say something and then
allow them to do this without the pro-
tections that we should properly ac-
cord them and that we intended to ac-
cord them under Dodd-Frank. So I am
honored today to have this piece of leg-
islation that will give whistleblowers
the protection that we intended and
will also send a message that the com-
panies that they work for can have the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.011 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5278 July 9, 2019
opportunity to take corrective action
before the SEC is informed.
Many of these companies want to do
the right thing, and if given the oppor-
tunity, they will—not all, many. I
think we ought to give them an oppor-
tunity to do the right thing; and to do
so, we would want whistleblowers to
report internally before they take this
to an external source such as the SEC.
Mr. Speaker, this legislation is bipar-
tisan. I am honored to tell you that,
among the persons who are the cospon-
sors, we have the Honorable CAROLYN
MALONEY; the Honorable Representa-
tive GERALD CONNOLLY; the Honorable
GREGORY MEEKS; the Honorable JOYCE
BEATTY, who is here in this room with
us currently; and the Honorable
VICENTE GONZALEZ, all of whom sup-
port it, along with the Honorable
EMANUEL CLEAVER.
I would also add, it is endorsed by the
National Whistleblower Center, en-
dorsed by the North American Securi-
ties Administrators Association, en-
dorsed by Public Citizen, endorsed by
the Government Accountability
Project, endorsed by the Project On
Government Oversight, and endorsed
by the Securities Industry and Finan-
cial Markets Association.
It is another example of how, under
the leadership of the Honorable MAXINE
WATERS, we continue to produce bipar-
tisan legislation. I am honored, Mr.
Speaker, to have this honorable chair-
woman presiding today.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time, and I am
prepared to close.
Mr. Speaker, again, I would thank
Congressman GREEN and Congressman
HUIZENGA for their leadership on this
extending of whistleblower protections,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, this is a very important
measure that will increase corporate
accountability and help those compa-
nies committed to ferreting out wrong-
doing to take action without govern-
ment involvement and protects those
workers who help them to do so.
I commend the gentleman from
Texas and the gentleman from Michi-
gan for working in a bipartisan manner
to bring this bill before the House.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of H.R. 2919, the Whistleblower Pro-
tection Reform Act of 2019.
Whistleblowers are an effective means of
rooting out bad behavior that harms the mar-
ket as well as investors.
In fact, Section 922 of Dodd-Frank amended
the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 to
afford whistleblowers protection from retalia-
tion by their employers for reporting suspected
misconduct.
Additionally, Section 922 allows for the SEC
to provide monetary awards to whistleblowers
who provide ‘‘original information’’ resulting in
monetary sanctions over $1 million.
However, in February 2018, the Supreme
Court held in Digital Realty v. Somers that
whistleblowers who report alleged misconduct
internally to their employer, as opposed to the
SEC, are not protected by Dodd-Frank’s anti-
retaliation provisions.
A whistleblower who reports directiy to their
employee about alleged misconduct shouldn’t
risk being retaliated against. That’s why this
bipartisan bill has been carefully crafted to
clarify the application of the anti-retaliation
provisions to whistleblowers provided within
the Dodd-Frank Act.
By further clarifying the anti-retaliation provi-
sions of section 922 apply to those whistle-
blowers who report internally will encourage
employees to report potential misconduct in-
stead of automatically escalating the issue to
the SEC.
Internal reporting may be more efficient and
practical in some cases as employers have a
chance to correct, self-report, or take other ac-
tion.
Moreover, by clarifying the application of
Dodd-Frank anti-retaliation protections to inter-
nal whistleblowers, the bill aligns with similar
protections for internal whistleblowers within
the Whistleblower Protection Act and Sar-
banes-Oxley.
I’d like to thank my colleague, Mr. GREEN for
working with me on the Whistleblower Protec-
tion Reform Act and I urge my colleagues to
vote yes.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2515, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
HOUSING FINANCIAL LITERACY
ACT OF 2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2162) to require the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development to
discount FHA single-family mortgage
insurance premium payments for first-
time homebuyers who complete a fi-
nancial literacy housing counseling
program, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2162
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Housing Fi-
nancial Literacy Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DISCOUNT ON MORTGAGE INSURANCE
PREMIUM PAYMENTS FOR FIRST-
TIME HOMEBUYERS WHO COMPLETE
FINANCIAL LITERACY HOUSING
COUNSELING PROGRAMS.
The second sentence of subparagraph (A) of
section 203(c)(2) of the National Housing Act
(12 U.S.C. 1709(c)(2)(A)) is amended—
(1) by inserting before the comma the fol-
lowing: ‘‘and such program is completed be-
fore the mortgagor has signed an application
for a mortgage to be insured under this title
or a sales agreement’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘not exceed 2.75 percent of
the amount of the original insured principal
obligation of the mortgage’’ and inserting
‘‘be 25 basis points lower than the premium
payment amount established by the Sec-
retary under the first sentence of this sub-
paragraph’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support H.R.
2162, the Housing Financial Literacy
Act, a bipartisan bill authored by Rep-
resentative BEATTY, the chairwoman of
the Subcommittee on Diversity and In-
clusion, and cosponsored by Represent-
ative STIVERS. This bill will make
homeownership more affordable for
FHA borrowers who complete a hous-
ing counseling program from a HUD-
approved housing counseling agency.
While HUD currently has the author-
ity to provide premium discounts to
incentivize housing counseling, HUD is
not taking advantage of this oppor-
tunity to help borrowers and strength-
en the FHA. Research has consistently
demonstrated that loans made to bor-
rowers who have received prepurchase
counseling perform better than loans
made to comparable borrowers who did
not receive prepurchase counseling.
And when borrowers avoid delin-
quencies, lenders save money, too. A
2013 study by Freddie Mac found that,
when 90-day delinquencies were low-
ered by 29 percent, lenders saved an av-
erage of $1,000 per loan.
b 1715
So this bill would not only benefit
consumers; it would also help increase
the financial health of FHA.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Representative
BEATTY and Representative STIVERS for
their work on this commonsense, data-
driven bill, and I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 2162.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.013 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5279
July 9, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentlewoman from Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY)
for her leadership and her work on H.R.
2162, the Housing Financial Literacy
Act of 2019.
The Federal Housing Administration
currently provides government-backed
mortgage insurance to more than $1.3
trillion in loans. FHA insurance allows
a wide array of borrowers to qualify for
mortgages, including many low- and
moderate-income families who might
not otherwise have access to credit
through traditional underwriting.
In fiscal year 2018, the FHA endorsed
over 1 million forward mortgages, in-
cluding over 775,000 purchase loans,
nearly 83 percent of which were to
first-time home buyers.
Given the large population of first-
time home buyers using the FHA, it
makes sense to encourage those indi-
viduals to seek out ways to strengthen
their financial knowledge and better
prepare themselves for the challenges
of homeownership.
Right now, current law states that
FHA has the ability to provide first-
time homeowners with a discount on
their FHA upfront premiums if they
complete an approved homeownership
financial counseling course—makes a
lot of sense. However, the statute is
drafted in such a way that the provi-
sion only applies in particular cir-
cumstances when FHA upfront pre-
miums exceed 2.75 percent.
Since FHA upfront premiums are
currently set at 1.75 percent, a rate
that has not been exceeded in a decade,
FHA does not currently provide an up-
front premium discount to first-time
homeowners who complete a financial
counseling course.
This bill, H.R. 2162, would amend cur-
rent law to require FHA to provide a
0.25 percent upfront premium discount
from the prevailing rate in effect at
the time for other borrowers to first-
time home borrowers. This equates to a
$625 savings off the current premium
structure on a $250,000 mortgage.
The hope is, by making such a dis-
count mandatory, more first-time
homeowners will seek out financial lit-
eracy counseling and produce better
outcomes for a traditionally at-risk
group of homeowners.
The bottom line is that FHA is a val-
uable tool to help expand the universe
of mortgage credit in our housing sys-
tem, and we ought to be doing all that
we can to make sure that we are using
our limited public resources to encour-
age all borrowers to be well-prepared
for the commitment of homeownership
through financial counseling or any
other effective means of creating more
stable and reliable borrowers.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield as
much time as she may consume to the
gentlewoman from Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY),
the chair of the Subcommittee on Di-
versity and Inclusion and the sponsor
of H.R. 2162.
Mrs. BEATTY. Mr. Speaker, first I
would like to thank Chairwoman
WATERS for all of her leadership and
her support.
Mr. Speaker, for a majority of Amer-
ican families, buying a home will be
the biggest financial purchase in their
lifetime. That is why this bill we are
considering today is so important.
My bill, the Housing Financial Lit-
eracy Act, H.R. 2162, would provide a
25-basis point discount on an FHA up-
front mortgage insurance premium to
first-time home buyers who complete a
HUD-approved housing counseling pro-
gram.
One of the main barriers to home-
ownership is saving up for the down-
payment. This bill would reduce that
barrier by roughly $500.
The FHA has been utilized by every-
day American families to achieve the
American Dream of homeownership.
Eighty-two percent of all FHA-insured
mortgages are used by first-time home
buyers, likely since consumers only
need to put down 3.5 percent as a down-
payment. The downpayment is the
number one barrier to homeownership
for many first-time home buyers.
This bipartisan bill would incentivize
those prospective first-time home buy-
ers to take ahold of their financial fu-
tures by taking a financial literacy
class, while making it easier and a lit-
tle cheaper for them to purchase that
first home.
These classes are already available
across the country, from Homeport and
Homes on the Hill in Columbus, Ohio,
to Kentucky’s Housing Corporation, to
the Kenosha Housing Authority in Wis-
consin, and the list goes on. These
classes are available to first-time home
buyers to purchase a home in urban,
suburban, and rural areas.
Not only is this bill a good deal for
first-time home buyers, but it is also a
good deal for the American taxpayer.
There have been several studies over
the past few years that prove not only
does prepurchase housing counseling
lead to improved mortgage literacy,
greater appreciation for communica-
tions with lenders, and improved un-
derwriting qualifications, such as high-
er credit scores, but there are also
studies that show, as we have heard,
that first-time home buyers who have
received housing counseling are nearly
one-third, Mr. Speaker, less likely to
face delinquencies or foreclosures.
When you consider the average cost
to the taxpayer for default within
FHA’s portfolio is greater than $65,000,
this bill could actually save the tax-
payers money. That is something that
both my Republican and Democratic
colleagues were interested in during
the debate on this bill in committee,
and both sides of the aisle will be
happy to know that, according to the
Congressional Budget Office’s initial
analysis, this bill would not have a
cost to the U.S. taxpayer.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to close by
thanking my colleague and friend from
Ohio, Congressman STEVE STIVERS, for
cosponsoring this important bill.
STEVE and I have served as the co-
chairs of the Financial and Economic
Literacy Caucus for the past two Con-
gresses. This is an issue that we care
about deeply.
Mr. Speaker, I would also like to
thank the organizations that came out
in support of this bill. I think it is very
important for people to know that the
National Association of REALTORS,
the National Housing Resource Center,
the National Association of Real Es-
tate Brokers, the Leadership Con-
ference for Civil and Human Rights,
the League of United Latin American
Citizens, Credit Unions National Asso-
ciation, National Association of Feder-
ally-Insured Credit Unions, Public Cit-
izen, and National Association of His-
panic Real Estate Professionals all sup-
port this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I think you get my
point. People want this bill. It is the
right thing to do.
Mr. Speaker, I want to also thank
Congressman BARR for his support.
I urge my colleagues to join us in
support of this bill, H.R. 2162, to allow
more Americans to reach for that
dream of homeownership in a finan-
cially responsible way. Please support
this bill.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield such
time as he may consume to the gen-
tleman from Ohio (Mr. STIVERS), my
Republican colleague, who is the co-
chairman of the Financial Literacy
Caucus in Congress and someone who
has worked in a bipartisan way very
productively with Congresswoman
BEATTY on this important initiative.
Mr. STIVERS. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to begin by congratulating my
good friend and colleague, Congress-
woman JOYCE BEATTY, for advancing
the Housing Financial Literacy Act,
H.R. 2162. It is an effort she has cham-
pioned for years. As co-chair of the Fi-
nancial Literacy Caucus, I am proud to
cosponsor this legislation with her.
Mr. Speaker, for many folks across
this country, owning a home is quin-
tessential to the American Dream.
While not everyone will always be able
to afford a single-family home, we
should work to encourage the Amer-
ican Dream of homeownership and
make sure that we help people along
the way. It is good for individuals, and
it is good for communities. Not only
does it help individuals build equity
over time, but reducing the disparities
in homeownership by race has the po-
tential to reduce the racial wealth gap
in this country.
However, we must work to ensure
consumers are informed and encourage
responsible homeownership, and the
Housing Financial Literacy Act does
just that. By providing a discount of 25
basis points on the upfront FHA insur-
ance premiums for borrowers who com-
plete HUD-approved prepurchase finan-
cial counseling, what we are doing is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.016 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5280 July 9, 2019
making those homes more affordable;
we are empowering those people with
knowledge; and we are helping build
the dream of homeownership.
This financial counseling is so impor-
tant for first-time buyers. It helps
them understand the costs associated
with homeownership, like taxes, insur-
ance, and maintenance costs. It also
helps them factor in household budg-
eting and recognize high-risk financial
products to make sure they can make
informed decisions.
For people across this country, in-
cluding in my district, having a place
to raise their family is the American
Dream, and I encourage my colleagues
to support this bill to help make home-
ownership a reality for more people.
Mr. Speaker, again, I want to ac-
knowledge my colleague, Congress-
woman JOYCE BEATTY, for her incred-
ible leadership on H.R. 2162, the Hous-
ing Financial Literacy Act. I encour-
age all of my colleagues to support the
bill.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, again, I would like to
commend and applaud my friend, the
gentlewoman from Ohio (Mrs. BEATTY),
for her leadership on this. What an out-
standing list of endorsements of this
legislation. It goes to show how much
work she has put into this and that
Congressman STIVERS and others have
put into this bipartisan legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the chairwoman
of the full committee, Congresswoman
WATERS, for bringing this forward.
In conclusion, as we look at this leg-
islation, it is really a win-win-win:
It is a win because first-time home
buyers are now going to be able to have
a more affordable downpayment.
It is a win, in addition, because those
first-time homeowners, as the gentle-
woman from Ohio and the gentleman
from Ohio pointed out, will be more
prepared for the responsibility of
homeownership, which is what is typi-
cally the most significant investment
anyone makes in their entire lifetime.
And, finally—and I think this is a
point that we do need to underscore as
well—when you are talking about fed-
erally insured, federally backed, tax-
payer-insured, taxpayer-supported
mortgages, it is good for the American
taxpayer that we make sure that
homeowners are prepared for that very
important responsibility.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues—for homeowners, for tax-
payers—to support this legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman and gentleman from Ohio for
pushing this bill forward. This bill
incentivizes financial literacy that will
help avoid delinquencies and may have
an impact well beyond the housing
area.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
important piece of legislation, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2162, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EMPHASIZING IMPORTANCE OF
GRASSROOTS INVESTOR PROTEC-
TION AND INVESTOR EDUCATION
MISSIONS OF STATE AND FED-
ERAL SECURITIES REGULATORS
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 456) emphasizing the im-
portance of grassroots investor protec-
tion and the investor education mis-
sions of State and Federal securities
regulators, calling on the Securities
and Exchange Commission to collabo-
rate with State securities regulators in
the protection of investors, and for
other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 456
Whereas State securities regulators are the
original pioneers of regulating the United
States capital markets and have protected
investors during times of boom and bust,
from ticker tape to the block-chain;
Whereas State securities regulators found-
ed the North American Securities Adminis-
trators Association (NASAA) as a voluntary
association in 1919, 8 years after the first se-
curities laws were enacted in Kansas in 1911;
Whereas NASAA’s membership in 2019 in-
cludes securities administrators in the 50
States, the District of Columbia, Puerto
Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Canada, and
Mexico;
Whereas the fundamental mission of the
State securities regulators is protecting in-
vestors who transact in securities and re-
ceive investment advice, and their jurisdic-
tion extends to a wide variety of issuers and
intermediaries who offer and sell securities
to the public;
Whereas State securities regulators are
leaders in civil and administrative enforce-
ment actions, as well as criminal prosecu-
tions of securities violators;
Whereas State securities regulators have
led efforts resulting in landmark settlements
to stop unfair practices in the securities in-
dustry, the return of billions of dollars to
harmed investors, and thousands of bad ac-
tors sitting in jail as the result of their work
in investigating and uncovering fraud;
Whereas State securities regulators inde-
pendently and within the framework of
NASAA have also devised innovative ways
for small companies to raise investment cap-
ital;
Whereas State securities regulators inde-
pendently and within the framework of
NASAA conduct investor education pro-
grams throughout the United States, pro-
viding important information to main street
Americans on investing for a secure future
and avoiding scams; and
Whereas State securities regulators are
known for their accessibility and account-
ability to the investing public and have been
willing to push the envelope when it comes
to protecting investors: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) emphasizes the longstanding role of
State securities regulators in maintaining
investor protection and vibrant capital mar-
kets in the United States;
(2) supports the efforts of State securities
regulators to educate investors throughout
the United States;
(3) supports the efforts of State securities
regulators to promote responsible and effi-
cient capital formation for the benefit of
small businesses and investors throughout
the United States;
(4) urges State securities regulators to con-
tinue working independently and within the
voluntary framework of NASAA to protect
and educate investors and promote capital
formation; and
(5) urges the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission to maintain and expand voluntary
collaboration with State securities regu-
lators in the interest of the investing public.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
b 1730
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks on this
legislation and to insert extraneous
material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank Rep-
resentative PRESSLEY and Representa-
tive HUIZENGA for bringing H. Res. 456
to the floor, a bipartisan resolution
that highlights the importance of our
State securities regulators to pro-
tecting investors. This year commemo-
rates the 100th anniversary of the
North American Securities Adminis-
trators Association, the oldest inter-
national investor protection organiza-
tion with a membership consisting of
67 State, provincial, and territorial se-
curities regulators in the 50 States, the
District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, Puerto Rico, Canada, and Mex-
ico.
The primary mission of both State
securities regulators and NASAA is to
protect and advocate for the protection
of investors, especially the most vul-
nerable investors, like our Nation’s
seniors, who may lack the expertise,
experience, and resources to protect
their own interests.
These grassroots regulators are often
the first line of defense against invest-
ment fraud and often respond to emerg-
ing frauds and investment scams before
they are detected at the Federal level.
In 2017 alone, State securities regu-
lators conducted nearly 4,790 investiga-
tions, leading to more than 2,100 en-
forcement actions, including 255 crimi-
nal prosecutions. These actions have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.017 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5281
July 9, 2019
resulted in approximately $486 million
in restitution for harmed investors,
nearly $79 million in fines and/or pen-
alties, and 1,985 years in incarceration
or probation being ordered.
In addition, in 2017, NASAA’s U.S.
member jurisdictions reported bringing
formal enforcement actions involving
more than 1,100 senior victims, illus-
trating their unwavering commitment
to protecting senior investors.
NASAA also engages and collabo-
rates with Congress to promote Federal
laws to improve protections for senior
investors. For example, in 2018, we
worked with NASAA to pass the Senior
Safe Act, which was inspired by a
training program developed by NASAA
in partnership with the Maine Council
for Elder Abuse Prevention. The Senior
Safe Act addresses barriers that finan-
cial professionals face in reporting sus-
pected senior financial exploitation or
abuse to authorities.
NASAA also collaborated with us on
the Senior Security Act, which passed
the House with broad, bipartisan sup-
port in April. That bill would, among
other things, require the SEC to work
across divisions and with the State se-
curities regulators to ensure that sen-
iors are not subject to financial exploi-
tation.
I strongly support our State securi-
ties regulators, and I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting this
resolution.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I, too, rise in support of
H. Res. 456.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues,
Congresswoman PRESSLEY and Con-
gressman HUIZENGA, for their work on
this bipartisan resolution.
More often than not, discussions in
the Financial Services Committee are
about the Securities and Exchange
Commission, as it is the primary Fed-
eral regulatory agency for the U.S. se-
curities markets.
However, State securities regulators
also play an important and com-
plementary role in grassroots investor
protection, investor education, and fa-
cilitating capital formation.
H. Res. 456 highlights the important
investor protection missions of State
and Federal securities regulators. The
resolution also encourages the contin-
ued collaboration between the SEC and
State securities regulators.
American capital markets provide an
avenue for mom-and-pop investors and
retail investors to achieve the Amer-
ican Dream and grow their nest egg for
retirement, for their child’s college
tuition, or to buy a home. Protecting
investors, ensuring the integrity of our
capital markets, and promoting capital
formation are goals that we all can
stand behind.
This resolution recognizes the impor-
tant role State securities regulators
play on each of these fronts.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H. Res. 456, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield as
much time as she may consume to the
gentlewoman from Massachusetts (Ms.
PRESSLEY), the sponsor of H. Res. 456.
Ms. PRESSLEY. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairwoman WATERS for her vig-
ilance and her steadfast leadership in
continuing to bring people together
across the aisle on issues of con-
sequence to the American people and
always putting consumer protection at
the center of that. I also thank my col-
league, Representative HUIZENGA, for
his partnership.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of my resolution, which highlights the
important role that State securities
regulators play in strengthening the fi-
nancial services industry.
The 2008 economic crisis devastated
American families everywhere. But, as
we watched the unemployment sky-
rocket, home values plummet, and
credit disappear, it became clear that
the impact of the crisis hit harder for
some. Black families that had only just
begun to build wealth through home-
ownership watched everything they
had worked for disappear.
And although the recovery has been
similarly unequal, it is critical to rec-
ognize those on the front lines pro-
tecting the investments of working
families and small businesses alike.
The North American Securities Ad-
ministrators Association, NASAA,
comprised of securities administrators
from all 50 States, are champions for
stronger investor protections and dili-
gent oversight.
My home State of Massachusetts was
the first to require the registration of
some securities, helping to lay the
groundwork for other State models
that would serve as the foundation for
future Federal securities law.
As the world’s oldest international
investor protection organization,
NASAA has remained vigilant in its
policing of securities trading, securing
over $486 million in restitution to vic-
tims of investment fraud in 2017 alone.
NASAA’s work with AARP helps pro-
tect seniors from the troubling upward
trends in elder financial abuse. Addi-
tionally, they continue to work with
medical professionals on ways to iden-
tify seniors at risk of financial abuse.
NASAA’s efforts to spread retirement
best practices can help empower fami-
lies with the knowledge to invest wise-
ly for generations to come.
My resolution recognizes 100 years of
excellence in investor protection and
encourages continued cooperation be-
tween local, State, and Federal regu-
lators to ensure 100 more.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support my resolution.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, once again,
I appreciate the work of Ms. PRESSLEY,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, this important resolu-
tion demonstrates that our Federal
form of government serves us well.
Both Federal and State authorities
have important roles to play, and this
is certainly true in the securities
arena.
I congratulate my colleagues from
Massachusetts and Michigan for bring-
ing this bipartisan bill before the
House.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today in
support of H. Res. 456 that recognizes the im-
portance of grassroot investor protection and
the investor education missions of State and
Federal securities regulators. Additionally, this
important resolution calls on the Securities
and Exchange Commission to collaborate and
work with State securities regulators to protect
investors.
Over a century ago, a group of state securi-
ties regulators had the idea to form a network
of colleagues to work together for the protec-
tion of investors throughout North America.
Shortly thereafter, the North American Securi-
ties Administrators Association (‘‘NASAA’’)
was formed in 1919. This year, 2019, marks
their 100th anniversary.
The primary mission of both state securities
regulators and NASAA is to protect and advo-
cate for the protection of investors, especially
the most vulnerable who lack the expertise,
experience, and resources to protect their own
interests.
NASAA members accomplish their mission
through the vigorous enforcement of their re-
spective civil and criminal securities laws.
While the securities markets are global, secu-
rities are sold locally. NASAA members are
often the first line of defense against invest-
ment fraud in their jurisdictions. Moreover, be-
cause states are ‘‘grass roots’’ regulators, they
often respond to emerging frauds and invest-
ment scams before they are detected at the
federal level.
NASAA also plays an important role in in-
vestor education, which is one of the best
measures in preventing investment fraud.
NASAA members have developed a wide
array of specialized community outreach pro-
grams to educate investors in their jurisdic-
tions.
Most state securities regulators have estab-
lished investor education departments or divi-
sions within their agencies. The result is an ef-
fective network of dedicated professionals de-
livering unbiased, relevant, and free investor
education programs in local communities
throughout North America. These profes-
sionals can be found educating investors in
the classroom, at the workplace, and at senior
centers. NASAA members work hard to reach
out to people who otherwise would not be able
to readily access such information.
For the past 15 years, NASAA has compiled
and released an annual list of top 10 invest-
ment scams, schemes, and scandals to alert
investors to increasingly complex and con-
fusing investment fraud.
Another important part of NASAA’s mission
is to help with capital formation. To that end,
state securities regulators often work with and
assist local businesses that seek capital in-
vestment. Small businesses are the lifeblood
of our economy. NASAA members help facili-
tate a healthy small business economy that in-
creases growth, investment, and job creation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.020 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5282 July 9, 2019
In my home state of Michigan, NASAA
members have worked tirelessly to become a
leading voice for improving investment edu-
cation, protected investors by utilizing securi-
ties enforcement, and helped build stronger
communities by assisting in capital formation
projects.
Today, NASAA is the oldest international in-
vestor protection organization with a member-
ship consisting of 67 state, provincial, and ter-
ritorial securities regulators in the 50 states,
the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Is-
lands, Puerto Rico, Canada, and Mexico.
I want to congratulate NASAA on their first
100 years and look forward to their work con-
tinuing for many years ahead. I urge passage
of this resolution acknowledging the superb
work of this outstanding organization.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 456.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
IMPROVING INVESTMENT RE-
SEARCH FOR SMALL AND
EMERGING ISSUERS ACT
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2919) to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission to carry out
a study to evaluate the issues affecting
the provision of and reliance upon in-
vestment research into small issuers.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2919
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Improving
Investment Research for Small and Emerg-
ing Issuers Act’’.
SEC. 2. RESEARCH STUDY.
(a) STUDY REQUIRED.—The Securities and
Exchange Commission shall conduct a study
to evaluate the issues affecting the provision
of and reliance upon investment research
into small issuers, including emerging
growth companies and companies consid-
ering initial public offerings.
(b) CONTENTS OF STUDY.—The study re-
quired under subsection (a) shall consider—
(1) factors related to the demand for such
research by institutional and retail inves-
tors;
(2) the availability of such research, in-
cluding—
(A) the number and types of firms who pro-
vide such research;
(B) the volume of such research over time;
and
(C) competition in the research market;
(3) conflicts of interest relating to the pro-
duction and distribution of investment re-
search;
(4) the costs of such research;
(5) the impacts of different payment mech-
anisms for investment research into small
issuers, including whether such research is
paid for by—
(A) hard-dollar payments from research
clients;
(B) payments directed from the client’s
commission income (i.e., ‘‘soft dollars’’); or
(C) payments from the issuer that is the
subject of such research;
(6) any unique challenges faced by minor-
ity-owned, women-owned, and veteran-owned
small issuers in obtaining research coverage;
and
(7) the impact on the availability of re-
search coverage for small issuers due to—
(A) investment adviser concentration and
consolidation, including any potential im-
pacts of fund-size on demand for investment
research of small issuers;
(B) broker and dealer concentration and
consolidation, including any relationships
between the size of the firm and allocation of
resources for investment research into small
issuers;
(C) Securities and Exchange Commission
rules;
(D) registered national securities associa-
tion rules;
(E) State and Federal liability concerns;
(F) the settlement agreements referenced
in Securities and Exchange Commission Liti-
gation Release No. 18438 (i.e., the ‘‘Global
Research Analyst Settlement’’); and
(G) Directive 2014/65/EU of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014
on markets in financial instruments and
amending Directive 2002/92/EC and Directive
2011/61/EU, as implemented by the European
Union (‘‘EU’’) member states (‘‘MiFID II’’).
(c) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion shall submit to Congress a report that
includes—
(1) the results of the study required by sub-
section (a); and
(2) recommendations to increase the de-
mand for, volume of, and quality of invest-
ment research into small issuers, including
emerging growth companies and companies
considering initial public offerings.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks on this
legislation and to insert extraneous
material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the ranking
member of our Investor Protection, En-
trepreneurship, and Capital Markets
Subcommittee, Representative
HUIZENGA, and Representative
MCADAMS, for working across the aisle
on this bipartisan bill to improve in-
vestment research coverage for small
issuers.
Investment research helps to raise
investor awareness, understanding, and
interest about a company, which in
turn can promote informed investment
and overall trading in a company’s se-
curities.
However, reports indicate significant
declines in analyst research on small
public companies. In fact, it appears
that most exchange-listed companies
with less than $100 million in market
capitalization have no research cov-
erage at all.
To address this concerning trend,
H.R. 2919 would direct the SEC to con-
duct a study on the issues that are af-
fecting the availability of research cov-
erage for small issuers, including
emerging growth companies, compa-
nies considering an initial public offer-
ing, and minority-, women-, and vet-
eran-owned businesses. It also directs
the SEC to report back recommenda-
tions to improve the quality and avail-
ability of investment research for
small issuers.
I urge my colleagues to support this
bipartisan bill to enable us to identify
some of the barriers small businesses
face when attempting to get their
story out to investors in our public
capital markets.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2919, the Improving Investment Re-
search for Small and Emerging Issuers
Act. I thank my colleagues, Congress-
man HUIZENGA and Congressman
MCADAMS, for their efforts on this bi-
partisan legislation that will help
small companies and our capital mar-
kets.
The U.S. capital markets have, and
continue to be, a vibrant ecosystem,
fueling America’s economic growth and
generating millions of private sector
jobs. These markets provide financing
and needed resources to the smallest
startups and the largest international
companies.
However, a company’s size often im-
pacts how easily it can access capital.
For example, larger companies have
generally found capital markets easier
to access than smaller ones.
While the number of IPOs in the U.S.
has rebounded from its post-crisis
glut—thanks in large part to the suc-
cess of the bipartisan JOBS Act of
2012—smaller companies still face sig-
nificant regulatory and market impedi-
ments that disincentivize them from
accessing capital via the public mar-
kets.
There are differing perspectives as to
why fewer companies, particularly
small companies, have gone public over
the past few decades. The data suggest
that in fulfilling its capital formation
mandate, the Securities and Exchange
Commission needs to tailor its ap-
proach to account for the varying na-
ture and size of companies.
b 1745
An important piece to this approach
is recognizing insufficient research
coverage of microcap, small-cap, and
emerging companies can undermine
the liquidity necessary to attract in-
vestor interest and facilitate capital
necessary for growth.
This bipartisan legislation would di-
rect the SEC to study, evaluate, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.011 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5283
July 9, 2019
report on issues affecting the ability of
emerging growth companies and other
small issuers to obtain research cov-
erage, including SEC rules, FINRA
rules, State and Federal liability con-
cerns, the 2003 Global Analyst Research
Settlements, and MiFID II.
Again, I thank Congressman
HUIZENGA and Congressman MCADAMS
for this commonsense and bipartisan
legislation, which I support.
Mr. Speaker, we have no further
speakers, so at this time, I will close.
Let me once again urge my colleagues
to support this commonsense legisla-
tion, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased that Mr.
HUIZENGA and Mr. MCADAMS worked in
a bipartisan manner to bring forth H.R.
2919. Markets work best when there is
adequate public information, and the
study on additional research provided
for in this bill will help ensure that
this is the case.
I urge my colleagues to join me in
supporting this important legislation,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. HUIZENGA. Mr. Speaker, initial public
offerings, or IPOs, have historically been one
of the most meaningful steps in the lifecycle of
a company. ‘‘Going public’’ was the ultimate
goal for entrepreneurs. You start a business
from scratch, build it up into a successful en-
terprise, and then open up an opportunity for
the public to share in your success.
By completing an IPO, a company is able to
raise much-needed capital for job creation and
expansion opportunities, while allowing main
street investors the opportunity to have an
economic piece of the action and ability to
participate in the growth phase of a company.
However, over the past two decades, our
nation has experienced a 37 percent decline
in the number of U.S. listed companies. Equal-
ly troubling, we have seen the number of pub-
lic companies fall to around 5,700. These sta-
tistics are concerning because they are similar
to the data we saw in the 1980’s when our
economy was less than half its current size.
For myriad reasons, the public model is no
longer viewed as an attractive means of rais-
ing capital. Instead, small and emerging
growth companies are choosing to go public
much later in their lifecycle or choosing not to
go public at all.
We must work to change the trajectory. In
speaking to the New York Economic Club,
SEC Chairman Clayton stated that ‘‘Regard-
less of the cause, the reduction in the number
of U.S.-listed public companies is a serious
issue for our markets and the country more
generally. To the extent companies are es-
chewing our public markets, the vast majority
of Main Street investors will be unable to par-
ticipate in their growth. The potential lasting
effects of such an outcome to the economy
and society are, in two words, not good.’’
I share Chairman Clayton’s concerns. We
need to ensure that our capital markets are
open for innovators and job creators and we
must work to right-size regulations for smaller
companies as well.
One way that Congress worked to lift bur-
densome regulations and help small compa-
nies gain access to capital markets was the
bipartisan Jumpstart Our Business Startups
Act—popularly known as the JOBS Act.
Section 105 of the JOBS Act changed the
‘‘gun-jumping rules’’ to provide an exception
from the definition of an offer to allow for the
publication or distribution by a broker or dealer
of a research report about an emerging growth
company that is the subject of a proposed
public offering. However, few investment
banks have published any pre-IPO research
since passage of the JOBS Act, and research
coverage in general on small issuers con-
tinues to be an issue. This negatively affects
investor interest and awareness in a company
as well as trading liquidity.
This provision was intended to increase re-
search but unfortunately it has had the oppo-
site effect and instead, there has been a sig-
nificant decline over recent years in analyst re-
search covering small public companies. Ac-
cording to the U.S. Chamber, ‘‘61% of all com-
panies listed on a major exchange with less
than a $100 million market capitalization have
no research coverage at all.’’
For equities with a market cap below $750
million, the average number of research ana-
lysts covering that stock is one, while equities
above $750 million in market cap have an av-
erage of 12 research analysts covering the
stock.
Additionally, the amount of research written
on small companies has declined even as the
percentage of individual ownership in small
cap companies has increased. Little to no re-
search coverage generally corresponds with
lower stock liquidity, and reduced research
coverage may be particularly disadvantageous
to individual investors who have limited re-
search capabilities on their own.
In fact, one study published June 2017 in
the Journal of Finance found that an increase
in the number of analysts covering an industry
improved the quality of analyst forecasts and
information flow to investors. For that reason,
it is important to examine current SEC rules
and regulations affecting the ability of invest-
ment research coverage regarding small
issuers. The Treasury Report on Capital Mar-
kets recommended a holistic review of rules
and regulations regarding research, including
the Global Settlement, to determine, which
provisions should be retained, amended, or re-
moved.
Our bipartisan bill, the Improving Investment
Research for Small and Emerging Issuers Act,
would direct the SEC to study and evaluate
issues affecting the ability of emerging growth
companies and other small issuers in obtain-
ing research coverage, including SEC rules,
FINRA rules, state and federal liability con-
cerns, the 2003 Global Research Analyst Set-
tlements, and MiFID II. Not later than 180
days after enactment, the SEC will be required
to submit to Congress a report that includes
the results of the study and recommendations
to assist EGCs and other small issuers in ob-
taining research coverage.
Among the issues the SEC must consider
are factors related to the demand for such re-
search by institutional and retail investors, cost
considerations for such research, and the im-
pact on the availability of research coverage
for small issuers due to a variety of market
and regulatory conditions. The SEC’s report
must include recommendations to increase the
demand for, volume of, and quality of invest-
ment research into small issuers, including
EGCs.
I’d like to thank the Financial Services
Chairwoman, Mrs. WATERS, and Rep. BEN
MCADAMS, for recognizing the importance of
research in our capital markets and working
with me to address this issue.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2919.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXPANDING INVESTMENT IN
SMALL BUSINESS ACT OF 2019
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3050) to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission to carry out
a study of the 10 per centum threshold
limitation applicable to the definition
of a diversified company under the In-
vestment Company Act of 1940, and for
other purposes, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3050
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Expanding
Investment in Small Businesses Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. SEC STUDY.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Securities and Ex-
change Commission shall carry out a study
of the 10 per centum threshold limitation ap-
plicable to the definition of a diversified
company under section 5(b)(1) of the Invest-
ment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a–
5(b)(1)) and determine the impacts of such
threshold limits upon the protection of in-
vestors, efficiency, competition, and capital
formation.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS.—In carrying out the
study required under subsection (a), the
Commission shall consider the following:
(1) The size and number of diversified com-
panies that are currently restricted in their
ability to own more than 10 percent of the
voting shares in an individual company.
(2) How the investing preferences of diver-
sified companies have shifted over time with
respect to companies with smaller market
capitalizations and companies in industries
where competition may be limited.
(3) The expected impact to small and
emerging growth companies regarding the
availability of capital, related impacts on in-
vestor confidence and risk, and impacts on
competition, if the threshold is increased or
otherwise changed.
(4) The ability of registered funds to man-
age liquidity risk.
(5) Any other consideration that the Com-
mission considers necessary and appropriate
for the protection of investors.
(c) SOLICITATION OF PUBLIC COMMENTS.—In
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a), the Commission may solicit pub-
lic comments.
(d) REPORT.—Not later than the end of the
180-day period beginning on the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Commission shall
issue a report to the Congress, and make
such report publicly available on the website
of the Commission, containing—
(1) all findings and determinations made in
carrying out the study required under sub-
section (a); and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.024 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5284 July 9, 2019
(2) any legislative recommendations of the
Commission.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks on this legislation
and to insert extraneous material
thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Our capital markets are the envy of
the world. This is due, in part, to the
fact that once a company goes public,
it can efficiently raise money for mom-
and-pop investors who, in turn, can
easily buy and sell shares.
However, there is some evidence that
initial public offerings, or IPOs, of
smaller companies, known as microcap
companies, have declined since the dot-
com bubble in 2001. This decline ac-
counts for the main reason that the
total number of stocks has declined.
I think it is important that we look
into why this is the case and find out
what policies we should be working on
in Congress to ensure that our Nation’s
small businesses are able to access the
public markets.
I support the gentleman from Wis-
consin’s bill, the Expanding Invest-
ment in Small Business Act of 2019, for
doing just that. This bill would require
the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion to study and solicit public com-
ment on the existing rules restricting a
diversified mutual fund’s exposure to a
single company. It would also require
the SEC to determine whether that re-
quirement limits capital formation
considering current investing trends
and other factors the SEC determines
are necessary and appropriate to pro-
tect investors.
The SEC would have to issue a report
to Congress with its findings and deter-
minations made in carrying out the
study and any legislative recommenda-
tions, including any recommendation
to update the current thresholds.
This bill helps ensure that we have
the facts and data necessary to make
an informed decision on whether we
should change the current diversifica-
tion limits for mutual funds and
whether doing so will provide addi-
tional investment in small company
IPOs.
I thank Representative STEIL for
working with me this Congress to en-
sure that the revised text of the bill
also seeks to promote competition in
our capital markets, and Mr. GONZALEZ
for cosponsoring this bill.
I urge all Members to vote ‘‘yes,’’ and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of H.R. 3050, the Expanding Investment
in Small Business Act.
I commend my colleague, an out-
standing new member of the Financial
Services Committee, Congressman
STEIL from Wisconsin, for his hard
work on this important bill that will
help us make our capital markets
stronger and more attractive. Because
of his personal experience and his
background in public markets as a
counsel for a publicly traded company,
he has brought to bear particular ex-
pertise in forwarding this legislation
for our consideration.
Mutual funds have historically
played an important role in providing
liquidity to newly public companies.
Since 1990, the total number of reg-
istered mutual funds has grown ap-
proximately 10 times; mean fund size
has more than doubled; and open-end
fund holdings of U.S. corporate equities
have reached approximately 24 percent
of the entire market. This growth
means the investment decisions of mu-
tual funds today are an important as-
pect of our public capital markets.
As the size of mutual funds has in-
creased in recent years, the diversified
fund limit rules, specifically the 10 per-
cent cap on a diversified fund’s owner-
ship of an issuer’s outstanding shares,
have limited funds’ ability to take
meaningful positions in small-cap com-
panies, according to industry experts.
The current 10 percent cap on mutual
fund positions limits interest in small-
cap IPOs because as large funds’ assets
under management grow, the 10 per-
cent cap means that any investment in
a small IPO will have a negligible im-
pact on overall fund return.
Declining mutual fund interest in
small IPOs also materially weakens
the trading environment for small-cap
stocks and likely deters small, private
firms from joining our public markets,
something we should not be discour-
aging.
H.R. 3050 would require the SEC to
study whether the current diversified
fund limit threshold for mutual funds
to 10 percent constrains their ability to
take meaningful positions in small-cap
companies.
As part of its report, the SEC shall
recommend to Congress any statutory
changes that should be undertaken to
address the SEC’s findings.
This is an important bill for helping
us make our capital markets as attrac-
tive as possible, especially for smaller
companies.
For these reasons, I support H.R.
3050. I commend my colleague, the gen-
tleman from Wisconsin, for his leader-
ship and his experience on this issue,
and I urge my colleagues to support
this bill.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield such
time as he may consume to the gen-
tleman from Wisconsin (Mr. STEIL), the
author of this legislation.
Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleague from Kentucky.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to support my bill
today, the Expanding Investment in
Small Business Act.
Small businesses and entrepreneurs
are vital to our economy. More than 60
percent of new jobs are created by
small businesses, and almost half of
our private-sector workforce is em-
ployed by firms with fewer than 500
employees.
Small businesses are also an engine
for innovation. According to the Small
Business Administration, small busi-
nesses account for an outsized percent-
age of patents granted in the most in-
novative industries.
I see this ingenuity in Wisconsin in
Racine, Janesville, Kenosha, and every-
where in-between. Entrepreneurs and
startups create good-paying jobs for
workers.
It is important that we continue giv-
ing job creators the ability to invest in
our communities. But in order to grow,
hire, and invest in innovation, small
businesses need access to capital.
Unfortunately, rules and regulations
have made it harder for companies to
gain access to capital, made it harder
for them to go public, and made it
harder for them to stay public. This
hurts small companies, and this hurts
the broader economy.
In particular, this hurts American
workers and their retirement security.
Just under half of all households are
invested in mutual funds. Many Ameri-
cans are invested in these funds
through 401(k)’s and pension plans.
Their retirement security depends
upon the ability to invest in a diverse
set of growing, innovative companies.
Our rules, though, are burdensome.
They shrink the number of publicly
traded companies, either by deterring
companies from going public or by en-
couraging them to stay private. In
doing so, they limit the opportunities
for Americans saving for retirement.
Members of both parties and a wide
range of stakeholders and experts have
identified the existing mutual fund
rules as an area for potential improve-
ment. I thank my colleague, Congress-
man GONZALEZ from Texas, for joining
me in this across-the-aisle effort to
support this bill.
This isn’t a new idea, but until now,
it hasn’t gotten done. I am glad to see
bipartisan support for taking this im-
portant step forward to improving our
capital markets.
The Expanding Investment in Small
Business Act directs the SEC to con-
sider whether existing mutual fund
rules make it harder for small and
emerging companies to raise money, so
they can grow and invest.
Under the Investment Company Act,
a diversified mutual fund may not own
more than 10 percent of an issuer’s out-
standing securities. As mutual funds
have grown both in number and in size,
they become an important source of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.012 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5285
July 9, 2019
capital, in particular for small busi-
nesses.
A substantial mutual fund invest-
ment in a small-cap company can eas-
ily exceed the 10 percent cap. This like-
ly deters mutual fund investments into
growing and innovative companies.
My bill asks the SEC to consider four
key items: one, how many mutual
funds are currently affected by the 10
percent cap; two, how the investing
preferences of diversified mutual funds
have shifted over time with respect to
smaller companies; three, the potential
impact of a change in the 10 percent
threshold; and, four, the ability of di-
versified funds to manage liquidity
risk.
This information is necessary so that
we can continue to work in a non-
partisan manner to ensure that small
businesses have access to capital, so
they can grow and invest.
Smart, targeted reforms can give us
more vibrant capital markets; growing,
innovative small businesses; better
outcomes for American investors; and,
ultimately, a stronger economy.
I look forward to continuing to work
with my colleagues toward this goal. I
thank Chair WATERS and Ranking
Member MCHENRY for their support of
this bill, and I urge my colleagues to
support its passage.
This bill is an important step forward
toward a stronger economy, more dy-
namic small businesses, and more jobs
for American workers.
b 1800
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Vir-
ginia (Mr. RIGGLEMAN), who is an out-
standing new member of the House Fi-
nancial Services Committee. He is an-
other gentleman who comes to Con-
gress not as a politician, but as an en-
trepreneur, someone who has built
businesses and created jobs himself and
understands intimately the need for
small businesses and entrepreneurs to
have the ability to access capital.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
have to support my good friend from
Wisconsin as we go forward. I am also
in a very small business type of atmos-
phere in Virginia. I own a small busi-
ness, a distillery, and for us, small
businesses are one of the most impor-
tant things we can support as we go
forward.
I am here today to support my col-
leagues and to support Democrats in a
bipartisan fashion. This is something
that we need to do, we have to do, and
I urge my colleagues to support this
bill.
Mr. Speaker, I don’t need the 2 min-
utes to actually make sure that this
happens. I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this bill and make sure we support
small businesses in everything that we
do.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I urge my
colleagues to support the legislation,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time. I want
to, again, thank the sponsors of H.R.
3050 and the gentleman from Wisconsin
for working with my side on the text of
this legislation. I think it is a good bill
and will, along with other measures
that we are considering today, improve
the access of small businesses to U.S.
capital markets.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3050, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. STEIL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
EXPANDING ACCESS TO CAPITAL
FOR RURAL JOB CREATORS ACT
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2409) to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to expand access to
capital for rural-area small businesses,
and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2409
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Expanding
Access to Capital for Rural Job Creators
Act’’.
SEC. 2. ACCESS TO CAPITAL FOR RURAL-AREA
SMALL BUSINESSES.
Section 4(j) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78d(j)) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (4)(C), by inserting ‘‘rural-
area small businesses,’’ after ‘‘women-owned
small businesses,’’; and
(2) in paragraph (6)(B)(iii), by inserting
‘‘rural-area small businesses,’’ after
‘‘women-owned small businesses,’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) and the gen-
tleman from Kentucky (Mr. BARR) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days within
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on this legislation and to insert
extraneous material thereon.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank
Representatives AXNE and MOONEY for
working together to put forth this bi-
partisan piece of legislation to require
the Advocate for Small Business Cap-
ital Formation at the Securities and
Exchange Commission to pay par-
ticular attention to the unique chal-
lenges rural-area small businesses face
in accessing the funds they need to
grow and thrive.
This important bill has gained broad
bipartisan support because it is aimed
at understanding and addressing real
problems faced by Americans all across
our country: the capital needs of rural
startups and entrepreneurs.
When we created the Advocate for
Small Business Capital Formation we
recognized that our Nation’s small
businesses are proven job creators
which require special attention from
the SEC. However, it is also important
for the advocate to recognize that dif-
ferent types of small businesses face
unique challenges. For example, as a
result of my amendment to the legisla-
tion creating the position, the advo-
cate is required to specifically consider
the challenges facing minority-owned
and women-owned small businesses.
H.R. 2409 would recognize another
important category: small businesses
in rural areas and require the advocate
to pay special attention to and report
to Congress on the unique challenges
and issues they face.
According to a recent survey by the
Small Business Majority, roughly one
in five rural small businesses rated ac-
cess to capital as one of the top three
challenges to maintaining or growing
their business in their community.
What is more, these businesses largely
get their funds from personal savings,
and only 13 percent said that they re-
ceived investments or gifts from
friends or family. So I think it is time
for the SEC to look into why that is
and see what, if anything, we can be
doing to encourage capital formation
for our Nation’s rural small businesses.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all of my col-
leagues to support this important bill,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2409, the Expanding Access to Capital
for Rural Job Creators Act. As a Mem-
ber of Congress who represents a rural
area, I want to commend the work of
Congresswoman AXNE and Congress-
man MOONEY for their bipartisan com-
mitment to help rural small businesses
access capital.
In the House Financial Services Com-
mittee, we continue to highlight the
importance of capital formation for in-
dividuals in underbanked rural commu-
nities.
Small and rural communities in Ken-
tucky and other places are extremely
vulnerable during recessions and dur-
ing recovery, and their subsequent re-
coveries are often slower due to a lack
of access to capital.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:40 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.027 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5286 July 9, 2019
U.S. counties as a whole saw more
business establishments close than
open during the first 5 years of the
most recent financial crisis. This de-
cline was felt disproportionately in
rural areas, where the percentage of
business closures was higher. Addition-
ally, as our economy recovers, data
shows that small businesses and
startups are much less likely to form
in rural areas than urban areas.
H.R. 2409 is an example of bipartisan
legislation that can help solve the big-
gest issue for a number of rural small
businesses, and that is access to cap-
ital.
H.R. 2409 would amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to direct the Ad-
vocate for Small Business Capital For-
mation to identify unique challenges
to rural-area small businesses when
identifying problems that small busi-
nesses have with securing access to
capital.
Small towns across the country are
still struggling to recover from the
post-financial crisis recession. It is im-
perative that we fully understand the
challenges facing rural areas so that
we can reinvigorate economic growth
and diversify rural economies in those
areas that need help the most. This bi-
partisan bill is an important tool for us
to better address the capital formation
issues facing our rural small businesses
and job creators.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 2409, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as she may consume to the
gentlewoman from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE),
who is the sponsor of H.R. 2409.
Mrs. AXNE. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
in support of my bill, H.R. 2409, the Ex-
panding Access to Capital for Rural
Job Creators Act.
I want to thank my colleagues, Mr.
MOONEY, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
RIGGLEMAN, Mr. PAPPAS, and Mr. ROSE
for their work and for cosponsoring the
Expanding Access to Capital for Rural
Job Creators Act, and I want to thank
our chairwoman of the Financial Serv-
ices Committee to help us bring this
here today.
As a small business owner, I know
how difficult it can be to access the
capital you need to succeed, and my
friends across the aisle just explained
that very well. I thank them so much
for the bill that they have brought to
the floor. However, rural entrepreneurs
face unique challenges when it comes
to accessing capital, but far too often
their voices are left out of the con-
versation.
For example, in a recent Federal Re-
serve survey of small businesses, de-
spite more than 70 percent of rural
small businesses being a low credit
risk, less than half received the full
amount of funding that they were seek-
ing. This restricts growth in rural
areas. That same survey found that
only 35 percent of rural small busi-
nesses expected to increase employ-
ment in the next year compared to 51
percent in urban areas. This can create
a cycle where younger people leave
rural areas because there are no jobs,
furthering the decline in certain rural
areas across this country.
The bipartisan Expanding Access to
Capital for Rural Job Creators Act will
ensure that rural small businesses have
a seat at the table as Federal policy-
makers consider new rules that govern
investment and capital. The Office of
the Advocate of Small Business Capital
Formation at the SEC was established
to promote the interests of small busi-
nesses and help make sure that they
have access to capital with a focus on
supporting women- and minority-
owned businesses.
I would also like to acknowledge the
work of Ms. VELÁZQUEZ and others last
Congress to include small businesses
affected by natural disasters, like the
recent flooding in Iowa.
My legislation, H.R. 2409, would ex-
pand the focus areas of the advocate to
include rural-area small businesses.
This data will help Congress and Fed-
eral regulators make better-informed
decisions on how to best support eco-
nomic growth in rural America.
By ensuring that Washington listens
to the voices of rural small businesses,
this legislation will help create jobs in
rural Iowa and in rural areas across the
country contributing not only to their
success but to the economic success of
this entire country’s GDP.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
chairwoman and my colleagues for
their support and working on this
issue, and I ask for a ‘‘yes’’ from the
House.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, as I said be-
fore, the gentleman from Virginia who
is going to speak has personal experi-
ence in the private sector, is an entre-
preneur, and knows a lot about rural
America and rural America’s need for
access to capital as an entrepreneur.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
RIGGLEMAN), who is an outstanding new
member of our committee.
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friend, Representative MOON-
EY, and I would like to also thank my
colleague, Representative AXNE, for in-
troducing this legislation.
I rise today to speak in support of
this bill, the Expanding Access to Cap-
ital for Rural Job Creators Act.
This bill will expand the mission of
the SEC Advocate for Small Business
Capital Formation to identify the
unique challenges facing rural small
businesses and give them expanded ac-
cess to the capital they need.
As someone who, along with my wife,
started a distillery business in the
rural part of Virginia, I know many of
the challenges faced by small business
owners in rural areas. These small
business owners are the backbones of
communities across America and pil-
lars of the local economies that help
these areas thrive.
According to Census data from 2017,
one in five Americans live in a rural
area. In my district, the Fifth District
of Virginia, approximately 65 percent
of the population resides in a rural
area. These people deserve the same ac-
cess to the financial system as urban
dwellers and urban businesses.
Running a rural small business is a
challenge, and it is important for me as
the Representative of the Fifth Dis-
trict to advocate for the needs of these
small business owners. By expanding
their access to capital, we can help
small businesses grow and sustain
rural communities.
This bill will allow the SEC to help
job creators and improve rural econo-
mies across the country. I look forward
to working with the SEC and my col-
leagues to accomplish this mission.
For these reasons and many more,
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
legislation, and I urge everyone else to
do the same.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Ten-
nessee (Mr. JOHN W. ROSE), who is an-
other outstanding new member of our
committee. The gentleman from Ten-
nessee does, in fact, represent a rural
district and is himself a job creator and
someone who knows about the need to
provide expanded access to credit for
rural American entrepreneurs.
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 2409,
the Expanding Access to Capital for
Rural Job Creators Act. I want to
thank Representatives AXNE and MOON-
EY for their leadership on this impor-
tant issue as well as my colleagues,
Representatives VELÁZQUEZ, PAPPAS,
and RIGGLEMAN, for their original co-
sponsorship.
Small businesses are truly the heart
of job growth in rural communities.
The vast majority of the 19 counties in
Tennessee’s Sixth District are rural,
with four being categorized as eco-
nomically distressed counties.
The workforces in these communities
depend on the job opportunities pro-
vided by entrepreneurs who build their
businesses from the ground up.
In my short time in office, I have vis-
ited small businesses in rural commu-
nities of Tennessee’s Sixth District.
The men and women who run and work
for these rural small businesses are
some of the hardest working people I
have ever met.
This bill is simple. It includes rural
businesses in the mission of the Office
of the Advocate for Small Business
Capital Formation. This will allow
rural small businesses to receive the
capital formation assistance they
might need and will require the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission to con-
sider any adverse effects regulations
might have on rural small businesses.
b 1815
Rural small businesses are often
overlooked by their capital formation
challenges, but their capital formation
challenges deserve the same attention
as any other type of small business.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.030 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5287
July 9, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members to
support this commonsense bill.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I inquire
through the Chair if my colleague has
any remaining speakers on his side.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers, and I yield myself the
balance of my time to close.
Mr. Speaker, in conclusion, as a Rep-
resentative of a rural congressional
district and who has tremendous re-
spect for the hardworking, small busi-
ness owners of rural America—and in
my case, rural, central, and eastern
Kentucky—I know how hard it is for
folks to access the credit that they
need to build a business, to grow jobs,
to create greater and better opportuni-
ties for themselves and their employ-
ees.
Not every small business in America,
Mr. Speaker, can access Silicon Valley.
Not every small business in middle
America can access Wall Street. We
need the SEC to have greater sensi-
tivity to rural small business and their
unique challenges in terms of access to
capital formation.
So I applaud the leadership of the
Members who have brought this legis-
lation forward. I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation. Vote in favor
of rural small business capital forma-
tion.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentlewoman from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE)
and the gentleman from West Virginia
(Mr. MOONEY) for introducing this im-
portant legislation.
This bipartisan bill passed the House
by a near unanimous vote last Con-
gress. It is time for it to become law to
help rural businesses across this coun-
try become even more important job
creators.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this important
piece of legislation, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2409.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess for a pe-
riod of less than 15 minutes.
Accordingly (at 6 o’clock and 17 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. TITUS) at 6 o’clock and 30
minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed. Votes will be taken
in the following order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 2515;
H.R. 3050; and
H.R. 2409.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION
REFORM ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2515) to amend the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934 to amend the
definition of whistleblower, as amend-
ed, on which the yeas and nays were or-
dered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 410, nays 12,
not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 431]
YEAS—410
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.032 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5288 July 9, 2019
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—12
Abraham
Amash
Duncan
Hern, Kevin
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
Massie
Mast
McClintock
Mitchell
Rice (SC)
Wright
NOT VOTING—10
Brooks (IN)
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Frankel
Gianforte
Grijalva
Guest
Ryan
Wild
Wilson (FL)
b 1859
Messrs. MAST, ABRAHAM, DUN-
CAN, RICE of South Carolina, and
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma changed
their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to amend the Securi-
ties and Exchange Act of 1934 to amend
the definition of whistleblower, to ex-
tend the anti-retaliation protections
provided to whistleblowers, and for
other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXPANDING INVESTMENT IN
SMALL BUSINESS ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 3050) to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission to carry out
a study of the 10 per centum threshold
limitation applicable to the definition
of a diversified company under the In-
vestment Company Act of 1940, and for
other purposes, as amended, on which
the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 417, nays 2,
not voting 13, as follows:
[Roll No. 432]
YEAS—417
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—2
Casten (IL) Massie
NOT VOTING—13
Brooks (IN)
Buck
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Frankel
Gaetz
Garamendi
Gianforte
Grijalva
Guest
Ryan
Wild
Wilson (FL)
b 1908
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
EXPANDING ACCESS TO CAPITAL
FOR RURAL JOB CREATORS ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2409) to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to expand access
to capital for rural-area small busi-
nesses, and for other purposes, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
WATERS) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 413, nays 7,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 433]
YEAS—413
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.015 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5289
July 9, 2019
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—7
Amash
Biggs
Burchett
Gaetz
Gosar
Massie
Roy
NOT VOTING—12
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brooks (IN)
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Frankel
Gianforte
Grijalva
Guest
Ryan
Stefanik
Wild
Wilson (FL)
b 1918
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PROTECTING AFFORDABLE MORT-
GAGES FOR VETERANS ACT OF
2019
Mr. CLAY. Mr. Speaker, I ask unani-
mous consent that the Committee on
Financial Services and the Committee
on Veterans’ Affairs be discharged from
further consideration of the bill (S.
1749) to clarify seasoning requirements
for certain refinanced mortgage loans,
and for other purposes, and ask for its
immediate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
GOLDEN). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Missouri?
There was no objection.
The text of the bill is as follows:
S. 1749
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. SEASONING REQUIREMENTS FOR CER-
TAIN REFINANCED MORTGAGE
LOANS.
(a) GINNIE MAE.—Section 306(g)(1) of the
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)(1)) is
amended by striking the second sentence.
(b) VETERANS LOANS.—Section 3709(c) of
title 38, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in the matter before paragraph (1), by
striking ‘‘is refinanced’’ and inserting ‘‘is a
refinance’’; and
(2) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and
inserting the following new paragraphs:
‘‘(1) the date on which the borrower has
made at least six consecutive monthly pay-
ments on the loan being refinanced; and
‘‘(2) the date that is 210 days after the first
payment due date of the loan being refi-
nanced.’’.
(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act may be construed to restrict or oth-
erwise modify the authorities of the Govern-
ment National Mortgage Association.
The bill was ordered to be read a
third time, was read the third time,
and passed, and a motion to reconsider
was laid on the table.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and I ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. BABIN. Mr. Speaker, I urge the
Speaker to immediately schedule this
important bill so we can take care of
the most innocent of lives that we have
in America.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
CALLING FOR THE RESIGNATION
OF LABOR SECRETARY ALEX-
ANDER ACOSTA
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Mr. Speaker, serial sex-
ual abuser Jeffrey Epstein has been ar-
rested again. Federal prosecutors have
charged him with running a sex traf-
ficking ring where he paid to have sex
with girls as young as 14 years old.
More than that, officials said
Epstein’s abuse happened between 2002
and 2005, 3 years before he received a
sweetheart deal to spend a mere 18
months in prison and avoid Federal
trial for sexual abuse of 36 underaged
girls.
The prosecutor who made that deal is
our current Secretary of Labor, Alex-
ander Acosta.
That is why I am calling for Sec-
retary Acosta to resign. His actions in
the Epstein case prove that he prefers
to protect sex offenders over teenage
abuse victims.
He prefers to protect millionaire
criminals over the common man, so
how can we trust him to protect mil-
lions of American workers from cor-
porate abuse when he clearly supports
the abusers? We can’t.
That is why he needs to resign. Then,
we can let the FBI conduct a thorough
investigation of his actions to ensure
that nothing like this ever happens
again.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:27 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.017 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5290 July 9, 2019
RECOGNIZING LIEUTENANT
GENERAL QUINTAS
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Major Gen-
eral Lee Quintas for his service to our
Nation with the 3rd Infantry Division
at Fort Stewart.
On June 17, Major General Quintas
departed to be the Deputy Com-
manding General for the U.S. Army
Forces Command at Fort Bragg. How-
ever, he is leaving both Fort Stewart
and the First Congressional District of
Georgia in a better place.
Major General Quintas’ colleagues
admire him as an extraordinary leader
with extensive experience who ensures
soldiers and units are ready for any
mission.
During his 30 years of service with
the United States military, he has done
everything, from deploying in Iraq to
leading the 3rd ID in hurricane re-
sponse missions in Georgia.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Major General
Quintas for his service to our Nation
and the First Congressional District of
Georgia. He has been a great leader for
the 3rd Infantry Division.
Mr. Speaker, I wish Major General
Quintas the best of luck in his new po-
sition at Fort Bragg.
f
REMEMBERING MIKE ASSANTE
(Mr. LANGEVIN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
with deep sadness to remember a lumi-
nary in the field of cybersecurity.
Michael Assante passed away last
Friday. The many tributes that have
poured in from people in the ICS secu-
rity community are a testament to his
pioneering work and his kind soul.
I, too, have been touched by Mike’s
work. Mike and his colleagues at Idaho
National Laboratory first briefed me
many years ago on the Aurora vulnera-
bility that showed how a bad actor
could use malware to cause physical
damage to the electric grid and poten-
tially knock out power to millions.
That brief first piqued my interest in
cybersecurity and led to my cofounding
the Congressional Cybersecurity Cau-
cus with Congressman MCCAUL.
Mike was many things—a brilliant
researcher, a loving husband, a fero-
cious fighter of the cancer that eventu-
ally claimed his life—but I will always
remember him, as will so many who
went through his SANS Institute
courses, as an educator.
I cherished my time with Mike be-
cause I knew he would help me under-
stand how Congress could better secure
the operational technology underlying
our daily lives.
Michael Assante made a difference.
He can never be replaced, but I will
continue to honor his legacy by fight-
ing to improve our Nation’s cybersecu-
rity.
f
HONORING JUDY GENSHAFT UPON
RETIREMENT AS UNIVERSITY OF
SOUTH FLORIDA PRESIDENT
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor Dr. Judy Genshaft for
her 19 years of service as president of
my alma mater, the University of
South Florida.
During her tenure, she emphasized
research. That commitment has been a
major part of why USF has been rated
as one of the Nation’s top 25 public uni-
versities for research.
Her advocacy for technology had a
direct impact on the city of Tampa,
which has grown into one of the most
successful tech hubs in the world.
Under her leadership, USF’s endow-
ment nearly doubled; its 4-year gradua-
tion rate tripled; and now, all USF stu-
dents graduate at the same rate, re-
gardless of their race, ethnicity, or
family income.
On a personal level, she is also an im-
mensely generous donor, having helped
fund the USF Honors College and then
made an additional gift to endow its
deanship.
More impressive than these numbers
are Judy’s contagious energy and her
genuine concern for her students. She
regularly worked 12-hour days and still
made time to talk with students when-
ever she saw them.
Mr. Speaker, Judy is a woman clear-
ly guided by purpose. I am so grateful
for everything that she has done and
continues to do to make my alma
mater, the University of South Florida,
better for our students and our city.
f
PROTECTING THE AFFORDABLE
CARE ACT
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
the health and safety of millions are at
risk. Today, the Fifth Circuit heard
oral arguments aimed at repealing the
Affordable Care Act.
Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton
wants to end healthcare coverage for
people with preexisting conditions,
young adults, and pregnant women.
Texas already has the highest number
of uninsured people anywhere in the
United States, and that number would
increase by 1.7 million if these protec-
tions ended, including many in my dis-
trict.
We know that America suffers when
people go uninsured. We can’t afford to
let our families, our neighbors, our fel-
low Texans lose these protections.
Premiums and out-of-pocket costs for
doctors’ appointments and hospital vis-
its will increase significantly.
House Democrats will continue to
fight to expand access to affordable,
quality healthcare and to lower pre-
scription drug prices.
f
b 1930
HONORING CLARENCE HOLLOWELL
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor Mr. Clarence
Hollowell from Jacksonville Beach,
Florida, for his service to our country
and to our Jacksonville community.
Mr. Hollowell is a veteran of the
United States Army, who now spends
his weekdays serving his community as
a U.S. postal worker and his weekends
at local cemeteries cleaning the
headstones of our fallen veterans.
From start to finish, each headstone
takes about 2 to 3 weeks to clean and,
incredibly, Mr. Hollowell has cleaned
over 600 of them. He does so selflessly,
purchasing his own materials, and me-
ticulously scrubbing each headstone
with a toothbrush until the stone glis-
tens white.
In his own words, Mr. Hollowell says
that ‘‘Everybody’s got to have a
project, and I think if you can help the
community, even better.’’
On behalf of the Fourth District of
Florida, I thank Mr. Hollowell for his
service and his inspiration to his com-
munity.
f
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY MUST SERVE THE NA-
TION
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
have known the men and women who
have served in the Department of
Homeland Security and have dealt with
the border for many, many years. I
have respected the work that they have
done. It is tragic, however, that as we
continue to serve under this adminis-
tration, we now find the Department of
Homeland Security in a major cover-
up: the unaccompanied children who
have been separated from their fami-
lies, the disallowances of Members to
visit and do their oversight work to see
the conditions, and the rejection of the
Department of Homeland Security’s Of-
fice of Inspector General who wrote a
direct memo to the secretary that said
there is an urgent crisis that you must
deal with at the border, and for this
secretary to go on national television
and deny it.
You can applaud the men and women
who work, but you cannot applaud bad
acts. You cannot applaud what is hap-
pening in Mexico, which I just came
back from. The migrants who are there
are not being taken care of. They are
in desperate need. Some of them will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:45 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.041 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5291
July 9, 2019
not have a place to live, some of them
will not have food, and it is because of
the policies of this administration.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity must serve the Nation, it must not
serve one single President. I maintain
that we are going to fight to fix this
broken immigration system.
f
RECOGNIZING WEST JEFFERSON’S
33RD ANNUAL CHRISTMAS IN
JULY FESTIVAL
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to congratulate the city
of West Jefferson in North Carolina’s
Fifth District on yet another success-
ful Christmas in July Festival. For the
last 33 years, the festival has taken
place on the first weekend of July to
celebrate Ashe County’s vibrant and
nationally renowned Christmas tree in-
dustry.
The dedicated volunteers of the fes-
tival committee and board of directors
bring together this wonderfully patri-
otic community around America’s
independence and the best Christmas
trees in the country. As a former
Christmas tree grower myself, I can at-
test to the importance of recognizing
this often overlooked, yet highly sig-
nificant, farming industry, not just
during the Christmas season, but all
year round.
It is not only an honor to represent
these patriots and tree growers, it is an
honor for me to share this tradition
with them every year.
f
PROTECT HEALTHCARE FOR ALL
AMERICANS
(Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Mr.
Speaker, 9 years ago, the House passed
the Affordable Care Act to ensure that
tens of millions of Americans had
health insurance.
Thanks to the ACA, over a million
Floridians were able to get healthcare
coverage.
In these past 9 years, Republicans
have consistently tried to repeal and
sabotage the Affordable Care Act. As a
result, families in Florida are often un-
able to afford their healthcare.
Today, the President tried once again
to repeal the Affordable Care Act. If
the President gets his way, more than
1.6 million Floridians would lose their
coverage, and insurance companies
could charge even more, resulting in
higher costs for American families.
Women could be charged more than
men for the same services, and people
living with preexisting conditions
could lose coverage.
Floridians cannot afford these at-
tacks on their healthcare. I implore
the Senate to pass the bills that we
have already sent them to protect
healthcare for all Americans.
TRIBUTE TO ELSIE WAITES
(Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to pay tribute to
Mrs. Elsie Waites, who passed away on
May 28, 2019.
Mrs. Waites was a native Louisianan
from Gloster and was born on May 9,
1920. Throughout her life, she was al-
ways known as someone who loved and
cared for those around her.
Of her many accomplishments, Mrs.
Waites was an avid volunteer in her
local community, helping young chil-
dren achieve their dreams. She also
took it upon herself to organize a local
quartet group, where she sang for sev-
eral years traveling throughout the
State.
While Mrs. Waites lived an extraor-
dinary life dedicated and devoted to
service and compassion, her first pri-
ority was always her family. She was a
loving mother and grandmother to 8
children, 21 grandchildren, 44 great-
grandchildren, and 8 great-great-grand-
children.
One of Mrs. Waites’ children, Mrs.
Barbara Norton, is my good friend and
former colleague in the Louisiana
House of Representatives.
I wish to extend my sincere and deep-
est sympathies to all of the family and
friends whose lives were blessed by
Mrs. Waites. I pray that God’s grace
gives them comfort during this time,
and that they are able to reflect on all
the joyful memories that she provided.
Proverbs 31 reminds us that:
A woman who fears the Lord is to be
praised. Honor her for all that her hands
have done . . . Her children arise and call her
blessed.
f
INJUSTICE AT THE SOUTHERN
BORDER
(Ms. BROWNLEY of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to address the
continued injustices at our southern
border.
Recent reports have continued to
highlight the conditions at DHS deten-
tion camps are deplorable, inhumane,
and abusive to children. Current and
former Border Patrol agents have at-
tested to the horrible conditions these
children are being subjected to.
Now that we have provided emer-
gency funding, we must stop this abuse
by the Trump administration in its
tracks. We need far greater account-
ability, we need to set required stand-
ards for medical care, we need to
strictly limit the time spent in deten-
tion facilities, and we need to institute
protocols to ensure compassionate
processing of children and families.
What is going on at our border does
not reflect our values. It does not re-
flect who we are. And the impact on
these children will last a lifetime.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues on
the other side of the aisle to work with
us to stop this stain on our great Na-
tion’s long history of compassion, ref-
uge, and inclusion.
f
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to condemn President Trump,
his administration, and all the anti-life
Republicans in Congress who seek to
strike down the Affordable Care Act
using the judicial system this time.
Their callousness would cut off mil-
lions of Americans from their afford-
able healthcare plans.
Today, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit began hearing oral ar-
guments in Texas v. United States, a
case supported by the Trump adminis-
tration that would strike down every
health benefit afforded to the Amer-
ican people under the Affordable Care
Act.
If Republicans strike down the Af-
fordable Care Act, then the protections
for 130 million Americans with pre-
existing conditions, more than a third
of our people, would be erased, includ-
ing nearly 5 million Ohioans. The unin-
sured rate would go up by 65 percent.
The Affordable Care Act’s historic
Medicaid expansion, which covers 17
million people, would go out the win-
dow. And protections for women that
prevent insurance companies from
charging them higher rates than men
would disappear, as well.
These popular and lifesaving provi-
sions would be repealed.
Mr. Speaker, since its inception, the
Affordable Care Act has provided qual-
ity coverage for more than 16 million
Americans. Let’s ensure that high-
quality healthcare remains a right for
all, not a privilege for just a few.
f
CONGRATULATING JOE
DIETTERICK
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Mr. Speaker, when
Joe Dietterick was told by his guidance
counselor that he should join the Vine-
land High School crew team, the Fight-
ing Clan, he wasn’t interested at first.
But Joe, a 16-year-old with cerebral
palsy, isn’t one to back down from a
challenge. All he needed was one prac-
tice on the lake, pushing his boat
through the water with his doubles
partner, Jason Wheeler, to imme-
diately fall in love with rowing.
Joe and Jason went on to become
Vineland High School’s first adaptive
boat to row in the Atlantic County
rowing championships, and they also
went on to compete in the Stotesbury
Cup Regatta.
Joe’s perseverance and willingness to
challenge himself is an inspiration to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:39 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.043 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5292 July 9, 2019
his teammates; to his coach, Paul
Myers; and to all who gave him the
Most Courageous award at their team’s
award banquet. Joe says that the
comradery and friendship that he has
found with his teammates is what
means the most to him.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. Dietterick
for being an important part of our com-
munity. He is an inspiration and he is
a hero.
f
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT LAWSUIT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. GARAMENDI) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
Mr. GARAMENDI. Mr. Speaker, I
just put this placard up to emphasize
what our Democratic Caucus is at-
tempting to do. We have a program
called ‘‘For the People,’’ and we are
trying to deal with the issues of
healthcare across this Nation.
We know, as do basically all the
American public, that healthcare is, in
many cases, not affordable. So how can
we deal with this?
Well, one way is to deal with the cost
of prescription medicines. We have a
program. We have actually voted it off
the floor. It is over in the Senate where
it will linger as the Grim Reaper, Sen-
ator MCCONNELL, kills legislation that
would be for the people. So this is one
example of many that we Democrats
are trying to address.
Back in 2010, we addressed this issue,
at least in part, with the Affordable
Care Act, which was promptly called
ObamaCare by our Republican col-
leagues at that time. They campaigned
against it and, ultimately, succeeded in
winning the House in the 2010 election,
and then spent 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014,
2015, 2016, and 2017 in an effort to repeal
the Affordable Care Act. Fortunately,
they did not succeed.
When the new President, Mr. Trump,
came to office, they tried, once again,
to repeal the Affordable Care Act in
2017. They failed, largely because a
Senator from Arizona, who was then
suffering from cancer, voted no in the
Senate. So I thank Senator McCain for
having the courage and the under-
standing of what it meant to have a
preexisting condition.
b 1945
So here we are today with all kinds
of charts that I am not going to put up.
I am just going to speak directly to
this issue.
As was said just a moment ago by my
colleague from Ohio, the appellate
court in New Orleans is taking up an
issue that Republicans, including the
President, have put before the court.
Unable to gain a repeal in the Congress
of the United States, they are now pur-
suing in the courts of the land a repeal
put forward by, I think, 16 attorneys
general—all Republicans—to use the
courts to repeal the Affordable Care
Act.
I want us to understand what this
means. The fight of the last 8 years,
unsuccessfully, in the court of the peo-
ple, the Congress and the Senate of the
United States, being unsuccessful, they
are now attempting in the courts of
this land to do what they could not do
through the representatives of the peo-
ple of the United States.
The cynical effort to do this actually
began with the December 2017 tax cuts
that the Republicans rammed through
Congress without one hearing: not a
hearing in the Ways and Means Com-
mittee, not a hearing in the Senate
Committee on Finance, not a hearing
at all.
Attached to that legislation was a re-
peal of the mandate that was in the Af-
fordable Care Act that every American
must either purchase insurance or have
insurance through their employer.
That repeal then opened the door to
the current attempt now in the appel-
late court in New Orleans that could
give rise to a decision that might ulti-
mately be made by the U.S. Supreme
Court that would totally repeal all as-
pects of the Affordable Care Act.
So what does this mean? Mr. Speak-
er, what does this mean for you and
me?
I hope you do not have a preexisting
condition. I do, because I am over 65,
and 130 million Americans have a pre-
existing condition. The repeal of the
Affordable Care Act would remove the
protections that those Americans have
that would guarantee them coverage
without discrimination.
Mr. Speaker, I was the insurance
commissioner in California in the early
1990s and again in 2002 to 2005. I know
what it means when the insurance
companies discriminate based upon
preexisting conditions. I have seen the
documents that they would require
men and women to fill out before they
would issue a health insurance pro-
gram.
Every conceivable issue that a
human being would have, from high
blood pressure to, indeed, being a fe-
male, was on that list, and the insur-
ance companies had unilateral, total
discretion to charge more or not pro-
vide insurance at all.
So the President of the United
States, at this moment, together with
those attorneys general and, appar-
ently, the support of our Republican
colleagues are, at this moment, at-
tempting to reestablish a burden on 130
million Americans who do have a pre-
existing condition, who are protected
but, if they have their way in court,
would lose that protection and face,
once again, the onerous and, in many
cases, deadly burden of having a pre-
existing condition and not being able
to get healthcare insurance or having
to pay several times more because of
their preexisting condition.
Who among us does not have that?
Well, perhaps the other 40 percent—ac-
tually, 50 percent of Americans who
stand at risk of developing high blood
pressure, diabetes, or some other ill-
ness.
That is not all. In my district in the
Sacramento Valley of California, the
Affordable Care Act has allowed the
creation of what we call Federally
Qualified Health Centers, which now
are the principal providers of initial
healthcare in my district.
It is not just for poor people, not just
for transients who have moved from
one job to another, but for people who
have been insured for years but, be-
cause of a lack of medical services,
could not get insurance.
These Federally Qualified Health
Centers are totally dependent upon the
Affordable Care Act. Repeal the Afford-
able Care Act and those clinics are
gone, and the services that they pro-
vide will not be in communities, both
urban and rural, across America.
How bad is it that those attorneys
general are so stuck on repealing
ObamaCare that they are ignoring the
reality that millions upon millions of
Americans have come to depend upon
these clinics? If the Affordable Care
Act is found to be contrary to law and
the Constitution by the courts and by
the cynical, diabolical repeal of one
section of the Affordable Care Act,
those people will not be able to get pri-
mary care services.
And that is not all. The Affordable
Care Act expanded the Medicaid pro-
gram across this Nation, and some 15
million Americans have been able to
gain healthcare access through the
Medicaid programs. In California, we
call it Medi-Cal. The Medi-Cal program
in California provides, perhaps, 3 mil-
lion Californians with access to
healthcare services. That, too, the ex-
pansion will be gone, and the support
for States across this Nation will be
eliminated if the Affordable Care Act is
found to no longer exist because of
court action.
How cynical, how sad, how harmful,
but that is what they are pursuing.
And that is not all. There is a problem
that existed before the Affordable Care
Act.
Young men and women found cov-
erage in some universities, in some
jobs through either the university and
the fees or through an employer; but
most, when they became 18 years of
age, lost their family insurance. The
Affordable Care Act said that is not
good. They would be able to stay on
their family’s insurance until the age
of 26, where, presumably, they would be
better able to buy insurance them-
selves or be able to have a job in which
insurance would be provided.
Insurance is expensive, so the ex-
changes were set up across the Nation,
insurance exchanges where people
could shop for insurance. Those ex-
changes provided not only access to in-
surance markets, but they also pro-
vided, through the Affordable Care Act,
tax credits that would make the insur-
ance affordable to them.
Nope, it is going to be gone. It is
going to disappear if the court in New
Orleans rules against the Affordable
Care Act.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:39 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.045 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5293
July 9, 2019
And so how will they afford insur-
ance? Well, they won’t. And in many
States where there are Federal ex-
changes—California not included, be-
cause California set up its own State
exchange. But in those States that
have a Federal exchange, it won’t
exist. The ability to shop for insurance
will be diminished or eliminated and,
along with it, the subsidies. So those
people, some 9 million who now enjoy
those subsidies, will not receive them.
It goes on and on.
Are you a senior? Are you on Med-
icaid? If so, you are in the last year in
which the doughnut hole will no longer
exist, beginning 4 years ago. The
doughnut hole, the prescription drugs
doughnut hole in which prior to the Af-
fordable Care Act there was a subsidy,
part D, for prescription drugs, that
ended at about $1,500 of prescription
costs.
Then there was a doughnut hole in
which the individual on Medicare
would have to pay for insurance, and
that was somewhere around $4,000. And
then above that, Medicare would once
again pick up the cost or most of the
cost.
In the Affordable Care Act, we spe-
cifically set up a system so that over a
4-year period, the doughnut hole would
disappear. It would shrink each and
every year. It would rise from $1,500 to
$2,000, $3,000, and so forth. And next
year, it would be gone.
I am sorry for the seniors. The Af-
fordable Care Act, if found by the court
to no longer be constitutional, would
reemerge immediately upon an action
by either the appellate court or, I sup-
pose, ultimately, the Supreme Court.
So, welcome the doughnut hole back.
If someone happens to be a senior,
they better start pocketing money—
which I am sure they don’t have, to
begin with—to prepare for the day
when the cynical action of these attor-
neys general—Republicans, every sin-
gle one of them—and the President
would once again reestablish the awe-
some, terrible prescription drugs
doughnut hole.
How small-minded can you be? Ap-
parently, there is no end to it. So here
we are. Our effort on this Democratic
side of the aisle is for the people, not
for some ideological mumbo jumbo, but
for the people. We want a healthcare
program that provides solid benefits
for Americans.
The Affordable Care Act takes us a
long, long way toward that goal. It
doesn’t achieve it totally, and we have
more to do. Many of us talk about
Medicare for All, and we hope to get
there some day. But in the meantime,
we have the Affordable Care Act, and
our Republican colleagues are doing
everything they can since its institu-
tion in 2010 to do away with it, and
they have never, ever provided a sub-
stitute.
Do you remember that repeal and re-
placement mantra? There has never
been a replacement program that made
any sense whatsoever.
So, we are for the people. We want to
deal with the cost of prescription
drugs, not to increase them for seniors,
as our Republican colleagues are at-
tempting to do; not to put Americans
out of the insurance market, as they
are attempting to do, by eliminating
the guaranteed coverage regardless of
your healthcare status; not to put peo-
ple out of insurance if they are 18 to 26
years of age, as our Republican col-
leagues are attempting to do; not to
eliminate the clinics that millions
upon millions of Americans now depend
on for their primary care, as our Re-
publican colleagues are attempting to
do.
b 2000
We want it for the people. We want
healthcare coverage for every Amer-
ican. We want it to be affordable, and
we want it to be available.
So here we are on a day in which the
appellate court in New Orleans is hear-
ing from the President’s lawyers in the
Department of Justice that 13 million
Americans should lose their health
coverage and that 130 million Ameri-
cans should be, once again, facing in-
surance discrimination because of an
existing healthcare issue. We are hear-
ing from the President’s lawyers that
it is good to eliminate the clinics, that
it is good to eliminate the subsidies
that some 9 million Americans are able
to get to so that they can afford insur-
ance, and that the exchanges that pro-
vide a marketplace for people to sort
out what kind of an insurance policy
they want should be eliminated.
The President’s lawyers are out there
purposely harming Americans all be-
cause the President has said we must
repeal the ObamaCare program.
I am sorry. I disagree. I want Ameri-
cans to have healthcare coverage. I was
an insurance commissioner for years,
and I fought the insurance companies
every single day. Then I came here in
2009 and was able to vote, providing on
this floor the vote that allowed the Af-
fordable Care Act to move out of this
House to the Senate and eventually be-
come law—the 218th vote. I am proud
of that vote because I know from my
personal experience that the Affordable
Care Act dealt with real problems that
Americans had and gave Americans a
real opportunity to get healthcare and
to get healthcare services.
Here we are with the President of the
United States actively this day doing
everything he could not achieve in the
Congress but rather now in the courts
doing everything he can to harm Amer-
icans—how cynical, how terrible, and
how harmful. But that is where we are.
We will see what the court does.
Hopefully, they will be sympathetic to
130 million Americans, to 9 million
Americans, to 15 million Americans, to
children, and to young adults 18 to 25.
Maybe they will be sympathetic. We
will see what happens.
But if the Affordable Care Act is
somehow through the courts repealed
and there is no replacement, then I
want the American people to under-
stand who is responsible for the harm
that will immediately be inflicted upon
Americans. It is our President and it is
his colleagues who have aided and abet-
ted and who today in-State attorneys
general are arguing for the harm that
will come to Americans.
We haven’t given up the fight, and we
will never give up the fight so that
every American has affordable health
insurance, whatever that may be.
We have come a long way with the
Affordable Care Act, and we will fight
all along the way. Should we lose this
battle, we are never, ever going to give
up our goal of providing quality, af-
fordable healthcare to every American.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 8 o’clock and 3 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 2348
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. PERLMUTTER) at 11
o’clock and 48 minutes p.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 2500, NATIONAL DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION ACT FOR FIS-
CAL YEAR 2020, AND PROVIDING
FOR CONSIDERATION OF MO-
TIONS TO SUSPEND THE RULES
Mr. MCGOVERN, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–143) on the
resolution (H. Res. 476) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2500) to
authorize appropriations for fiscal year
2020 for military activities of the De-
partment of Defense and for military
construction, to prescribe military per-
sonnel strengths for such fiscal year,
and for other purposes, and providing
for consideration of motions to suspend
the rules, which was referred to the
House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
PUBLICATION OF BUDGETARY
MATERIAL
STATUS REPORT ON CURRENT SPENDING LEVELS
OF ON-BUDGET SPENDING AND REVENUES FOR
FY 2019
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET,
Washington, DC, July 9, 2019.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: To facilitate appli-
cation of sections 302 and 311 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, I am transmitting
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:39 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K09JY7.046 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5294 July 9, 2019
an updated status report on the current lev-
els of on-budget spending and revenues for
fiscal year 2019. This status report is current
through July 1, 2019. The term ‘‘current
level’’ refers to the amounts of spending and
revenues estimated for each fiscal year based
on laws enacted or awaiting the President’s
signature.
Table 1 compares the current levels of
total budget authority, outlays, and reve-
nues to the overall limits filed in the Con-
gressional Record on May 10, 2018, as ad-
justed, for fiscal year 2019. These compari-
sons are needed to implement section 311(a)
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974,
which establishes a rule enforceable with a
point of order against measures that would
breach the budget resolution’s aggregate lev-
els.
Table 2 compares the current levels of
budget authority and outlays for legislative
action completed by each authorizing com-
mittee with the limits filed in the Congres-
sional Record on May 10, 2018, for fiscal year
2019. These comparisons are needed to en-
force the point of order under section 302(f)
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974,
which prohibits the consideration of meas-
ures that would breach the section 302(a) al-
location of new budget authority for the
committee that reported the measure. It is
also needed to implement section 311(c),
which provides an exception for committees
that comply with their allocations from the
point of order under section 311(a).
Table 3 compares the current status of dis-
cretionary appropriations for fiscal year 2019
with the section 302(b) suballocations of dis-
cretionary budget authority and outlays
among Appropriations subcommittees. The
comparison is needed to enforce section
302(f) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974
because the point of order under that section
equally applies to measures that would
breach the applicable section 302(b) sub-
allocation. The table also provides supple-
mentary information on spending in excess
of the base discretionary spending limits al-
lowed under section 251(b) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985.
Table 4 displays the current level of ad-
vance appropriations in fiscal year 2019 ap-
propriations bills. All of the advance appro-
priations are for accounts identified pursu-
ant to H. Res; 6 and the statement of the
Chairman published in the Congressional
Record on January 8, 2019. This table is need-
ed to enforce a rule against appropriations
bills containing advance appropriations that:
(i) are not identified in the statement of
the Chairman published in the Congressional
Record on January 8, 2019 or (ii) would cause
the aggregate amount of such appropriations
to exceed the level specified in section 103{c)
of H. Res. 6.
In addition, a letter from the Congres-
sional Budget Office is attached that sum-
marizes and compares the budget impact of
legislation enacted after the adoption of the
budget resolution against the budget resolu-
tion aggregate in force.
If you have any questions, please contact
Jennifer Wheelock or Raquel Spencer.
Sincerely,
JOHN YARMUTH,
Chairman.
TABLE 1—REPORT TO THE SPEAKER FROM THE COM-
MITTEE ON THE BUDGET, STATUS OF THE FISCAL YEAR
2019 CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET, REFLECTING ACTION
COMPLETED AS OF JULY 1, 2019
[On-budget amounts, in millions of dollars]
Fiscal Year
2019
Appropriate Level: 1
Budget Authority ........................................................... 3,752,421
Outlays .......................................................................... 3,551,738
Revenues ....................................................................... 2,590,496
Current Level: 1
Budget Authority ........................................................... 3,641,063
Outlays .......................................................................... 3,547,252
Revenues ....................................................................... 2,590,070
Current Level over (+)/under (¥) Appropriate Level:
Budget Authority ........................................................... ¥111,358
Outlays .......................................................................... ¥4,486
Revenues ....................................................................... ¥426
1 The resolution includes emergencies enacted in 2018, adjusted for infla-
tion. Current level excludes all emergencies.
TABLE 2—DIRECT SPENDING LEGISLATION, COMPARISON
OF AUTHORIZING COMMITTEE LEGISLATIVE ACTION WITH
302(a) ALLOCATIONS FOR BUDGET CHANGES, REFLECT-
ING ACTION COMPLETED AS OF JULY 1, 2019
[Fiscal Years, in millions of dollars]
House Committee
2019
BA Outlays
Agriculture
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 2,414 1,401
Difference ......................................................... 2,414 1,401
Armed Services
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
TABLE 2—DIRECT SPENDING LEGISLATION, COMPARISON
OF AUTHORIZING COMMITTEE LEGISLATIVE ACTION WITH
302(a) ALLOCATIONS FOR BUDGET CHANGES, REFLECT-
ING ACTION COMPLETED AS OF JULY 1, 2019—Contin-
ued
[Fiscal Years, in millions of dollars]
House Committee
2019
BA Outlays
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
Education and Labor
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
Energy and Commerce
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 386 173
Difference ......................................................... 386 173
Financial Services
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 23 22
Difference ......................................................... 23 22
Foreign Affairs
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
Homeland Security
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
House Administration
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
Judiciary
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
Natural Resources
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
Oversight and Reform
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 1 1
Difference ......................................................... 1 1
Science, Space, and Technology
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
Small Business
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 0 0
Difference ......................................................... 0 0
Transportation and Infrastructure
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 42 55
Difference ......................................................... 42 55
Veterans’ Affairs
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... ¥1 4,397
Difference ......................................................... ¥1 4,397
Ways and Means
Allocation ......................................................... 0 0
Current Level .................................................... 13 7
Difference ......................................................... 13 7
TABLE 3—DISCRETIONARY APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019—COMPARISON OF CURRENT LEVEL WITH APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE 302(a) ALLOCATION AND
APPRROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE 302(b) SUBALLOCATIONS
(in millions of dollars)
302(b) Suballocations
as of August 10, 2018
(H.Rpt. 115–897)
Current Status Reflecting
Action Completed as of
July 1, 2019
Current Status less
302(b)
Appropriations Subcommittee
BA OT BA OT BA OT
Agriculture, Rural Development, FDA ...................................................................................................................................................................................... 23,242 24,677 23,042 24,491 ¥200 ¥186
Commerce, Justice, Science .................................................................................................................................................................................................... 62,520 72,145 64,118 70,889 1,598 ¥1,256
Defense .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 674,591 625,811 674,383 624,840 ¥208 ¥971
Energy and Water Development .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 44,700 44,476 44,640 44,335 ¥60 ¥141
Financial Services and General Government .......................................................................................................................................................................... 23,423 24,045 23,423 24,085 0 40
Homeland Security .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 58,087 59,384 61,576 59,602 3,489 218
Interior, Environment ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... 35,252 35,015 35,552 34,975 300 ¥40
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education ...................................................................................................................................................................... 178,997 184,114 179,973 185,820 976 1,706
Legislative Branch .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4,880 4,770 4,836 4,720 ¥44 ¥50
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs ................................................................................................................................................................................... 98,057 90,691 98,057 90,809 0 118
State, Foreign Operations ....................................................................................................................................................................................................... 54,018 50,280 54,218 49,957 200 ¥323
Transportation, Housing & Urban Development ..................................................................................................................................................................... 71,800 132,364 71,079 132,524 ¥721 160
Subtotal (Section 302(b) Allocations) ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,329,567 1,347,772 1,334,897 1,347,047 5,330 ¥725
Unallocated portion of Section 302(a) Allocation 2 ................................................................................................................................................................ 5,330 ¥8611 n.a n.a n.a n.a
TOTAL (Section 302(a) Allocation) ................................................................................................................................................................................. 1,334,897 1,339,161 1,334,897 1,347,047 0 7,886
Comparison of total appropriations and 302(a) allocation General Purpose OCO 3
BA OT BA OT
302(a) Allocation ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,257,897 1,299,110 77,000 40,051
Total Appropriation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,257,897 1,306,996 77,000 40,051
............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 7,886 0 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.024 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5295
July 9, 2019
Memorandum Amounts Assumed in 302(b) 4 Amounts enacted
OCO Program Integrity Emergency require-
ments
Disaster Relief
Spending in Excess of Base Budget Control Act Caps for Sec. 251(b) designated Categories BA OT BA OT BA OT
BA OT
BA OT
Agriculture, Rural Development, FDA .................................................................................................. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 5,300 2,982 n.a. n.a.
Commerce, Justice, Science ................................................................................................................ n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 1,160 377 n.a. n.a.
Defense ................................................................................................................................................ n.a. n.a. 67,914 37,071 n.a. n.a. 1,196 634 n.a. n.a.
Energy and Water Development .......................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 3,274 114 n.a. n.a.
Financial Services and General Government ...................................................................................... n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 91 34 n.a. n.a.
Homeland Security ............................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 165 127 n.a. n.a. 1,865 728 12,000 600
Interior, Environment ........................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 1,581 1,001 n.a. n.a.
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education .................................................................................. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 1,897 1,573 3,493 346 n.a. n.a.
Legislative Branch ............................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 10 5 n.a. n.a.
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs ............................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 921 n.a. n.a. n.a. 1,645 12 n.a. n.a.
State, Foreign Operations .................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 8,000 2,853 n.a. n.a. n.a. 10 n.a. n.a.
Transportation, Housing & Urban Development .................................................................................. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 5,772 204 n.a. n.a.
Totals ................................................................................................................................. 92,557 42,259 77,000 40,051 1,897 1,573 25,387 6,447 12,000 600
1 Spending designated as emergency is not included in the current status of appropriations shown on this table.
2 Totals include 302(a) adjustments for Overseas Contingency Operations and General Purposes amounts that differ from amounts anticipated in the 302(b) suballocations.
3 Totals include an adjustment for Overseas Contingency Operations included in the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–6).
4 Totals assume an allowable 302(b) adjustable for Disaster Relief, pursuant to a revised 302(a) allocation filed in the Congressional Record on February 14, 2019.
TABLE 4—ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 103(c) OF H. RES. 6 AS OF JULY 1, 2019
[Budget authority in millions of dollars]
For 2020:
Accounts Identified for Ad-
vance Appropriations Appro-
priate Level ........................... 28,852
Enacted advances:
Accounts identified for ad-
vances:
Employment and Training
Administration ............... 1,772
Education for the Dis-
advantaged ...................... 10,841
School Improvement .......... 1,681
Career, Technical, and
Adult Education .............. 791
Special Education .............. 9,283
Tenant-based Rental As-
sistance ........................... 4,000
Project-based Rental As-
sistance ........................... 400
Subtotal, enacted advances ...... 28,768
Enacted Advances vs. Section
103(c)(2)(A) limit .................... ¥84
Veterans Accounts Identified for
Advance Appropriations
Appropriate Level .................... 75,551
TABLE 4—ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS PURSUANT TO SEC-
TION 103(c) OF H. RES. 6 AS OF JULY 1, 2019—Con-
tinued
[Budget authority in millions of dollars]
Enacted advances:
Veterans accounts identified
for advances:
Veterans Medical Services 51,411
Veterans Medical Support
and Compliance ............... 7,239
Veterans Medical Facilities 6,142
Veterans Medical Commu-
nity Care ......................... 10,758
Subtotal, enacted advances ...... 75,551
Enacted Advances vs. Section
103(c)(2)(B) limit .................... 0
For 2021:
Corporation for Public Broad-
casting ................................... 445
U.S. CONGRESS,
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
Washington, DC, July 8, 2019.
Hon. JOHN YARMUTH,
Chairman, Committee on the Budget,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The enclosed report
shows the effects of Congressional action on
the fiscal year 2019 budget and is current
through July 1, 2019. This report is submitted
under section 308(b) and in aid of section 311
of the Congressional Budget Act, as amend-
ed.
The estimates of budget authority, out-
lays, and revenues are consistent with the
allocations, aggregates, and other budgetary
levels printed in the Congressional Record on
May 10, 2018, pursuant to section 30104 of the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–123), and section 103(m) of House Resolu-
tion 6 of the 116th Congress.
Since our last letter dated February 27,
2019, the Congress has cleared and the Presi-
dent has signed the following legislation
that has significant effects on budget au-
thority and outlays in fiscal year 2019:
Pesticide Registration Improvement Ex-
tension Act of 2018 (Public Law 116–8);
Medicaid Services Investment and Ac-
countability Act of 2019 (Public Law 116–16);
Additional Supplemental Appropriations
for Disaster Relief Act, 2019 (Public Law 116–
20);
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations
for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at
the Southern Border Act, 2019 (Public Law
116–26); and
A bill to provide for a 2-week extension of
the Medicaid community mental health serv-
ices demonstration program, and for other
purposes (S. 2047).
Sincerely,
PHILLIP L. SWAGEL,
Director.
Enclosure.
FISCAL YEAR 2019 HOUSE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT THROUGH JULY 1, 2019
[In millions of dollars]
Budget authority Outlays Revenues
Previously Enacted: a,b,c
Revenues ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 2,590,496
Permanents and other spending legislation ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,341,676 2,236,400 n.a.
Authorizing and Appropriation legislation ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,884,827 1,949,095 ¥302
Offsetting receipts ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ¥890,012 ¥890,015 n.a.
Total, Previously Enacted ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3,336,491 3,295,480 2,590,194
Enacted Legislation
Authorizing Legislation
Medicaid Extenders Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–3) ............................................................................................................................................................................................................ 120 8 0
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–6, Division H) d ............................................................................................................................................................................ 2 2 1
Pesticide Registration Improvement Extension Act of 2018 (P.L. 116–8) ................................................................................................................................................................. 0 ¥5 0
Medicaid Services Investment and Accountability Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–16) .......................................................................................................................................................... 52 32 0
A bill to provide for a 2-week extension of the Medicaid community mental health services demonstration program, and for other purposes (S. 2047) ................................. 5 5 0
Subtotal, Authorizing Legislation ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 179 42 1
Appropriation Legislation b,c,d,e
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (Divisions A–G, P.L. 116–6) b,c,d,e ............................................................................................................................................................... 480,297 311,576 ¥125
Subtotal, Appropriation Legislation .................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 480,297 311,576 ¥125
Total, Enacted Legislation .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 480,476 311,618 ¥124
Adjustments to Entitlements and Mandatories ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ¥175,904 ¥59,846 0
Total Current Level c ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,641,063 3,547,252 2,590,070
Total House Resolution f ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3,752,421 3,551,738 2,590,496
Current Level Over House Resolution ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current Level Under House Resolution .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 111,358 4,486 426
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
n.a. = not applicable; P.L. = public law.
a Includes the budgetary effects of legislation enacted by Congress during the 115th Congress.
b Sections 1001–1004 of the 21st Century Cures Act (P.L. 114–255) require that certain funding provided for 2017 through 2026 to the Department of Health and Human Services—in particular the Food and Drug Administration and
the National Institutes of Health—be excluded from estimates for the purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Deficit Control Act) or the Congressional Budget Act of 1974. Therefore, the amounts
shown in this report do not include $781 million in budget authority and $770 million in estimated outlays.
c For purposes of enforcing section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act in the House, the resolution, as approved by the House of Representatives, does not include budget authority, outlays, or revenues for off-budget amounts. As a re-
sult, amounts in this current level report do not include those items.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:16 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.026 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5296 July 9, 2019
d The Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–5), as amended, extended several immigration programs through February 15, 2019, that would otherwise have expired at the end of fiscal year 2018. The estimated budgetary effects
of those previously enacted extensions are charged to the Committee on Appropriations, and are included in the budgetary effects of P.L. 116–6 shown in the ‘‘Appropriation Legislation’’ portion of this report. In addition, division H of P.L.
116–6 further extended those same programs through the end of fiscal year 2019. Consistent with the language in title III of division H of P.L. 116–6, and at the direction of the House Committee on the Budget, the budgetary effects of
extending those immigration programs for the remainder of the fiscal year are charged to the relevant authorizing committees, and are shown in the ‘‘Authorizing Legislation’’ portion of this report.
e In the House of Representatives, and pursuant to section 314(d) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, amounts designated as an emergency requirement shall not count for purposes of title III and title IV of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, and are excluded from current level totals. The table below displays emergency-designated funding enacted during the 116th Congress which are excluded from current level totals. (Those amounts do not include
$1,680 million in budget authority and $25 million in outlays stemming from P.L. 115–254, which was enacted during the 115th Congress):
Budget au-
thority
Outlays Revenues
Discretionary Emergency Requirements
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 (Divisions A–G, P.L. 116–6) ................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 10 0
Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–20) ...................................................................................................................................................... 19,121 5,364 0
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at the Southern Border Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–26) ........................................................................ 4,586 1,048 0
Total, Discretionary Emergency Requirements .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 23,707 6,422 0
f Section 30104 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–123) required—in the absence of a concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2019—that the Chair of the House Committee on the Budget publish the aggregate
spending and revenue levels for fiscal year 2019; those aggregate levels were first published in the Congressional Record on May 10, 2018. P.L. 115–123 also allows the Chair of the House Committee on the Budget to revise the budg-
etary aggregates:
Budget au-
thority
Outlays Revenues
Original Aggregates Printed on May 10, 2018: .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,747,016 3,551,514 2,590,496
Revision:
Adjustment for H.R. 5895, the Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019 ...................................................... 921 0 0
Adjustment for H.J. Res. 31, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2019 ......................................................................................................................................................................... 4,484 224 0
Revised House Resolution ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,752,421 3,551,738 2,590,496
PUBLICATION OF BUDGETARY
MATERIAL
STATUS REPORT ON CURRENT SPENDING LEVELS
OF ON-BUDGET SPENDING AND REVENUES FOR
FY 2020
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET,
Washington, DC, July 9, 2019.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: To facilitate appli-
cation of sections 302 and 311 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, I am transmitting
an updated status report on the current lev-
els of on-budget spending and revenues for
fiscal year 2020. This status report is current
through July 1, 2019. The term ‘‘current
level’’ refers to the amounts of spending and
revenues estimated for each fiscal year based
on laws enacted or awaiting the President’s
signature.
Table 1 compares the current levels of
total budget authority, outlays, and reve-
nues to the overall limits filed in the Con-
gressional Record on May 3, 2019, as ad-
justed, for fiscal year 2020 and for the 10–year
period of fiscal years 2020 through 2029. These
comparisons are needed to implement sec-
tion 311(a) of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974, which establishes a rule enforceable
with a point of order against measures that
would breach the budget resolution’s aggre-
gate levels. The table does not show budget
authority and outlays for years after fiscal
year 2020 because appropriations for those
years have not yet been completed.
Table 2 compares the current levels of
budget authority and outlays for legislative
action completed by each authorizing com-
mittee with the limits filed in the Congres-
sional Record on May 3, 2019, for fiscal year
2020, and for the 10-year period of fiscal years
2020 through 2029. These comparisons are
needed to enforce the point of order under
section 302(f) of the Congressional Budget
Act of 1974, which prohibits the consider-
ation of measures that would breach the sec-
tion 302(a) allocation of new budget author-
ity for the committee that reported the
measure. It is also needed to implement sec-
tion 311(c), which provides an exception for
committees that comply with their alloca-
tions from the point of order under section
311(a).
Table 3 compares the current status of dis-
cretionary appropriations for fiscal year 2020
with the section 302(b) suballocations of dis-
cretionary budget authority and outlays
among Appropriations subcommittees. The
comparison is needed to enforce section
302(f) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974
because the point of order under that section
equally applies to measures that would
breach the applicable section 302(b) sub-
allocation.
In addition, a letter from the Congres-
sional Budget Office is attached that sum-
marizes and compares the budget impact of
legislation enacted after the adoption of the
budget resolution against the budget resolu-
tion aggregate in force.
If you have any questions, please contact
Jennifer Wheelock or Raquel Spencer.
Sincerely,
JOHN YARMUTH,
Chairman.
TABLE 1—REPORT TO THE SPEAKER FROM THE COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET, STATUS OF THE FISCAL YEAR 2020, AND 2020–2029 CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET, REFLECTING ACTION
COMPLETED AS OF JULY 1, 2019
[On-budget amounts, in millions of dollars]
Fiscal Year
2020
Fiscal Years
2020–2029
Appropriate Level: 1
Budget Authority ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3,798,577 n.a.
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,726,329 n.a.
Revenues ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,740,533 34,847,515
Current Level: 1
Budget Authority ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,521,707 n.a.
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,005,128 n.a.
Revenues ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,740,538 34,847,317
Current Level over(+)/under(-) Appropriate Level:
Budget Authority ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ¥1,276,870 n.a.
Outlays ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ¥721,201 n.a.
Revenues ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 5 ¥198
n.a. = Not applicable because annual appropriations Acts for fiscal years 2021 through 2029 will not be considered until future sessions of Congress.
1 Current Level excludes all emergencies.
TABLE 2—DIRECT SPENDING LEGISLATION, COMPARISON OF AUTHORIZING COMMITTEE LEGISLATIVE ACTION WITH 302(a) ALLOCATIONS FOR BUDGET CHANGES, REFLECTING ACTION
COMPLETED AS OF JULY 1, 2019
[Fiscal years, in millions of dollars]
House Committee
2020 2020–2029 Total
BA Outlays BA Outlays
Agriculture:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Armed Services:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Education and Labor:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Energy and Commerce:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 ¥5 ¥5
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 ¥5 ¥5
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.028 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5297
July 9, 2019
TABLE 2—DIRECT SPENDING LEGISLATION, COMPARISON OF AUTHORIZING COMMITTEE LEGISLATIVE ACTION WITH 302(a) ALLOCATIONS FOR BUDGET CHANGES, REFLECTING ACTION
COMPLETED AS OF JULY 1, 2019—Continued
[Fiscal years, in millions of dollars]
House Committee
2020 2020–2029 Total
BA Outlays BA Outlays
Financial Services:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Foreign Affairs:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Homeland Security:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
House Administration:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Judiciary:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Natural Resources:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Oversight and Reform:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Science, Space, and Technology:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Small Business:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Transportation and Infrastructure:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 0 0
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Veterans’ Affairs:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ¥10 ¥10 ¥75 ¥75
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ¥10 ¥10 ¥75 ¥75
Ways and Means:
Allocation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 0
Current Level ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 ¥234 ¥234
Difference ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 ¥234 ¥234
TABLE 3—DISCRETIONARY APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020, COMPARISON OF CURRENT LEVEL WITH APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE 302(a) ALLOCATION AND
APPROPRIATIONS SUBCOMMITTEE 302(b) SUBALLOCATIONS
[In million dollars]
Appropriations Subcommittee
302(b) Suballocations
as of June 21, 2019
(H. Rpt. 116–124)
Current Status Reflecting
Action Completed as of July
1,2019 1
Current Status
less
302(b)
BA OT BA OT BA OT
Agriculture, Rural Development, FDA .................................................................................................................................................................. 24,310 22,900 9 8,715 ¥24,301 ¥14,185
Commerce, Justice, Science ................................................................................................................................................................................ 73,895 77,400 0 26,550 ¥73,895 ¥50,850
Defense ................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 690,161 662,402 42 258,855 ¥690,119 ¥403,547
Energy and Water Development .......................................................................................................................................................................... 46,413 44,800 0 18,716 ¥46,413 ¥26,084
Financial Services and General Government ...................................................................................................................................................... 24,950 24,638 0 5,584 ¥24,950 ¥19,054
Homeland Security .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 63,811 60,727 9 25,910 ¥63,802 ¥34,817
Interior, Environment ........................................................................................................................................................................................... 39,527 37,900 0 12,010 ¥39,527 ¥25,890
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education .................................................................................................................................................. 191,718 191,981 24,813 126,224 ¥166,905 ¥65,757
Legislative Branch .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 5,010 5.037 1 851 ¥5,009 ¥4,186
Military Construction, Veterans Affairs ............................................................................................................................................................... 106,138 99,507 75,550 87,570 ¥30,588 ¥11,937
State, Foreign Operations ................................................................................................................................................................................... 56,381 50,924 0 33,700 ¥56,381 ¥17,224
Transportation, Housing & Urban Development ................................................................................................................................................. 75,771 133,300 4,400 83,569 ¥71,371 ¥49,731
Total, (Section 302(b) Allocations) ............................................................................................................................................................ 1,398,085 1,411,516 104,824 688,254 ¥1,293,261 ¥723,262
Comparison of total appropriations and 302(a) allocation BA OT
302(a) Allocation 2 .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1,384,010 1,410,812
Total Appropriation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 104,824 688,254
¥1,279,186 ¥722,558
1 Amounts reflected are those discretionary items that were previously enacted. As of July 1, 2019, there are no enacted appropriations bills for FY2020.
2 The 302(b) includes amounts designated for disaster relief contained in the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2020. The 302(a) will be adjusted after that bill is reported.
U.S. CONGRESS,
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
Washington, DC, July 8, 2019.
Hon. JOHN YARMUTH,
Chairman, Committee on the Budget,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The enclosed report
shows the effects of Congressional action on
the fiscal year 2020 budget and is current
through July 1, 2019. This report is submitted
under section 308(b) and in aid of section 311
of the Congressional Budget Act, as amend-
ed.
The estimates of budget authority, out-
lays, and revenues are consistent with the
allocations, aggregates, and other budgetary
levels printed in the Congressional Record on
May 3, 2019, pursuant to sections 1 and 2 of
House Resolution 293 of the 116th Congress.
This is CBO’s first current level report for
fiscal year 2020.
Sincerely,
PHILLIP L. SWAGEL.
Enclosure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.020 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5298 July 9, 2019
FISCAL YEAR 2020 HOUSE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT THROUGH JULY 1, 2019
[In millions of dollars]
Budget Authority Outlays Revenues
Previously Enacted a
Revenues ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 2,740,533
Permanents and other spending legislation ................................................................................................................................................................................ 2,402,273 2,307,950 n.a.
Appropriation legislation ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 595,528 n.a.
Offsetting receipts ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ¥954,573 ¥954,573 n.a.
Total, Previously Enacted ..................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,447,700 1,948,905 2,740,533
Enacted Legislation
Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019 (P.L. 116–23) ................................................................................................................................................. ¥10 ¥10 0
Taxpayer First Act (P.L. 116–25) .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 5
Total, Enacted Legislation ................................................................................................................................................................................................... ¥10 ¥10 5
Adjustments to Entitlements and Mandatories ............................................................................................................................................................................ 1,074,017 1,056,233 0
Total Current Level b ..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2,521,707 3,005,128 2,740,538
Total House Resolution c ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,798,577 3,726,329 2,740,533
Current Level Over House Resolution ........................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a, 5
Current Level Under House Resolution ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,276,870 721,201 n.a.
Memorandum
Revenues, 2020–2029
House Current Level a b ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 34,847,317
House Resolution c ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ n.a. n.a. 34,847,515
Current Level Over House Resolution ........................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current Level Under House Resolution ......................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 198
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
n.a. = not applicable; P.L. = public law.
a. For purposes of enforcing section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act in the House, the resolution, as approved by the House of Representatives, does not include budget authority, outlays, or revenues for off-budget amounts. As a
result, amounts in this current level report do not include those items.
b. In the House of Representatives, and pursuant to section 314(d) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, amounts designated as an emergency requirement shall not count for purposes of title Ill and title IV of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, and are excluded from current level totals. In addition, emergency funding designated that was not designated pursuant to the Deficit Control Act does not count for certain budgetary enforcement purposes. Those
amounts, which are not included in the current level totals, are as follows:
Budget Authority Outlays Revenues
Discretionary Emergency Requirements
Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–20) ...................................................................................................... 8 4,951 0
Emergency Supplemental Appropriations for Humanitarian Assistance and Security at the Southern Border Act, 2019 (P.L. 116–26) ........................ 0 1,300 0
c. On May 3, 2019 the Chair of the House Committee on the Budget published the aggregate spending and revenue levels for fiscal year 2020 pursuant to H. Res. 293. In accordance with section 314 of the Congressional Budget Act of
1974, section 251 (b) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, and section 1 of H. Res. 293 the Chair of the House Committee on the Budget may revise the budgetary aggregates. Revisions to date are listed
below.
Budget Authority Outlays Revenues
Original Aggregates Printed on May 3, 2019: 3,709,585 3,676,452 2,740,533
Revisions:
Adjustment for H.R. 2740, Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020 ................................ 1,842 1,481 n.a.
Adjustment for H.R. 2745, Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020 .................................................... 921 7 n.a.
Budget Authority Outlays Revenues
Adjustment for H.R. 2839, Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2020 ................................................ 8,000 2,174 0
Adjustment for H.R. 2968, Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2020 .................................................................................................................. 68,079 38,227 0
Adjustment for H.R. 3052, Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020 ................................................. 2,250 2,250 0
Adjustment for H.R. 3055, Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2020 ...................................................................... 7,500 5,400 0
Adjustment for H.R. 3351, Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2020 ................................................................................. 400 338 0
Revised House Resolution ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,798,577 3,726,329 2,740,533
BILLS PRESENTED TO THE
PRESIDENT
Cheryl L. Johnson, Clerk of the
House, reported that on June 28, 2019,
she presented to the President of the
United States, for his approval, the fol-
lowing bills:
H.R. 2940. To extend the program of block
grants to States for temporary assistance for
needy families and related programs through
September 30, 2019.
H.R. 3401. Emergency Supplemental Appro-
priations for Humanitarian Assistance and
Security at the Southern Border Act, 2019.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 11 o’clock and 49 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, July 10, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the second quar-
ter of 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DANIEL SILVERBERG, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 13 AND APR. 18, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Daniel Silverberg ..................................................... 4/14 4/16 United Arab Emirates ........................... .................... 946.00 .................... 9,883.00 .................... .................... .................... 10,829.00
4/16 4/17 Bahrain ................................................. .................... 356.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 356.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 1,302.00 .................... 9,883.00 .................... .................... .................... 11,185.00
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
DANIEL SILVERBERG, Apr. 30, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.021 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5299
July 9, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DANIEL SILVERBERG, EXPENDED BETWEEN MAY 28 AND JUNE 2, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Daniel Silverberg ..................................................... 5/30 5/31 Malaysia ............................................... .................... 260.00 .................... 10,883.00 .................... .................... .................... 11,143.00
5/31 6/2 Singapore .............................................. .................... 837.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 837.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 1,097.00 .................... 10,883.00 .................... .................... .................... 11,980.00
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
DANIEL SILVERBERG, June 3, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, WYNDEE PARKER, EXPENDED BETWEEN MAY 30 AND JUNE 2, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Wyndee Parker ......................................................... 5/30 6/2 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,227.00 .................... 15,798.00 .................... .................... .................... 17,025.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 1,227.00 .................... 15,798.00 .................... .................... .................... 17,025.00
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
WYNDEE PARKER, July 1, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Ted Deutch ...................................................... 4/5 4/7 Jordan ................................................... .................... 803.29 .................... 8,024.83 .................... .................... .................... 8,828.12
Ryan Doherty ........................................................... 4/5 4/7 Jordan ................................................... .................... 803.29 .................... 14,210.43 .................... .................... .................... 15,013.72
Hon. Ted Deutch ** ................................................. 4/22 4/28 Qatar ..................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/22 4/28 Oman .................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/22 4/28 UAE ....................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Casey Kustin ** ....................................................... 4/22 4/28 Qatar ..................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/22 4/28 Oman .................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/22 4/28 UAE ....................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Gabriella Zach ** .................................................... 4/22 4/28 Qatar ..................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/22 4/28 Oman .................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/22 4/28 UAE ....................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Hon. Joe Wilson ** ................................................... 4/22 4/28 Qatar ..................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/22 4/28 Oman .................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/22 4/28 UAE ....................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Hon. Michael McCaul .............................................. 4/16 4/17 Italy ....................................................... .................... 479.22 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 479.22
4/17 4/19 Cote d’Ivoire ......................................... .................... 713.58 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 713.58
4/19 4/20 Rwanda ................................................. .................... 290.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 290.00
4/20 4/21 Tunisia .................................................. .................... 202.06 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 202.06
4/21 4/22 Portugal ................................................ .................... 332.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 332.00
Hon. Vicente Gonzalez ** ........................................ 4/21 4/29 Argentina .............................................. .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/21 4/29 Brazil .................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/21 4/29 Colombia ............................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Hon. Albio Sires* ..................................................... 4/24 4/25 Curacao ................................................ .................... 305.00 .................... (3) .................... 2,272.75 .................... 2,577.75
* .............................................................................. 4/25 4/30 Colombia ............................................... .................... 1,747.00 .................... (3) .................... 27,597.00 .................... 29,344.00
** ............................................................................ ............. ................. Ecuador ................................................. .................... 147.00 .................... .................... .................... 1,137.25 .................... 1,284.25
Sadaf Khan .............................................................. 4/24 4/25 Curacao ................................................ .................... 305.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 305.00
4/25 4/30 Colombia ............................................... .................... 1,747.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,747.00
** ............................................................................ ............. ................. Ecuador ................................................. .................... 147.00 .................... .................... .................... ** .................... 147.00
Alexander Brockwehl ................................................ 4/24 4/25 Curacao ................................................ .................... 305.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 305.00
4/25 4/30 Colombia ............................................... .................... 1,747.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,747.00
** ............................................................................ ............. ................. Ecuador ................................................. .................... 147.00 .................... .................... .................... ** .................... 147.00
Hon. Ted Deutch ...................................................... 4/24 4/25 Curacao ................................................ .................... 305.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 305.00
4/25 4/30 Colombia ............................................... .................... 1,747.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,747.00
** ............................................................................ ............. ................. Ecuador ................................................. .................... 147.00 .................... .................... .................... ** .................... 147.00
Casey Kustin ............................................................ 4/24 4/25 Curacao ................................................ .................... 305.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 305.00
4/25 4/30 Colombia ............................................... .................... 880.00 .................... 1,399.48 .................... .................... .................... 2,279.48
** ............................................................................ ............. ................. Ecuador ................................................. .................... 147.00 .................... .................... .................... ** .................... 147.00
Hon. Ted Yoho ......................................................... 4/24 4/25 Curacao ................................................ .................... 305.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 305.00
4/25 4/30 Colombia ............................................... .................... 1,747.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,747.00
** ............................................................................ ............. ................. Ecuador ................................................. .................... 147.00 .................... .................... .................... ** .................... 147.00
Hon. Gregory Meeks ................................................. 4/24 4/25 Curacao ................................................ .................... 305.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 305.00
4/25 4/30 Colombia ............................................... .................... 1,747.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,747.00
** ............................................................................ ............. ................. Ecuador ................................................. .................... 147.00 .................... .................... .................... ** .................... 147.00
Claire Figel .............................................................. 4/24 4/25 Curacao ................................................ .................... 305.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 305.00
4/25 4/30 Colombia ............................................... .................... 1,747.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,747.00
** ............................................................................ ............. ................. Ecuador ................................................. .................... 147.00 .................... .................... .................... ** .................... 147.00
Jaclyn Cahan * ........................................................ 4/16 4/18 Egypt ..................................................... .................... 789.00 .................... 6,124.23 .................... 94.09 .................... 7,007.32
4/18 4/21 Cyprus ................................................... .................... 768.96 .................... .................... .................... 1,607.93 .................... 2,376.89
Grant Mullins ........................................................... 4/15 4/18 Egypt ..................................................... .................... 727.00 .................... 6,124.23 .................... .................... .................... 6,851.23
4/18 4/21 Cyprus ................................................... .................... 803.45 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 803.45
Peter Billerbeck ....................................................... 4/15 4/19 Egypt ..................................................... .................... 1,092.00 .................... 4,480.93 .................... .................... .................... 5,572.93
Katy Crosby * ........................................................... 4/12 4/15 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,409.20 .................... 3,913.60 * 119.44 .................... 5,442.24
* .............................................................................. 4/15 4/18 Turkey ................................................... .................... 904.20 .................... .................... * 443.37 .................... 948.57
Meghan Gallagher ................................................... 4/12 4/15 Jordan ................................................... .................... 1,049.20 .................... 4,911.43 .................... .................... .................... 5,960.63
4/15 4/18 Turkey ................................................... .................... 782.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 782.00
Mira Resnick ............................................................ 4/14 4/16 UAE ....................................................... .................... 880.00 .................... 9,285.02 .................... .................... .................... 10,165.02
4/16 4/18 Bahrain ................................................. .................... 376.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 376.00
Sajit Gandhi ** ........................................................ 4/21 4/29 Sri Lanka .............................................. .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/21 4/29 Maldives ............................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Jennifer Hendrixson-White ** .................................. 4/21 4/29 Sri Lanka .............................................. .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/21 4/29 Maldives ............................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Hon Karen Bass ** .................................................. 4/13 4/20 Germany ................................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/13 4/20 Djibouti ................................................. .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/13 4/20 Niger ..................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Dr. Janette Yarwood ** ............................................ 4/13 4/20 Germany ................................................ .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/13 4/20 Djibouti ................................................. .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
** ............................................................................ 4/13 4/20 Niger ..................................................... .................... ** .................... ** .................... ** .................... **
Gabriella Zach ** .................................................... 5/23 5/31 Cyprus ................................................... .................... ** .................... 242.60 .................... ** .................... 242.60
Eric Jacobstein ........................................................ 5/28 5/31 Mexico ................................................... .................... 853.76 .................... 842.44 .................... .................... .................... 1,696.20
Sadaf Khan .............................................................. 5/28 5/31 Mexico ................................................... .................... 853.76 .................... 843.18 .................... .................... .................... 1,696.94
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.001 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5300 July 9, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2019—
Continued
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Carlos Monje ............................................................ 5/28 5/31 Mexico ................................................... .................... 853.76 .................... 843.18 .................... .................... .................... 1,696.94
Lesley Warner * ........................................................ 5/25 5/28 South Africa .......................................... .................... 657.65 .................... 10,325.00 .................... 190.26 .................... 11,172.91
* .............................................................................. 5/28 6/2 Mozambique .......................................... .................... 1,328.00 .................... 931.84 .................... 1,458.00 .................... 3,717.84
Taylor Redick ........................................................... 5/25 5/28 South Africa .......................................... .................... 685.15 .................... 10,358.95 .................... .................... .................... 11,044.10
5/28 6/2 Mozambique .......................................... .................... 1,328.00 .................... 988.44 .................... .................... .................... 2,316.44
Alex Sadler ............................................................... 5/28 5/31 Haiti ...................................................... .................... 333.00 .................... 696.93 .................... .................... .................... 1,029.93
Alexander Brockwehl ................................................ 5/28 5/31 Haiti ...................................................... .................... 333.00 .................... 519.11 .................... .................... .................... 852.11
Sarah Markley .......................................................... 5/28 5/31 Haiti ...................................................... .................... 333.00 .................... 696.93 .................... .................... .................... 1,029.93
Hon. Eliot Engel * .................................................... 5/24 5/26 Lebanon ................................................ .................... 150.00 .................... 11,909.64 .................... 13,534.47 .................... 25,594.11
* .............................................................................. 5/26 5/27 Cyprus ................................................... .................... 267.82 .................... .................... .................... 618.81 .................... 886.63
* .............................................................................. 5/27 5/30 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,715.00 .................... .................... .................... 11,840.04 .................... 13,555.04
Jason Steinbaum ..................................................... 5/24 5/26 Lebanon ................................................ .................... 150.00 .................... 5,579.43 .................... .................... .................... 5,729.43
5/26 5/28 Cyprus ................................................... .................... 535.65 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 535.65
Mira Resnick ............................................................ 5/24 5/26 Lebanon ................................................ .................... 420.00 .................... 8,851.94 .................... .................... .................... 9,271.94
5/26 5/28 Cyprus ................................................... .................... 267.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 267.82
5/27 5/31 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,715.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,715.00
Tim Mulvey .............................................................. 5/24 5/26 Lebanon ................................................ .................... 420.00 .................... 7,170.35 .................... .................... .................... 7,590.35
5/26 5/27 Cyprus ................................................... .................... 267.82 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 267.82
5/27 5/31 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,715.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,715.00
Sajit Gandhi ............................................................ 5/26 5/27 India ..................................................... .................... 256.00 .................... 9,228.83 .................... .................... .................... 9,484.83
* .............................................................................. 5/27 5/28 Nepal .................................................... .................... 281.00 .................... .................... .................... 626.59 .................... 907.59
5/28 5/30 Bhutan .................................................. .................... 774.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 774.00
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,222.76 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.76
Jennifer Hendrixson-White ....................................... 5/26 5/27 India ..................................................... .................... 256.00 .................... 10,799.83 .................... .................... .................... 11,055.83
5/27 5/28 Nepal .................................................... .................... 281.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.00
5/28 5/30 Bhutan .................................................. .................... 744.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 744.00
5/31 6/2 Singapore .............................................. .................... 816.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 816.00
Bryan Burack ........................................................... 5/26 5/27 India ..................................................... .................... 256.00 .................... 9,228.83 .................... .................... .................... 9,484.83
5/27 5/28 Nepal .................................................... .................... 281.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.00
5/28 5/30 Bhutan .................................................. .................... 744.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 744.00
5/31 6/3 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,222.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.00
Brendan Shields ...................................................... 5/26 5/27 India ..................................................... .................... 256.00 .................... 10,799.83 .................... .................... .................... 11,055.83
5/27 5/28 Nepal .................................................... .................... 281.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 281.00
5/28 5/30 Bhutan .................................................. .................... 744.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 744.00
5/31 6/2 Singapore .............................................. .................... 1,222.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,222.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 54,749.40 .................... 159,331.46 .................... 61,141.00 .................... 275,221.86
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
* Indicates Delegation costs.
** Indicates a cancelled mission.
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL, June 28, 2019.
h
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, the attached estimate of
the costs of H.R. 1988, the Protect Af-
fordable Mortgages for Veterans Act,
as amended, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD.
ESTIMATE OF PAY-AS-YOU-GO EFFECTS FOR H.R. 1988
By fiscal year, in millions of dollars—
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
2019–
2024
2019–
2029
NET INCREASE OR DECREASE (¥) IN THE DEFICIT
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Impact ................................................................................................................................................................... ¥3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 ¥3 ¥3
Components may not sum to totals because of rounding.
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1520. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Acquisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense, transmitting the Department’s re-
port to Congress titled, ‘‘Distribution of De-
partment of Defense Depot Maintenance
Workloads for Fiscal Years 2018 through
2020’’, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2466(d)(1); Public
Law 100-456, Sec. 326(a) (as amended by Pub-
lic Law 106-65, Sec. 333); (113 Stat. 567); to the
Committee on Armed Services.
1521. A letter from the Acting Principal Di-
rector, Defense Pricing and Contracting, Ac-
quisition and Sustainment, Department of
Defense, transmitting a letter of notification
of the requirement to authorize subcontract
placement, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 2350b(d)(1);
Public Law 104-106, Sec. 4321(b)(10)(B); (110
Stat. 672); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
1522. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Personnel and Readiness, Department of De-
fense, transmitting a letter authorizing Cap-
tain John V. Menoni, United States Navy, to
wear the insignia of the grade of rear admi-
ral (lower half), pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
777(b)(3)(B); Public Law 104-106, Sec. 503(a)(1)
(as added by Public Law 108-136, Sec.
509(a)(3)); (117 Stat. 1458); ; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
1523. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
of Defense, Acquisition, Department of De-
fense, transmitting a letter requesting a
meeting to discuss the way forward on the
feasibility of developing a budget request for
the full Future Years Defense Program that
project estimated expenditures and proposed
appropriations for contracted services; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
1524. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement:
Repeal of Transportation Related DFARS
Provisions and Clauses (DFARS Case 2019-
D020) [Docket: DARS-2019-0028] (RIN: 0750-
AK63) received June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
1525. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement:
Annual Representations and Certifications-
Alternate A (DFARS Case 2019-D030) [Dock-
et: DARS-2019-0027] (RIN: 0750-AK69) received
June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
1526. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement:
Repeal of DFARS Clause ‘‘Price Adjust-
ment’’ (DFARS Case 2018-D048) [Docket:
DARS-2019-0032] (RIN: 0750-AK08) received
June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.001 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5301
July 9, 2019
1527. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Department of Defense, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Defense
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement:
Only One Offer (DFARS Case 2017-D009)
[Docket: DARS-2018-0008] (RIN: 0750-AJ19) re-
ceived June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
1528. A letter from the Deputy Assistant
General Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Pen-
sion Benefit Guaranty Corporation, trans-
mitting the Corporation’s final rule — Allo-
cation of Assets in Single-Employer Plans;
Benefits Payable in Terminated Single-Em-
ployer Plans; Interest Assumptions for Val-
uing and Paying Benefits received June 28,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
1529. A letter from the Assistant General
Counsel for Regulatory Affairs, Office of the
General Counsel, Consumer Product Safety
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
final rule — Safety Standard for Stationary
Activity Centers [Docket No.: CPSC-2018-
0015] received June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
1530. A letter from the Chief of Staff, Media
Bureau, Federal Communications Commis-
sion, transmitting the Commission’s final
rule — Amendment of Section 73.622(i), Post-
Transition Table of DTV Allotments Station
WNLO(TV), Buffalo, New York [MB Docket
No.: 19-118] (RM-11838); Amendment of Sec-
tion 73.622(i) Post Transition Table of DTV
Allotments Station WUTV(TV), Buffalo, New
York received June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
1531. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
final guidance letter — Clarification of Reg-
ulatory Path for Lead Test Assemblies re-
ceived June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
1532. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting a six-
month periodic report on the national emer-
gency with respect to transnational criminal
organizations that was declared in Executive
Order 13581 of July 24, 2011, pursuant to 50
U.S.C. 1641(c); Public Law 94-412, Sec. 401(c);
(90 Stat. 1257) and 50 U.S.C. 1703(c); Public
Law 95-223, Sec 204(c); (91 Stat. 1627); to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
1533. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Export Administration, Bureau of Indus-
try and Security, Department of Commerce,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Addition of Entities to the Entity List and
Revision of an Entry on the Entity List
[Docket No.: 190503424-9424-01] (RIN: 0694-
AH83) received June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
1534. A letter from the Acting Assistant
Secretary, Department of Education, trans-
mitting a copy of the Fiscal Year 2017 FAIR
Act Inventory and a Summary of Fiscal Year
17 Inventory, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 501 note;
Public Law 105-270, Sec. 2(c)(1)(A); (112 Stat.
2382); to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
1535. A letter from the Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, Fed-
eral Home Loan Bank of Dallas, transmit-
ting the Federal Home Loan Bank of Dallas
2018 management report and financial state-
ments, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9106(a)(1); Pub-
lic Law 97-258 (as amended by Public Law
101-576, Sec. 306(a)); (104 Stat. 2854); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
1536. A letter from the Administrator, Gen-
eral Services Administration, transmitting
the Federal Procurement Data System GSA
Report, pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 644(h)(3)(A)(ii);
Public Law 85-536, Sec. 15(h)(3)(A)(ii) (as
amended by Public Law 114-328, Sec. 1802);
(130 Stat. 2650); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
1537. A letter from the Chief Administra-
tive Officer, transmitting the quarterly re-
port of receipts and expenditures of appro-
priations and other funds for the period April
1, 2019, to June 30, 2019 (H. Doc. No. 116—47);
to the Committee on House Administration
and ordered to be printed.
1538. A letter from the Division Chief, Reg-
ulatory Affairs, Bureau of Land Manage-
ment, Department of the Interior, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Required
Fees for Mining Claims or Sites
[LLWO320000-L1999000.PP0000] (RIN: 1004-
AE64) received July 2, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
1539. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class E
Airspace; Monroe, GA [Docket No.: FAA-
2019-0206; Airspace Docket No.: 19-ASO-6]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received June 28, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1540. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of VOR Fed-
eral Airways V-18, V-102, and V-278 in the Vi-
cinity of Guthrie, TX [Docket No.: FAA-2018-
0769; Airspace Docket No.: 18-ASW-10] (RIN:
2120-AA66) received June 28, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
1541. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment and Revoca-
tion of Air Traffic Service (ATS) Routes in
the Vicinity of Manistique, MI [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0220; Airspace Docket No.: 17-AGL-
24] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received June 28, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
1542. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; CFM International S.A. Turbofan En-
gines [Docket No.: FAA-2019-0212; Product
Identifier 2019-NE-05-AD; Amendment 39-
19660; AD 2019-12-05] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received
June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
1543. A letter from the Chairman, National
Transportation Safety Board, transmitting
the Board’s 2018 Annual Report to Congress,
pursuant to 49 U.S.C. 1117; to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
1544. A letter from the Regulation Develop-
ment Coordinator, Office of Regulation Pol-
icy and Management, Office of the Secretary
(00REG), Department of Veterans Affairs,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
VA Acquisition Regulation: Special Con-
tracting Methods (RIN: 2900-AQ19) received
June 28, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
1545. A letter from the Chairman, Labor
Member and Management Member, Railroad
Retirement Board, transmitting the Annual
Report Required by Railroad Retirement Act
of 1974 and Railroad Retirement Solvency
Act of 1983, pursuant to 45 U.S.C. 231f-1; Pub-
lic Law 98-76, Sec. 502 (as amended by Public
Law 104-66, Sec. 2221(a)); (109 Stat. 733) and 45
U.S.C. 231u(a)(1); Aug. 29, 1935, ch. 812, Sec.
22(a)(1) (as amended by Public Law 107-90,
Sec. 108(a)); (115 Stat. 890); jointly to the
Committees on Ways and Means and Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. TAKANO: Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs. H.R. 1988. A bill to clarify seasoning re-
quirements for certain refinanced mortgage
loans, and for other purposes; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–138 Pt. 1). Ordered to
be printed.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 677. A bill to amend gendered terms
in Federal law relating to the President and
the President’s spouse (Rept. 116–139). Re-
ferred to the Committee of the Whole House
on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 2368. A bill to amend the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to
expand support for police officer family serv-
ices, stress reduction, and suicide preven-
tion, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–140).
Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 1986. A bill to amend section 175b of
title 18, United States Code, to correct a
scrivener’s error (Rept. 116–141). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. H.R. 1569. A bill to amend title 28,
United States Code, to add Flagstaff and
Yuma to the list of locations in which court
shall be held in the judicial district for the
State of Arizona (Rept. 116–142). Referred to
the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Mr. MCGOVERN: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 476. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 2500) to au-
thorize appropriations for fiscal year 2020 for
military activities of the Department of De-
fense and for military construction, to pre-
scribe military personnel strengths for such
fiscal year, and for other purposes, and pro-
viding for consideration of motions to sus-
pend the rules (Rept. 116–143). Referred to the
House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for
himself, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. CARSON
of Indiana, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms. FUDGE,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms. JOHN-
SON of Texas, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. ADAMS,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. CLAY, Ms. KELLY of
Illinois, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Mr. RUSH, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. RICH-
MOND, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:39 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09JY7.000 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5302 July 9, 2019
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. BASS, Mr. LAWSON
of Florida, Ms. LEE of California, and
Ms. PRESSLEY):
H.R. 3628. A bill to require motor carriers
to mitigate hardships due to unwarranted
and excessive passenger delays and to assess
fines to bolster motor carriers’ account-
ability to consumers, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 3629. A bill to amend the Fair Credit
Reporting Act to establish clear Federal
oversight of the development of credit scor-
ing models by the Bureau of Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. PALLONE (for himself and Mr.
WALDEN):
H.R. 3630. A bill to amend title XXVII of
the Public Health Service Act to protect
health care consumers from surprise billing
practices, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Education and
Labor, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto Rico, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mr. SABLAN, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Mr.
SERRANO, and Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H.R. 3631. A bill to amend titles XI and XIX
of the Social Security Act to provide for a
temporary increase to the limit on Medicaid
payments for territories of the United States
and the Federal medical assistance percent-
age for such territories under the Medicaid
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DEFAZIO (for himself, Mr. LAR-
SEN of Washington, Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. FERGUSON, and
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas):
H.R. 3632. A bill to ensure that authoriza-
tions issued by the Secretary of Transpor-
tation to foreign air carriers do not under-
mine labor rights or standards, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 3633. A bill to modify the uncondi-
tional ownership requirement for women-
owned and minority-owned small business
concerns for purposes of procurement con-
tracts with the Small Business Administra-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business.
By Mr. SABLAN (for himself, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, Mr. SAN NICOLAS, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, and
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico):
H.R. 3634. A bill to provide for greater
transparency and information with respect
to Federal expenditures under the Medicaid
and CHIP programs in the territories of the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 3635. A bill to repeal the debt ceiling;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. UNDERWOOD:
H.R. 3636. A bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to submit to Congress cer-
tain reports relating to the health care and
treatment provided by the Department of
Veterans Affairs to women veterans, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. RUSH (for himself and Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington):
H.R. 3637. A bill to amend title VII of the
Public Health Service Act to authorize as-
sistance for increasing workforce diversity
in the professions of physical therapy, occu-
pational therapy, audiology, and speech-lan-
guage pathology, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. HOULAHAN:
H.R. 3638. A bill to revise postaward expla-
nations for unsuccessful offerors for certain
contracts in the Federal Acquisition Regula-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. HOULAHAN:
H.R. 3639. A bill to direct the Secretary of
State to establish a standard parental leave
policy applicable to Department of State em-
ployees, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mrs. LURIA (for herself and Mr.
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee):
H.R. 3640. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to assist blind veterans who
have not lost use of a leg in acquiring spe-
cially adapted housing, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 3641. A bill to enhance civil penalties
under the Federal securities laws, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 3642. A bill to amend the Fair Credit
Reporting Act to fix the consumer report
dispute process, to ban misleading and unfair
consumer reporting practices, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 3643. A bill to amend the Revised
Statutes to grant State attorneys general
the ability to issue subpoenas to investigate
suspected violations of State laws that are
applicable to national banks, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Financial
Services.
By Mr. BURGESS (for himself, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. MARCHANT, and Mr.
THOMPSON of California):
H.R. 3644. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to extend the Independ-
ence at Home medical practice demonstra-
tion program under the Medicare program;
to the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. CLAY (for himself, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Ms. NORTON, Mr. POCAN,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
RUSH, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. PASCRELL,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, and Mr. JOHNSON
of Georgia):
H.R. 3645. A bill to amend title 13, United
States Code, to provide that individuals in
prison shall, for the purposes of a decennial
census, be attributed to the last place of res-
idence before incarceration, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Mr. COO-
PER, Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. JOHN W.
ROSE of Tennessee, and Mr. KUSTOFF
of Tennessee):
H.R. 3646. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation, acting through the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion, to revise section 91.145 of title 14, Code
of Federal Regulations, such that the term
‘‘sporting’’ does not limit the types of major
events described in such section; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
By Mr. COX of California (for himself
and Mr. YOUNG):
H.R. 3647. A bill to provide temporary im-
pact aid construction grants to eligible local
educational agencies, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 3648. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to improve defense access road
resilience, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself, Mr.
COLE, Ms. BASS, Mr. MULLIN, and Ms.
DEGETTE):
H.R. 3649. A bill to support the provision of
treatment family care services, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. EMMER:
H.R. 3650. A bill to provide temporary safe
harbor for the tax treatment of hard forks of
convertible virtual currency in the absence
of administrative guidance; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 3651. A bill to facilitate the use of cer-
tain land in Nebraska for public outdoor rec-
reational opportunities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 3652. A bill to provide for the study
and promotion of hemp; to the Committee on
Agriculture, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Education and Labor, Small Busi-
ness, Armed Services, Energy and Com-
merce, Financial Services, and Veterans’ Af-
fairs, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas:
H.R. 3653. A bill to amend section 1342 of
title 31, United States Code (the
Antideficiency Act), to define the term vol-
untary services; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York (for him-
self and Mr. REED):
H.R. 3654. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide Medicare cov-
erage for all physicians’ services furnished
by doctors of chiropractic within the scope
of their license, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committee on Ways
and Means, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH (for him-
self, Mr. BAIRD, Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr.
CRAWFORD, Mr. COMER, Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER, Mr. GUEST, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr.
MASSIE, and Mr. BOST):
H.R. 3655. A bill to allow the Secretary of
the Interior, acting through the Director of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service,
to issue depredation permits for the taking
of black vultures to livestock farmers to pre-
vent harm to livestock, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. HUDSON (for himself, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, and Mr. BUCSHON):
H.R. 3656. A bill to improve patient access
to health care services and provide improved
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:39 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09JY7.100 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5303
July 9, 2019
medical care by reducing the excessive bur-
den the liability system places on the health
care delivery system; to the Committee on
the Judiciary, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KATKO (for himself, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia, Mrs. ROBY, Mr.
SWALWELL of California, Mr. CLINE,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mr.
SENSENBRENNER, and Ms. DEAN):
H.R. 3657. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to study how
certain individuals who are granted pretrial
release are monitored, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 3658. A bill to require policies and pro-
grams to prevent and treat gambling dis-
order among members of the Armed Forces
and their dependents, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. ROSE of New York (for himself,
Mr. KING of New York, Mr. REED, and
Ms. STEVENS):
H.R. 3659. A bill to establish an Anti-Bul-
lying Roundtable to study bullying in ele-
mentary and secondary schools in the United
States, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. TRAHAN (for herself and Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL):
H.R. 3660. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Homeland Security and the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to notify Con-
gress of each foreign national who dies in the
custody of the Secretary, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committee on Rules,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
NEGUSE, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
OMAR, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. HECK,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. LEVIN of Michi-
gan, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Mr. COHEN, Mr. NAD-
LER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
LARSON of Connecticut, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. MENG, Mr.
SHERMAN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mrs.
LOWEY, and Mr. SUOZZI):
H. Con. Res. 52. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that there is a
climate emergency which demands a mas-
sive-scale mobilization to halt, reverse, and
address its consequences and causes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. STIVERS (for himself and Mr.
HASTINGS):
H. Res. 475. A resolution calling on the
President to work toward equitable, con-
structive, stable, and durable Armenian-
Turkish relations based upon the two coun-
tries’ common interests and the United
States’ significant security interests in the
region; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. BRADY:
H. Res. 477. A resolution requiring that the
House authorize any judicial proceeding on
behalf of any committee; to the Committee
on Rules.
By Ms. SÁNCHEZ (for herself, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. BACON, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Ms. BASS, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CAR-
SON of Indiana, Mr. CASTEN of Illi-
nois, Ms. CASTOR of Florida, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Ms. CLARKE
of New York, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
COOK, Mr. CORREA, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
DELBENE, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. MICHAEL
F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. FINKENAUER, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr.
GALLEGO, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. GAR-
CIA of Texas, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. HIMES, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. HUFFMAN,
Mr. HURD of Texas, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. KATKO, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILDEE,
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. LAMALFA,
Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mrs.
LAWRENCE, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Mr. MCKINLEY, Ms. MENG, Mr.
MORELLE, Mrs. MURPHY, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. NORCROSS, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
O’HALLERAN, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. PETERS, Mr. PETERSON,
Mr. POCAN, Ms. PORTER, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. RUSH, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
Mr. SABLAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
SCHRADER, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mr. SIRES, Mr. SOTO, Mr. STAN-
TON, Mr. STAUBER, Ms. STEVENS, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. TITUS, Mr. TONKO, Mrs.
TORRES of California, Mr. VAN DREW,
Mr. VARGAS, Mr. VEASEY, Mr. VELA,
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. WELCH, Ms.
WEXTON, Ms. WILD, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, and Ms. SPANBERGER):
H. Res. 478. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of Journeyman Lineman
Recognition Day; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H. Res. 479. A resolution seeking the return
of the USS Pueblo to the United States
Navy; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. OMAR, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. COHEN, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
PAYNE, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
LEE of California, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
BASS, and Mr. ESPAILLAT):
H. Res. 480. A resolution acknowledging
the racial disparities in diagnosing and
treating mental health among youth in com-
munities of color; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Education and Labor, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
90. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Legislature of the State of Maine, rel-
ative to H.P. 1184, Joint Resolution, memori-
alizing the President of the United States
and the United States Congress to allow the
importation of affordable and safe prescrip-
tion drugs; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
91. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Louisiana, relative to House
Concurrent Resolution No. 66, to memori-
alize the United States Congress to take
such actions as are necessary to recognize
the historical significance of Juneteenth
Independence Day to the United States and
observe Juneteenth nationally as a holiday;
which was referred to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
92. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Missouri, relative to House Con-
current Resolution No. 34, urging the Base-
ball Hall of Fame to induct John Jordan
‘‘Buck’’ O’Neil into the Baseball Hall of
Fame; which was referred to the Committee
on Oversight and Reform.
93. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Oregon, relative to House Joint
Memorial 1, respectfully urging the Congress
of the United States to pass, and the Presi-
dent to sign, the Forest Management for
Rural Stability Act before the close of the
federal fiscal year 2019; which was referred
jointly to the Committees on Natural Re-
sources, Agriculture, and Education and
Labor.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 3628.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section II
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 3629.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 3630.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Authority under Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 3631.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. DEFAZIO:
H.R. 3632.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, Clause 3, and
Clause 18 of the Constitution.
By Ms. KELLY of Illinois:
H.R. 3633.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. SABLAN:
H.R. 3634.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 3635.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Ms. UNDERWOOD:
H.R. 3636.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:39 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L09JY7.100 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5304 July 9, 2019
Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. RUSH:
H.R. 3637.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. HOULAHAN:
H.R. 3638.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. Article 1 Section 8
By Ms. HOULAHAN:
H.R. 3639.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8
By Mrs. LURIA:
H.R. 3640.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 8.
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 3641.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. ADAMS:
H.R. 3642.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. PORTER:
H.R. 3643.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. BURGESS:
H.R. 3644.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States
By Mr. CLAY:
H.R. 3645.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section II and Section XIII of Article I of
the Constitution.
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 3646.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. COX of California:
H.R. 3647.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 3648.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
Clause 1, ‘‘The Congress shall have Power
To.. pay the Debts and provide for the com-
mon Defence and general Welfare of the
United States;’’
Clause 14, ‘‘To make Rules for the Govern-
ment and Regulation of the land and naval
Forces;’’
Clause 18, ‘‘To make all Laws which shall
be necessary and proper for carrying into
Execution the foregoing Powers...‘‘
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 3649.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. EMMER:
H.R. 3650.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 3651.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority for this bill is
pursuant to Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of
the United States Constitution.
By Ms. GABBARD:
H.R. 3652.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The United States Constitution including
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas:
H.R. 3653.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8: Congress shall have
Power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Im-
posts and Excises, to pay the Debts and pro-
vide for the common Defense and general
Welfare of the United States; but all Duties,
Imposts and Excises shall be uniform
throughout the United States.
By Mr. HIGGINS of New York:
H.R. 3654.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH:
H.R. 3655.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. HUDSON:
H.R. 3656.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. KATKO:
H.R. 3657.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article III, Section I and Article I, Section
8, Clause 18.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 3658.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the constitution
gives Congress the power to lay and collect
taxes, duties, imposts and excises, to pay the
debts and provide for the common defence
and general welfare of the United States.
By Mr. ROSE of New York:
H.R. 3659.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8: to make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 3660.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
United States Constitution, to provide for
the general welfare and make all laws nec-
essary and proper to carry out the powers of
Congress.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 33: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 35: Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 40: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 41: Mr. HASTINGS and Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 141: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 196: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 216: Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 218: Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. NEWHOUSE,
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, and Mr.
GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 281: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 303: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 397: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. LEWIS, and Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 510: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. NEGUSE, and Mr.
COLE.
H.R. 555: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 586: Mr. ARRINGTON and Mr. DUNCAN.
H.R. 587: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama and Mr.
PETERSON.
H.R. 655: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 663: Mr. LEVIN of California, Ms.
MENG, and Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 677: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 687: Ms. ADAMS.
H.R. 712: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 717: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 724: Mr. COOK and Mr. EMMER.
H.R. 728: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 737: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK and Ms. POR-
TER.
H.R. 748: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 757: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 763: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN and Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 776: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 803: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, and Mr. ROG-
ERS of Alabama.
H.R. 838: Mr. KEATING, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois, Mr. TRONE, and Mr. SIMPSON.
H.R. 873: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 874: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 884: Mr. LUETKEMEYER and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 886: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 895: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 897: Mr. MARCHANT.
H.R. 919: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 945: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. PERLMUTTER, and
Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 955: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 981: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1002: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. HARDER of
California.
H.R. 1007: Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
H.R. 1011: Mr. LOWENTHAL and Mr.
CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 1043: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1058: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 1078: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr. PETER-
SON, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. PALLONE, and Mr.
LEVIN of California.
H.R. 1128: Mr. HORSFORD, Mrs. AXNE, and
Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 1133: Mr. ENGEL and Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 1135: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 1139: Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 1154: Mr. MOULTON and Mr. HARDER of
California.
H.R. 1166: Mr. FORTENBERRY and Mr. NEAL.
H.R. 1171: Mr. KING of New York, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 1174: Mr. RASKIN and Ms. JACKSON
LEE.
H.R. 1175: Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 1185: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.R. 1195: Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 1225: Mr. HUDSON and Mr.
BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 1230: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1236: Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 1266: Mr. HUFFMAN and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1276: Mr. GALLEGO.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 09:06 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.041 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H5305
July 9, 2019
H.R. 1305: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 1342: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 1358: Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 1370: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 1373: Ms. WATERS, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
MENG, and Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 1375: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 1379: Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Ms. STEVENS,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. LEE of California, Ms. ROY-
BAL-ALLARD, Ms. SHALALA, and Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 1380: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 1393: Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 1400: Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
ENGEL, and Mr. SCOTT of Virginia.
H.R. 1418: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H.R. 1424: Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 1440: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 1441: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 1444: Mr. FERGUSON.
H.R. 1446: Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. MCNERNEY, and
Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 1507: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 1527: Ms. ESHOO.
H.R. 1530: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. HARDER of
California, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Miss RICE of
New York, Ms. WILD, Ms. LEE of California,
and Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1534: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 1545: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, and Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1550: Mr. LEVIN of Michigan.
H.R. 1568: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 1581: Ms. UNDERWOOD and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1605: Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 1636: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. POSEY,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr. GREEN of Texas,
Ms. BONAMICI, and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1641: Mr. MCKINLEY, Mr. HOLDING, Mr.
MARCHANT, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. CASE, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. GALLEGO, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Mr. UPTON, Mrs.
MILLER, and Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 1679: Mr. ALLEN, Mr. STIVERS, and Mr.
ROUDA.
H.R. 1688: Mr. CISNEROS and Ms. JACKSON
LEE.
H.R. 1715: Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 1728: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1730: Mr. CARTER of Georgia and Mr.
MEEKS.
H.R. 1748: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania, Ms. OMAR, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms. HILL of
California, Ms. HAALAND, and Mr. MCGOV-
ERN.
H.R. 1749: Mr. CUELLAR.
H.R. 1771: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
COHEN, and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1784: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1837: Mrs. ROBY, Mr. VARGAS, Mr.
THOMPSON of California, and Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1840: Mrs. WALORSKI and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 1854: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mrs.
LEE of Nevada, Mr. GALLEGO, and Mr. HUD-
SON.
H.R. 1855: Mr. MARCHANT and Mr.
FLEISCHMANN.
H.R. 1857: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 1858: Mr. COMER.
H.R. 1869: Mr. BERA, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr.
MAST, and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 1872: Mr. VAN DREW and Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 1878: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 1901: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 1903: Mrs. MCBATH and Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 1933: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1934: Mr. CARSON of Indiana and Ms.
JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1943: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 1963: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1968: Mr. KILDEE, Ms. FRANKEL, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mr. LEVIN of California, Ms. CRAIG,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
HUFFMAN, Ms. SCANLON, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 1988: Mr. CLEAVER and Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 1998: Mr. CISNEROS and Ms. LEE of
California.
H.R. 2013: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 2048: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2073: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2117: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Ms.
BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 2123: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
KHANNA, and Mr. CASE.
H.R. 2124: Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 2147: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 2156: Mr. WELCH, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Mr.
KILMER.
H.R. 2168: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2178: Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. CARBAJAL,
and Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 2189: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2203: Mr. STANTON and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2206: Mr. SCHWEIKERT.
H.R. 2208: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 2213: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2216: Mr. GRIFFITH.
H.R. 2224: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2225: Mr. CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 2245: Mr. HASTINGS and Mrs. MURPHY.
H.R. 2250: Ms. ESHOO and Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2256: Mrs. LURIA, Ms. WILD, and Ms.
JAYAPAL.
H.R. 2261: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 2278: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 2279: Mr. COX of California, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, and Mr.
PALAZZO.
H.R. 2311: Mr. KILMER, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
GALLEGO, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. VELA, Mr. POCAN, Mr. WELCH,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. KINZINGER, and Mr. SCHIFF.
H.R. 2327: Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2328: Mr. RASKIN, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, and Mrs.
DINGELL.
H.R. 2336: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ.
H.R. 2339: Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. NORTON, and
Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2354: Mr. LOEBSACK.
H.R. 2368: Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 2381: Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 2382: Mr. STIVERS, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr.
COX of California, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. PORTER, Mr. BOST, Ms.
SCHRIER, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. BARRAGÁN, and Mr.
CROW.
H.R. 2386: Mr. FITZPATRICK and Mr. CAL-
VERT.
H.R. 2392: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 2402: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 2404: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 2405: Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 2406: Mrs. LURIA and Mr. PALAZZO.
H.R. 2407: Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 2415: Ms. BROWNLEY of California and
Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 2420: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, and Mr. LEVIN of California.
H.R. 2422: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2426: Mr. YOHO and Ms. BONAMICI.
H.R. 2433: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 2438: Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 2442: Mr. PAPPAS and Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2445: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 2449: Ms. OMAR, Mr. SIRES, Ms. NOR-
TON, and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 2467: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 2468: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. GONZALEZ
of Texas.
H.R. 2471: Mr. BUCHANAN.
H.R. 2481: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. HUDSON, Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER, and Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 2489: Mr. COOPER and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 2498: Mr. SMITH of Missouri and Mr.
BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2501: Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. UNDERWOOD, and
Mr. KIM.
H.R. 2504: Mrs. BUSTOS and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 2508: Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 2515: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. CLEAVER.
H.R. 2517: Ms. PORTER.
H.R. 2541: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 2577: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 2585: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2593: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 2594: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 2595: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2599: Mr. SERRANO and Miss RICE of
New York.
H.R. 2600: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2620: Mr. BUTTERFIELD and Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY.
H.R. 2643: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio.
H.R. 2644: Mr. BUCSHON.
H.R. 2653: Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
Mr. BERA, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. PETERS, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. KINZINGER, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. LYNCH, Mr. TONKO, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
HIMES, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Ms. NORTON, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and Mr.
COHEN.
H.R. 2662: Mr. KHANNA, Ms. MOORE, and
Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 2678: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 2679: Mr. BRINDISI.
H.R. 2698: Mr. SCHRADER and Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2706: Mr. SUOZZI and Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 2708: Mr. VEASEY, Miss RICE of New
York, and Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 2711: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 2720: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2721: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2741: Ms. LEE of California and Mr.
KEATING.
H.R. 2764: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Ms. LOF-
GREN.
H.R. 2775: Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ,
Mr. LAWSON of Florida, and Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 2782: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 2808: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 2809: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 2815: Ms. PINGREE, Mr. LAMBORN, Ms.
BASS, Miss RICE of New York, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
NEWHOUSE, Mr. HARDER of California, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. COLLINS of New York, and Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H.R. 2825: Mr. BRINDISI and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 2850: Mrs. BUSTOS.
H.R. 2854: Mr. MORELLE.
H.R. 2866: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2874: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2882: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 2913: Mr. WEBER of Texas.
H.R. 2918: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
SUOZZI, Ms. LEE of California, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 2923: Ms. SCANLON and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2955: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 2969: Mr. MAST, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and Mr.
BUCHANAN.
H.R. 2975: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 3006: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 3033: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 3050: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas and Mr.
TAYLOR.
H.R. 3073: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3077: Mr. ZELDIN, Mr. LEVIN of Cali-
fornia, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. TITUS, Ms. HILL
of California, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Ms. JUDY
CHU of California, Mr. BRINDISI, Mrs. BROOKS
of Indiana, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, and
Mr. REED.
H.R. 3080: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 3082: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mrs. TORRES of California, and Mr.
SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 3093: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 3103: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 3106: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 3113: Mr. RASKIN, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr.
PERRY, and Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:39 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.031 H09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H5306 July 9, 2019
H.R. 3125: Ms. STEVENS.
H.R. 3127: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 3137: Ms. WEXTON.
H.R. 3142: Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 3159: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
and Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 3182: Mrs. BEATTY and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 3183: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 3189: Mr. KIM and Ms. JUDY CHU of
California.
H.R. 3190: Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. TLAIB, Ms.
SPANBERGER, and Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI.
H.R. 3192: Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 3197: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 3206: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 3207: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 3219: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 3241: Mr. KIM.
H.R. 3248: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 3250: Mr. SCHNEIDER.
H.R. 3254: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3262: Mr. SERRANO.
H.R. 3265: Mr. GRIJALVA and Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 3275: Ms. KAPTUR and Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 3279: Mr. CLEAVER and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 3297: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 3302: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 3306: Mr. TONKO.
H.R. 3312: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 3315: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and Ms.
JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3332: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 3350: Mr. MITCHELL and Mr. JOYCE of
Ohio.
H.R. 3366: Mr. RASKIN and Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 3369: Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. CROW, Mr. KIL-
MER, and Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3370: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI and Mrs.
DINGELL.
H.R. 3374: Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. PANETTA, and
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 3375: Mr. SARBANES, Mr. SCOTT of Vir-
ginia, Ms. FINKENAUER, Ms. PINGREE, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. SABLAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. MENG, Mr.
DELGADO, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
BOST, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
Mr. FORTENBERRY, Ms. DEAN, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. TRONE, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. COX of California, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Ms. WILD, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr.
CASE, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. HORSFORD, Mrs. TRAHAN, and Mr.
RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 3378: Mr. WELCH, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. AGUILAR, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Mr. VELA, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr. TONKO,
Mr. VARGAS, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. VEASEY.
H.R. 3381: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mrs. HAYES,
and Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 3400: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
SMUCKER, Mr. AMODEI, Mr. KATKO, and Mr.
GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 3414: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 3418: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3442: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana.
H.R. 3446: Mrs. LOWEY.
H.R. 3447: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 3448: Ms. KELLY of Illinois and Mr.
KHANNA.
H.R. 3451: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. GOMEZ, Ms. DELAURO, and Mr.
GALLEGO.
H.R. 3452: Ms. ESHOO, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr.
GALLEGO, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, and Ms.
MOORE.
H.R. 3456: Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. TONKO, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. PAYNE, and
Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 3461: Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. ROUDA, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs. Dingell, Miss
RICE of New York, Mr. PETERS, and Ms. PIN-
GREE.
H.R. 3463: Ms. HAALAND, Mr. KHANNA, Ms.
TLAIB, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
AGUILAR, Ms. MENG, Ms. LEE of California,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. SHALALA,
Ms. Velázquez, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. Grijalva,
Ms. PINGREE, and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 3465: Ms. ESCOBAR and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 3477: Mr. CUELLAR and Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 3487: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 3499: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 3500: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 3501: Mr. SHERMAN and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 3502: Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia,
Mr. ROUZER, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. Kilmer,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Mr. FLORES, Mr. SUOZZI, and Ms. Velázquez.
H.R. 3503: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 3516: Mrs. DINGELL and Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK.
H.R. 3517: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 3524: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER.
H.R. 3534: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 3562: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 3572: Mr. SARBANES, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. CASE, and
Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 3579: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 3585: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 3594: Mr. GOSAR and Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 3621: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 3627: Mr. STAUBER.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. BROWN of Maryland.
H.J. Res. 48: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia and
Mr. KEATING.
H. Con. Res. 10: Mr. PETERSON.
H. Con. Res. 25: Ms. NORTON.
H. Con. Res. 29: Mr. BROWN of Maryland,
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, and Mr. GRI-
JALVA.
H. Res. 23: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Mr. TUR-
NER, and Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H. Res. 33: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H. Res. 45: Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee.
H. Res. 60: Ms. PORTER.
H. Res. 141: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H. Res. 220: Mr. BACON and Mrs. AXNE.
H. Res. 246: Mr. THOMPSON of California,
Mr. BERGMAN, Mr. PERRY, and Ms. ESCOBAR.
H. Res. 255: Ms. HAALAND.
H. Res. 326: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr.
MCEACHIN.
H. Res. 335: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 374: Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. BABIN,
and Mr. CURTIS.
H. Res. 379: Mr. GARAMENDI and Ms.
GABBARD.
H. Res. 402: Mr. COURTNEY.
H. Res. 410: Mr. PAYNE.
H. Res. 442: Mr. TURNER.
H. Res. 452: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H. Res. 456: Mr. TAYLOR and Mr. LYNCH.
H. Res. 472: Mr. CROW.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
Amendment No. 1 to be offered by Rep-
resentative ADAM SMITH (NE) to H.R. 2500,
the National Defense Authorization Act for
Fiscal Year 2020, does not contain any con-
gressional earmarks, limited tax benefits, or
limited tariff benefits as defined in clause 9
of rule XXI.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
32. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of Austin,
TX, relative to urging Congress to enact leg-
islation that would prohibit a potential em-
ployer — including the Federal government,
a State government, or a local unit of gov-
ernment — from requiring disclosure of an
employment applicant’s Social Security
number until a conditional or firm offer of
employment is formally made to that appli-
cant; which was referred to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 07:39 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY7.036 H09JYPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S4705
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, JULY 9, 2019 No. 114
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Our Father in Heaven, how great You
are. Today, lead our lawmakers in
their work. May they be messengers of
unity and hope.
Lord, make them productive servants
who strive to honor You. Remind them
to act with justice, love, mercy, and
humility. May they speak words that
bring life as they seek to live with in-
tegrity.
Sovereign Lord, strengthen our Sen-
ators to seize opportunities that bring
peace, hope, and freedom.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). The majority leader is
recognized.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
the Senate has continued to make
headway in the personnel business.
This week, we are confirming a number
of President Trump’s thoroughly quali-
fied nominees to important vacancies
in the Federal courts and in the admin-
istration.
As I have said, it is unfortunate for
this institution that our Democratic
colleagues have made it their routine
practice to require not just rollcall
votes but cloture votes as well on non-
controversial nominees for lower pro-
file positions—regular cloture votes on
district judges, cloture votes on Assist-
ant Secretaries, and, later this week, a
cloture vote on an Assistant EPA Ad-
ministrator.
These are the sorts of important but
lower profile positions the Senate used
to quickly process on a voice vote.
When these sorts of people were quali-
fied, they were voice-voted by Senates
of both parties for Presidents of both
parties. That was the norm.
New partisan hurdles will not deter
the Senate from doing our job. We will
continue to spend the time it takes to
put impressive, impartial men and
women on the Federal judiciary and
give the President—more than 2 years
into his administration—finally, more
of his team in place in the executive
branch.
Yesterday afternoon, we voted to ad-
vance the nomination of Daniel Bress
to serve on the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit. Mr. Bress comes
with strong credentials, the academic
pedigree, the legal experience, and,
most importantly, a demonstrated
commitment to the rule of law.
I am glad we voted to advance his
nomination yesterday, and I urge our
colleagues to confirm him later today.
Next, we will consider three district
court nominees: T. Kent Wetherell to
the Northern District of Florida,
Damon Leichty to the Northern Dis-
trict of Indiana, and Nicholas Ranjan
to the Western District of Pennsyl-
vania.
After them, we will confirm several
nominees to serve in the administra-
tion: Robert King to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Education, John Pallasch to
be Assistant Secretary of Labor, and
Peter Wright to be Assistant Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency.
In each of these cases, the President
has presented us with thoroughly well-
qualified individuals to serve the Na-
tion in these very important roles.
This week, the Senate will give them
the straightforward consideration and
confirmations they deserve.
f
THE ECONOMY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on another matter, Fourth of July
celebrations weren’t the only thing for
American families to smile about last
week. We received even more positive
news about the strong U.S. economy
that American workers and job cre-
ators are building with a big assist
from Republican policies.
More than 200,000 new jobs were cre-
ated in June alone. The economy is
overflowing with opportunities. Amer-
ican workers are in high demand and
more and more previously sidelined in-
dividuals are getting to clock back in.
The last administration’s so-called
recovery disproportionately helped a
few major metropolitan areas, but it
left whole communities and whole re-
gions of our country more or less in the
dust. Not these days. The results have
been very different under Republicans’
pro-growth, pro-opportunity policy
agenda. Now we are seeing a real all-
American recovery.
As the New York Times reported last
week, ‘‘Only recently have the eco-
nomic gains filtered down to Black and
Hispanic workers, those with less edu-
cation, and others who face discrimina-
tion or other barriers to employment.’’
So it is all kinds of American work-
ers, all kinds of families, all kinds of
small towns and farm counties and
smaller cities and suburbs. This all-
American recovery is benefiting our
whole country with job opportunities,
wage growth, net investment, and new
optimism.
Two and a half years ago, Repub-
licans started out with a pretty simple
philosophy. It goes like this: The
American people can accomplish great
things and build prosperity for their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.000 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4706 July 9, 2019
families if Washington mostly stays
out of the way.
We needed the Federal Government
to stop creating so many economic
headwinds and start creating a few
tailwinds. So we achieved historic tax
reform, major regulatory reform, and
all kinds of economic policies geared
toward helping workers and middle-
class families earn more and then send
less to the IRS.
The way Republicans see it, these
ideas are actually no-brainers. So as
long as you believe in the promise and
potential of American workers and
small businesses, this is clearly the
way to go, and the results continue to
speak for themselves.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Daniel Aaron
Bress, of California, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PARK SAFETY
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, if
you are a baseball fan, and many of us
are, this is a big day—the day of the
All-Star game.
I would like to spend just a few mo-
ments reflecting on an important issue
for the fans of baseball across America.
Thirty-five million people every year
enjoy one of America’s great summer
experiences—seeing a game at a Major
League Baseball park. Fans join their
friends and family to eat hot dogs,
nachos, peanuts, and so much more. We
sing the national anthem together at
the start of the game and ‘‘Take Me
Out to the Ball Game’’ at the seventh
inning stretch, a tradition started by a
man named Harry Caray in a place
called Wrigley Field.
Some—the more dedicated fans—
keep scorecards of home runs, RBIs,
and earned run averages. Sadly, there
is another statistic that has been see-
ing more and more attention lately—
injuries to fans.
A Bloomberg report from 2014 esti-
mated 1,750 fans suffer injuries in
Major League Baseball parks every
season. Some are hit by balls; others
are injured trying to escape being hit
by a ball. This is far too many.
On May 29, a 2-year-old girl was hit
by a foul ball at Houston’s Minute
Maid Park. She suffered bleeding,
bruises, and brain contusions from the
ball’s impact. Her skull was fractured.
She continues to suffer seizures.
What makes her injuries even more
disturbing is that they likely could
have been prevented had the safety
netting behind homeplate been ex-
tended.
Cubs outfielder Albert Almora, who
hit the ball, was so devastated by the
little girl’s injuries that he could bare-
ly speak. One will never forget the
image of his head bowed, crying, when
he saw the damage that was done to
this innocent little 2-year-old girl by a
foul ball that he hit.
What did he say afterward? ‘‘I want
to put a net around the whole sta-
dium.’’
In the weeks following, we have seen
more injuries in the stands. On June 10,
a woman was struck by a line drive at
Guaranteed Rate Field in Chicago. Two
weeks later, a young woman was hit by
a foul ball at Dodger Stadium in Los
Angeles.
A survey by the polling organization
FiveThirtyEight found that 14,000 more
foul balls were hit in 2018 than 1998, and
there is just no way—no way—for fans
to entirely protect themselves. Here
come these baseballs at 105 miles an
hour off the bat. Even if you are watch-
ing it intently, you just can’t protect
yourself or the people you love who are
watching the game with you. Bryant
Gumbel made that point on his cable
TV show on this very subject.
If fans can’t do more, baseball teams
can. In 2017, after a child was hit by a
line drive at Yankee Stadium in New
York, I wrote a letter to Major League
Baseball commissioner Rob Manfred. I
urged the league to extend safety net-
ting at all Major League Baseball sta-
diums past the home plate to the far
edge of each dugout. To their credit,
the league did exactly that.
It is now clear, however, that is not
enough. The little girl at Minute Maid
Park was 10 feet beyond current net-
ting.
In June, the Chicago White Sox be-
came the first Major League Baseball
team to announce it is going to extend
netting to the foul poles. Let me tip
my hat to Jerry Reinsdorf, the owner
of the Chicago White Sox, for leading
the way with this safety measure. The
Washington Nationals, the Texas Rang-
ers, and the Pittsburgh Pirates are all
planning to do the same, and the Los
Angeles Dodgers are conducting a
study before making a protective strat-
egy permanent.
I commend all these clubs for their
leadership and commitment to fan
safety, but I think we need more. We
need a leaguewide standard.
Last month, my colleague from Illi-
nois, Senator TAMMY DUCKWORTH, and I
wrote to Commissioner Manfred calling
on all 30 Major League Baseball teams
to extend the protective netting to the
right- and left-field corners.
Folks who complain that extending
the safety netting to the foul poles will
create an obstructed view ignore the
obvious—right now, the most expensive
seats in baseball are behind the nets,
and people don’t complain. It is some-
thing you get used to, and you can get
used to the safety of it as well. We
should be reminded that the most ex-
pensive and popular seats have been be-
hind netting for decades.
In 2002, a 13-year-old girl named
Brittanie Cecil died after being struck
in the head by a hockey puck at a Na-
tional Hockey League game in Colum-
bus, OH. The National Hockey League
responded quickly, ordering protective
netting behind the goal. Major League
Baseball should show equal concern for
its fans.
Ensuring the safety of fans at base-
ball stadiums is a tradition that
stretches back to 1879, when the Provi-
dence Grays put up a screen behind
homeplate to shield fans from the area
that was called ‘‘the slaughter pen’’ at
that time.
The increasing number of fans hit by
balls makes it clear that new safety
standards are needed at ballparks.
Today, we will see Major League
Baseball’s finest players at the All-
Star game. Baseball fans deserve the
best too. I urge Commissioner Manfred
and all baseball teams to extend safety
netting at Major League Baseball
parks to the foul poles. Let’s not wait
until next season. Increasing fan safety
is a win for everyone.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Madam President, if you ask the
American people about issues they
truly care about, let them volunteer
what they think about, what they
worry about, the No. 1 item on the list
is the cost of prescription drugs.
We all know the problem. You reach
a point where you need a drug or some-
one in your family needs a drug, and
then you face the reality of what it is
going to cost. If you are lucky, and you
have a good health insurance plan, it
covers the cost—no worries—but for
many people, that is not the case. They
have copays and deductibles or some-
times no real coverage when it comes
to the cost of prescription drugs.
Of course, the prices of these drugs
are way beyond our control. You go to
a drugstore, and you are shocked to
learn that what sounded like a great
idea in the doctor’s office turns out to
be a very expensive idea at the cash
register. For some people, it is an in-
convenience, an annoyance, but for
other people, it is a burden they just
can’t bear. They can’t pay the cost. It
is just too much.
Some of these drugs are just not
minor additions to your life; they may
be matters of life and death. In those
circumstances, what are you to do?
I am reminded of people I have met
across my State of Illinois as I have
talked about this issue. One group
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.002 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4707
July 9, 2019
stands out because there are many of
them—people who are suffering from
diabetes.
Of course, they know that using insu-
lin and taking care of themselves is the
way to have a good, normal life, but it
turns out that the cost of insulin has
gone up dramatically.
Did you know that insulin was dis-
covered in Canada almost 100 years
ago? The researchers who discovered
this drug—this life-saving drug for dia-
betes—said at the time that they were
going to surrender their legal patent
rights to sell the drug for $1, give it
away for $1. Do you know why? They
said it was because no one should make
a profit on a life-or-death drug. That
was almost 100 years ago. But what are
we faced with today? We are faced with
a dramatic increase in the cost of insu-
lin, a life-or-death drug.
I have sat down with parents and
their children and talked about what
they go through to have enough insulin
so that their diabetic daughter can sur-
vive. It is incredible. Mothers in retire-
ment go back to work to take a job to
pay for the daughter’s insulin.
The cost of insulin has gone up dra-
matically. In 1999, Humalog—a very
common form of insulin made by Eli
Lilly—ran about $39 a vial. What has
happened to the cost of that drug in 20
years? It has gone up to $329, a dra-
matic increase on a drug that was dis-
covered 100 years ago.
At the same time, Eli Lilly is selling
that drug in Canada for $39—$329 in the
United States. Why? Because the Cana-
dian Government has said to Eli Lilly:
That is the most you can charge in our
country. We are going to fight for the
people who live in Canada to have af-
fordable drugs.
Let me ask an obvious question. Who
is going to fight in the United States
for affordable drugs for our people, for
those sons and daughters with diabe-
tes—and not just for diabetes but so
many other conditions for which life-
and-death drugs are now being priced
way beyond the reach of ordinary
Americans? Do you know who is sup-
posed to fight? We are supposed to
fight for it. That is why we were sent
here—Members of the U.S. Senate and
the House of Representatives—to pass
legislation to bring these under con-
trol.
Now we have legislation coming for-
ward from the Senate HELP Com-
mittee on the issue of healthcare, and
many of us had hoped that committee
would use this opportunity to put in
provisions to bring the cost of prescrip-
tion drugs under control. Unfortu-
nately, with only one exception, the
bill is silent on the major issues.
The measures coming out of the Sen-
ate Judiciary Committee, where I
serve, don’t go to the heart of the mat-
ter. They really will not make a big
difference on the insulin scandal that
we are now facing or on the cost of
drugs in general.
I had a simple measure that I intro-
duced with Republican Senator CHUCK
GRASSLEY last year. Think about this.
Have you ever seen an ad for drugs on
television? If your answer is no, it is
because you obviously don’t own a tele-
vision. You can’t turn it on without
seeing a drug ad, right? And if you
watch during the day, when many sen-
iors are watching, it is one after the
other after the other.
I have said with amusement here we
have even reached the point at which
we can not only pronounce but spell
the word XARELTO. We see those ads
so often for XARELTO and HUMIRA
and so many other things that they
just bombard us. Why? They bombard
us with these ads in the hope that con-
sumers watching those TV ads will go
to the doctor and say: Doctor, I need
XARELTO.
Well, XARELTO is a blood thinner.
There are other alternatives that are
much cheaper. But if you ask for that
high-priced prescription drug and the
doctor doesn’t want to get in a debate
with you and puts it on the prescrip-
tion pad, guess what you have just
done. You may have the right drug for
you at the moment—maybe—but you
may have just added to the cost of
healthcare by putting the most expen-
sive drug out as an option when an-
other form would work just as well.
In all of the things they tell you
about these ads, some of the things I
think are the most amazing and amus-
ing are claims like this: If you are al-
lergic to XARELTO, don’t take
XARELTO. Excuse me. How will I
know I am allergic to it? After I take
it, maybe.
Those sorts of things and warnings
about suicide and death and everything
else come at us, but there is one thing
that isn’t included in those drug ads—
one very basic thing. Excuse me, Eli
Lilly; excuse me, Sanofi. How much
does this cost? They don’t tell you be-
cause it is shocking sometimes for
them to tell you that some of these
drugs cost thousands of dollars, and
perhaps getting rid of that little red
patch on your elbow of psoriasis will
not be worth $5,000 a month if you
know the price.
So Senator GRASSLEY and I put this
in the bill last year and passed it in the
Senate. How about that? It happens so
rarely around here. We passed in the
Senate a bill that required the drug
companies to disclose the actual list
price that they list for the cost of the
drug. It passed the Senate, and it got
killed in a conference with the House
when the pharmaceutical companies
came in and said: We don’t want to tell
anybody what these drugs cost.
Then I got an interesting call from
the Trump administration. Notice, I
am on the Democratic side of the aisle,
so I was surprised. Dr. Azar from
Health and Human Services called me
and said: We like your bill. The Presi-
dent wants to make your bill the law,
so we are going to pass a rule that re-
quires drug companies to disclose the
cost of pharmaceutical drugs on their
ads. Direct-to-consumer advertising
has to tell the cost of the drug. Well,
that is progress—a rule in that direc-
tion.
Do you know what happened yester-
day? In a Federal court hearing in
Washington, the judge struck down
that rule. The judge said: Congress,
you haven’t given this administration
or any administration the authority to
do that on its own. You have to change
the law, giving it the authority, or you
have to change the law itself to require
the disclosure of drug pricing. Does it
sound like a radical idea to people that
we would disclose to them how much
these drugs cost in the drug adver-
tising itself? It isn’t unusual for people
to list the cost of items we buy every
day. When it comes to lifesaving drugs,
shouldn’t we have that disclosure as
well? Well, I hope we will. I hope this
bill that is coming to the floor will
consider that as well as several other
aspects when it comes to prescription
drug pricing.
For example, did you know that the
Veterans Administration, on behalf of
the men and women who have served
our country, actually negotiated with
the pharmaceutical companies to have
lower prices for the drugs that are used
in VA hospitals and clinics? They sit
down with these same drug companies
and negotiate lower prices for our vet-
erans. Good. Our veterans deserve it.
But why won’t our Federal Govern-
ment negotiate for those who are under
Medicare? Why can’t we use the same
drug formulary and pricing for the VA
when it comes to Medicare? If we want
to give our veterans a break—and we
should—why wouldn’t we give our sen-
iors a break?
I think we ought to have negotiated
pricing in Medicare. I think the drug
companies will get along just fine. In-
cidentally, they are pretty profitable
today. If we had that commitment for
renegotiating for Medicare, it could
make a difference.
I also think we ought to take on this
insulin issue head-on—head-on. A story
on ‘‘60 Minutes’’ recently was about a
heartbroken mother from Minnesota
whose son was on her health insurance
plan under ObamaCare until he reached
the age of 26. Then he was on his own.
He was managing a restaurant. He
didn’t have drug coverage, and he was
diabetic. He couldn’t afford to pay the
thousand dollars that was being
charged for his insulin, so he decided to
ration the dosage himself. It cost him
his life. He, unfortunately, died be-
cause he couldn’t afford enough insulin
at the high prices that are currently
being charged.
We can change that. We can come to
the side of consumers across America,
to families who are trying to keep
their kids alive, and many others. We
can do that because we work in a place
called the U.S. Senate, but in order to
do that, we have to act like Senators.
We have to say to the pharmaceutical
companies: I am sorry, but there comes
a point where you have pushed it way
too far. There comes a point where we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.003 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4708 July 9, 2019
have to step in on behalf of families
and consumers in America and speak
up on their behalf. Watch closely to see
if that happens.
The gentleman who was on the floor,
my colleague from Kentucky, will be
the person who will decide that. Sen-
ator MCCONNELL will decide whether
we are going to challenge the pharma-
ceutical companies this year.
Do you remember how I started? It is
the No. 1 issue that American families
volunteer to us. So is it important?
Yes. Secondly, will it make a dif-
ference? You bet—not just in Illinois
but I bet in Kentucky as well. Many a
family can step forward and talk about
how tough it is to pay for these pre-
scription drugs.
Do we have a chance to do it? You
bet we do. There is a series of bills
coming out of committee in the next
couple of weeks. We could bring this to
the floor of the Senate. Wouldn’t that
be amazing if the U.S. Senate, instead
of doing a handful of nominations of
people you have never heard of, ended
up actually passing a bill, making a
law that addresses the issue of pre-
scription drug pricing in America?
That, to me, is a reason we were sent
here.
What I would like to see and hope to
see is a bipartisan effort. We Demo-
crats are ready to stand up, but there
are certain things we believe in. First,
we believe in keeping the Affordable
Care Act on the books. People with
preexisting conditions shouldn’t be dis-
criminated against. Families ought to
be able to keep their kids on their
health insurance plans until kids reach
the age of 26. We are willing to fight for
that even though this week there is a
lawsuit by the Trump administration
to do away with it.
Secondly, we believe we should nego-
tiate prices under Medicare so that
seniors get the price breaks that our
veterans get today and many others do
too.
Third, we need to do something about
the overpricing by these drug compa-
nies, not just price disclosure on the
ads but changing the patent laws to
give American consumers a fighting
chance. Canada is fighting for Cana-
dians. When is America going to fight
for Americans?
When it comes to pharmaceutical
prices, this is our chance to do it, and
we can get it done in the next 2 weeks.
Who will decide that? The majority
leader from Kentucky, MITCH MCCON-
NELL. He will decide whether this
comes to the floor, whether it is impor-
tant enough to the people living in
Kentucky, Illinois, New York, Mis-
sissippi, or wherever. It is his choice. It
is in his power to make that decision.
I hope the American people will reach
out to him to encourage him to do
that.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
U.S. WOMEN’S WORLD CUP VICTORY
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
yesterday, I sent a letter to U.S. soccer
that officially invited the U.S. women’s
soccer team to come to the Senate to
celebrate their outstanding World Cup
victory. Happily, I heard last night
that Megan Rapinoe, one of the team’s
cocaptains and stars of the tour-
nament, has accepted our invitation. I
greatly look forward to scheduling a
time when these inspiring women can
come to the Nation’s Capital.
What they have accomplished on and
off the pitch is a credit to our Nation.
Millions of young girls and young boys
look up to these players. Millions of
women, sports fans or not, admire the
light they have shown on the dispari-
ties between the men’s and women’s
game—part of a broader fight for equal
treatment and fair pay in the work-
place for all women.
I believe it would be a fitting tribute
to this great women’s soccer team to
bring legislation to the Senate floor
that would make it easier for women to
get equal pay in the workplace. The
House has already passed a bill to do
just that. I call on Leader MCCONNELL,
again, to bring that bill to the floor of
the Senate, particularly in light of the
great victory of the women’s team and
the knowledge that they get paid much
less than the men, even though they
work just as hard and bring, at least in
recent years, even greater glory to the
United States.
Wouldn’t it be great if we could pass
that bill while the women’s national
team is visiting the Chamber?
Wouldn’t that send a powerful message
of our commitment to rooting out dis-
crimination everywhere?
I urge Leader MCCONNELL to consider
it. Right now that bill lies in Leader
MCCONNELL’s all-too-full legislative
graveyard. Perhaps this great victory
might spring it free so that we could do
something for women’s equality.
JEFFREY EPSTEIN
Madam President, on a much less
happy note, this week, billionaire Jef-
frey Epstein was indicted in New York
on Federal sex trafficking charges. The
newly released evidence of Epstein’s
behavior involving dozens of children is
sickening, is appalling, is despicable.
Epstein should have been behind bars
years ago, but, unfortunately, the Sec-
retary of Labor, Alex Acosta, cut Ep-
stein a sweetheart deal while Acosta
was a U.S. attorney in Florida in 2008.
While a Federal prosecutor, Acosta
signed a nonprosecution agreement
that allowed Epstein and his co-
conspirators to remain free and evade
justice, despite overwhelming evidence.
Mr. Acosta hid this agreement from
Epstein’s victims. No one can figure
out why Mr. Epstein was able to per-
suade U.S. Attorney Acosta not to
prosecute, other than that Epstein
could afford high-powered, high-priced
attorneys. As the Miami Herald edi-
torial board wrote this morning, it was
not just that Acosta failed to get it
right in 2008; the evidence suggests ‘‘he
didn’t care to.’’
Accordingly, I am asking three
things. First, I am calling on Secretary
Acosta to resign. It is now impossible
for anyone to have confidence in Sec-
retary Acosta’s ability to lead the De-
partment of Labor. If he refuses to re-
sign, President Trump should fire him.
Instead of prosecuting a predator and
serial sex trafficker of children, Acosta
chose to let him off easy.
This is not acceptable. We cannot
have as one of the leading appointed of-
ficials in America someone who has
done this—plain and simple.
Second, I am calling on the Depart-
ment of Justice’s Office of Professional
Responsibility to make public the re-
sults of its review of Acosta’s handling
of the Epstein case. Senators MURRAY
and KAINE have called for these find-
ings, but the Justice Department so far
has stonewalled, has refused to make
them public. This rebuke cannot be
kept in the dark, and there should be
hearings.
Third, the President needs to answer
for the statements he has made about
his relationship with Mr. Epstein. In
2002, he said he had known Epstein for
15 years and that he was a ‘‘terrific
guy’’ who enjoyed women ‘‘on the
younger side.’’ Epstein was also report-
edly a regular at the Mar-a-Lago Club
for years. The President needs to an-
swer for this, and ‘‘I don’t recall’’ is
not an acceptable answer in this case,
particularly since President Trump ap-
pointed Mr. Acosta to such a powerful
position.
HEALTHCARE
Madam President, on healthcare,
today oral arguments begin in Texas v.
United States, and the fate of our en-
tire healthcare system hangs in the
balance due to this nasty, cruel lawsuit
led by President Trump’s Department
of Justice. If the courts ultimately
strike down the law, the healthcare of
tens of millions of Americans would be
gone—gone. Prescription drug costs,
high enough as they are, would go up
even further. Protections for pre-
existing conditions that affect more
than 100 million Americans would be
eliminated. A mother or father whose
child had cancer would have to watch
them suffer because the insurance com-
pany could cut them off and say: We
are not paying for this anymore.
We cannot tolerate that. Yet Presi-
dent Trump and his administration and
19 Republican attorneys general filed a
suit that would do just that.
The case reveals the depth of the hy-
pocrisy and cruelty of the Republican
position on healthcare. Senate Repub-
licans, come campaign season, express
unequivocal support for protections for
preexisting conditions, but they have
repeatedly blocked our attempts to
have the Senate intervene in this law-
suit and fight back against the Trump
administration’s position, which
threatens to eliminate these very same
protections.
I say to my Republican friends: You
can’t have it both ways. You can’t say
‘‘Oh, I want to protect people with pre-
existing conditions,’’ and then prevent
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.005 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4709
July 9, 2019
us from doing something to actually
protect them. Instead, they are going
along, knees shaking, with President
Trump’s cruel lawsuit, and that is what
every Republican in this Chamber—
just about every Republican—has done.
President Trump has himself issued—
also totally hypocritical—a laundry
list of quotes in support of protections
for preexisting conditions. He talks all
the time about bringing down prescrip-
tion drug costs while his administra-
tion actively pursues this lawsuit,
which would raise the cost of drugs and
eliminate protections for preexisting
conditions.
How much hypocrisy can America
tolerate? It is mind-bending. The hy-
pocrisy is patently obvious. I don’t
care if you love President Trump. You
should be calling him out for this hy-
pocrisy, which will affect the vitality—
God’s most precious gift to us—the
ability to live long and healthy and
well. President Trump is trying to take
it away, despite what he says to you,
Trump supporters.
Senate Democrats will head to the
steps of the Capitol to highlight what
this lawsuit could mean to average
Americans. My Republican friends
should take note. The American people
are keenly aware of which party is try-
ing to take away their healthcare.
Even if it happens through the courts
in this Trump-supported lawsuit, they
will know that congressional Repub-
licans, by their silence—their meek,
supine acquiescence—are complicit in
the unraveling of our healthcare sys-
tem. I believe the American people will
hold them accountable at the ballot
box if they don’t change.
ELECTION SECURITY
Madam President, on election secu-
rity, tomorrow the Senate will gather
for a briefing by senior officials of the
defense, law enforcement, and intel-
ligence community on the threats fac-
ing our elections in 2020.
Russia has interfered in our elec-
tions. Everyone agrees with that. Our
administration is doing nothing to stop
it from occurring again in 2020, so we
need a briefing by law enforcement on
how serious the threat is—they have
said ‘‘serious’’ in public statements—
and what we are doing to stop it.
I am glad that Leader MCCONNELL
agreed to my request and has worked
with us to schedule a briefing. It
should dispel all doubt in this Chamber
about the need to take action ahead of
next year’s Presidential elections.
I would say this: A briefing is impor-
tant; a briefing is necessary, but it is
by no means sufficient. We must then
debate and adopt measures to protect
our democracy and preserve the sanc-
tity of our elections. Even though
Leader MCCONNELL has finally agreed
to have this hearing, he has so far been
content—once again, a legislative
graveyard—to have the Senate do noth-
ing—do nothing—when it comes to one
of the greatest threats to our democ-
racy, that a foreign power will reach in
and interfere for its own purposes, not
to help Americans.
Bipartisan bills exist. We could put
them on the floor right now. This is
not a partisan issue. Senators RUBIO
and VAN HOLLEN have the DETER Act.
Senators MENENDEZ and GRAHAM have
the Russia sanctions bill. But all of
these bills have languished, victims of
Leader MCCONNELL’s legislative grave-
yard. We have many more options
when it comes to election security—
legislation from Senators KLOBUCHAR
and WARNER, FEINSTEIN and WYDEN,
BLUMENTHAL and many others. It is
time we move on these bills. As we con-
tinue to negotiate appropriations bills,
we should include significant resources
for election security. Nothing less than
the vitality of and faith in our democ-
racy is at stake.
There are not two sides to this issue.
A foreign adversary attacked our de-
mocracy. I expect that Special Counsel
Mueller’s testimony next week will
highlight once again that Russia’s ef-
forts to interfere in our democracy
were sweeping and systematic.
What are we waiting for? What are
we waiting for—for them to interfere
again and for more Americans, whether
they be Republican or Democrat or
Independent, left, right, or center, to
no longer believe this democracy is
legit? For 243 years, since the Declara-
tion of Independence and certainly
since the signing of the Constitution a
few years later, we have had faith in
this democracy, even when the out-
come isn’t what we want. But that
faith is already eroding in good part
because foreign powers can interfere in
our elections. We cannot—we cannot—
let that happen, no matter who you
are, what your politics are. But Leader
MCCONNELL is standing in the way of
what could eat at the roots of our de-
mocracy and eventually make this
mighty oak, the American experiment,
fall. We don’t want that to happen.
The briefing tomorrow is a good step,
but it is only one step. We need to take
more. We need to act, to prepare our
democracy for the challenges ahead.
FOX NEWS
Madam President, I felt it was impor-
tant to point this one out: President
Trump amazingly attacked FOX News
in the last few days in a series of
tweets for coverage he viewed as unfa-
vorable to his administration. This is
FOX News, a news outlet that, frankly,
is 90 percent or more on the President’s
side. Their most popular shows seem to
just be cheerleaders for President
Trump. To me, it is the most biased
newscast there is of the major news
stations, not that any of them are free
of any bias. Yet when President Trump
hears a small, dissident tweet, dis-
sident note, from FOX News, and now
he attacks it—what kind of thin skin
does this man have? What kind of thin
skin? But it is worse than his thin
skin—when a President can attack a
news organization that is overwhelm-
ingly friendly to him, with some of his
leading advocates getting prime time
space, some of them going to his ral-
lies, it shows he really doesn’t believe
in freedom of the press. Dictators—dic-
tators—shut down the press and try to
shame the press when they speak truth
to power, which is what our President
has done in all the years of this Repub-
lic.
When President Trump can even at-
tack FOX News because once in a blue
Moon it says something he doesn’t
like, that shows he doesn’t really de-
serve to be President because a Presi-
dent must protect our liberties wheth-
er or not he is under fire.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
REMEMBERING RIVER NIMMO
Mr. COTTON. Madam President, I
want to call your attention to a story
that is tragic but also heartwarming
and uplifting.
Honorary Colonel River ‘‘Oakley’’
Nimmo of Camden, AR, passed away
last month at the age of 5 after a pro-
tracted struggle with his enemy, a rare
form of cancer called neuroblastoma.
Oakley’s family remembers him as a
‘‘sweet, brave boy’’ who liked to play
with power wheels and toy guns, but all
those who knew him or who have
learned about him will remember Oak-
ley for an act of service that perhaps
only a child could perform.
Oakley wanted to be an Army man
when he grew up. Even in the advanced
stages of his fight with cancer, you
would find him at the hospital wearing
camouflage fatigues and a helmet, with
his trusty rifle by his side and a smile
on his face.
Oakley fought his cancer valiantly,
going above and beyond the call of
duty. He was strengthened along the
way by his Arkansas neighbors, who
held yard sales and sold bracelets to
help the Nimmo family pay for his
care. He was also supported by 20,000
prayer warriors on a Facebook page en-
titled ‘‘Prayers for Oakley Nimmo.’’
But ultimately it was God’s will that
Oakley should return home to him. He
passed away on the 20th of June.
In light of Oakley’s heroic struggle,
as well as his dream of becoming an
Army man, Oakley was named an hon-
orary colonel in the Arkansas National
Guard. In the days leading up to his fu-
neral, his family made a simple re-
quest: that veterans and servicemem-
bers show up at the funeral in their
uniform to give Oakley the proper
sendoff. Word got around, and dozens
came. Some traveled from nearby
towns. Most had never even met this
little boy, but it didn’t matter—he was
a soldier like one of them. Soldiers
from the Arkansas National Guard pro-
vided funeral honors for Oakley. They
presented Oakley’s mother, Shelby,
with the flag and a special ID tag with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.007 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4710 July 9, 2019
his name on it. Like a true soldier,
Oakley was sent off from this world to
the moving tune of ‘‘Taps’’ played by a
military bugler.
Colonel Nimmo’s tour of duty on this
Earth was brief, but he did teach an
important lesson to all of us. At times,
some voices may express doubts about
our military, but Oakley reminded us—
as perhaps only a child could—that
being an Army man, a brave protector
of our Nation, is one of the highest
honors to which an American can be
called.
The veterans and the servicemembers
who attended Oakley’s funeral were
there to honor him, but, in fact, it was
a double honor because through his life
and dreams, little Oakley honored
them in return.
Oakley looked up to our troops in
life. Now he looks down on them from
above, where he will remain in God’s
presence and our memory as a brave
fighter against cancer, an inspiration,
and indeed, for all time, an Army man.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The clerk will call
the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, yester-
day our friend from New York, the mi-
nority leader, spoke on the Senate
floor about the latest challenge to
ObamaCare—the Affordable Care Act—
which is being considered by the Fifth
Circuit Court of Appeals this week.
Also, if you can believe the press, he is
also going to have a press conference
with the Speaker and other notable
Democrats to talk about the danger of
a court decision on the constitu-
tionality of the Affordable Care Act. As
one might imagine, he painted a pretty
grim picture of what would happen if
the court were to strike down the Af-
fordable Care Act, affirming the judg-
ment of the trial court. Of course, he
tried to place the blame squarely on
those of us on this side of the aisle. It
is strange to me because blaming Re-
publicans in Congress for a yet-to-be-
decided court case doesn’t make a lot
of sense, but it is pretty consistent
with the message we have heard from
our Democratic friends.
If the minority leader is going to
pick a bone with anyone, then I guess
his complaint is really about the Con-
stitution itself. Court cases are decided
on a case-by-case basis based on what
the law is, and, of course, the Constitu-
tion is the fundamental law of the
United States. So if a court ultimately
holds an act of Congress to be uncon-
stitutional, it is because the Constitu-
tion prohibits it. And a consensus
among all Americans is that the Con-
stitution shall be inviolable, dating
back to the early 19th century. The Su-
preme Court has made clear that is ul-
timately their job—not to decide what
the policy should be but whether the
policy enacted by Congress is con-
sistent with the requirements of the
Constitution.
So I find it pretty bizarre that in
about an hour, the Democratic leader
will join Speaker PELOSI for a news
conference to talk about coverage for
preexisting conditions, and I have no
doubt that once again they will try to
blame Republicans as the bad guys and
somehow perpetuate this myth that
Republicans are opposed to covering
people for preexisting conditions in
their health insurance policies. They
know that is false. They know that is a
bald-faced misrepresentation of what
our policy choices are in this body and
in Congress as a whole. There is one
thing that I think there is a consensus
on in Congress with respect to
healthcare, and that is that preexisting
conditions should be covered. In fact,
there are pieces of legislation that I
have cosponsored in the Senate that do
that expressly. The illogical fallacy of
their argument is that the only way
one can do that is through the Afford-
able Care Act.
As we know, the Affordable Care Act
has been a Trojan horse for a whole lot
of other policies that, frankly, are not
particularly popular because they have
resulted in high deductibles and high
premiums and have made it harder and
harder for people to afford coverage. It
has also precluded individuals from
picking the kind of coverage that best
suits their family’s needs at a price
they can afford.
I think it is important for the Amer-
ican people to understand what we all
understand—including the Democratic
leader and the Speaker—which is that
what they are saying about preexisting
conditions is false. They know it, we
know it, and it can be demonstrated.
Yet they persist in saying it because
they believe that people are either un-
informed, naive, or so partisan that
they will not be guided by the facts
but, rather, by the partisan rhetoric.
Here is the other strange thing in all
of this. Most progressive Democrats—
we used to call them liberals; now they
call themselves progressives—have em-
braced Medicare for All as a solution to
our Nation’s healthcare challenges. As
the Presiding Officer knows, Medicare
for All would be a recipe to bankrupt
Medicare, which has traditionally, le-
gally, and historically been a benefit
earned and contributed to by seniors in
order to cover their healthcare when
they are 65 or older. So dumping 180
million or so additional people into
Medicare who have private health in-
surance is really a recipe for bank-
rupting it, thus undermining the ben-
efit that seniors thought they were
buying into during their entire lives.
Here is the other irony I find. When
he was trying to sell the Affordable
Care Act, we heard that President
Obama said, if you like your existing
healthcare policy, you can keep it.
That is what he said. It didn’t end up
being the case, but that is what he
said. Yet now our Democratic col-
leagues have become so radicalized on
healthcare that they are essentially
saying, if you have private health in-
surance you like, you can’t keep it.
You can’t keep it.
This is a very strange place to work
sometimes because people say things
they know are not true, but they hope
they can capitalize on people’s igno-
rance or on their partisanship. Yet, as
many have said before, facts are stub-
born things, and those are the facts;
that there are other ways to cover pre-
existing conditions other than with the
Affordable Care Act. For a party that
has embraced this idea of Medicare for
All and that wants to destroy privately
held health insurance, it seems pretty
rich for them to then blame this side of
the aisle for wanting to destroy private
health insurance that covers pre-
existing conditions.
A January Gallup poll found that 7 in
10 Americans have a negative view of
our healthcare system and have de-
scribed it as being in a state of crisis or
as having major problems, which is to
say that ObamaCare is not working as
well as the advocates thought. As we
know and as I have said, it is not the
only way to protect patients who have
preexisting conditions.
Earlier this year, I cosponsored a bill
that was introduced by our friend from
North Carolina, Senator TILLIS, called
the PROTECT Act, which would ensure
that no American would ever be denied
health coverage because of one’s hav-
ing a preexisting condition. Now, the
Democratic leader and the Speaker
know that. Yet, presumably, today, at
12:30, when they hold their press con-
ferences, they will say all Republicans
are opposed to covering preexisting
conditions because of this court case in
the Fifth Circuit that has yet to be de-
cided. They are just gleeful that this
will provide, they think, some way for
them to argue what they know is not
true—that the Republicans are opposed
to covering people’s preexisting condi-
tions.
I believe health coverage for these
patients shouldn’t hang in the balance
of a court decision because, ultimately,
it is our decision. If we pass the PRO-
TECT Act, it would finally codify what
I hope every Member of this body
would agree on—that Americans de-
serve access to healthcare coverage.
The PROTECT Act is just one example
of the countless healthcare bills that
are working their way through the
Senate right now.
In addition, in the Senate Finance
Committee, we are considering a pack-
age of bills to reduce prescription drug
prices, just as we have in the Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions Com-
mittee and in the Judiciary Com-
mittee. The HELP Committee over-
whelmingly passed a bipartisan bill to
reduce healthcare costs, to increase
transparency, and to eliminate surprise
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.008 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4711
July 9, 2019
medical bills. Last week, the Judiciary
Committee unanimously reported out
legislation that would keep pharma-
ceutical companies from gaming the
patent system. Our colleagues—or po-
litical candidates—can go on TV and
try to spin the ObamaCare system all
they want, but we are going to con-
tinue to work hard to make real mean-
ingful changes to make our healthcare
system better.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. President, on another matter, we
know that a record number of migrants
is continuing to cross our southern
border, and the impact on Texas com-
munities—the State I represent—has
been overwhelming.
Detention centers are over their ca-
pacities. Customs and Border Protec-
tion officers and agents are pulling
double duty in their being law enforce-
ment officers and caregivers to chil-
dren, not because that is what they
have been trained to do but because
that is what they must do in order to
take care of this flood of humanity.
Nongovernmental and community or-
ganizations are unable to keep up with
this pace of the thousands of people
who have been coming across the bor-
der each and every day.
Before the Senate recessed for the
Fourth of July week, which was about
10 weeks after the President requested
emergency funds, we finally passed a
bipartisan bill to send much needed hu-
manitarian relief. It includes addi-
tional funding for the departments and
agencies that have depleted their re-
sources in trying to manage this crisis,
and it makes $30 million available in
reimbursement for which impacted
communities may apply—charges that
should be the Federal Government’s re-
sponsibility and not the local govern-
ments’. As I said, after some hand-
wringing and delay, the House passed
this bill, and the President signed it. I
hope my constituents back in Texas
who have been working tirelessly to
manage this crisis will soon find some
relief.
It is important to remember, though,
that depleted funding isn’t the reason
for the crisis; it is only a symptom of
a larger problem. In other words, we
are dealing with the effects and not the
cause of the basic problem. Without
getting to the root cause, we are only
setting ourselves up for failure, which
means we will be back here in another
couple of months and will have to pass
another emergency appropriations bill
for an additional $4.5 billion to try to
deal with the problem we can fix but
have refused to.
Sadly, this issue has become so po-
liticized that few are willing to reach
across the aisle and find solutions, and
most of the proposals we have seen are
ultrapartisan. The Democrats who are
running for President support things
like decriminalizing illegal border
crossings or providing free healthcare
to undocumented immigrants, both of
which are unpopular, unsafe, and com-
pletely unaffordable. The vast majority
of Americans oppose open borders and
already struggle to manage their own
bills. They certainly don’t want to be
burdened with the costs of people who
enter our country illegally and don’t
pay taxes.
We don’t need these radical proposals
to solve the crisis at our southern bor-
der. Both in the short term and the
long term, we need bipartisan solutions
that can provide some real relief. If we
want to get to the root of the crisis and
avoid making emergency funding bills
the norm, we need to get down to brass
tacks and talk about real reforms that,
No. 1, will fix the problem and, No. 2,
will stand a chance of actually becom-
ing law.
Right now, there is only one bill, to
my knowledge, that has bipartisan and
bicameral support, and that is a bill
called the HUMANE Act. I introduced
this bill with my Democratic friend in
the House, HENRY CUELLAR, to address
the humanitarian crisis at the border.
First and foremost, the HUMANE Act
includes important provisions to en-
sure that migrants in our custody re-
ceive proper care. It requires the De-
partment of Homeland Security to
keep families together throughout
their court proceedings, and it includes
additional standards of care. Beyond
suitable living accommodations, the
HUMANE Act requires each facility to
provide timely access to medical as-
sistance, recreational activities, edu-
cational services, and legal counsel.
It would require all children to un-
dergo biometric and DNA screening so
family relationships could be con-
firmed so as to ensure these children
would be, in fact, traveling with their
relatives rather than with human
smugglers or sex traffickers.
In order to better protect children
who would be released to Health and
Human Services, this bill would place
prohibitions on certain individuals who
could serve as guardians. For example,
no child should be released into the
custody of a sex offender or a human
trafficker. I would hope we could all
agree on that.
In addition to improving the quality
of care for those in custody, the HU-
MANE Act would improve the ways mi-
grants would be processed. It would re-
quire the Department of Homeland Se-
curity to establish regional processing
centers in high-traffic areas, which
would serve as a one-stop shop by
which the process would take place.
This was a recommendation from the
bipartisan Homeland Security Advi-
sory Council. It would also alleviate
the long wait times that are experi-
enced by many asylum seekers. These
centers would have personnel on hand
from across the government to assist,
including medical personnel and asy-
lum officers.
In addition to these changes, the leg-
islation would also include provisions
to make some commonsense improve-
ments, such as additional Customs and
Border Protection personnel and train-
ing for CBP and ICE employees who
work with children.
The HUMANE Act would make much
needed reforms to improve the proc-
essing and quality of care for migrants.
Importantly, it would also take steps
to address the flow of those who enter
our country by the tens of thousands
each month.
I spend a lot of time talking to folks
who live and work on the border about
the status quo and what we need to do
to prevent this crisis from becoming
even bigger. The most common feed-
back I get is that we need to close the
loopholes that are being exploited by
the people who are getting rich off of
trafficking in human beings from Cen-
tral America, across Mexico, and into
the United States.
One of the most commonly exploited
loopholes is something called the Flo-
res settlement agreement, which was
created to ensure that unaccompanied
children don’t spend long periods of
time in the custody of the Border Pa-
trol. It was and remains an important
protection for the most vulnerable peo-
ple who are found along our border. It
also ensures they can be processed and
released to either relatives or to the
Department of Health and Human
Services pending the presentations of
their cases before immigration judges
when they claim asylum. Yet a mis-
guided 2016 decision by the Ninth Cir-
cuit effectively expanded those protec-
tions from children to families.
One thing I can say with some cer-
tainty is that human smugglers and
traffickers are not fools; they are en-
trepreneurs. They are twisted and
criminal, to be sure, but they are en-
trepreneurs. They know how to exploit
the gaps in our system, and they know
how to make money while doing it.
They know, if adults are traveling
alone, they could be detained for long
periods of time before they are eventu-
ally returned home after presenting
their cases before immigration judges.
So now, rather than there being single
adults who arrive at the border alone,
adults are bringing children with them
so they can be processed as family
units, thus taking advantage of that
expansion of the Flores settlement
agreement and drawing out the process
to the point at which it overloads the
system. They realize they can bring a
child—any child—and pose as a family
so they will be released after 20 days,
never to be heard from again.
We have seen a massive increase in
the number of families who have been
apprehended. In May of 2018, roughly
9,500 families were apprehended. In
May of this year, the number sky-
rocketed to more than 84,000. So, in
just 1 year, it went from 9,500 to 84,000.
Now, are legitimate families crossing
the border? Absolutely. Yet we know
many of these people who claim to be
related are fraudulent families who use
innocent children as pawns to gain
entry into the United States. Some-
thing that nobody wants to talk about
is, often, these children are abused and
assaulted along the way, and many ar-
rive at the border in critical health.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.010 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4712 July 9, 2019
If we care about the welfare and the
lives of these children, we cannot let
these practices continue. It is unfair
not only to these children but to the
American people and to the immi-
grants who have waited patiently to
enter the United States legally for peo-
ple to be able to game the system,
move to the head of the line, and break
all the rules while doing it.
The HUMANE Act would clarify that
the Flores agreement applies only to
unaccompanied children. It would also
provide greater time for processing and
immigration proceedings to take place
before a family is released from cus-
tody.
Eliminating this pull factor is an im-
portant way to stop the flow of those
illegally entering our country because
they know how to game the immigra-
tion system.
While the HUMANE Act will cer-
tainly not fix every problem that exists
in our broken immigration system, it
is an important start. It is a necessary
start. It is the only bill pending before
the Congress that is bipartisan and bi-
cameral, and I would encourage all of
our colleagues who are serious about
our responsibilities to get to the root
of this humanitarian crisis to join us
and get this passed and sent to the
President for his signature.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, I rise
today in support of the Affordable Care
Act and to discuss the devastating im-
pact its potential elimination would
have on rural families and rural com-
munities.
My State, Virginia, has so many
rural communities, and in that, I am
with every other Member of this body,
and I want to talk specifically about
them.
The Trump administration has
sought for years to end the Affordable
Care Act using every tool available.
They have worked on that task here in
Congress to repeal it and sabotage it
and even dismantle it in the court sys-
tem. Today marks another milestone
in that deeply troubling effort.
The U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Ap-
peals will hear oral arguments in a
case that could strike down the Afford-
able Care Act in its entirety. If the
ACA were struck down, families and
communities around the country would
bear life-altering consequences, and
the healthcare system would be thrown
into chaos. Tens of millions of Ameri-
cans would lose healthcare coverage
and protections for preexisting condi-
tions, among the countless other con-
sumer protections that have been put
in place by the ACA.
A number of my colleagues are going
to be on the floor this afternoon speak-
ing about particular aspects of this
that trouble them. I want to focus on
one in particular: how important the
Affordable Care Act’s Medicaid expan-
sion is to rural America and how much
is at stake for those communities
should the Affordable Care Act be
eliminated.
Medicaid expansion enables low-in-
come, rural residents to get affordable,
quality health insurance so they can
get the care they need. It is often the
case that insurance companies do not
compete with the same intensity in
rural communities because there are
just not enough patients. So it is com-
mon in rural America for somebody
wanting to buy an insurance policy on
the exchange, for example, to maybe
have only one option. Medicaid expan-
sion has turned out to be a huge ben-
efit for many low-income people living
in rural America. Many of those who
are receiving insurance pursuant to
Medicaid expansion were previously
uninsured, and so for some, it is the
first insurance they have had in their
lives.
A particular impact of Medicaid ex-
pansion has not been on just individ-
uals receiving that Medicaid but on the
hospitals that are sort of the
healthcare and even economic pillars
in rural communities. Rural hospitals
often have a difficult time making the
finances work. Again, lower patient
volumes make it difficult. Medicaid ex-
pansion has meant that the care they
have been providing that in the past
might not have been reimbursed at
all—they are now able to at least get a
Medicaid reimbursement, and that has
been a significant financial benefit to
these hospitals.
Mr. President, you understand this
because your State is like mine, and
there are a lot of rural communities.
Rural hospitals are often the lifeblood
of rural communities. They can be the
largest employers in a town or a coun-
ty. They often do a tremendous
amount of outreach on healthcare and
other philanthropic efforts not just
within the hospital walls but outside
the hospital walls—sponsoring the Lit-
tle League teams and doing the things
that make a community a community.
Residents of rural communities need
access to healthcare, but they also
need access to jobs and good healthcare
information. Rural hospitals provide
that.
I have seen the impact of rural hos-
pital closures in Virginia firsthand.
Two rural hospitals in Virginia closed
in recent years because Virginia did
not expand Medicaid initially. In the
last year, Virginia has done Medicaid
expansion, but before Medicaid expan-
sion was done, we saw hospitals close
in two communities in Virginia: Pat-
rick County, which is a south side Vir-
ginia county that is on the border with
North Carolina, and Lee County, which
is a far southwestern Virginia county
that is on the border with Kentucky
and Tennessee. Two hospitals have
closed in those communities.
I got a letter from a mother in
Christiansburg, VA, which is actually
up near Virginia Tech. Her name is
Robin, and she wrote about the closure
of the Pioneer Hospital in Patrick
County in 2017.
She wrote this:
My mother who recently turned 70 still
lives in the county, and we are approaching
a point of either moving back to Patrick
County or moving my mother to
Christiansburg where we currently live. My
son has severe food allergies that could lead
to anaphylactic shock (which would require
immediate medical attention) so this vari-
able also weighs very heavily on my mind
when considering the options of how to man-
age my family’s land and take care of my
mom. I don’t want to live somewhere with-
out access to emergency health care. It
seems inconceivable that this is the case in
the era in which we live now. . . . Please
help get my home county back on the med-
ical map to give its economy and its people
a fighting chance.
Blacksburg is probably an hour and a
half to 2 hours away. The mother is liv-
ing in a county that now has no hos-
pital—she has turned 70—so she doesn’t
have access to the care that she needs.
The daughter is trying to decide: Do I
move back? But I have a son who needs
care because of allergies. Do I have to
move my mother out of the home
where she would rather stay?
Rural hospitals across the country
are struggling to keep their doors open
for a number of reasons, but here is an
amazing set of statistics. Whether a
State expands Medicaid pursuant to
the ACA is a massively significant fac-
tor in rural hospitals’ financial outlook
and decisionmaking. Without Medicaid
expansion, rural hospitals may be
forced to cut vital services or even
close. Here is the data point that really
says it all: Since January 2010, 107
rural hospitals have closed in the
United States, and 93 of those 107 hos-
pitals were in States that had not ex-
panded Medicaid at the time of the clo-
sure.
Hundreds more rural hospitals are at
risk of closure. Rural hospital closures
disproportionately occur in States that
have not expanded Medicaid. The suc-
cess of the Texas case would wipe out
the ACA, including Medicaid expan-
sion, and deeply penalize these rural
hospitals.
A comprehensive 2018 study published
in Health Affairs found that Medicaid
expansion is directly associated with
hospital financial performance and
that expansion substantially reduces
the risk of hospital closure, particu-
larly in rural areas. The study also
found that going back to pre-ACA eligi-
bility for Medicaid would drive even
more rural hospitals to closure.
So we think about Robin’s dilemma
of a mother living in a rural area where
the hospital has closed. If the ACA is
struck down and there is no Medicaid
expansion, this is going to be faced by
more and more rural communities
across the country, and that means
this is a dilemma individuals and their
families will ultimately face.
Research from Georgetown Univer-
sity’s Health Policy Institute indicates
that the uninsured rate for low-income
adults in rural communities fell three
times as fast in States that expanded
Medicaid as compared to States that
did not expand. Turn that around.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.011 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4713
July 9, 2019
States that expand Medicaid find that
rural families have a dramatically
higher likelihood of having insurance
than those in rural areas where the
States haven’t expanded Medicaid.
As of now, 36 States, including Vir-
ginia, have expanded Medicaid and 14
have not. I am thrilled that earlier this
year Virginia, after a multiyear battle,
finally announced that Medicaid ex-
pansion was happening. In less than a
year after expansion, nearly 293,000
adults are newly enrolled in Medicaid
in Virginia, many of whom never had
health insurance before in their lives—
293,000 adults in a State where the pop-
ulation is about 8.5 million. That is a
significant number of people who have
received insurance through Medicaid
expansion. They risk losing their eligi-
bility if the administration is success-
ful in its efforts to gut the ACA.
If we care about rural residents and
rural communities, there are a number
of things we can do.
First, we need to stand up against
the administration’s attempt to end
the ACA, including its Medicaid expan-
sion.
I have now been in public life for 25
years since I was elected to the Rich-
mond City Council in May 1994. I will
say that in all of the elections I have
been in, up or down, and all the various
legislative and other battles, the single
most dramatic moment in my life as an
elected official was standing on the
floor of this body at 2 o’clock in the
morning when Senator John McCain,
fresh out of a hospital after being diag-
nosed with a glioblastoma brain tumor,
cast the deciding vote, and by one
vote—one vote—we saved the Afford-
able Care Act. I have never in my life
in the public realm experienced some-
thing that was so dramatic and so con-
sequential.
We have to continue to stand up. I
would have thought that vote might
have moved us to a new chapter where
we would be talking about fixing and
improving rather than repealing, but
that is not the case, as evidenced by
the lawsuit today. But my hope is that
we will resist efforts to sabotage and
destroy and instead join together in ef-
forts to improve. I have joined with my
colleagues to cosponsor a resolution al-
lowing Senate legal counsel to inter-
vene in the lawsuit, to defend the Af-
fordable Care Act.
The second thing we can do to help
rural communities is focus on the 14
States that haven’t yet expanded Med-
icaid and provide them a clearer path
and encouragement to do so.
I am proud to be an original cospon-
sor of something called the SAME Act,
which would extend the same level of
Federal assistance to every State that
chooses to expand Medicaid regardless
of when the expansion occurs. I think
that is important.
Let’s use the original Medicaid Pro-
gram as an example. It was passed in
1965. It was not a mandate; it was an
option. The last State—Arizona; State
50—that joined didn’t join until 1982.
There was a 17-year period between
when the first State joined the then-
voluntary Medicaid Program and when
the last State joined.
Let’s make sure that whenever
States join, they are treated the same.
If this bill passes, States that choose to
expand now—these 14 States—we would
make sure that they get the full Fed-
eral level of assistance as was available
to those States that initially joined,
and that should help remaining States
get off the sidelines.
Finally, we need to stand up against
administrative sabotage to the Afford-
able Care Act. We shouldn’t promote
skimpy insurance plans. We shouldn’t
slash funding for enrollment, outreach,
or marketing. We should build on and
improve and, yes, fix—because it is not
perfect—the ACA to extend its promise
of affordable coverage to even more
Americans.
That is why I have introduced Medi-
care-X legislation to establish a public
insurance plan that could be offered on
the ACA exchanges, beginning in rural
areas. My bill would also make the
ACA’s tax credits more generous, ex-
pand tax credit eligibility to additional
families, and allow for an enhanced re-
imbursement rate in rural commu-
nities where low patient volumes often
pose financial challenges to healthcare
providers.
In closing, the ACA has meant the
difference between life and death for
many families across the country, and
I run into them every day.
I am going to be standing with some
Senate colleagues on the steps of the
Senate in a few minutes talking about
a youngster from Winchester, VA, who
has a series of significant healthcare
challenges that would essentially in
the past have made him uninsurable
because of preexisting conditions but
who now—because of that protection
within the ACA, he and his family at
least have the peace of mind of know-
ing that he can’t be kicked off insur-
ance or turned down for insurance be-
cause he happened to be born with a
condition over which he had no con-
trol.
If the ACA were to be struck down,
families and communities would suffer,
and I think that in Virginia, that
would particularly be the case in our
rural communities.
Again, I am just going to hold up this
issue of our rural hospitals. We need to
protect rural hospitals not only be-
cause of the healthcare they provide
but because they are employment cen-
ters and centers of community out-
reach. When we see the closure of rural
hospitals overwhelmingly being in
States that have not expanded Med-
icaid, that tells us how valuable that
portion of the ACA has been to sta-
bilize the provision of rural healthcare.
I will continue to fight to protect the
ACA and the health of my rural com-
munities in Virginia and elsewhere. I
encourage my colleagues to do the
same.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRUZ). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
THE ECONOMY
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, we re-
ceived more good economic news on
Friday with the announcement that
the economy created 224,000 jobs in
June.
Meanwhile, unemployment remained
near its lowest level in half a century.
June marked the 16th straight month
that unemployment has been at or
below 4 percent. That is a tremendous
record.
June also marked the 11th straight
month that wage growth has been at or
above 3 percent. Before 2018, wage
growth had not hit 3 percent in nearly
a decade.
Friday’s announcement was just the
latest piece of good news about the
economy. Thanks to Republican eco-
nomic policies, the economy has taken
off during the Trump administration.
Economic growth is up, wage growth is
up, personal income is up, and the list
goes on.
Importantly, the benefits of this eco-
nomic growth are being spread far and
wide. One of the distinguishing fea-
tures of the economic expansion that
we have been experiencing is the way it
has been reaching those who have
trailed behind economically.
Over the past 3 years, pay hikes for
the lowest income workers have ex-
ceeded pay hikes for the richest work-
ers. Huge numbers of new blue-collar
jobs have been created, and the em-
ployment situation for minorities has
improved substantially.
The unemployment rates for Asian
Americans, African Americans, and
Hispanic Americans are all at or near
record lows. The Wall Street Journal
notes that ‘‘Nearly one million more
blacks and two million more Hispanics
are employed than when Barack Obama
left office, and minorities account for
more than half of all new jobs created
during the Trump Presidency.’’
So where has all this economic
progress come from? At the end of the
Obama administration, 21⁄2 years ago,
the economic outlook wasn’t too rosy.
The economy was sputtering, and
American families were struggling.
Some were predicting that a weak
economy would be the new normal.
Republicans, however, didn’t agree
with that. We knew that American
workers and American businesses were
as dynamic and creative as ever. But
we also knew that burdensome regula-
tions and an outdated tax code were
holding our economy back and reduc-
ing the opportunities available to
workers. So when we took office in
2017, we got right to work on improving
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:35 Jul 09, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.013 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4714 July 9, 2019
our economy in order to improve life
for the American people.
We eliminated burdensome regula-
tions that were acting as a drag on eco-
nomic growth, and we passed a historic
reform of our Tax Code to put money
in Americans’ pockets and make it
easier for businesses to grow and to
create jobs. Now we are seeing the re-
sults: a thriving economy that is ex-
tending more opportunities to more
Americans.
For all of Democrats’ talk about in-
equality, it is actually Republicans and
President Trump who have done some-
thing about it. We have helped create
an economy that is lifting up people
across the entire economic spectrum.
There is still more work to be done,
of course. For one thing, we need to
make sure that the agriculture econ-
omy is able to catch up to the economy
at large. But thanks to tax reform and
other Republican economic policies,
American workers are doing better
than they have in a very long time.
It is unfortunate that the gains we
have made would be reversed if Demo-
crats have their way. Democrats’
plans—from budget-busting govern-
ment-run healthcare to free college—
all have one thing in common: They
would cost a lot of money.
Where would the government get
most of that money? From tax in-
creases—tax increases on businesses
and tax increases on ordinary Ameri-
cans.
Thanks to the tax relief that Repub-
licans passed, the economy has ex-
panded, paychecks have increased, and
more jobs and opportunities have been
created.
Raising taxes would result in the op-
posite: fewer jobs and opportunities, a
smaller economy, and more families
struggling to get by on smaller pay-
checks.
Republicans are determined to make
sure that doesn’t happen. We are com-
mitted to building on the progress we
have made and further expanding eco-
nomic opportunity for all Americans.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
HONG KONG
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I rise
today to speak about the very high-
stakes political and social crisis that
has been unfolding in Hong Kong over
the past several weeks.
Hong Kong is a very exceptional city.
It boasts of a very robust free market
economy that has thrived for cen-
turies. It has a very vibrant free press.
It has an independent judiciary and a
partially democratic election system.
Those freedoms, combined with
Hongkongers’ natural entrepreneurial
spirit and appreciation for individual
liberty, have made Hong Kong a jewel
of the financial and business world, one
of the freest places in Asia, and a great
place to live—for a time, anyway, as I
did back in 1991.
Economic and political achievements
are particularly impressive when you
consider that Hong Kong is, after all, a
part of China, which has neither a free
economy nor a politically free society.
Back in 1997, Great Britain trans-
ferred Hong Kong to China on a condi-
tion—an explicit written agreement—
that Hong Kong’s social and economic
systems would remain unchanged
under a ‘‘one country, two systems’’ ar-
rangement that would last for at least
50 years, until 2047.
The Chinese Government also made a
pledge at the time—a pledge that Hong
Kong’s legislative and executive lead-
ers would be elected through ‘‘uni-
versal suffrage.’’ Yet, here we are, 22
years later. Hongkongers still do not
enjoy complete universal suffrage, and
Hong Kong has faced deep and per-
sistent efforts by the mainland to
erode the independence and the author-
ity of Hongkongers.
On the surface, this ongoing crisis in
Hong Kong was clearly caused by the
Hong Kong Government, probably at
the behest of the Chinese leadership in
Beijing to pass a deeply unpopular ex-
tradition bill. This bill would diminish
Hong Kong’s independent legal system
very dramatically, and it would do so
by allowing and exposing individuals in
Hong Kong—including Hong Kong citi-
zens, foreigners, and even tourists—to
being extradited to China.
The accused would then face prosecu-
tion by an authoritarian government
in mainland China that does not up-
hold the rule of law, nor does it prac-
tice the fair and impartial administra-
tion of justice. Let’s face it. The judi-
cial system in China is politicized and
controlled by the Chinese Communist
Party.
Some people are concerned that if
this bill were to become law, it would
even pave the way for Chinese state-
sponsored kidnapping of dissidents. It
certainly would have a chilling effect
on freedom in Hong Kong, a chilling ef-
fect on the ability of Hong Kong people
to live their lives and express their
views without the fear of political re-
percussions. It is simply a fact that
mainland China is a legal black hole,
and Hong Kong’s extradition bill would
be a step to exposing Hong Kong resi-
dents directly to mainland China’s
opaque and often blatantly unfair legal
system.
In response to this threat, the people
of Hong Kong have for weeks poured
into the streets, calling for a with-
drawal of this bill and deeper demo-
cratic reforms. Remarkably, last
month, one of these protests—one of
these demonstrations brought together
an estimated 2 million Hongkongers
into the streets. It is stunning any-
where in the world that 2 million peo-
ple would come out to protest any-
thing. But in Hong Kong, it is truly
staggering because the total popu-
lation of Hong Kong is only 7.4 million.
That is about one in four Hongkongers
who were on the streets protesting.
Just today, the Hong Kong Chief Ex-
ecutive said that bill was dead. But it
has not been formally withdrawn, as I
understand it, and I think the threat
remains.
It is also important to note that on a
deeper level these ongoing protests are
really a response to efforts by the Chi-
nese Government to ‘‘mainlandize’’
Hong Kong. It is an effort in which po-
litical, cultural, and even physical dis-
tinctions between Hong Kong and
mainland China are meant to be dimin-
ished, the differences blurred, and the
distinction eroded.
The extradition bill is just the latest
example of the Hong Kong people’s
struggle for the freedom, democracy,
and respect for human rights that they
cherish, that they want to hold on to,
and that were promised to them when
the handover occurred in 1997.
Hongkongers really have a rich his-
tory of protest, and I think that his-
tory reveals their enduring grassroots
desire for the freedoms they have
grown to love and cherish and for a
democratic form of government that
they deserve.
Back in 1989, the Tiananmen Square
massacre that we all remember—the
30th anniversary was just last month.
On the eve of the massacre, once it was
clear the Chinese Communist Govern-
ment would respond to peaceful pro-
testers with bullets and tanks—once
that became clear, about 1.5 million
Hongkongers marched in the streets of
Hong Kong in solidarity with the stu-
dents in Tiananmen.
In 2003, the Hong Kong leadership
proposed an anti-subversion bill.
Hongkongers rightly saw this bill as an
attack on their freedom of speech and
freedom of association. The Hong Kong
leadership proposed it—again, doing it
at the behest of the mainland Chinese
Government—and 500,000 citizens pro-
tested and eventually forced the gov-
ernment to withdraw the bill.
In 2014, the Hong Kong Government
announced a reform to change how
Hong Kong’s Chief Executive was se-
lected. The proposal was meant to con-
tinue what already existed, and that
was mainland Chinese Communist con-
trol over the election process in Hong
Kong. One of the mechanisms they
used to achieve this was that only can-
didates vetted by a committee of most-
ly pro-Beijing supporters would be al-
lowed to seek the office of Chief Execu-
tive.
In response to this undemocratic
measure, Hong Kong students staged a
campaign of civil disobedience and
peaceful protest to oppose this effort.
Up to a half a million people partici-
pated in the movement. Students fa-
mously used umbrellas to shield them-
selves from tear gas and pepper spray
that was being launched at them by
the police, so much so that the pro-de-
mocracy protesters were quickly
termed the ‘‘Umbrella Movement.’’
All of these protests and acts of civil
disobedience make it clear that
Hongkongers want more freedom, not
less freedom.
I think this matters. This matters
obviously in Hong Kong, but it matters
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.014 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4715
July 9, 2019
beyond Hong Kong. It matters to us. It
should matter to us. What is happening
in Hong Kong is not just important for
those residents but for the rest of the
world. Today the people of Hong Kong
are fighting against an unpopular and
unfair extradition bill. They are really
fighting for a future in which they can
enjoy basic human rights, natural
rights that everyone should have, in-
cluding the right to free speech, the
right to a fair trial, the right to be con-
fident that your government will fol-
low the laws of the society in which it
exists, and participation in a just and
fair representative system of govern-
ment.
If the Chinese officials in Beijing and
the Communist Chinese who rule main-
land China have their way, they will
extinguish these rights for the people
of Hong Kong. If the extradition bill
were to become law, it would threaten
all of those rights because of the
chilling effect of the threat of being ex-
tradited to the lawlessness of the Chi-
nese judicial system.
In some important ways, I think
Hong Kong can be seen as a canary in
a coal mine for Asia. What happens in
Hong Kong will at least set expecta-
tions, create a climate that will maybe
affect what happens in Taiwan over
time, other Asian nations that are
struggling for freedom in the shadow of
China. The fact is, China itself is con-
trolled by an authoritarian govern-
ment, interested primarily in its own
survival. That is the top priority of
Beijing’s leadership. They have created
a modern-day police state. They use
mass surveillance, censorship, internet
applications in order to control their
own citizens. They have imprisoned
over a million of their own citizens, the
Muslim Uighur minorities, in con-
centration camps.
China’s authoritarianism threatens
free and open societies all around the
world. A democratic Hong Kong is a di-
rect threat to the Communist regime
in Beijing because people across China,
naturally, ask the question: Why do
Hongkongers get to have more rights
and a better life and more freedom
than we have? That is the threat the
government in Beijing is trying to ex-
tinguish.
We, of course, recently had the bless-
ing of being able to celebrate our own
Independence Day, when Americans re-
flect on our own struggle against tyr-
anny, against an unjust government,
and our successful effort to throw that
off and establish this, the world’s
greatest, most vibrant, and freest
democratic society.
In many ways, the Hongkongers are
fighting for some of the very same val-
ues as our Founding Fathers did during
the American Revolution. I think it is
important that we in the United States
not turn a blind eye to the struggle for
freedom that is happening outside our
borders. I think it is important that
Americans continue to stand in sup-
port of the voices in Hong Kong calling
for freedom, for democracy, and re-
spect for basic human rights. I will do
what I can in the Senate to support the
people of Hong Kong in their peaceful
protests for their own freedom, and I
call on my colleagues in this adminis-
tration to join me.
I yield the floor.
f
RECESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
in recess until 2:15 p.m.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 12:30 p.m.,
recessed until 2:15 p.m. and reassem-
bled when called to order by the Pre-
siding Officer (Mrs. CAPITO).
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from California.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
if I understand the procedure, are we in
morning business?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. We are
postcloture on the Bress nomination.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. I ask unanimous
consent to speak as in morning busi-
ness.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Madam President,
I rise today to oppose the nomination
of Daniel Bress to the Ninth Circuit in
California.
First, by history and tradition, this
is a California seat on the Ninth Cir-
cuit. The fact is that Mr. Bress is nei-
ther a California attorney nor a Cali-
fornia resident. In fact, he has not been
a resident of the State for over a dec-
ade. He has lived and practiced in the
Washington, DC, area for almost his
entire adult life.
As California Senators, Senator HAR-
RIS and I know that experience and
connection to California are really nec-
essary for a Ninth Circuit judge to be
effective on the bench. We know our
State, we know our constituents, and
we know the challenges they face.
That is why the blue slip is so impor-
tant. Honoring the blue slip ensures
that Senators who understand and are
accountable to their constituents have
a say in judicial nominations for their
home States.
Senator HARRIS’s and my blue slips
were not returned. That ultimately
symbolizes our objections. I was also
very disappointed that the White
House ignored that and moved forward
with Mr. Bress’s nomination.
Senator HARRIS and I worked in good
faith with the White House to find
nominees acceptable to the President
and to us. During our negotiations that
took place, we informed the White
House that we could support several
other nominees who were, in fact, se-
lected by the White House. Yet the
White House and the Republican mem-
bers of the Judiciary Committee have
claimed we were at an impasse. That is
simply not true. For reasons still un-
known to us, the White House aban-
doned our negotiations and nominated
Mr. Bress for this seat instead.
I am very disappointed that Repub-
lican leadership decided to schedule a
vote on Mr. Bress’s nomination, given
both of our objections to his nomina-
tion and our concerns about a lack of
connection to our State.
Next, I want to discuss what I mean
by a lack of connection to our State.
The White House has greatly exag-
gerated Mr. Bress’s connections to
California to justify their decision to
move forward with a non-California
nominee.
I have studied Mr. Bress’s record ex-
tensively, and I would like to run
through some of what I have found.
Mr. Bress claims to spend a substan-
tial amount of time working in his law
firm’s San Francisco office. However,
as recently as November 2018, Mr.
Bress’s profile on the Kirkland & Ellis
LLP website listed him as an attorney
working exclusively in the firm’s
Washington, DC, office. His profile
page likewise provided contact infor-
mation—phone and fax—only for the
Washington, DC, office.
Just before he was nominated, Mr.
Bress’s Kirkland & Ellis profile was re-
vised to list him as an attorney in both
the Washington, DC, and San Fran-
cisco, CA, offices of the firm.
In addition, according to a review
conducted by my staff, every public
legal filing signed by Mr. Bress lists his
office as Washington, DC. This includes
legal filings submitted in California
courts. Mr. Bress has never had an oral
argument before the Ninth Circuit—
never had an oral argument before the
Ninth Circuit.
The chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee entered a letter into the record
at Mr. Bress’s hearing identifying 26
cases in California courts that Mr.
Bress has been involved in. However,
according to Mr. Bress’s Senate Judici-
ary questionnaire, 11 of these 26 cases
were asbestos lawsuits for a single cli-
ent, the chemical company BASF Cata-
lyst. Another four cases were products
liability lawsuits involving another
single client, the air conditioning man-
ufacturer United Technologies Cor-
poration. So those are two clients. This
is hardly the wide breadth of California
court experience that one would expect
of a Ninth Circuit court appointee.
Mr. Bress does not belong to any
legal organizations in California. His
children do not attend school in our
State. He has voted only once since
high school in a California election.
And he does not have a California driv-
er’s license. Finally, Mr. Bress does not
own any property in California outside
of one share in a family business ven-
ture.
These facts, along with Mr. Bress’s
residency in the Washington, DC,
area—he lives here; his family lives
here—make clear to us that he is not a
Californian, nor is he suited for the
Ninth Circuit.
This is something we have never ex-
perienced before; that is, bringing a
judge from one coast to put him on the
Ninth Circuit on the other coast.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.016 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4716 July 9, 2019
Some of my Republican colleagues
have cited past instances when an at-
torney living and practicing in one
State has been nominated and con-
firmed to a seat in another State. This
is highly unusual.
Republicans have been able to pro-
vide examples of this occurring only 4
times in the past 20 years, and in each
case, it was with the support of the
home State Senators. This support is
simply not here in this case; this is not
the case with this nominee.
California is a diverse and complex
State. We have over 40 million people.
It is the fifth largest economy in the
world. It makes up 14 percent of the
U.S. economy. There are 53 Fortune 500
companies that are based in our State.
We have the largest ag industry in the
country. We produce more manufac-
turing revenue than any other State.
And California technology companies
produce 53 percent of all tech revenues
in the United States.
This vast and diverse nature of Cali-
fornia’s people and economy means the
Ninth Circuit regularly considers chal-
lenging and complex issues of fact and
law. These cases require not only the
sharpest legal minds but lawyers and
judges who know and understand the
complexities facing the State of Cali-
fornia.
We have an imported judge now com-
ing to the Ninth Circuit. One of our
most critical tasks as Senators is to
ensure that lifetime appointments to
the Federal courts are well qualified
and well suited to the seats to which
they have been nominated.
Home State Senators are a crucial
part of this evaluation process. The
Presiding Officer knows this very well.
I am so disappointed that the majority
has disregarded this.
This disregard of blue slips rep-
resents another breakdown of Senate
traditions. It is really very disturbing.
One thing I have learned over 20 years
here is that what goes around comes
around. By doing this, it is a major vio-
lation of a precedent that this Senate
has followed, I believe, to its absolute.
I will vote against Mr. Bress’s con-
firmation, and I urge my colleagues to
do the same.
Thank you very much.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
REMEMBERING JIM TARICANI
Mr. REED. Madam President, I rise
today to salute a hometown hero, a
dedicated journalist, and a trusted
newsman, Jim Taricani, who sadly
passed away last month after decades
of contributions to Rhode Island and
the field of journalism throughout this
country.
This is just an example of the trib-
utes that he won by a very, very enthu-
siastic population of Rhode Island.
This is the front page of the Providence
Journal on the day of his funeral serv-
ice.
He was a gentleman. He was a man of
integrity, a man of fairness—the quali-
ties that define a great journalist. In
fact, the words ‘‘great journalist’’ and
‘‘Jim Taricani’’ are synonymous.
He leaves behind an extraordinary
legacy. He was an award-winning inves-
tigative journalist who earned multiple
Emmys and the coveted Edward R.
Murrow Award, and he was a true
champion of the First Amendment.
Jim grew up in Connecticut and
served the U.S. Air Force, where he
was stationed in Europe as a military
police officer. But he made his mark
when he moved to Rhode Island and
embarked on a career in broadcast
journalism, first in radio, and then
over a 30-year career at WJAR that
spanned from the late 1970s through
2014.
Jim began his stint for NBC 10—
WJAR—as a general assignment re-
porter but gained notoriety for cov-
ering big stories and uncovering the
truth. He went on to found the sta-
tion’s investigative team in 1979.
He earned a reputation for taking on
tough stories about organized crime
and political corruption. In reporting
on these difficult topics, Jim’s own in-
tegrity, selflessness, and fairness shone
through every day and every moment.
Indeed, Jim didn’t just talk about
principles; he lived them. In February
2001, Jim obtained an FBI surveillance
video from a confidential source. It
showed a public employee accepting a
bribe in the famed Operation Plunder
Dome case, which transfixed Rhode Is-
land and Providence, its capital, for
many, many months. It marked a sig-
nificant moment when people could see
and hear what corruption looked like.
Rather than following a court order to
reveal the source of the tape, Jim stood
up for the First Amendment, and he
was sentenced to 6 months of home
confinement.
Several of Jim’s friends and col-
leagues wrote letters to the judge on
Jim’s behalf, including Christiane
Amanpour, who interned for Jim in the
early 1980s, when she was a student at
URI.
She noted that Jim Taricani taught
her ‘‘that journalism when done right
is a noble profession, that America’s
unique commitment to freedom of the
press is vital to a functioning democ-
racy, [and] that holding public officials
to account is the imperative of a cor-
ruption-free society.’’
Indeed, that is what Jim set out to do
through his reporting.
He became a strong advocate for
other journalists, testifying before
Congress about freedom of the press
and the challenges journalists face in
trying to keep the public informed
about their government. His help, his
actions, and his activity spurred ac-
tion. The Senate Judiciary Committee
advanced Senator SCHUMER’s bipar-
tisan media shield bill. But the work to
protect journalists, and to ensure that
they can responsibly do their job and
inform the public, continues. We must
find a bipartisan way forward that bal-
ances freedom of the press and public
safety.
Jim was also a tremendous advocate
for the American Heart Association. A
survivor of cardiovascular disease and
multiple heart attacks, Jim docu-
mented his own process of undergoing a
heart transplant, from uncertainty to
recovery. Here is how the Providence
Journal’s television critic described it:
Listed—the title refers to the word from
doctors that every heart transplant can-
didate longs to hear—is the most powerful
human interest story I have ever seen on
local television. It is courageous first-person
journalism, a story that you may never for-
get.
Taricani, who kept a diary through-
out his hospital stay, wanted to have
his experience videotaped in order to
produce a donor awareness video for
the American Heart Association. It was
never his intention to broadcast the ac-
count, but when the news director, Dan
Salamone, suggested it would reach a
broader audience if televised, Taricani
agreed.
That was Jim. He was not looking to
be the story but was willing to share
his story if it could help others.
Thoughtful, tenacious, and tough—that
was Jim Taricani. By the way, 32 days
after receiving his new heart, Jim was
back at work, which tells you every-
thing you need to know about how pas-
sionate he was about journalism and
how much he loved his job.
Undoubtedly, the love of his life was
his wife, Laurie White, who is a force
in her own right and has taken up
Jim’s cause of freedom of the press and
encouraging the next generation of as-
piring young journalists to go out and
make a difference. She has endowed a
lecture series on First Amendment
rights at the University of Rhode Is-
land in Jim’s honor, which is a fitting
tribute.
She said:
Journalists bring sunlight to the stories
that otherwise may stay hidden in the shad-
ows. It is my hope that this lecture series
will continue his legacy of inspiring the next
generation of ethical and responsible jour-
nalists.
I expect the series will help increase
public understanding of the importance
of a free press and the First Amend-
ment for decades to come.
As a journalist and as a person, noth-
ing stopped Jim from following the
facts, uncovering the truth, sharing
important stories, and enlightening his
audience. We are all, in Rhode Island
and across the country, deeply sad-
dened by the loss of Jim Taricani, but
his example and legacy endure. That
legacy will sustain us and inspire us to
continue working together to build a
just and decent country, and for that
we are all grateful to Jim.
Madam President, I yield the floor to
my distinguished colleague from Rhode
Island, Senator WHITEHOUSE.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Madam Presi-
dent, it is a great honor to join my sen-
ior colleague, Senator REED, on the
Senate floor to remember someone we
both knew very well, Jim Taricani, a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.019 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4717
July 9, 2019
legendary investigative reporter, whom
not only we knew well but so many
Rhode Islanders knew well.
There was a rule in Rhode Island:
When Jim called, you answered. He was
also tough. He was always fair. He was
the founder of WJAR’s I-Team, a sto-
ried investigative unit for the NBC af-
filiate in Rhode Island.
Jim started working as a reporter in
the 1970s, when the New England mafia
was still active on the streets of Provi-
dence. He became known for segments
exposing organized crime and for sniff-
ing out public corruption, and, at
times, a bit of a combination of both.
Jim’s news sense and his doggedness
were legendary.
Jim was a Rhode Island icon. In a
small State, with more than its share
of stories to tell and plenty of larger-
than-life characters, investigative
journalists have always had a par-
ticular prominence. For more than
three decades, Jim was among the best
of them all.
He was brave. When a Federal judge
ordered Jim to divulge who had pro-
vided him with a tape of a bribe being
accepted at Providence City Hall, he
opted for a prison sentence rather than
give up his source. The courage of Jim
Taricani made national headlines. He
ended up serving 4 months of home
confinement and testified before Con-
gress in 2007 in support of a Federal
shield law to protect the freedom of the
press.
Rhode Islanders felt a personal con-
nection to Jim for another reason. Jim
needed a new heart in the 1990s. After
having suffered two heart attacks in
his thirties, he shared this health saga
on the air, allowing WJAR cameras to
follow along as he underwent a heart
transplant and navigated his recovery.
From living rooms and kitchen ta-
bles across Rhode Island, Rhode Island-
ers rooted for Jim. As his health im-
proved, he ultimately returned to the
newsroom. The transplant would give
him 23 more years, which he called his
bonus.
Jim passed away last month at the
age of 69. With the free press under
more strain than almost any other
point in our Nation’s history, Jim’s fu-
neral became a really important mo-
ment. The photo Senator REED just
showed on the front page of the Provi-
dence Journal the next day was a sight
to behold. More than 50 journalists
showed up to serve as Jim Taricani’s
honor guard. The honor guard had doz-
ens of reporters from across Rhode Is-
land—not just from WJAR but from all
of its competitors too. Journalists
came from other parts of the country
who had crossed paths with Jim at
channel 10 during time they spent in
Rhode Island. They had come back to
see off a friend, a hero, and a staunch
defender of the First Amendment.
I join Senator REED today in think-
ing of Jim’s beloved wife, Laurie
White, and the many friends of theirs
who mourn Jim’s passing. He will be
missed.
I yield the floor.
Mr. REED. Madam President, I sug-
gest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. YOUNG. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
(The remarks of Mr. YOUNG per-
taining to the introduction of S. 2063
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. YOUNG. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
Mr. MURPHY. Madam President, I
am going to be joined on the floor over
the next 45 minutes or so by a number
of my colleagues to talk about an ex-
ceptional court case that is being heard
today in New Orleans, LA.
This is a court case the Trump ad-
ministration, along with a number of
Republican attorneys general, has
brought to obliterate the Affordable
Care Act, all of it, overnight. The case,
if successful, would result in a humani-
tarian catastrophe in this country.
Why do I say that? Because the plain-
tiffs in the case, backed by the Trump
administration, are arguing that the
court should throw out the entire Af-
fordable Care Act, with nothing to re-
place it, despite the fact that for al-
most a decade now, I have listened to
this President and my Republican col-
leagues in the Congress object to the
Affordable Care Act on the premise
that they will have something better
to replace it with—in President
Trump’s words, a replacement that will
insure more people, at lower cost, with
all the protections the Affordable Care
Act has. That plan has not material-
ized yet because it doesn’t exist. It has
never existed. It will never exist.
The choice today is between the Af-
fordable Care Act, which insures over
20 million Americans, which guaran-
tees that people with preexisting condi-
tions cannot be discriminated against,
and nothing—no protections, no expan-
sion of Medicaid, no subsidies—for indi-
viduals to buy private insurance.
Right now, with the support of Re-
publicans in Congress, the Trump ad-
ministration today is making the argu-
ment that the entire Affordable Care
Act should be struck down, with noth-
ing—nothing at all—to replace it.
This is my friend John from Middle-
town, CT. I had breakfast with John
last week. That is a picture of John in
his younger years. John was 12 years
old when he started to have flulike
symptoms but was diagnosed—coinci-
dentally, on the day of the tragedy in
Sandy Hook, CT—with a rare form of
soft-tissue cancer in the back of his
throat.
The treatment process for John was,
in his words, horrendous, bringing him
to as little as 70 pounds for a period of
time, rendering him unable to speak,
eat, or drink. He was out of school and
in and out of the hospital for almost 2
years.
Six years later, he can only open his
jaw a small fraction of the normal
range of motion; he can only chew
foods out of one side of his mouth; and
he has very limited healing ability for
any jaw injury.
These issues will never go away for
John. He has become an advocate for
the Affordable Care Act because he
knows—he knows that if the Trump ad-
ministration’s lawsuit is successful, his
life as he knows it is over because, once
again, insurance companies would deny
him treatment. No insurance company
would provide John Carlson with insur-
ance, knowing his history of cancer, if
they were allowed to make decisions
for themselves on who gets coverage
and who doesn’t. The only reason John
gets coverage is that we have said,
through the Affordable Care Act, we
are not going to hold you responsible
for your childhood cancer. We are
going to make sure you get insurance
no matter what.
These are the stakes right now.
These are the stakes for millions of
Americans like John whose lives will
be upended if this heartless, thought-
less, cruel lawsuit proceeds. We should
be talking about how to make the
healthcare system better. We should be
talking about ways to lower costs. We
shouldn’t be talking about going back-
ward with no safety net.
What if this lawsuit is successful? I
haven’t heard a single Republican in
the Senate talk about what they would
do. I haven’t heard the President talk
about what his plan is if his lawsuit is
successful.
What happens to John? What are you
going to do to make sure he still gets
the treatment he needs? The answer is,
you don’t know. The answer is, you are
jumping without a net, and you are
playing with the lives of millions of
Americans.
John is a remarkable young man also
because his eyes were opened when he
was in the hospital. I want to read you
his words. He said this to me a couple
of weeks ago, and I asked him to write
it down because it is really remarkable
the capacity of young people to see be-
yond their own suffering. He said:
I wanted to take this opportunity today to
tell one more story about an experience I
had in the hospital during my cancer treat-
ment. This is a story about a young boy who
received cancer treatment the same time as
me. During my daily physical therapy walks
around the childhood cancer floor, I started
to notice a pattern. There was always one
room—directly across from the nurses sta-
tion—with the same patient inside. A small
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.021 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4718 July 9, 2019
boy, no older than three years old. I can re-
member asking my parents and nurses,
‘‘Why are that baby’s parents not with him?’’
I felt so angry that such a tiny child was left
alone and forgotten in a hospital room while
going through cancer treatment. I remember
seeing the tiny chemotherapy port embedded
in his head through the glass door.
‘‘Why would they abandon him like that?’’
I asked the nurse walking with me that day.
She explained to me that he had not been
abandoned at all, he was not forgotten nor
neglected. She explained that he was left
alone due to pure necessity and desperation.
This is John talking. He said:
I learned that both of his parents were
working day and night to be able to afford
his cancer treatment. Nobody deserves to go
through this alone, especially not a three-
year-old infant. I shared my story so that his
story will not continue to take place in
America. I shared my story so that patients
fighting for their life will no longer be taken
advantage of by the hospitals and insurance
companies.
What a miracle that this young man,
going through his own cancer treat-
ments, would think of a 3-year-old
child who has no parents there with
him because his parents are working
multiple jobs in order to afford the
cancer treatments for their son.
Before the Affordable Care Act went
into effect, 750,000 people in this coun-
try went into bankruptcy because of
medical costs. That does not happen
any longer. It doesn’t mean our
healthcare system is perfect. It doesn’t
mean it doesn’t need more improve-
ment, but why would we want to go
back to the day in which a family lost
everything simply because their 3-year-
old son got cancer? Why would we take
this chance with these people’s lives?
I, once again, come to the floor to
beg my colleagues to stand with us, to
stand with us and oppose this lawsuit—
this careless, thoughtless lawsuit. At
the very least, if you support it, then
come to the floor with a real plan for
how you are going to take care of John
and the millions of Americans who rely
on the Affordable Care Act for cov-
erage.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, I am very pleased to follow my
colleague from Connecticut and to con-
tinue his thoughts about the utter
chaos and catastrophe that would be
caused by the success of this lawsuit
now before the court of appeals—chaos
and catastrophe that would, in effect,
turn back the clock to days that I re-
member well because I was attorney
general when preexisting conditions
were used as a ruse to deny lifesaving
medical care and coverage to people
with cancer, brain tumors, and lit-
erally lethal diseases.
In those days, as attorney general, I
took their fight and made it my own,
even sometimes calling presidents of
insurance companies over weekends to
go to bat for those individuals.
Those bad old days—the days of no
protection against preexisting condi-
tions—are over now, but they will
come back if this lawsuit is successful.
If this lawsuit wins, young people who
are now covered by their parents’ poli-
cies up to the age of 26 will be without
it. If this lawsuit wins, the annual and
lifetime caps on benefits will come
back. If this lawsuit is successful, pre-
existing conditions again will come
back to haunt people who need and de-
serve coverage. If this lawsuit wins,
millions of people—tens of thousands
in Connecticut—will be at risk.
One of them is a young man, Conner
Curran, an 8-year-old boy in Ridgefield.
His picture is right here. I met Conner
3 years ago when he was 5, and his par-
ents noticed he was lagging behind his
twin brother. They brought him to a
doctor, expecting maybe a simple diag-
nosis. Instead, they were told that
Conner had Duchenne muscular dys-
trophy. That is a degenerative, ter-
minal disease. It has no cure. It is life-
threatening. In fact, most people with
the disease don’t survive past their
midtwenties.
Conner’s family wrote to me, telling
me that their beautiful, young, sweet
child, at the time just 51⁄2 and full of
life, would slowly lose his ability to
run, to walk, to lift his arms. Eventu-
ally, they said, he would lose his abil-
ity to hug them.
Conner needs care—complex care—
from multiple specialists, costing tens
of thousands of dollars per year.
Thanks to the Affordable Care Act,
there is no denying him coverage.
There is no denying him coverage be-
cause of his illness, and he will receive
the care he needs.
His family also wrote to me that the
reinstatement of lifetime caps or elimi-
nation of essential health benefits will
hinder his family’s ability to access the
care Conner needs. In fact, if this law-
suit wins, there will be virtually insu-
perable obstacles to Conner receiving
that vital lifesaving care. If this dis-
ease progresses, as seems very possible,
he will need access to Medicaid in off-
setting costs of living with that dis-
ability.
For his family, the question is, Will
Medicaid even be there? If that dev-
astating day comes, will he receive the
care he needs?
Conner’s family shared their concern
over what would happen if the repeated
and reckless attempts to undermine
healthcare succeed and if repeal of the
ACA becomes a reality. He and his fam-
ily are not giving up. They have come
to my office since he was diagnosed to
fight for a cure and for the Affordable
Care Act. They have demonstrated
strength and courage, sometimes with
tears in their eyes. They raise aware-
ness and fight for their son. I know
they would do it a million times over if
it meant Conner could have a long and
healthy life.
Connor and millions like him are the
reasons I am here to fight back against
any attempts to repeal the Affordable
Care Act. Whether it is in Congress or
in the courts, make no mistake, this
effort in the courts is another means of
repealing the ACA. The people of Con-
necticut get it. They understand the
agenda here. They want all of us—and
I think most of our constituents do as
well—to make sure this kind of care is
there for Connor and for all of us be-
cause all of us will be at risk if the
ACA is repealed, whether it is in Con-
gress or the courts.
In Connecticut, there are 1.5 million
people living with preexisting condi-
tions. That includes 182,000 children
like Connor. If this Republican-backed
lawsuit against the Affordable Care
Act succeeds, their protections will be
eviscerated; they will be lost, not just
for a year or two but likely for their
lifetime.
The Affordable Care Act ban on life-
time coverage caps is so important to
kids like Connor. If the Republican-
backed lawsuit against the ACA is suc-
cessful, he will be one of the more than
1.2 million people in Connecticut who
would meet a lifetime coverage limit
and be forced to worry about how and
if they can pay for their necessary
medical care.
In Connecticut, about 25,000 young
people get their healthcare coverage
under their parents’ plans, thanks to
the Affordable Care Act’s requirement
that children can be covered until the
age of 26. If the Republican-backed law-
suit against the ACA succeeds, these
young adults will be left without cov-
erage.
In Connecticut, over a quarter of a
million people have healthcare cov-
erage because of the ACA’s Medicaid
expansion. Another 110,000 have cov-
erage through the Connecticut ACA ex-
change. If the Republican-backed law-
suit against the Affordable Care Act
succeeds, their healthcare coverage
will be gone.
If the Republican-backed lawsuit suc-
ceeds, the uninsured rate of Black Con-
necticut residents would likely double.
One in five Latinos under 65 will go un-
insured.
All of these people, like Connor, rep-
resent our Nation—the best of our Na-
tion—with their dedication to the peo-
ple they love, and they deserve to be
heard. Their voices need to be heard
here. They are the true faces of the Af-
fordable Care Act. Every one of them,
like Connor, is a life that will be en-
hanced by continuing the Affordable
Care Act. If this Republican-backed
lawsuit succeeds, their lives will be at
risk, and we will be a lesser nation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
come before this body, I come before
all of those in America to explain a lit-
tle bit of what we had before the Af-
fordable Care Act and where we are
today.
I wasn’t here in 2009 when they
passed the Affordable Care Act. I was
the Governor of the State of West Vir-
ginia, my beautiful State. I can tell
you about the type of healthcare in a
rural State—a rural, hard-working
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.023 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4719
July 9, 2019
State—where people have worked hard
all their lives. They have been chal-
lenged, but they really have given so
much to this great country. Most of
them did not have insurance. A lot of
people across America had some really
good insurance, but a lot of working
people—hard-working people or people
of less means, poor people—did not
have access.
Let me tell you what they used. They
used the emergency room—the highest
cost of entry with no preventive care,
nothing at all to maintain health or
wellness—but they would go there in
an emergency. That is what most peo-
ple who didn’t have any insurance
used.
Let me tell you about the people who
basically were working and could not
afford the copays where they worked or
weren’t afforded insurance at places
where they worked. If they were ill or
if they got hurt at home, working, they
would go into work on Monday and
make a worker’s comp claim, again, at
a very high cost to all of the States.
At the end of the year, and I think
this is in most States, they would come
to you—every hospital, every rural
clinic would come to their Governor
and their legislature; we would call
them DSH payments, disproportionate
share—and say: Governor Manchin, if
you don’t help me with $10 million or
$12 million—I have given away $20 mil-
lion in charity care—we are going to
have to close.
We had to scramble around, using
taxpayer dollars to keep every rural
clinic and hospital open for the people.
People forget about all of that.
For those who had wonderful access
to insurance or were offered insurance,
that was wonderful. We want to make
sure they still have that opportunity.
Guess what. We have a way to fix
this. There have been two bills sitting
on Senator MCCONNELL’s desk for al-
most 3 years that would reduce the
cost—what we know is wrong with the
bill—the Affordable Care Act.
Let me tell you what is right with
the Affordable Care Act. I wasn’t here
in 2009. I would like to have seen
changes, but now that I am here, I
know what I had before, which wasn’t
working, and I know what we have now
can be a lot better.
In a bipartisan way we have tried to
fix this. We have tried to find ways to
make sure that people who had good
insurance are not going to be exorbi-
tantly charged out of the market or
priced out of the market. We are doing
everything we possibly can.
I am asking everybody, please, for
the sake of humanity, if a person for
the first time has ever gotten insur-
ance—and I have told people this. We
gave people the greatest wealth card
you could ever get, which is a health
card, but we didn’t give them one shred
of evidence as far as information about
how to use it—the instructions.
I compare it to this: If you bought a
box of Cracker Jacks, you would get
the prize inside, and they would show
you how to use that little prize. We
never took the time, but now they
want to throw it out. Let’s make an ef-
fort to basically teach people how to
live a healthier lifestyle, how to use
preventive care, how to have a more
productive and a healthier life. We
haven’t done any of that.
For the first time, we know, scientif-
ically, if a person is addicted to drugs—
if they are addicted—it is basically a
health problem. It is an illness. An ill-
ness needs treatment. For the first
time, in a State that has been inun-
dated with opioid addiction and drug
addiction, people are able to get treat-
ment, get back into a productive life-
style and get their lives cleaned up.
For the first time they want to take
that away. Out of 1.8 million people
who live in my State, there are 800,000
West Virginians who have some form of
preexisting condition because they
have worked in the mines and the fac-
tories. They were hard workers. Those
people, if you have ever talked to
them, if you have ever talked to rural
Americans in any State, you can ask:
How are you doing?
I am OK. I am OK.
How is your health?
Well, I don’t want to be a burden to
my family.
Let me tell you what they are telling
you when they say ‘‘I don’t want to be
a burden to my family.’’ They are say-
ing: I can’t afford insurance. I don’t
have insurance. I am not going to
break my family and put them in bank-
ruptcy to try to keep me alive. So
whatever the good Lord has planned for
me, I will accept.
That is not who we are as Americans.
It is just not who we are. This is what
we are trying to change.
We have 20 attorneys general, Repub-
lican attorneys general. These are peo-
ple I know. I don’t think they are
mean-spirited, but to be this insensi-
tive to the real world and what is going
to happen—every hospital, every clinic,
every provider is going to be in jeop-
ardy of not having a job or being able
to provide the services people need.
This thing will come unraveled—unrav-
eled.
We are fighting and hoping and pray-
ing that this is not upheld in the court
system. How it has gotten this far I do
not know. I can tell you, reasonable
people would not make this type of de-
cision.
When you look at what is going on—
let me tell you, in a bipartisan way,
my Republican colleagues have admit-
ted that millions of Americans will
lose their health insurance if the Re-
publican attorneys general succeed.
They have admitted this. It is bipar-
tisan because we all have the same
challenges. Senator TILLIS from North
Carolina and nine other Republicans
stated that oral arguments in Texas v.
United States will begin September 5,
and if a judge rules in favor of the
plaintiffs, protections for patients with
preexisting conditions could be elimi-
nated. We know that.
My good friend Senator MURKOWSKI
from Alaska said, in her own words,
that this lawsuit will take away
healthcare coverage from people with
preexisting conditions. Senator MUR-
KOWSKI said: ‘‘With the uncertainty of
the outcome in the upcoming Texas v.
United States case, this legislation is
needed now more than ever to give
Alaskans, and all Americans, the cer-
tainty they need that protections for
those with pre-existing conditions will
remain intact.’’
My Republican colleagues know that
if these attorneys general win, it will
devastate households, our economy,
and millions and millions of Ameri-
cans’ health. That is why I have been
working with them to fix the problems
of the Affordable Care Act. I intro-
duced the Premium Reduction Act
with my Republican colleague and dear
friend Senator SUSAN COLLINS from
Maine. It would reduce the cost of
health insurance in the individual mar-
ket by supporting and expanding State-
based health insurance.
We owe it to every West Virginian
with a preexisting condition to fix our
healthcare system.
I would like to introduce you to
Aiden Jackson Williams. This is Aiden
Jackson Williams right here. Aiden is a
6-year-old cancer survivor from West
Virginia. At 9 months old, he was diag-
nosed with an optic glioma and under-
went chemotherapy for 16 months. At 2
years old, he was in remission. Aiden
continues to get MRIs every 3 to 6
months, and there is a high chance of
recurrence of other tumors in his body
due to his condition.
With that said, Aiden doesn’t let it
bother him. His parents are proud to
say that today Aiden is doing great. He
and his twin sister Reagan both enjoy
sports, and he moves around just as
well as anybody. To this day, Aiden is
their hero and inspiration.
Kids like Aiden have fought and beat
cancer. They shouldn’t also have to
fight to keep their health insurance.
What we are saying is that if the
ACA goes away, Aiden will not have
the certainty to be able to have health
insurance, to have the MRIs to detect
early enough to save his life. That is
what we are talking about.
This is life and death. This is life and
death. This is not just a matter of the
ideological differences that we have.
We are going to fight and fight hard,
and that is why I am here—for Aiden
and all West Virginians with pre-
existing conditions. They are trusting
us to do the right thing, along with my
colleagues, the Republicans, in a bipar-
tisan way, to fix what, basically, we
have to know and what we do know
that can be fixed with the bill before
us, the Affordable Care Act, but not
throw the baby out with the bath
water.
I hope that each one of my colleagues
will take this seriously and that they
will work with us in a bipartisan way
to fix the healthcare for Americans
that is so needed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.032 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4720 July 9, 2019
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President,
today President Trump and Republican
attorneys general are explaining in
court why they think people who got
their healthcare through the exchanges
or Medicaid expansion should have it
ripped away. They are explaining why
limits on patients’ out-of-pocket costs
should go away while limits on their
annual and lifetime benefits should
come back and why protections for
people with preexisting conditions
should be struck down.
In other words, Republicans are, once
again, fighting to take us back to the
bad old days to give big insurance com-
panies all the power, to leave millions
of people without any hope of getting
the quality affordable care they need
and to leave patients and families with
fewer protections and higher bills—pa-
tients like Lily from Gig Harbor, WA,
in my home State.
Lily is a rising high school sopho-
more. She is a rising soccer star, and
she is a patient living with cystic fibro-
sis. To stay healthy and stay on the
field, Lily needs to take several pre-
scriptions a day. She needs to keep ex-
pensive medical devices on hand and
visit specialists every other month, not
to mention the hospital a couple of
times a year. Even on a good month,
her healthcare can cost thousands of
dollars.
For families like hers, the stakes
could not be higher. If Republicans win
their blatantly partisan lawsuit, insur-
ance companies could kick patients
like Lily off their parents’ insurance
before they turn 26, meaning that in-
stead of worrying whether Lily will
continue her soccer career at Gonzaga
or UW or somewhere else, her family
could spend her senior year worrying
how to make sure she can get the
healthcare she needs.
If Republicans win, insurance compa-
nies could also avoid covering essential
health benefits patients need—things
like prescription drugs or emergency
care. They could remove limits on how
much patients have to pay out of pock-
et and put limits on patients’ annual
and lifetime benefits, which is particu-
larly challenging for patients, like
Lily, who need expensive drugs to treat
chronic preexisting conditions.
If Republicans win, insurance compa-
nies could discriminate against pa-
tients who have preexisting conditions,
like cystic fibrosis, by charging them
more, excluding benefits, or even deny-
ing them coverage completely.
Let’s be clear. Lily is just 1 of 30,000
patients in our country with cystic fi-
brosis and 1 of over 100 million patients
in our country living with a pre-
existing condition.
Like the woman who wrote to me
about her severe arthritis, which could
be debilitating without treatment, or
her husband whose high blood pressure
could be deadly without medication, or
the mom who wrote to me about her
son’s rare form of epilepsy and how,
without insurance, the medical costs
would crush her family. For these fam-
ilies and so many other patients living
with a preexisting condition, the law-
suit Republicans are bringing today is
a matter of life and death.
People are watching closely, and
they are not going to forget who kept
their word to fight for their healthcare,
to fight for protections for people with
preexisting conditions, and who on the
other side blatantly broke that prom-
ise by championing a partisan lawsuit
that would throw the healthcare of
millions of people out the window.
Democrats are not going to stop
fighting for families like Lily’s; we are
not going to stop holding President
Trump accountable for his ongoing
healthcare sabotage; and we are not
going to stop pushing for commonsense
steps that help women and families get
quality, affordable healthcare or push-
ing Republicans to work with us to get
the train back on the track and stop
pulling up the rails.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I
both concur and applaud the senior
Senator from Washington State for her
comments. We saw Senator MANCHIN
here. I know Senator KAINE was here.
Senator MURPHY was here. Senator
BLUMENTHAL was here. I know there
are probably a dozen others, all of
whom know people and have talked to
people, who get out and, as Lincoln
said, listen to people and get their pub-
lic opinion baths.
They meet people like Susan Halpern
from Columbus, whom I will talk about
in a few minutes. They talk to them.
They meet. They see that what we do
here actually matters to people’s lives.
They can play games with the Afford-
able Care Act. They have been doing
that for a decade now, literally almost
a decade, putting people’s healthcare
at risk, scaring people, and alarming
people, trying to take their healthcare
away. These are real people, as these
pictures show and as these stories
show.
Let me back up for a minute. A Fed-
eral judge is hearing arguments in a
case that would literally yank health
coverage away from millions of Ameri-
cans.
I know what that means in my State.
There are 900,000 people in Ohio who
have insurance today because of the
Affordable Care Act. There are 100,000
Ohio seniors who have gotten major
savings on their prescription drugs
through the Affordable Care Act. One
million Ohio seniors have had
osteoporosis screenings, diabetes
screenings, physicals with no copay
and no deductible, and preventive care
so they don’t get sick, saving the
healthcare system money, saving tax-
payers’ dollars, and making their lives
better. Yet my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle, all of whom have good
insurance paid for by taxpayers, want
to take it away from them.
Almost any day you could look down
the hall—you can open this door and
walk down the hall, look down the hall,
and you will see the healthcare lobby-
ists, the drug company lobbyists, the
tobacco lobbyists, and the gun lobby-
ists. You will see one after another
going to the Republican leader’s office,
Senator MCCONNELL. Every one of
those lobbyists causes us to spend more
dollars on health insurance. The health
insurance lobby, the gun lobby, the to-
bacco lobby, the alcohol lobby, the
spirits lobby coming out of Kentucky—
all of them cost taxpayers more be-
cause it means people’s health gets
worse because they don’t stand up to
these interest groups.
We know what is happening in Texas.
A partisan judge, an absolutely par-
tisan hack of a judge, ruled in Decem-
ber to strike down the Ohio healthcare
law. I know Justice Roberts said we
don’t talk about Obama judges or Bush
judges or Clinton judges or Trump
judges. Yes, that is what they say, and
that is what Supreme Court Chief Jus-
tice Roberts says, but we know what
has happened here. We know how Sen-
ator MCCONNELL is looking for the
most extreme and young judges pos-
sible to put on the court to go after
labor rights, to go after voting rights,
to go after healthcare, costing our citi-
zens their health and costing citizens
billions of dollars.
We know the President wants to get
rid of the entire Affordable Care Act. If
President Trump gets his way, if the
court decides to wipe it off the books,
to take away the entire healthcare law,
here is what happens: tax credits to
help you afford your health insurance—
gone; protections for preexisting condi-
tions—gone.
Right now, 5 million Ohioans have a
preexisting condition. Most of the rest
of us will have a preexisting condition
at some time in our lives. It is called
aging, when people are more likely to
develop illnesses and get sick.
So consumer protections built in by
Obama, built in by the Affordable Care
Act so insurance companies can’t deny
you coverage, and they can’t say:
‘‘Sorry, we are not going to insure
you’’ or ‘‘You already have insur-
ance’’—and they will take the insur-
ance away if you just happen to get too
sick and you cost the private insurance
companies too much money—gone. Re-
publicans in this body and President
Trump want to take those protections
away.
The ability to stay on your parents’
health insurance until you are 26—
gone. We know what that has meant to
so many families. If my colleagues
would leave this building, leave their
foreign travel, leave their nice homes
that most of us have in our States and
get out and listen to people, they will
hear people say: Well, this is really im-
portant to my 26-year-old sister or my
26-year-old daughter or my 24-year-old
son.
Ohio’s entire Medicaid expansion
that Republican Governor Kasich did—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:32 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.033 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4721
July 9, 2019
gone. Limits on how much you pay
out-of-pocket each year—gone. Many
more affordable prescription drugs for
seniors through closing the doughnut
hole under the Affordable Care Act, if
they get their way—gone.
Free preventive services, like mam-
mograms and bone density screenings
for Medicare beneficiaries—millions of
them in my State and tens of millions
of them in the country—gone. The list
goes on.
There are 5 million Ohioans under 65
who have preexisting conditions. That
is half the population of our State.
I am not being an alarmist. We know
this is what so many of you who were
in the House earlier voted on time and
again to try to repeal the Affordable
Care Act. You had no replacement. You
said you did, but there was no replace-
ment for the Affordable Care Act. It
was the repeal of the Affordable Care
Act, taking away all of these benefits
that tens and tens of million Ameri-
cans benefit from.
These Ohioans have been able to rest
a little easier knowing they can’t be
turned down for healthcare coverage or
have their rates skyrocket because a
child has asthma, because a husband
has diabetes, or because a wife was di-
agnosed with breast cancer, but this
case intentionally puts all of that at
risk.
President Trump has thrown the
whole power and all of the attorneys—
the battery of lawyers—in the Justice
Department into this case to try to
take the away the Affordable Care Act.
That is what he promised in his cam-
paign; that is what all these Repub-
lican Members of the Senate promised;
and that is what all the Republican
Members of the House promised. Do
you know what? A lot of them lost last
year because they want to take their
insurance away. They are not doing it
through Congress because that might
be politically risky. They don’t want to
do that. They are trying to do it
through the court system and then
blame who knows what for this.
In Columbus, I met Susan Halpern.
Ms. Halpern is a cancer survivor. She is
pictured here. She told me this:
As a breast cancer survivor and self-em-
ployed small business owner in Ohio—
Creating jobs—
I depend on the ACA for my healthcare. I
am aware that without the ACA, I would not
be able to purchase health insurance for any
price. Even though my cancer has been in
complete remission for 12 years, I would still
be uninsurable.
These stories from Michigan that
Senator STABENOW tells, from Wash-
ington State that Senator MURRAY just
told, that Senator KAINE told, that
Senator MURPHY has told, and that
Senator BLUMENTHAL has told go on
and on. These are all cases where peo-
ple have insurance, and a bunch of peo-
ple in this body—all of whom get insur-
ance paid for by taxpayers—are trying
to take it away from them. All of these
benefits are gone, thanks to the lobby-
ists lining up in Senator MCCONNELL’s
office from the gun lobby, the tobacco
lobby, the insurance lobby, the spirits
lobby, and all the rest.
Last week, in Cleveland, I met Maya
Brown-Zimmerman, who pointed out to
me that I had met her many years be-
fore when she was a student in high
school. She went to high school with
my daughter. I met her at a school
event once. She has a rare genetic dis-
order that one of her four children also
inherited. Here is what she said:
I cried the day the ACA was passed because
it meant a safety net for my family. No life-
time caps on medical coverage, and the guar-
antee of being able to get health insurance
even if something were to happen to my hus-
band’s job.
She went on:
Whether or not my family loses these pro-
tections literally keeps me awake at night.
Think about that. Think about the
selfishness of my Republican col-
leagues, of President Trump, and of the
people in this administration—all the
Justice Department lawyers and all
these judges. Think about their selfish-
ness. They have a political agenda, and
they are keeping Ms. Brown-Zimmer-
man awake at night because she wor-
ries about her insurance. Think about
the selfishness. Think about the moral-
ity of that.
She said:
I want our elected officials to remember
we can’t predict when we will need to access
the healthcare system and so access to
healthcare is an issue that is going to affect
us all.
There are not too many people who
are not able to sleep in this body.
There were not too many people who
were not able to sleep in the House as
they were all voting to repeal the Af-
fordable Care Act. That doesn’t seem
to cross their mind, but it crosses the
minds of millions of people in Detroit,
in Ann Harbor, in Cleveland, and in
Mansfield.
Today, tomorrow, and the day after,
14 Ohioans will die of an overdose. Med-
icaid is the No. 1 tool we have to get
people into treatment. Ohio is in the
throes of an addiction crisis, like much
of the rest of the country but only
worse in many cases. We know Med-
icaid expansion has been a lifeline to so
many Ohioans.
Sometime ago, I was at Albert House
in Cincinnati, one of the best addiction
treatment centers in the country. I sat
with a man and his daughter. He put
his hand gently on his daughter’s arm.
He looked at me, and he said: ‘‘Sen-
ator, my daughter would be dead if it
were not for Medicaid.’’ He said: ‘‘My
daughter would be dead if it were not
for Medicaid.’’
Yet Federal judges—Trump-ap-
pointed judges and Bush-appointed
judges—and Republican Senators, all of
whom get health insurance from the
Federal Government, from taxpayers,
are apparently willing to have that on
their conscience. They are willing to
work to repeal the Affordable Care Act
with no real replacement. That mat-
ters in the life of Ms. Halpern. That
matters in the life of Ms. Brown-Zim-
merman, whom I just talked about.
That matters in the life of the gen-
tleman in Cincinnati who talked to me
about his daughter.
The President wants to make it hard-
er for Ohioans to get that care. I don’t
know how Members of this Congress
and this President—all with good in-
surance that is paid for by taxpayers—
can support dismantling this lifeline
that so many Americans rely on.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I
first want to thank my friend and col-
league from Ohio for his passion and
for caring so deeply, as we all do in our
caucus, fighting for people’s
healthcare.
It seems every week I am down on
the floor saying exactly the same
thing: Healthcare is personal; it is not
political. Healthcare is personal to
every single person in Michigan; it is
not political.
Whether a senior is able to afford the
medication she needs to treat her
chronic condition, that is personal.
Whether a single dad is able to take his
children to a trusted doctor when they
get sick or hurt and keep them on his
policy until age 26, that is personal.
Whether a woman is charged more for
the health insurance coverage she
needs to detect cancer early enough so
it can be cured, that is personal.
Unfortunately, the law that helps
seniors afford their prescriptions, en-
sures children can remain on their par-
ents’ insurance until age 26, requires
health insurance policies to charge
women the same as a man and to cover
lifesaving, preventive care, that law is
currently in the intensive care unit on
life support.
As we know, since 2010, Senate and
House Republicans have voted to repeal
or undermine the Affordable Care Act
more than 100 different times—100 dif-
ferent times. That didn’t sit right with
families across Michigan and across
the country. They stood up with us,
they fought back with us, and together
we won.
What Republicans couldn’t do in Con-
gress, they are trying to do through
the courts. Today, literally, the Fifth
Circuit Court of Appeals begins hearing
arguments in a case brought by 18 dif-
ferent Republican attorneys general
and Governors.
In short, these 18 Republican attor-
neys general and Governors, backed by
the Trump administration and Presi-
dent Trump, are trying to take away
your healthcare. If they win,
healthcare reform could be completely
overturned and healthcare taken away.
That would take everything away, in-
cluding Medicaid expansion, which we
call Healthy Michigan. In Michigan, we
have about 700,000 people getting
healthcare now who don’t have to pick
between working a minimum wage job
and getting healthcare. They can do
both. Children staying on their par-
ents’ insurance plans until age 26—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.027 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4722 July 9, 2019
gone. More affordable drugs for sen-
iors—gone. Protections for people with
preexisting conditions—gone.
In other words, it would put insur-
ance companies back in charge of your
healthcare, and we all remember what
that was like.
Women could once again be charged
more for coverage and have to get a
rider if they want to get maternity
care coverage and prenatal care cov-
erage. Remember when being a woman
was considered a preexisting condition?
I do. Members of my family do.
Families could once again face year-
ly or lifetime caps on care when they
need it the most, when you think about
it.
If the Affordable Care Act is repealed
through the courts, the insurance com-
panies would once again be able to say
to your doctor: You know, I don’t
think she really needs 10 cancer treat-
ments or 12 cancer treatments, so we
will pay for 5. If addiction treatment or
mental health treatment is needed,
they could say: I don’t think you really
need to have more than two sessions if
you are an addict. Come on. Today, the
doctor decides, with you, what you
need in terms of number of treatments,
and that is the way it should be.
As I mentioned, nearly 700,000 people
in my State are getting healthcare
through Healthy Michigan or Medicaid
expansion, and they could lose that. In
fact, they will lose that.
Our uninsured rate has fallen from 12
percent before the Affordable Care Act
to 5 percent. So 12 percent of people
were not insured at all, and now it is 5
percent. I would call that a success. Is
there more that should be done? Yes.
But that is positive, not negative.
The number of people without insur-
ance who have been treated has fallen
by 50 percent in Michigan—50 percent.
And that is great for all of us. It is cer-
tainly great for hospitals that were
treating people without insurance be-
fore. Someone walks into the emer-
gency room and gets care in the most
expensive way, and they don’t have in-
surance. What happens? Everybody
else’s insurance rates go up. That is
what happened. When people were able
to get their own insurance coverage,
insurance rates went down. In fact, we
had over $400 million in Michigan that
was put into the State government as a
savings as a result of not paying for
people going to the emergency room
without insurance.
A record 97 percent of Michigan chil-
dren can see a doctor now when they
get sick—97 percent. I would argue that
is a great success, not something to be
taken away or something to play poli-
tics with.
Michigan seniors are saving money
on their prescription drugs through the
Medicare Part D Program—something
called the doughnut hole, the gap in
coverage that we closed.
More than half of our families in
Michigan, which includes people with
preexisting conditions, are now able to
get coverage. The insurance companies
can’t say no, and they can’t say: When
you get sick, you are going to be
dropped. They can’t deny you from get-
ting the coverage you need if you have
a preexisting condition.
One of those people in Michigan is
Heidi, who lives in Cedar Springs. She
wrote to me in May. I thank Heidi for
doing that. Heidi had bought health in-
surance for years and almost never
needed it because she was healthy. In
fact, she only used it, she said, when
she gave birth to her daughter. That
all changed in 2004 when Heidi was di-
agnosed with breast cancer at the age
of 45. She has since had multiple tests,
multiple surgeries, and multiple rounds
of chemotherapy, all at least partially
covered by insurance.
Heidi wrote this:
My fear every day is that I won’t have in-
surance if these changes are made. There is
no way any company would insure me. My
husband has a life insurance policy that he
bought before we were married. . . . We
asked about me. The salesman nicely said
that I am not insurable. So my plan B is, if
I lose my health insurance, I will take that
money and save it for my funeral (since I
can’t even get a life insurance policy for
enough for a funeral).
Heidi added this:
I am lucky that I thought insurance was a
good thing, and, therefore, paid for it for
years through my job.
Heidi depends on protections for peo-
ple with preexisting conditions. Heidi
didn’t ask to get breast cancer. It could
happen to any of us. Any day, some-
thing could happen to any of us or
someone in our family. And if you have
or will have what is called a pre-
existing condition, your health insur-
ance will be taken away if this court
case, supported by President Trump,
his administration, and Republicans,
succeeds.
A couple of months ago, I spoke at
the Detroit Race for the Cure, which
raises money for breast cancer re-
search. It is a wonderful event. We had
a beautiful, sunny day. As I stood on
the stage and looked out over a crowd
of over 10,000 people, mostly women
and many wearing pink, I saw women
living with preexisting conditions. I
saw people like Heidi.
One woman who was standing on the
stage near me asked me a question
that I will never forget: ‘‘Why is it that
I have to worry about whether or not I
will be able to get insurance in the fu-
ture? Why?’’ She added: ‘‘Why don’t
President Trump and other Repub-
licans understand that this is my life?
This is my life.’’ It is a very good ques-
tion. It deserves an answer.
Why don’t Republicans in Congress,
why don’t those 18 attorneys general
and Governors, and why doesn’t Presi-
dent Trump believe that people like
Heidi deserve to have healthcare cov-
erage? Why don’t they believe that sen-
iors deserve access to more affordable
prescription drugs? Why don’t they be-
lieve that women should pay the same
for their health insurance as men? Why
don’t they believe that young people
should be able to stay on their parents’
insurance until age 26? And why don’t
they believe that families, not insur-
ance companies, should make
healthcare decisions? Families, with
their doctors, should be making health
decisions, medical decisions, not an in-
surance company. If this lawsuit suc-
ceeds, we are going to go right back to
putting your medical decisions in the
hands of the insurance companies.
Healthcare isn’t political; it is per-
sonal. It is time to stop playing poli-
tics with people’s health. For each of
us, it is our life.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that I be permitted
to speak for 5 minutes, followed by
Senator CORTEZ MASTO for 5 minutes,
prior to the series of votes we will
have.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President and
colleagues, at Fourth of July picnics
and parades, it is likely that com-
plicated healthcare policy debates are
not exactly a central topic of conserva-
tion. I am pretty sure that is the way
the Trump administration wanted it to
be.
Today, lawyers representing the
Trump administration and a number of
Republican Governors are attempting
to have the Affordable Care Act ripped
up and thrown out by a Federal court.
They were unable to do that in the
Congress, so now they have headed off
to try to get it done in the courts. The
case is happening in the Fifth Circuit
in Louisiana. This is not some theo-
retical exercise; this is an immediate
threat to the healthcare of millions
and millions of Americans.
I want to be clear at the outset of
these remarks what the bottom line is.
The bottom line is that eliminating
protections for preexisting conditions
is now the official position of the Re-
publican Party. That is the centerpiece
of what this court case attacks—the
ironclad, airtight guarantee at the
heart of the Affordable Care Act that
insurance companies cannot discrimi-
nate against those with a preexisting
condition. The fact is, the Republican
Party wants that eliminated.
This attack on Americans’
healthcare goes way beyond pre-
existing conditions. What about pre-
scription drug costs? Prescription
drugs are outrageously expensive right
now, and the problem is getting worse
under the Trump administration.
Prices are up more than 10 percent just
in the past 6 months. Americans are
forced to make life-threatening choices
where they really have to balance their
food bill against their medicine bill
and medicine against other necessities,
like shelter. In effect, Americans self-
ration because their prescriptions just
cost too much.
If this lawsuit succeeds, prescription
drug costs are going to skyrocket even
higher. If the Affordable Care Act is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.029 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4723
July 9, 2019
thrown out, that will be the end of the
requirement that health insurance
companies have to cover prescription
drugs. Patients will be forced into junk
insurance plans that don’t cover the
care they actually need. Millions of
people of limited means would be
kicked off their Medicaid coverage.
Millions of seniors would face higher
drug costs.
The bottom line: If this case is suc-
cessful, it will launch a forced march
back to the days of yesteryear when
healthcare was for the healthy and the
wealthy. The reason I say that is that
is the way it used to be. If you had a
preexisting condition in the past, you
were just out of luck unless you had an
enormous amount of money. The only
people who really could benefit were
people who were healthy and people
who were wealthy. The Affordable Care
Act changed that. More than 100 mil-
lion people got a lifeline protection
against discrimination if they had a
preexisting condition.
If the lawsuit succeeds, the biggest
winners are going to be the largest of
the insurance companies and the drug
manufacturers. They would get the
power they need to once again walk all
over the American people.
Here is the kicker: There is no re-
placement plan if the Affordable Care
Act is wiped out. The President keeps
saying he has a big, beautiful
healthcare plan, and we always get the
sense—it reminds you of the movie
house in the old days where it would
say: Coming soon. Movie coming soon.
But it never actually gets there. There
is never a grand unveiling, and that is
because there isn’t a backup plan. This
is just an ideological crusade to make
winners out of the most powerful cor-
porations and losers out of millions of
working Americans.
Democrats in this Chamber have pro-
posals ready to go to take a better
path, a better approach, and to protect
the healthcare of our people, blocking
Trump’s lawyers from using taxpayer
dollars to destroy the Affordable Care
Act, banning junk insurance, which
isn’t worth much more than the paper
it is written on, and standing four-
square behind protecting people with a
preexisting condition.
That is what the Senate ought to be
working on so the Trump administra-
tion can’t bring on a healthcare night-
mare for millions and millions of
Americans.
One of our most valuable members of
the Senate Finance Committee has
joined us now, Senator CORTEZ MASTO,
and I am happy to yield to her to close
our time before the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam Presi-
dent, I want to talk today about Kyle
Bailey from Sparks, NV. Kyle is 27
years old, and he is an amazing success
story. He was born with cystic fibrosis,
a genetic condition that affects the
lungs and digestive system, making it
hard to breathe normally or absorb nu-
trients.
Cystic fibrosis has no cure, so pa-
tients like Kyle spend hours every day
on treatments to keep themselves as
healthy as possible. With good medical
care and lifesaving medications, he has
been able to live a full life, creating
music and artwork. He is engaged to be
married.
Yet Kyle lives in fear. He is afraid he
will lose his health insurance and cov-
erage for treatments that keep him
alive. That could happen if the Repub-
lican Party succeeds in its latest at-
tempt to use the courts to attack the
Affordable Care Act and to end its pro-
tections for preexisting conditions.
Just today, a Federal appeals court
has heard more arguments about
whether the ACA is constitutional. On
one side are patients like Kyle; on the
other side are the Trump administra-
tion and 18 Republican State attorneys
general, who all want the court to
strike down the Affordable Care Act.
We have seen it before. The Repub-
licans have tried to defeat the ACA in
Congress and in the courts over 100
times, and each time they have failed
because the American people have
raised their voices and said: Stop. We
want our healthcare coverage.
But just because the ACA survived
those attacks doesn’t mean it is safe. It
is especially scary for those who gained
coverage and peace of mind thanks to
the Affordable Care Act’s strong safe-
guards for patients.
One of the most important parts of
the ACA is its guaranteed protections
for people with preexisting conditions.
Insurers used to be able to discriminate
against people because of their medical
history. They would weed out people
who were born with genetic conditions,
like Kyle, or people who had gotten se-
riously ill, like Ivy Batmale from In-
cline Village. At 5 years old, Ivy was
diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic
leukemia, one of the most common
childhood cancers. Ivy beat leukemia,
but the years of harsh therapy trig-
gered a reaction that affected her legs.
Ivy was told that she would never walk
again. She spent years in wheelchairs
undergoing surgery and other treat-
ments.
With costly therapies, Ivy got better.
This spring, she and her family
marched into breakfast with me right
here on Capitol Hill to advocate for
childhood cancer research. But Ivy,
like other childhood cancer survivors,
has had lingering health conditions
over the course of her life and will need
careful monitoring until she is 40 years
old. That is why if Republicans give in-
surance companies the choice, insurers
will either refuse to cover people like
Ivy and Kyle or they will charge sky-
high rates. The ACA keeps the insur-
ance companies from doing that. If
judges strike down the ACA, people
like Ivy and Kyle will be endangered
through absolutely no fault of their
own.
Some people may hear stories about
Kyle and Ivy and think, well, that is
very sad, but it can’t affect that many
people. That is wrong. In Nevada alone,
in 2015, 1.2 million people under 65 had
preexisting conditions. That is half of
the nonelderly residents of the State.
A preexisting condition could be as
rare as childhood cancer or as common
as pregnancy. That means every other
Nevadan can face increased insurance
rates if the ACA is struck down.
I have met families at roundtables
across the Silver State whose kids are
some of the 44,000 Nevada children with
asthma. Just last week in Las Vegas, I
talked to 12-year-old Joey Douglas.
Joey’s asthma often keeps him from
school and sometimes lands him in the
hospital for days. He told me that even
when he is struggling to breathe, his
biggest concern is whether his mom
will be able to pay his medical bills.
These kinds of worries are the reason
that when Kyle wrote to me, he asked
me to speak out for people who don’t
have a voice in healthcare policy in
this country—people who are afraid
that losing the ACA could mean losing
protections that have allowed them to
grow up, start a family, follow their
passions, and live their lives to the
fullest.
Today and every day I am here to
fight for people like Kyle and Ivy and
countless Nevadans like them. I have
repeatedly urged the President and De-
partment of Justice to come down on
the side of patients in the Texas case.
I have cosponsored legislation to get
rid of junk healthcare plans that let in-
surance companies make an end run
around ACA protections for people
with preexisting conditions, and I am
committed to protecting and strength-
ening the ACA for all Americans but
especially for people like Kyle, Ivy, and
Joey.
So I am calling on this President and
Republicans in Congress to do what we
can to make sure that the Affordable
Care Act is not repealed and that we
are fighting for healthcare insurance
for everyone.
I yield the floor.
NOMINATION OF DANIEL AARON BRESS
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, this
week, the Republican leader, Senator
MCCONNELL, has scheduled a vote on a
nominee to fill a Ninth Circuit seat
based in California.
But the nominee, Daniel Bress, is a
Washington, DC, lawyer who has only
lived in California for 1 year since high
school.
Mr. Bress checks many of the usual
boxes that we see for Republican judi-
cial nominees: He is very young—only
40 years old—he has a track record of
representing big corporate interests,
and he is a longtime member of the
Federalist Society.
But what is new and different about
this nominee is that, by any reasonable
standard, he is not a member of the
legal community of the State in which
he would sit if confirmed.
Mr. Bress is listed by the California
bar as an out-of-State attorney. He be-
longs to no legal societies or organiza-
tions in California. He has only worked
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.030 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4724 July 9, 2019
on a handful of matters in California
courts.
He doesn’t own property in California
or even have a California driver’s li-
cense. Mr. Bress’s nomination is op-
posed by California’s two Senators, nei-
ther of whom have provided a blue slip.
He was reported out of the Judiciary
Committee with opposition from all
committee Democrats.
To my Republicans colleagues, I say
this: The vote on the Bress nomination
will set a precedent that could come
back to haunt your State.
Any Senator who votes to confirm
Mr. Bress is giving their blessing to a
process that could cause an out-of-
state attorney to be seated in a circuit
court judgeship in your own State,
over the objection of your State’s Sen-
ators.
There are thousands of well-qualified
attorneys living and practicing in Cali-
fornia whom the Trump administration
could have selected for this California-
based Ninth Circuit seat. They by-
passed all of them in favor of a Wash-
ington, DC, attorney with minimal
California ties.
There have been many breakdowns in
the Senate’s process for confirming ju-
dicial nominees under this Republican
majority. If the Senate votes to con-
firm Mr. Bress, it would represent yet
another new precedent that diminishes
the Senate’s advice and consent proc-
ess. I urge my colleagues to vote no.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The Senator from Florida.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
I ask unanimous consent that the first
vote in the series be 10 minutes in
length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Bress nomina-
tion?
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. I ask for the
yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND) and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 53,
nays 45, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 191 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—45
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—2
Gillibrand Sanders
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
actions.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of T. Kent Wetherell II, of Florida, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Florida.
Mitch McConnell, Kevin Cramer, Mike
Crapo, Marco Rubio, John Kennedy,
Thom Tillis, James M. Inhofe, Rob
Portman, Johnny Isakson, John Thune,
John Boozman, Cory Gardner, Steve
Daines, Richard C. Shelby, Pat Rob-
erts, Lindsey Graham, John Hoeven.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on T. Kent
Wetherell II, of Florida, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern
District of Florida, shall be brought to
a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
This is a 10-minute vote.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND) and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 82,
nays 16, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 192 Ex.]
YEAS—82
Alexander
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—16
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Harris
Hirono
Klobuchar
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Van Hollen
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—2
Gillibrand Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 82, the nays are 16.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Damon Ray Leichty, of Indiana, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Indiana.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, John Bar-
rasso, Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, John Thune, Kevin Cramer,
Roger F. Wicker, John Boozman, John
Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Johnny Isakson,
Tim Scott, Mike Braun, Richard Burr,
Lindsey Graham.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Damon Ray Leichty, of Indiana, to
be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Indiana, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
This is a 10-minute vote.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND) and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily absent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:48 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.003 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4725
July 9, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). Are there any other Sen-
ators in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 87,
nays 11, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 193 Ex.]
YEAS—87
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—11
Blumenthal
Booker
Harris
Hirono
Klobuchar
Markey
Murray
Schatz
Smith
Stabenow
Warren
NOT VOTING—2
Gillibrand Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 87, the nays are 11.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of J. Nicholas Ranjan, of Pennsyl-
vania, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Pennsylvania.
Mitch McConnell, Roy Blunt, John Bar-
rasso, Pat Roberts, Mike Crapo, John
Cornyn, John Thune, Kevin Cramer,
Roger F. Wicker, John Boozman, John
Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Johnny Isakson,
Tim Scott, Mike Braun, Richard Burr,
Lindsey Graham.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of J. Nicholas Ranjan, of Pennsylvania,
to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Pennsylvania,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New York (Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND) and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS), are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 83,
nays 15, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 194 Ex.]
YEAS—83
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Booker
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—15
Bennet
Blumenthal
Cantwell
Harris
Heinrich
Hirono
Klobuchar
Markey
Merkley
Murray
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—2
Gillibrand Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 83, the nays are 15.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
J. Nicholas Ranjan, of Pennsylvania, to
be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Pennsylvania.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that at 11 a.m. on
Wednesday, July 10, the Senate vote on
confirmation of the following nomina-
tions in the order listed: Executive Cal-
endar Nos. 47, 52, and 51; that if con-
firmed, the motions to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action. I fur-
ther ask that at 4:30 p.m., the Senate
vote on the pending cloture motions on
the King and Pallasch nominations and
that if cloture is invoked, the con-
firmation votes occur at a time to be
determined by the majority leader, in
consultation with the Democratic lead-
er, on Thursday, July 11. Finally, I ask
unanimous consent that the cloture
motion with respect to the Wright
nomination ripen following disposition
of the Pallasch nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO MARY BALLARD
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
it is always a privilege to honor the
men and women of America’s Greatest
Generation. They defended our na-
tional values both at home and abroad,
and we owe each one of them a tremen-
dous debt of gratitude for their service
and sacrifice. Today, I would like to
recognize one of these intrepid Ameri-
cans from my home State of Kentucky.
Mary Somers Ballard volunteered to
serve in the U.S. Army Nurse Corps
during World War II, providing healing
care to wounded soldiers across the Eu-
ropean theatre. This month, Mary will
enjoy her 100th birthday at a celebra-
tion with friends and family, and I
would like to add my voice to the cho-
rus of those praising her lifetime of
achievement.
When war broke out, Mary lived in
Boston working as a nurse and attend-
ing school. Hearing stories from the
front, she was called to leave her stud-
ies and put her talents to work for the
war effort. At the age of 23, she joined
the Army’s 811th Air Evacuation Unit
and sailed from New York City for Eu-
rope. Mary was deployed at a hospital
in Manchester, England, where she
cared for wounded soldiers flown back
from France and Germany. In the
aftermath of the invasion of Nor-
mandy, Mary traveled to the continent
to support the Battle of the Bulge, one
of Hitler’s last-ditch efforts to stop the
Allied advance. After the liberation of
Paris, Mary was sent to the city to
care for troops there. In her many
posts, Mary delivered lifesaving care to
many Allied soldiers, often in chal-
lenging surroundings.
More than 59,000 Americans joined
the Army Nurse Corps during the Sec-
ond World War, many serving under
enemy fire. Their service supported the
recovery of countless wounded soldiers
at evacuation hospitals like Mary’s.
After the war, Mary was stationed in
Indiana where she met Al Ballard, a
young surgical resident. The couple
married and moved to Al’s native Ken-
tucky, where Mary has lived ever since.
Together, they raised eight children
and, like so many other members of
the Greatest Generation, continued to
contribute to their community and our
country.
Through the years, Mary has been
honored for her brave service. To cele-
brate her 95th birthday, for example,
she threw out the first pitch at a Lex-
ington Legends minor league baseball
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.004 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4726 July 9, 2019
game. I am glad to join her family and
friends in marking Mary’s 100th birth-
day. With her lifesaving work in the
Army and a longtime commitment to
Kentucky, Mary has made a lasting im-
pression on the lives of countless
many. With all of them, I would like to
wish her a happy birthday and thank
her for her remarkable service to the
United States. I urge my Senate col-
leagues to join me in honoring this
Kentucky hero.
f
VOTE EXPLANATION
Ms. HARRIS. Madam President, I
was necessarily absent but, had I been
present, would have voted no on roll-
call vote No. 190, the motion to invoke
cloture on Daniel Aaron Bress, of Cali-
fornia, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO MYKAYLAN BURNER
∑ Mr. ROUNDS. Madam President,
today I recognize Mykaylan Burner, an
intern in my Washington, DC, office,
for all the hard work she has done on
behalf of myself, my staff, and the
State of South Dakota.
Mykaylan is a graduate of Dakota
Valley High School in North Sioux
City, SD. Currently, she is attending
South Dakota State University in
Brookings, SD, where she studies polit-
ical science and Spanish. Mykaylan is
a dedicated and diligent worker who
has been devoted to getting the most
out of her internship experience and
has been a true asset to the office.
I extend my sincere thanks and ap-
preciation to Mykaylan for all of the
fine work she has done and wish her
continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
RECOGNIZING CAPITAL SHOE
FIXERY
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, as
chairman of the Senate Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
it is my honor to recognize a small
business that exemplifies a rigorous
work ethic, attention to detail, and
dedication to tradition. This week, it is
my privilege to name Capital Shoe
Fixery of Tallahassee, FL, as the Sen-
ate Small Business of the Week.
Known for their expertise in shoe
maintenance, Capital Shoe Fixery has
become a local staple, servicing the
members of their community since
1938. Having celebrated their 81st anni-
versary, the small business has become
a landmark in the State’s capitol and
remains a true Main Street favorite.
Originally owned by Elton and June
Henley, Nick Camechis’s father, John,
bought the business in 1966. After
school, Nick spent his days helping his
father around the store and learning
the trade. Following the precedent of
hard work and tradition, Nick took
over the business in 1995. To this day,
Nick expands on his father’s long-
standing tradition of fairly priced,
high-quality craftsmanship. Recently
turning 65, this shoe cobbler has no
current plans to retire, working 70
hour workweeks with no sick days.
Today, Capital Shoe Fixery remains
family-oriented and affordable, pro-
viding only the highest quality of work
to their customers. When customers ar-
rive, they are greeted by Nick’s dog
Tuck, who also never misses a day of
work. Capital Shoe’s clientele ranges
from politicians, college students,
dancers, and customers from all walks
of life. Capital Shoe Fixery will take in
approximately 60 to 70 shoes a day dur-
ing a typical legislative session. Fur-
thermore, Nick is known for his hon-
esty with customers and will decline
new business if he feels that the dam-
aged shoes are irreparable.
This outstanding quality of service
and honesty by Capital Shoe Fixery
has not gone unnoticed. In addition to
their excellent reviews, in 2016, Capital
Shoe Fixery was featured in Tallahas-
see Family Magazine, where the fam-
ily-owned business was commended for
their work ethic and attention to de-
tail. The article truly cemented Cap-
ital Shoe Fixery as a Main Street sta-
ple, highlighting its unique traits that
allow for remarkable customer experi-
ences.
Capital Shoe Fixery has remained
true to their original values by focus-
ing on quality service with an expert
investment of time, care, and honesty
to prioritize the customer. In addition,
it is a reminder of the extensive
amount of time and care required to
achieve success and longevity in busi-
ness. Nick’s dedication is a quintessen-
tial example of how hard work can lead
to exceptional success. It is with great
pleasure that I extend my congratula-
tions to Nick and Capital Shoe Fixery.
I wish you well as you continue serving
the people of Tallahassee, and I look
forward to watching your continued
success.∑
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bills were read the first
time:
H.R. 2740. An act making appropriations
for the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3055. An act making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1860. A communication from the Acting
Principal Deputy Director, Defense Pricing
and Contracting, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Defense Federal Acquisition
Regulation Supplement: Repeal of Transpor-
tation Related DFARS Provisions and
Clauses’’ ((RIN0750–AK63) (DFARS Case 2019–
D020)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 2, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1861. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Amend-
ment and Revocation of Air Traffic Service
(ATS) Routes in the Vicinity of Manistique,
MI’’ ((RIN2120–AA66) (Docket No. FAA–2018–
0220)) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on July 2, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–102. A joint resolution adopted by the
Legislature of the State of California urging
the United States Congress to block the
President’s national emergency declaration
by overriding the President’s veto of House
Joint Resolution 46 and consider terminating
the declaration of a national emergency
within six months or at the earliest possible
time pursuant to the National Emergencies
Act; to the Committee on Armed Services.
SENATE JOINT RESOLUTION NO. 2
Whereas, On February 15, 2019, United
States President Donald J. Trump declared
an undefined national emergency; and
Whereas, The President intends to cut $7.5
billion in the United States Department of
Defense’s funding targeted at the general
welfare of our military, supporting infra-
structure construction, defending national
security threats, and limiting the flow of il-
legal drugs into the United States; and
Whereas, Appropriating funds intended for
military construction projects and
counterdrug activities will come at the ex-
pense of troop readiness and departmentwide
efforts to address the military’s aging infra-
structure and
Whereas, Funds would otherwise be used to
improve potable water distribution, update
maintenance and storage facilities for mili-
tary vehicles, build new combat training fa-
cilities, construct a shooting range complex,
and build a close combat training facility,
located at the Navy SEAL Campus in Coro-
nado, California; and
Whereas, Dollars would also otherwise be
used for renovating the Defense Distribution
Depot located in Tracy, California; and
Whereas, The President is proposing to re-
vert money already appropriated for updat-
ing runways and landing pads, as well as in-
creased airfield security, at the Naval Air
Station in Lemoore, California; and
WHEREAS, Funds would otherwise be used
to construct a Navy SEAL reserve training
facility in San Diego, California; and
Whereas, Money would otherwise be used
for military family housing projects to re-
move lead paint and update hazardous living
conditions in service members’ homes; and
Whereas, The funds would otherwise be
used to fund a C–130 flight simulator facility
at the Channel Islands Air National Guard
Station in Oxnard, California, which would
train pilots to fly planes outfitted with Mod-
ular Airborne Fire Fighting Systems that
are used to combat wildfires in California;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.040 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4727
July 9, 2019
Whereas, The national emergency declara-
tion diverts attention from current emer-
gencies that pose real dangers to the health
and welfare of California’s environment at
our border, such as the continued pollution
at the Tijuana River Valley and the New
River in Calexico; and
Whereas, Dollars that would otherwise be
used to update hospitals that treat wounded
soldiers will be misused, placing even greater
constraints on the moneys available for this
purpose; and
Whereas, The President has also stated
that he expects to use this national emer-
gency declaration to revert and repurpose
funds already approved by the United States
Congress to limit the flow of drugs into the
United States; and
Whereas, These funds were earmarked to
combat the drug cartels in West Africa, Mex-
ico, and Colombia, and nations acting as
drug cartels, such as North Korea; and
Whereas, In recent years, a substantial
amount of counternarcotics funding has been
used to stem the increasing tide of fentanyl
being imported from China; and
Whereas, Controlled substances are more
likely to be smuggled through official ports
of entry than between border crossings; and
Whereas, Cutting drug interdiction funding
will not deter the passage of controlled sub-
stances through the United States border,
but will hamper counterdrug efforts in areas
where the funds could make a meaningful
impact; and
Whereas, The United States Department of
Defense has roughly $1 billion earmarked for
counternarcotic missions and drug interdic-
tion for the 2019 fiscal year, and yet the
Trump Administration has asked for $2.5 bil-
lion from the counternarcotic fund; and
Whereas, The Pentagon will have to divert
money from elsewhere beyond the appro-
priated funding to come up with the extra
$1.5 billion, negatively affecting our nation’s
ability to effectively and efficiently combat
the flow of drugs into our borders; and
Whereas, This nation needs to continue to
repair and strengthen our military and re-
directing funds needed for this purpose will
undercut our accomplishments and
underfund our operations; and
Whereas, Numerous news reports indicate
that the President is considering reallo-
cating funds currently appropriated for dis-
aster relief and aid, including $2.4 billion ap-
propriated to the State of California, the di-
version of which will severely hurt commu-
nities already suffering as a result of natural
disasters; and
Whereas, By the President’s own admission
in regard to the national emergency declara-
tion, he ‘‘didn’t need to do this’’; and
Whereas, On February 26, 2019, the United
States House of Representatives passed
House Joint Resolution 46 by a vote of 245—
182, pursuant to the federal National Emer-
gencies Act, to overturn President Trump’s
emergency declaration and the United States
Senate passed that resolution by a 59–41 vote
on March 14, 2019. On the following day, the
President vetoed the resolution; and
Whereas, Twenty states, including Cali-
fornia, have filed suit to block the Presi-
dent’s national emergency declaration; now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, by the Senate and the Assembly
of the State of California, jointly, That the
Legislature urges the houses of the United
States Congress to stand in unity and block
the President’s national emergency declara-
tion by overriding the President’s veto of
House Joint Resolution 46 and, if not pos-
sible, to consider terminating the declara-
tion of national emergency within six
months or at the earliest possible time pur-
suant to the National Emergencies Act; and
be it further
Resolved, That the Legislature urges the
President to reconsider his motives and deci-
sion and allow military, defense, and
counterdrug funds to be used for the pur-
poses for which they are needed and for
which they were made available; and be it
further
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
transmit copies of this resolution to the
President and the Vice President of the
United States, to the Speaker of the House
of Representatives, to the Majority Leader of
the Senate, and to each Senator and Rep-
resentative from California in the Congress
of the United States.
POM–103. A concurrent resolution adopted
by the Legislature of the State of Louisiana
urging the United States Congress to support
the initiative calling for accurate, third-
party application (app) ratings and intuitive
parental controls to better protect children
from harmful online and mobile device con-
tent; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 36
Whereas, millions of children use online
and mobile devices daily; and
Whereas, parents rely on ratings to decide
whether to allow their children to have ac-
cess to apps available online and on mobile
devices; and
Whereas, app developers currently self-rate
their apps and display the ratings in app
stores; and
Whereas, this rating system can be mis-
leading, inconsistent, and does not appro-
priately warn parents of the potential dan-
gers found in applications; and
Whereas, no third-party organization holds
app developers accountable to ensure ratings
are accurate and adequately explain the con-
tent and advertising available to children
therein: and
Whereas, popular apps often do not include
or have adequate parental controls; and
Whereas, apps can be hot spots for bul-
lying, grooming, sex-trafficking, pornog-
raphy, glamorized self-harm content, and the
buying and selling of illegal drugs; and
Whereas, in order to protect children from
such harm, parents seek adequate parental
controls as well as the information necessary
to determine if apps are appropriate for their
children; and
Whereas, the #fixappratings initiative
calls for the creation of an independent app
ratings board and rating system that is
clearly understood, enforced, trustworthy,
and exists to protect the innocence of mi-
nors; and
Whereas, the #fixappratings initiative also
calls for the release of intuitive parental
controls to ensure that parents can effec-
tively control their children’s app activity;
Whereas, be it
Resolved, That the Legislature of Louisiana
memorializes the Congress of the United
States to support the #fixappratings initia-
tive calling for the establishment of a third-
party organization to assign app ratings and
descriptions and the development of user-
friendly parental controls; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this Resolution
shall be transmitted to the secretary of the
United States Senate and the clerk of the
United States House of Representatives and
to each member of the Louisiana delegation
to the United States Congress.
POM–104. A resolution adopted by the Sen-
ate of the State of New Jersey urging the
United States Congress and the President of
the United States to pass legislation that
would amend the Code of the Internal Rev-
enue Service which would prevent the IRS
from collecting taxes on any amount of stu-
dent loan forgiven for deceased veterans; to
the Committee on Finance.
SENATE RESOLUTION NO. 75
Whereas, Each member of the United
States Armed Forces serves our country to
protect the citizens of the United States and,
in 2015, there were over one million active
duty members of the Armed Forces; and
Whereas, If a service member sustains an
injury or illness while on active duty, they
may be discharged and return home to pur-
sue higher educational opportunities; and
Whereas, Many service members embrace
the opportunity to pursue higher education
through the various tuition assistance pro-
grams and college funds offered to service
members, which may be used in combination
with federal and private student loans to pay
for the cost of college; and
Whereas, If a service member loses his or
her life as a result of an injury or illness sus-
tained while on active duty, the federal edu-
cation loans are forgiven under the Higher
Education Act and private loan companies
can choose to forgive the education loans;
and
Whereas, When an educational loan is for-
given the Internal Revenue Code categorizes
the amount of the loan as taxable gross in-
come for a cosigner on the loan, which can
include both family and friends of the de-
ceased service member; and
Whereas, Taxing loan forgiveness as in-
come can be burdensome to family members
and friends especially during a time when
they are grieving the loss of their loved one;
and
Whereas, Families of veterans who lost
their lives as a result of an illness or injury
sustained while serving on active duty have
already sacrificed so much for the United
States; and
Whereas, øThe federal bill H.R. 500, named
the ‘‘Andrew P. Carpenter Tax Act,’’¿ It is al-
together fitting and proper for Congress to enact
legislation, similar to H.R. 500 of the 115th Con-
gress, that would amend the Internal Revenue
Code to prevent the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice from collecting taxes on any amount of
student loan forgiven; and
Whereas, The øfederal bill will¿ legislation
would help to ease the financial burden for
individuals who are already grieving for the
loss of their loved one; Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, by the Senate of the State of New
Jersey:
1. This House respectfully urges the Presi-
dent and Congress of the United States to
enact øH.R. 500¿ legislation which amend the
Internal Revenue Code to prevent the Inter-
nal Revenue Service from collecting taxes on
any amount of student loan forgiven for de-
ceased veterans.
2. Copies of this resolution, as filed with
the Secretary of State, shall be transmitted
by the Secretary of the Senate to the Presi-
dent and Vice President of the United
States, the United States Secretary of De-
fense, the Majority and Minority Leader of
the United States Senate, the Speaker and
the Minority Leader of the United States
House of Representatives, and every member
of Congress from New Jersey.
POM–105. A resolution adopted by the Sen-
ate of the State of Hawaii urging the United
States Congress to embrace the goals of the
New York Declaration on Forests and the
2030 Agenda and make sustainable develop-
ment the centerpiece of national social and
sustainable policies; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
SENATE RESOLUTION NO. 98
Whereas, Hawaii is recognized as a global
partner and local leader in sustainability,
peace, climate change adaptation, and
human rights due to its adoption of global
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:58 Oct 12, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JULY\S09JY9.REC S09JY9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4728 July 9, 2019
standards of social justice to improve the
well-being of Hawaii’s islands and the world;
and
Whereas, in September 2015, the United Na-
tions General Assembly adopted the historic
Transforming Our World: The 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development (2030 Agenda), a
comprehensive, compassionate, creative, and
courageous plan of action to end poverty,
protect the planet, and ensure that all people
enjoy peace and prosperity; and
Whereas, the 2030 Agenda includes seven-
teen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
one hundred sixty-nine Targets, and two
hundred thirty Indicators upon which gen-
eral agreement has been reached to measure,
monitor, and mobilize; and
Whereas, the Hawaiian islands are home to
forests that play a pivotal role in Hawaii’s
natural environment, both historically and
for future generations, by providing water-
shed, soil, and habitat protection; and
Whereas, Hawaii’s forests cover two mil-
lion acres, approximately half of the entire
land mass of Hawaii, and Hawaii has a strong
commitment to planting, management, and
natural regeneration of its forests; and
Whereas, Hawaii’s forests are critically im-
portant to local culture, the people, and per-
petuation of pristine environments and pro-
vide aesthetic value, enjoyment, water con-
servation, and improved air quality; and
Whereas, the New York Declaration on
Forests (NYDF) provides a proactive and
participatory human rights based approach
to protect and restore forests that supports
the scope and significance of the United Na-
tions SDGs; and
Whereas, the NYDF was created and
launched at the United Nations Climate
Summit at United Nations Headquarters in
September, 2014, receiving endorsements by
two hundred entities including governments,
corporations, civil society, and indigenous
peoples; and
Whereas, the NYDF outlines ten global
targets related to protecting and restoring
forests, which, if realized, have the potential
to reduce annual carbon emission by 4.5 to
8.8 billion tons of CO2—the equivalent of the
annual emissions of the United States; and
Whereas, the ten goals of the NYDF are:
(1) Stop forest loss;
(2) Eliminate deforestation from agricul-
tural activities;
(3) Reduce non-agricultural deforestation;
(4) Support alternatives to deforestation
for subsistence farming, fuel, and other basic
needs;
(5) Restore forests;
(6) Quantify forest conservation and res-
toration targets for 2030 as part of the 2030
Agenda SDGs;
(7) Reduce emissions from deforestation
and forest degradation in accordance with
global climate agreements;
(8) Provide financing for forest action;
(9) Reward countries and jurisdictions that
reduce forest emissions; and
(10) Strengthen governance, empower com-
munities, and recognize the rights of indige-
nous peoples; and
Whereas, adopting the NYDF can accel-
erate progress with new partnerships to
achieve the United Nations Paris Agreement
and the United Nations 2030 Agenda; and
Whereas, the ten goals of the NYDF coin-
cide with the seventeen SDGs and provide an
agenda for grassroots and global action but
it is up to individuals, communities, and
states to generate the political will nec-
essary to achieve these goals; and
Whereas, Hawaii is already participating in
global efforts to empower and engage every-
one, everywhere to protect the planet and
end poverty, regularly attending sessions of
the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change, the United Nations
Human Rights Council, and the United Na-
tions High Level Political Forum; and
Whereas, in Hawaii, college, community,
and capitol discussions on the United Na-
tions Framework Convention on Climate
Change Conference of Parties annual results
and the United Nations High Level Political
Forum follow-up and review of the SDGs
continue to generate genuine insight into
how both sets of goals are being realized in
the Hawaiian Islands and what next steps are
needed to continue Hawaii’s forward momen-
tum; and
Whereas, adopting the NYDF in Hawaii
will allow for greater coordination and com-
munication between Hawaii and other NYDF
partners to share promising practices and
support further improvements for Hawaii’s
forests; and
Whereas, adopting the NYDF will link Ha-
waii’s forest practitioners to a global net-
work with relevant expertise and capacity to
support the implementation of the forest ele-
ments of commitments under the Paris
Agreement that; Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate of the Thirtieth Legis-
lature of the State of Hawaii, Regular Session of
2019, that this body engages, endorses, ac-
cepts, and adopts the New York Declaration
on Forests; and, be it further
Resolved that the Legislature urges federal
leaders and the nation to embrace the goals
of the NYDF and the 2030 Agenda and make
sustainable development the centerpiece of
national social and sustainable policies; and
be it further
Resolved that certified copies of this Reso-
lution be transmitted to the President of the
United States, Vice President of the United
States, Speaker of the United States House
of Representatives, Minority Leader of the
United States House of Representatives, Ma-
jority Leader of the United States Senate,
Minority Leader of the United States Sen-
ate, members of Hawaii’s congressional dele-
gation, United Nations Secretary General,
United Nations General Assembly President,
United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights, NYDF Platform Secretariat,
Executive Secretary of the United Nations
Framework Convention on Climate Change,
United Nations High Level Political Forum,
and mayors of each county.
POM–106. A resolution adopted by the Sen-
ate of the State of Hawaii urging the United
States Congress to embrace the Aarhus Con-
vention and make protection of the environ-
ment and decision-making on environmental
policies the centerpiece of national debate
and practice; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
SENATE RESOLUTION NO. 99
Whereas, Hawai‘i is recognized as a global
partner and local leader in promoting human
rights to create a culture of democracy, rule
of law, and protection of the planet through
its adoption of global and regional standards
to guide decisionmaking processes; and
Whereas, Hawai‘i is guided by traditional
Hawaiian values and emerging international
human rights visions to generate good gov-
ernance and ensure participation in policy-
making and protection of our islands and the
planet; and
Whereas, in September 2015, the United Na-
tions General Assembly adopted the historic
2030 Development Agenda entitled ‘‘Trans-
forming Our World: The 2030 Agenda for Sus-
tainable Development’’, a comprehensive,
compassionate, creative, and courageous
plan of action to end poverty, protect the
planet, and ensure that all people enjoy
peace and prosperity; and
Whereas, in December 2015, the United Na-
tions Framework Convention on Climate
Change Conference of Parties agreed to the
Paris Agreement, calling for the first time to
limit future increases in the global average
temperature to 1.5 degrees Celsius; and
Whereas, the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe Convention on Ac-
cess to Information, Public Participation in
Decision-Making and Access to Justice in
Environmental Matters (Aarhus Convention)
is an important instrument for achieving the
goals of the Paris Agreement and the 2030
Agenda; and
Whereas, the Aarhus Convention consists
of numerous articles covering ideas and co-
ordinating implementation including the fol-
lowing:
(1) Access to Environmental Information;
(2) Collection and Dissemination of Envi-
ronmental Information;
(3) Public Participation in Decisions on
Specific Activities;
(4) Public Participation Concerning Plans,
Programmes and Policies Relating to the
Environment;
(5) Public Participation During the Prepa-
ration of Executive Regulations and/or Gen-
erally Applicable Legally Binding Normative
Instruments; and
(6) Access to Justice; and
Whereas, the parties to the Aarhus Con-
vention:
(1) Aimed to further accountability of and
transparency in decision-making and to
strengthen public support for decisions on
the environment;
(2) Recognized that that the public needs
to be aware of procedures for participation in
environmental decision-making, have free
access to the political process, and know how
to exercise that access;
(3) Recognized the importance of respec-
tive roles for individual citizens, non-govern-
mental organizations, and the private sector
in environmental protection; and
(4) Desired to promote environmental edu-
cation to further the understanding of the
environment and sustainable development
and to encourage widespread public aware-
ness of and participation in decisions affect-
ing the environment and sustainable devel-
opment; now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate of the Thirtieth
Legislature of the State of Hawaii, Regular
Session of 2019, that this body engages, en-
dorses, accepts, and adopts the Aarhus Con-
vention; and be it further
Resolved that the Congress of the United
States is requested to embrace the Aarhus
Convention and make protection of the envi-
ronment and decision-making on environ-
mental policies the centerpiece of national
debate and practice; and be it further
Resolved that certified copies of this Reso-
lution be transmitted to the President of the
United States, Vice President of the United
States, Speaker of the United States House
of Representatives, President Pro Tempore
of the United States Senate, Majority Leader
of the United States House of Representa-
tives, Minority Leader of the United States
House of Representatives, Majority Leader of
the United States Senate, Minority Leader
of the United States Senate, Hawai‘i’s con-
gressional delegation, Governor, mayor of
each county, Secretary General of the
United Nations, United Nations High Com-
missioner for Human Rights, and Chairs of
Hawai‘i’s Climate Change Mitigation and Ad-
aptation Commission.
POM–107. A concurrent resolution adopted
by the Legislature of the State of Louisiana
urging the United States Congress to take
such actions as are necessary to recognize
the historical significance of Juneteenth
Independence Day to the United States and
observe Juneteenth nationally as a holiday;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 66
Whereas, news of the end of slavery did not
reach frontier areas of the United States,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.016 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4729
July 9, 2019
and in particular the southwestern states,
for more than two and a half years after
President Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclama-
tion, which was issued on January 1, 1863,
and months after the conclusion of the Civil
War; and
Whereas, Juneteenth is an annual observ-
ance and celebration of the date Union sol-
diers enforced the Emancipation Proclama-
tion freeing all remaining slaves in Gal-
veston, Texas, on June 19, 1865; and
Whereas, since 1865, the day has been cele-
brated as the day African-Americans re-
ceived the news of the signing of the Emanci-
pation Proclamation; and
Whereas, Juneteenth commemorates the
strength and resolve of African-Americans
throughout our history, and is an oppor-
tunity to highlight the value of African-
American culture, art, history, and achieve-
ment; and
Whereas, the celebration of the end of slav-
ery is an important and enriching part of the
history and heritage of the United States;
and
Whereas, for more than one hundred fifty
years, Juneteenth Independence Day celebra-
tions have been held to honor African-Amer-
ican freedom while encouraging self-develop-
ment and respect for all cultures; and
Whereas, forty-six states and the District
of Columbia have designated Juneteenth
Independence Day as a special day of observ-
ance in recognition of the emancipation of
all slaves in the United States; and
Whereas, in 1997, the 105th United States
Congress officially recognized Juneteenth as
the observance of Independence Day of
Americans of African descent; and
Whereas, Juneteenth reflects our belief in
liberty and equality for every citizen, as ev-
eryone can benefit from a greater under-
standing and appreciation of the experiences
of others; Therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Legislature of Louisiana
does hereby memorialize the United States
Congress to take such actions as are nec-
essary to recognize the historical signifi-
cance of Juneteenth Independence Day to
the United States and observe Juneteenth
nationally as a holiday; and be it further
Resolved, that a copy of this Resolution be
transmitted to the presiding officers of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of
the Congress of the United States of America
and to each member of the Louisiana con-
gressional delegation.
POM–108. A concurrent resolution adopted
by the Legislature of the State of Louisiana
urging the United States Congress to take
such actions as are necessary to authorize
the garnishment of veterans’ disability bene-
fits to fulfill child support obligations; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
HOUSE CONCURRENT RESOLUTION NO. 7
Whereas, Civil Code Article 224 provides
that parents are obligated to support, main-
tain, and educate their child, and the obliga-
tion to educate a child continues after mi-
nority as provided by law; and
Whereas, 5 CFR Part 581, Subpart A pro-
vides which moneys received by a civilian
employee for services rendered to a govern-
mental entity are subject to garnishment for
the purpose of enforcing the legal obliga-
tions of obligors to provide child support;
and
Whereas, pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 659, the
United States consents to the withholding
and garnishing of income of an individual for
the enforcement of the individual’s child
support and alimony obligations; and
Whereas, 42 U.S.C. 659 further provides that
the federal government will allow under cer-
tain circumstances the garnishment of serv-
ice-connected disability compensation paid
by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
former members of the armed forces for the
purpose of enforcing child support and ali-
mony obligations; and
Whereas, in Rose v. Rose, 481 US 619 (1987),
the Supreme Court held that not only could
a state consider the amount of disability
benefits received by a veteran in setting the
amount of child support, but also, once a
child support obligation had been created,
the veteran’s disability benefits could be
used to satisfy that obligation; and
Whereas, in the same case, Justice Mar-
shall, quoting the legislative record, de-
scribes the purpose of veterans’ disability
benefits as compensation for impaired earn-
ing capacity and ‘‘to provide reasonable and
adequate compensation for disabled veterans
and their families’’; and
Whereas, as of February 2019, the current
total for child support arrears in Louisiana
is $1,923,958,949.00 and less than one percent
of that amount has been collected; and
Whereas, adequate child support is vital to
the well-being of children and families in our
state; Therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Legislature of Louisiana
does hereby memorialize the United States
Congress to take such actions as are nec-
essary to authorize the garnishment of vet-
erans’ disability benefits to fulfill child sup-
port obligations; and be it further
Resolved, That a copy of this Resolution be
transmitted to the presiding officers of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of
the Congress of the United States of America
and to each member of the Louisiana con-
gressional delegation.
POM–109. A resolution adopted by the
Mayor and Council of the City of Cincinnati,
Ohio, expressing its support for H.R. 5,
known as the Equality Act, which will en-
sure that federal civil rights laws are fully
inclusive of protections for all persons, re-
gardless of sexual orientation or gender iden-
tity; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. HOEVEN, from the Committee on
Indian Affairs, without amendment:
S. 279. A bill to allow tribal grant schools
to participate in the Federal Employee
Health Benefits Program (Rept. No. 116–54).
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute and with an
amended preamble:
S. Con. Res. 10. A concurrent resolution
recognizing that Chinese telecommuni-
cations companies such as Huawei and ZTE
pose serious threats to the national security
of the United States and its allies.
S. Res. 198. A resolution condemning
Brunei’s dramatic human rights backsliding.
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
without amendment:
S. 1173. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to reauthorize the Emergency
Medical Services for Children program.
By Mr. ALEXANDER, from the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions,
with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute:
S. 1199. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to revise and extend the poison
center network program.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. ROUNDS:
S. 2058. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to improve policy and data col-
lection in connection with personnel tempo
of the Armed Forces and the United States
Special Operations Command, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. TILLIS (for himself, Mr. GRA-
HAM, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Ms. ERNST, and Mr. CRUZ):
S. 2059. A bill to provide a civil remedy for
individuals harmed by sanctuary jurisdiction
policies, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself and Mr.
DAINES):
S. 2060. A bill to require policies and pro-
grams to prevent and treat gambling dis-
order among members of the Armed Forces
and their dependents, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. 2061. A bill to amend the United States
Housing Act of 1937 and title 38, United
States Code, to expand eligibility for the
HUD–VASH program, to direct the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to submit annual reports
to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of
the Senate and House of Representatives re-
garding homeless veterans, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 2062. A bill to prohibit the use of funds
for the 2026 World Cup unless the United
States Soccer Federation provides equitable
pay the members of the United States Wom-
en’s National Team and the United States
Men’s National Team; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. YOUNG:
S. 2063. A bill to amend title XI of the So-
cial Security Act with respect to organ pro-
curement organizations; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. PORTMAN:
S. 2064. A bill to direct the Director of the
Administrative Office of the United States
Courts to consolidate the Case Management/
Electronic Case Files system, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
HEINRICH, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr. GARDNER,
Mr. ROUNDS, Ms. ERNST, and Mr.
PETERS):
S. 2065. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to publish an annual re-
port on the use of deepfake technology, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mr. RISCH (for himself, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. COONS):
S. 2066. A bill to review United States
Saudi Arabia Policy, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. WICKER:
S. Res. 272. A resolution congratulating the
United States Women’s National Soccer
Team on winning the 2019 FIFA Women’s
World Cup; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. BALDWIN,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.032 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4730 July 9, 2019
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. MARKEY, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. Res. 273. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate with respect to health
care rights; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 9
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 9, a bill to amend the Fed-
eral Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to
clarify the Food and Drug Administra-
tion’s jurisdiction over certain tobacco
products, and to protect jobs and small
businesses involved in the sale, manu-
facturing and distribution of tradi-
tional and premium cigars.
S. 153
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were
added as cosponsors of S. 153, a bill to
promote veteran involvement in STEM
education, computer science, and sci-
entific research, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 182
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 182, a bill to prohibit discrimina-
tion against the unborn on the basis of
sex, and for other purposes.
S. 239
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 239, a bill to require the Secretary
of the Treasury to mint coins in rec-
ognition of Christa McAuliffe.
S. 296
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 296, a bill to amend XVIII of the
Social Security Act to ensure more
timely access to home health services
for Medicare beneficiaries under the
Medicare program.
S. 348
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. ROSEN), the Senator from Il-
linois (Ms. DUCKWORTH), the Senator
from Michigan (Ms. STABENOW), the
Senator from Arizona (Ms. SINEMA),
the Senator from Massachusetts (Mr.
MARKEY) and the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) were added as cosponsors of
S. 348, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
distribution of additional residency po-
sitions, and for other purposes.
S. 374
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 374, a bill to amend title
38, United States Code, to expand
health care and benefits from the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs for mili-
tary sexual trauma, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 634
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Arkansas (Mr.
BOOZMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 634, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to establish tax
credits to encourage individual and
corporate taxpayers to contribute to
scholarships for students through eligi-
ble scholarship-granting organizations
and eligible workforce training organi-
zations, and for other purposes.
S. 750
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
750, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permanently ex-
tend the new markets tax credit, and
for other purposes.
S. 803
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 803, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to restore incen-
tives for investments in qualified im-
provement property.
S. 867
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 867, a bill to protect students of
institutions of higher education and
the taxpayer investment in institu-
tions of higher education by improving
oversight and accountability of institu-
tions of higher education, particularly
for-profit colleges, improving protec-
tions for students and borrowers, and
ensuring the integrity of postsecondary
education programs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 872
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 872, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to redesign $20
Federal reserve notes so as to include a
likeness of Harriet Tubman, and for
other purposes.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 901, a bill to amend the
Older Americans Act of 1965 to support
individuals with younger onset Alz-
heimer’s disease.
S. 980
At the request of Mr. BURR, the name
of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 980, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve the provision
of services for homeless veterans, and
for other purposes.
S. 983
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 983, a bill to amend the En-
ergy Conservation and Production Act
to reauthorize the weatherization as-
sistance program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1038
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1038, a bill to strengthen highway
funding in the near term, to offer
States additional financing tools, and
for other purposes.
S. 1067
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1067, a bill to provide for
research to better understand the
causes and consequences of sexual har-
assment affecting individuals in the
scientific, technical, engineering, and
mathematics workforce and to exam-
ine policies to reduce the prevalence
and negative impact of such harass-
ment, and for other purposes.
S. 1081
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1081, a bill to amend title 54,
United States Code, to provide perma-
nent, dedicated funding for the Land
and Water Conservation Fund, and for
other purposes.
S. 1088
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1088, a bill to amend
the Immigration and Nationality Act
to require the President to set a min-
imum annual goal for the number of
refugees to be admitted, and for other
purposes.
S. 1102
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1102, a bill to promote se-
curity and energy partnerships in the
Eastern Mediterranean, and for other
purposes.
S. 1107
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1107, a bill to require a review of
women and lung cancer, and for other
purposes.
S. 1170
At the request of Mr. ENZI, the name
of the Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO)
was added as a cosponsor of S. 1170, a
bill to amend the Employee Retire-
ment Income Security Act of 1974 to es-
tablish additional criteria for deter-
mining when employers may join to-
gether in a group or association of em-
ployers that will be treated as an em-
ployer under section 3(5) of such Act
for purposes of sponsoring a group
health plan, and for other purposes.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from New
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.033 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4731
July 9, 2019
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 1263, a bill to re-
quire the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to establish an interagency task force
on the use of public lands to provide
medical treatment and therapy to vet-
erans through outdoor recreation.
S. 1273
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1273, a bill to amend title 17,
United States Code, to establish an al-
ternative dispute resolution program
for copyright small claims, and for
other purposes.
S. 1365
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1365, a bill to provide
emergency assistance to States, terri-
tories, Tribal nations, and local areas
affected by the opioid epidemic and to
make financial assistance available to
States, territories, Tribal nations,
local areas, and public or private non-
profit entities to provide for the devel-
opment, organization, coordination,
and operation of more effective and
cost efficient systems for the delivery
of essential services to individuals with
substance use disorder and their fami-
lies.
S. 1506
At the request of Mr. ROUNDS, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1506, a bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to permit certain
individuals complying with State law
to possess firearms.
S. 1522
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1522, a bill to improve broadband data
collection, mapping, and validation to
support the effective deployment of
broadband services to all areas of the
United States, and for other purposes.
S. 1539
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1539, a bill to amend the Home-
land Security Act of 2002 to provide
funding to secure nonprofit facilities
from terrorist attacks, and for other
purposes.
S. 1583
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1583, a bill to amend the Lead-
Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act
to provide for additional procedures for
families with children under the age of
6, and for other purposes.
S. 1625
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from Il-
linois (Ms. DUCKWORTH) and the Sen-
ator from Alabama (Mr. JONES) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1625, a bill to
promote the deployment of commercial
fifth-generation mobile networks and
the sharing of information with com-
munications providers in the United
States regarding security risks to the
networks of those providers, and for
other purposes.
S. 1644
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1644, a bill to ensure that
State and local law enforcement may
cooperate with Federal officials to pro-
tect our communities from violent
criminals and suspected terrorists who
are illegally present in the United
States.
S. 1682
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1682, a bill to require the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management to
create a classification that more accu-
rately reflects the vital role of
wildland firefighters.
S. 1683
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1683, a bill to correct problems per-
taining to human resources for career
and volunteer personnel engaged in
wildland fire and structure fire.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1728, a bill to require the
United States Postal Service to sell the
Alzheimer’s semipostal stamp for 6 ad-
ditional years.
S. 1730
At the request of Ms. HARRIS, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1730, a bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration to make
grants to State and local governments
and nongovernmental organizations for
purposes of carrying out climate-resil-
ient living shoreline projects that pro-
tect coastal communities by sup-
porting ecosystem functions and habi-
tats with the use of natural materials
and systems, and for other purposes.
S. 1792
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1792, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of Labor to maintain a publicly
available list of all employers that re-
locate a call center or contract call
center work overseas, to make such
companies ineligible for Federal grants
or guaranteed loans, and to require dis-
closure of the physical location of busi-
ness agents engaging in customer serv-
ice communications, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1840
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. ROUNDS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1840, a bill to establish
certain requirements for the small re-
fineries exemption of the renewable
fuels provisions under the Clean Air
Act, and for other purposes.
S. 1863
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1863, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Interior to conduct a
special resource study of the sites asso-
ciated with the life and legacy of the
noted American philanthropist and
business executive Julius Rosenwald,
with a special focus on the Rosenwald
Schools, and for other purposes.
S. 1979
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1979, a bill to amend title 49,
United States Code, to provide for the
minimum size of crews of freight
trains, and for other purposes.
S. 2003
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2003, a bill to require the
Federal Communications Commission
to designate a 3-digit dialing code for
veterans in crisis.
S. 2043
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the names of the Senator from Rhode
Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE), the Senator
from Oregon (Mr. WYDEN) and the Sen-
ator from Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2043, a
bill to provide incentives for hate
crime reporting, provide grants for
State-run hate crime hotlines, and es-
tablish alternative sentencing for indi-
viduals convicted under the Matthew
Shephard and James Byrd, Jr. Hate
Crimes Prevention Act.
S.J. RES. 3
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the name of the Senator from Texas
(Mr. CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor
of S.J. Res. 3, a joint resolution pro-
posing an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States relative to
balancing the budget.
S. CON. RES. 9
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Con. Res. 9, a concurrent resolu-
tion expressing the sense of Congress
that tax-exempt fraternal benefit soci-
eties have historically provided and
continue to provide critical benefits to
the people and communities of the
United States.
S. RES. 80
At the request of Mr. COONS, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 80, a resolution establishing
the John S. McCain III Human Rights
Commission.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Iowa
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.021 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4732 July 9, 2019
(Ms. ERNST) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 98, a resolution establishing
the Congressional Gold Star Family
Fellowship Program for the placement
in offices of Senators of children,
spouses, and siblings of members of the
Armed Forces who are hostile casual-
ties or who have died from a training-
related injury.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. YOUNG:
S. 2063. A bill to amend title XI of the
Social Security Act with respect to
organ procurement organizations; to
the Committee on Finance.
Mr. YOUNG. Mr. President, I rise
today to discuss an issue that is very
important to me and to the 1,300 Hoo-
siers currently in need of an organ
transplant. That issue is the lack of or-
gans for patients in need and our bro-
ken organ donation system.
For more than 30 years, our Nation’s
organ donation system has operated in
complete darkness. Groups known as
organ procurement organizations, or
OPOs, are responsible for getting or-
gans from the donors to the patients
who actually need them, but questions
surround the effectiveness, trans-
parency, and accountability of these
organizations.
OPOs are the main link between
donor hospitals and organ recipients,
and their performance can be a lim-
iting factor for all stakeholders in the
organ donation system.
In the last 20 years, no OPO has been
decertified despite serious issues of
underperformance. For example, CMS
recently recertified the New York City
OPO despite persistent underperform-
ance for nearly a decade. This problem
exists throughout the country.
Currently, OPO performance is meas-
ured by data that is self-reported,
unaudited, and fraught with errors.
Many of these errors have been docu-
mented by Lenny Bernstein and Kim-
berly Kindy at the Washington Post.
That is why today I introduced legis-
lation that would require organ pro-
curement organizations to be held to
metrics that are objective, verifiable,
and not subject to self-interpretation.
This way, there can be meaningful
transparency, evaluation, and account-
ability. Updating these metrics will
also enable geographic-level donation
rates to be evaluated and improved.
This is desperately needed for the more
than 113,000 Americans currently wait-
ing for a lifesaving transplant. The leg-
islation I introduced today is supported
by the American Society of Nephrol-
ogy, Dialysis Patient Citizens, and the
nonprofit group ORGANIZE. Addition-
ally, in April of this year, I wrote to
CMS Administrator Seema Verma urg-
ing CMS to update OPO metrics to be
objective and verifiable.
I am hopeful that we will soon see ac-
tion from the White House and the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices. You see, this issue is very per-
sonal to me. My friend Dave ‘‘Gunny’’
McFarland from Jeffersonville, IN, died
because his heart transplant never
came. We served together in the U.S.
Marine Corps, and over the years, I
have gotten to know his widow, Jen-
nifer McFarland Kern. Jen has made it
her mission to raise awareness about
the organ transplant process and to
help prevent others from facing a simi-
lar situation.
Because the system is so complex,
most people don’t know how it works
or if patients are actually being pro-
tected. It is time to change that. To-
day’s legislation is the first in a series
of bills I am working on to reform our
organ donation system once and for all
and help save precious lives. I will not
stop until we increase the availability
of organs for patients in need.
Semper fidelis.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 272—CON-
GRATULATING THE UNITED
STATES WOMEN’S NATIONAL
SOCCER TEAM ON WINNING THE
2019 FIFA WOMEN’S WORLD CUP
Mr. WICKER submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation:
S. RES. 272
Whereas, on July 7, 2019, the United States
Women’s National Soccer Team won the 2019
FIFA Women’s World Cup by defeating the
Netherlands Women’s National Football
Team;
Whereas, that victory marks the first time
a country has won 4 Women’s World Cup ti-
tles;
Whereas, the United States Women’s Na-
tional Soccer Team began its historic run
with an overwhelming 13–0 victory, the larg-
est ever winning margin in the history of
World Cup soccer;
Whereas, over the course of the month-
long tournament, the United States Women’s
National Soccer Team scored 26 goals, break-
ing the record the team set in 1991 of 25
goals; and
Whereas the players of the United States
Women’s National Soccer Team presented a
shining example of sportsmanship, camara-
derie, and skill to all people of the United
States and to the world: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) congratulates the United States Wom-
en’s National Soccer Team for winning an
unprecedented 4 Women’s World Cup titles
and for inspiring a new generation of youth
in the United States to strive for physical
greatness and athletic achievement; and
(2) directs the Secretary of the Senate to
transmit an enrolled copy of this resolution
to—
(A) Carlos Cordeiro, President of the
United States Soccer Federation; and
(B) Jill Ellis, Head Coach of the United
States Women’s National Soccer Team.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 273—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE WITH RESPECT TO
HEALTH CARE RIGHTS
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. SCHATZ, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. BROWN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, Ms. WARREN, Mr. MARKEY, and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions:
S. RES. 273
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that all people of the United States have the
right—
(1) to affordable health insurance coverage,
including—
(A) the right of individuals with pre-exist-
ing conditions to secure health insurance
with the same terms, benefits, and price as
individuals who do not have pre-existing con-
ditions;
(B) the right to a comprehensive set of es-
sential health benefits in the individual and
small group markets;
(C) the right to stay on a parent’s policy
until age 26 for young adults who meet cer-
tain requirements;
(D) the right to keep health coverage after
getting sick, even if the individual made an
honest mistake on his or her insurance appli-
cation;
(E) the right to use an individual’s own re-
sources to purchase and pay for treatment or
services; and
(F) the right to a cap on the yearly
deductibles and other out-of-pocket costs an
individual is required to pay for covered
services under a health insurance plan;
(2) to coverage and access to health care
services, including—
(A) the right to health insurance coverage
regardless of an individual’s pre-existing
medical conditions or health status;
(B) the right to certain preventive
screenings without paying out-of-pocket fees
or copayments;
(C) the right to health insurance that pro-
vides value relative to the premium cost;
(D) the right to be held harmless from sur-
prise medical bills;
(E) the right to coverage of mental health
and substance abuse services with no annual
or lifetime limits (including behavioral
health treatment, mental and behavioral
health inpatient services, substance use dis-
order treatment);
(F) the right to mental health and sub-
stance abuse benefits without financial,
treatment, or care management limitations
that only apply to such benefits;
(G) the right to access all smoking ces-
sation medications that are approved by the
Food and Drug Administration;
(H) the right to choose a provider, and to
receive an accurate list of all participating
providers;
(I) the right to access doctors, specialists,
and hospitals;
(J) the right to emergency medical serv-
ices without—
(i) preauthorization for emergency serv-
ices;
(ii) extra administrative hurdles for out-of-
network emergency services; or
(iii) higher cost-sharing for out-of-network
emergency services than in-network emer-
gency services;
(K) the right to affordable medications;
(L) the right to physical, mental, and oral
care;
(M) the right to a treatment plan from pro-
vider for a complex or serious medical condi-
tion;
(N) the right to go directly to a women’s
health care specialist (including obstetri-
cians and gynecologists) without a referral
for routine and preventive health care serv-
ices;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.022 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4733
July 9, 2019
(O) the right to a full scope of reproductive
health services, including contraceptive
care, pregnancy-related care, prenatal care,
miscarriage management, family planning
services, abortion care, labor and delivery
services, and postnatal care;
(P) the right to breastfeeding support,
counseling, and equipment (including man-
ual and electric pumping equipment);
(Q) the right to prescription medications
and medical and surgical services related to
gender transition;
(R) the right to try investigational drugs;
(S) the right to a second medical opinion;
(T) the right to home care services;
(U) the right to a full scope of hospice and
palliative care, and end-of-life options; and
(V) the right of pediatric patients to a full
scope of services offered to adult patients;
(3) to health information and records pri-
vacy;
(4) to explanations of coverage decisions,
including—
(A) the right to an explanation and appeal
if a plan denies payment for a medical treat-
ment or service;
(B) the right to an internal appeal of pay-
ment decisions of private health plans if the
health plan refuses to make a payment;
(C) the right to a review by an outside re-
view, by an independent organization; and
(D) the right to complain, through griev-
ances processes;
(5) to transparency, including—
(A) the right to an easy-to-understand
summary of benefits and coverage;
(B) the right to at least 30 days’ notice if
an insurer cancels coverage;
(C) the right to clear justification and ex-
planation for premium increases that are un-
reasonable;
(D) the right to know how an enrollee’s
plan pays its providers;
(E) the right to give informed consent and
understanding about medical conditions,
risks and benefits of treatment, and appro-
priate alternatives;
(F) the right to know how drug companies
set drug prices; and
(G) the right to know the amount of money
pharmacy benefit managers keep and the
amount of savings from pharmacy benefits
managers that reach patients and con-
sumers;
(6) to protection from discrimination, in-
cluding on the basis of race, color, national
origin, sex (including sexual orientation and
gender identity), age, disability, or docu-
mentation status; and
(7) to culturally appropriate care, includ-
ing health care services in a language that
the patient understands and that is cul-
turally sensitive.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 906. Mr. GRASSLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 386, to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the per-
country numerical limitation for employ-
ment-based immigrants, to increase the per-
country numerical limitation for family-
sponsored immigrants, and for other pur-
poses; which was referred to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
SA 907. Mr. THUNE (for Mrs. SHAHEEN)
proposed an amendment to the bill S. 239, to
require the Secretary of the Treasury to
mint coins in recognition of Christa
McAuliffe.
SA 908. Mr. THUNE (for Mr. CRUZ (for him-
self and Mr. DURBIN)) proposed an amend-
ment to the resolution S. Res. 188, encour-
aging a swift transfer of power by the mili-
tary to a civilian-led political authority in
the Republic of the Sudan, and for other pur-
poses.
SA 909. Mr. THUNE (for Mr. CRUZ (for him-
self and Mr. DURBIN)) proposed an amend-
ment to the resolution S. Res. 188, supra.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 906. Mr. GRASSLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 386, to amend the Im-
migration and Nationality Act to
eliminate the per-country numerical
limitation for employment-based im-
migrants, to increase the per-country
numerical limitation for family-spon-
sored immigrants, and for other pur-
poses; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 3. POSTING AVAILABLE POSITIONS
THROUGH THE DEPARTMENT OF
LABOR.
(a) DEPARTMENT OF LABOR WEBSITE.—Sec-
tion 212(n)(6) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(6)) is added, to
read as follows:
‘‘(6) For purposes of complying with para-
graph (1)(C)—
‘‘(A) Not later than 180 days after the date
of the enactment of the Fairness for High-
Skilled Immigrants Act of 2019, the Sec-
retary of Labor shall establish a searchable
internet website for posting positions in ac-
cordance with paragraph (1)(C) that is avail-
able to the public without charge, except
that the Secretary may delay the launch of
such website for a single period identified by
the Secretary by notice in the Federal Reg-
ister that shall not exceed 30 days.
‘‘(B) The Secretary may work with private
companies or nonprofit organizations to de-
velop and operate the Internet website de-
scribed in subparagraph (A).
‘‘(C) The Secretary shall promulgate rules,
after notice and a period for comment, to
carry out this paragraph.’’.
(b) PUBLICATION REQUIREMENT.—The Sec-
retary of Labor shall submit to Congress,
and publish in the Federal Register and in
other appropriate media, a notice of the date
on which the Internet website required under
section 212(n)(6) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act, as established by subsection
(a), will be operational.
(c) APPLICATION.—The amendment made by
subsection (a) shall apply to any application
filed on or after the date that is 90 days after
the date described in subsection (b).
(d) INTERNET POSTING REQUIREMENT.—Sec-
tion 212(n)(1)(C) of such Act is amended—
(1) by redesignating clause (ii) as subclause
(II);
(2) by striking ‘‘(i) has provided’’ and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(ii)(I) has provided’’; and
(3) by inserting before clause (ii), as redes-
ignated by paragraph (2), the following:
‘‘(i) except in the case of an employer fil-
ing a petition on behalf of an H–1B non-
immigrant who has already been counted
against the numerical limitations and is not
eligible for a full 6-year period, as described
in section 214(g)(7), or on behalf of an H–1B
nonimmigrant authorized to accept employ-
ment under section 214(n), has posted on the
internet website described in paragraph (6),
for at least 30 calendar days, a description of
each position for which a nonimmigrant is
sought, that includes—
‘‘(I) the occupational classification, and if
different the employer’s job title for the po-
sition, in which the nonimmigrant(s) will be
employed;
‘‘(II) the education, training, or experience
qualifications for the position;
‘‘(III) the salary or wage range and em-
ployee benefits offered;
‘‘(IV) the location(s) at which the non-
immigrant(s) will be employed; and
‘‘(V) the process for applying for a posi-
tion; and’’.
SEC. 4. H–1B EMPLOYER APPLICATION REQUIRE-
MENTS.
(a) WAGE DETERMINATION INFORMATION.—
Section 212(n)(1)(D) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(D)) is
amended by inserting ‘‘the prevailing wage
determination methodology used under sub-
paragraph (A)(i)(II),’’ after ‘‘shall contain’’.
(b) NEW APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.—Sec-
tion 212(n)(1) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)) is amended by
inserting after subparagraph (G)(ii) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(H)(i) The employer, or a person or entity
acting on the employer’s behalf, has not ad-
vertised any available position specified in
the application in an advertisement that
states or indicates that—
‘‘(I) such position is only available to an
individual who is or will be an H–1B non-
immigrant; or
‘‘(II) an individual who is or will be an H–
1B nonimmigrant shall receive priority or a
preference in the hiring process for such po-
sition.
‘‘(ii) The employer has not primarily re-
cruited individuals who are or who will be H–
1B nonimmigrants to fill such position.
‘‘(I) If the employer, in a previous period
specified by the Secretary, employed one or
more H–1B nonimmigrants, the employer
shall submit to the Secretary the Internal
Revenue Service Form W–2 Wage and Tax
Statements filed by the employer with re-
spect to the H–1B nonimmigrants for such
period.’’.
(c) LABOR CONDITION APPLICATION FEE.—
Section 212(n) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(6)(A) The Secretary of Labor shall pro-
mulgate a regulation that requires appli-
cants under this subsection to pay an admin-
istrative fee to cover the average paperwork
processing costs and other administrative
costs.
‘‘(B)(i) Fees collected under this paragraph
shall be deposited as offsetting receipts with-
in the general fund of the Treasury in a sepa-
rate account, which shall be known as the
‘H–1B Administration, Oversight, Investiga-
tion, and Enforcement Account’ and shall re-
main available until expended.
‘‘(ii) The Secretary of the Treasury shall
refund amounts in such account to the Sec-
retary of Labor for salaries and related ex-
penses associated with the administration,
oversight, investigation, and enforcement of
the H–1B nonimmigrant visa program.’’.
(d) ELIMINATION OF B–1 IN LIEU OF H–1.—
Section 214(g) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1184(g)) is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(12)(A) Unless otherwise authorized by
law, an alien normally classifiable under sec-
tion 101(a)(15)(H)(i) who seeks admission to
the United States to provide services in a
specialty occupation described in paragraph
(1) or (3) of subsection (i) may not be issued
a visa or admitted under section 101(a)(15)(B)
for such purpose.
‘‘(B) Nothing in this paragraph may be
construed to authorize the admission of an
alien under section 101(a)(15)(B) who is com-
ing to the United States for the purpose of
performing skilled or unskilled labor if such
admission is not otherwise authorized by
law.’’.
SEC. 5. INVESTIGATION AND DISPOSITION OF
COMPLAINTS AGAINST H–1B EM-
PLOYERS.
(a) INVESTIGATION, WORKING CONDITIONS,
AND PENALTIES.—Section 212(n)(2)(C) of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.029 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4734 July 9, 2019
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1182(n)(2)(C)) is amended by striking clause
(iv) and inserting the following:
‘‘(iv)(I) An employer that has filed an ap-
plication under this subsection violates this
clause by taking, failing to take, or threat-
ening to take or fail to take a personnel ac-
tion, or intimidating, threatening, restrain-
ing, coercing, blacklisting, discharging, or
discriminating in any other manner against
an employee because the employee—
‘‘(aa) disclosed information that the em-
ployee reasonably believes evidences a viola-
tion of this subsection or any rule or regula-
tion pertaining to this subsection; or
‘‘(bb) cooperated or sought to cooperate
with the requirements under this subsection
or any rule or regulation pertaining to this
subsection.
‘‘(II) An employer that violates this clause
shall be liable to the employee harmed by
such violation for lost wages and benefits.
‘‘(III) In this clause, the term ‘employee’
includes—
‘‘(aa) a current employee;
‘‘(bb) a former employee; and
‘‘(cc) an applicant for employment.’’.
(b) INFORMATION SHARING.—Section
212(n)(2)(H) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(H)) is amended
to read as follows:
‘‘(H)(i) The Director of U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services shall provide the Sec-
retary of Labor with any information con-
tained in the materials submitted by em-
ployers of H–1B nonimmigrants as part of
the petition adjudication process that indi-
cates that the employer is not complying
with visa program requirements for H–1B
nonimmigrants.
‘‘(ii) The Secretary may initiate and con-
duct an investigation and hearing under this
paragraph after receiving information of
noncompliance under this subparagraph.’’.
SEC. 6. LABOR CONDITION APPLICATIONS.
(a) APPLICATION REVIEW REQUIREMENTS.—
Section 212(n)(1) of the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)) is amended,
in the undesignated matter following sub-
paragraph (I), as added by section 4(b)—
(1) in the fourth sentence, by inserting ‘‘,
and through the internet website of the De-
partment of Labor, without charge.’’ after
‘‘Washington, D.C.’’;
(2) in the fifth sentence, by striking ‘‘only
for completeness’’ and inserting ‘‘for com-
pleteness, clear indicators of fraud or mis-
representation of material fact,’’;
(3) in the sixth sentence, by striking ‘‘or
obviously inaccurate’’ and inserting ‘‘, pre-
sents clear indicators of fraud or misrepre-
sentation of material fact, or is obviously in-
accurate’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following: ‘‘If
the Secretary’s review of an application
identifies clear indicators of fraud or mis-
representation of material fact, the Sec-
retary may conduct an investigation and
hearing in accordance with paragraph (2).’’.
(b) ENSURING PREVAILING WAGES ARE FOR
AREA OF EMPLOYMENT AND ACTUAL WAGES
ARE FOR SIMILARLY EMPLOYED.—Section
212(n)(1)(A) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(1)(A)) is amended—
(1) in clause (i), in the undesignated matter
following subclause (II), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at
the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(iii) will ensure that—
‘‘(I) the actual wages or range identified in
clause (i) relate solely to employees having
substantially the same duties and respon-
sibilities as the H–1B nonimmigrant in the
geographical area of intended employment,
considering experience, qualifications, edu-
cation, job responsibility and function, spe-
cialized knowledge, and other legitimate
business factors, except in a geographical
area there are no such employees, and
‘‘(II) the prevailing wages identified in
clause (ii) reflect the best available informa-
tion for the geographical area within normal
commuting distance of the actual address of
employment at which the H–1B non-
immigrant is or will be employed.’’.
(c) PROCEDURES FOR INVESTIGATION AND
DISPOSITION.—Section 212(n)(2)(A) of the Im-
migration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1182(n)(2)(A)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘(2)(A) Subject’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘(2)(A)(i) Subject’’;
(2) by striking the fourth sentence; and
(3) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii)(I) Upon receipt of a complaint under
clause (i), the Secretary may initiate an in-
vestigation to determine whether such a fail-
ure or misrepresentation has occurred.
‘‘(II) The Secretary may conduct—
‘‘(aa) surveys of the degree to which em-
ployers comply with the requirements under
this subsection; and
‘‘(bb) subject to subclause (IV), annual
compliance audits of any employer that em-
ploys H–1B nonimmigrants during the appli-
cable calendar year.
‘‘(III) Subject to subclause (IV), the Sec-
retary shall—
‘‘(aa) conduct annual compliance audits of
each employer that employs more than 100
full-time equivalent employees who are em-
ployed in the United States if more than 15
percent of such full-time employees are H–1B
nonimmigrants; and
‘‘(bb) make available to the public an exec-
utive summary or report describing the gen-
eral findings of the audits conducted under
this subclause.
‘‘(IV) In the case of an employer subject to
an annual compliance audit in which there
was no finding of a willful failure to meet a
condition under subparagraph (C)(ii), no fur-
ther annual compliance audit shall be con-
ducted with respect to such employer for a
period of not less than 4 years, absent evi-
dence of misrepresentation or fraud.’’.
(d) PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS.—Section
212(n)(2)(C) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(C)) is amended –
(1) in clause (i)—
(A) in the matter preceding subclause (I),
by striking ‘‘a condition of paragraph (1)(B),
(1)(E), or (1)(F)’’ and inserting ‘‘a condition
of paragraph (1)(B), (1)(E), (1)(F), (1)(H), or
1(I)’’; and
(B) in subclause (I), by striking ‘‘$1,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$3,000’’;
(2) in clause (ii)(I), by striking ‘‘$5,000’’ and
inserting ‘‘$15,000’’;
(3) in clause (iii)(I), by striking ‘‘$35,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$100,000’’; and
(4) in clause (vi)(III), by striking ‘‘$1,000’’
and inserting ‘‘$3,000’’.
(e) INITIATION OF INVESTIGATIONS.—Section
212(n)(2)(G) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(n)(2)(G)) is amended—
(1) in clause (i), by striking ‘‘In the case of
an investigation’’ in the second sentence and
all that follows through the period at the
end of the clause;
(2) in clause (ii), in the first sentence, by
striking ‘‘and whose identity’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘failure or failures.’’ and in-
serting ‘‘the Secretary of Labor may conduct
an investigation into the employer’s compli-
ance with the requirements under this sub-
section.’’;
(3) in clause (iii), by striking the second
sentence;
(4) by striking clauses (iv) and (v);
(5) by redesignating clauses (vi), (vii), and
(viii) as clauses (iv), (v), and (vi), respec-
tively;
(6) in clause (iv), as so redesignated—
(A) by striking‘‘clause (viii)’’ and inserting
‘‘clause (vi)’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘meet a condition described
in clause (ii)’’ and inserting ‘‘comply with
the requirements under this subsection’’;
(7) by amending clause (v), as so redesig-
nated, to read as follows:
‘‘(v)(I) The Secretary of Labor shall pro-
vide notice to an employer of the intent to
conduct an investigation under clause (i) or
(ii).
‘‘(II) The notice shall be provided in such a
manner, and shall contain sufficient detail,
to permit the employer to respond to the al-
legations before an investigation is com-
menced.
‘‘(III) The Secretary is not required to
comply with this clause if the Secretary de-
termines that such compliance would inter-
fere with an effort by the Secretary to inves-
tigate or secure compliance by the employer
with the requirements of this subsection.
‘‘(IV) A determination by the Secretary
under this clause shall not be subject to judi-
cial review.’’;
(8) in clause (vi), as so redesignated, by
striking ‘‘An investigation’’ in the first sen-
tence and all that follows through ‘‘the de-
termination.’’ in the second sentence and in-
serting ‘‘If the Secretary of Labor, after an
investigation under clause (i) or (ii), deter-
mines that a reasonable basis exists to make
a finding that the employer has failed to
comply with the requirements under this
subsection, the Secretary shall provide inter-
ested parties with notice of such determina-
tion and an opportunity for a hearing in ac-
cordance with section 556 of title 5, United
States Code, not later than 60 days after the
date of such determination.’’; and
(9) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(vii) If the Secretary of Labor, after a
hearing, finds that the employer has violated
a requirement under this subsection, the
Secretary may impose a penalty pursuant to
subparagraph (C).’’.
SA 907. Mr. THUNE (for Mrs. SHA-
HEEN) proposed an amendment to the
bill S. 239, to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in recogni-
tion of Christa McAuliffe; as follows:
On page 4, line 13, strike ‘‘2020’’ and insert
‘‘2021’’.
On page 5, line 6, strike ‘‘2020’’ and insert
‘‘2021’’.
On page 5, line 7, strike ‘‘2020’’ and insert
‘‘2021’’.
SA 908. Mr. THUNE (for Mr. CRUZ (for
himself and Mr. DURBIN)) proposed an
amendment to the resolution S. Res.
188, encouraging a swift transfer of
power by the military to a civilian-led
political authority in the Republic of
the Sudan, and for other purposes; as
follows:
Strike all after the resolving clause and in-
sert the following:
That the Senate—
(1) supports the African Union Peace and
Security Council’s initial 2-week deadline
urging a swift transfer of power by the mili-
tary to a civilian-led political authority in
Sudan that—
(A) has a civilian character and composi-
tion reflecting the will of the Declaration of
Freedom and Change Forces leading negotia-
tions on behalf of citizens; and
(B) immediately begins a transparent proc-
ess leading to credible elections and security
sector reforms;
(2) calls on the ruling authorities in
Sudan—
(A) to respect the right to freedom of asso-
ciation and expression;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.028 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4735
July 9, 2019
(B) to protect the rights of opposition po-
litical parties, journalists, human rights de-
fenders, religious minorities, nongovern-
mental organizations, and civic movements
to operate without interference;
(C) to lift the bureaucratic restrictions on,
and facilitate access for, humanitarian relief
operations;
(D) to introduce strong measures to create
transparency and address the structural cor-
ruption and kleptocracy of the state;
(E) to pursue accountability for serious
crimes and human rights abuses by former
President al-Bashir’s regime and permit
international human rights monitors to de-
ploy in Sudan to examine the allegations of
atrocities committed against protesters and
civilians during 2019;
(F) to release remaining political prisoners
and refrain from arbitrary arrest, detention,
and torture; and
(G) to immediately restore Internet access
and avoid further denial of access to suppress
the fundamental human right of freedom of
expression and association by Sudanese citi-
zens;
(3) urges the United States Government to
lead in efforts that advance a peaceful trans-
fer of power and a civilian-led transition pe-
riod focused on creating the conditions under
which timely democratic elections can be
held that will meet international standards
and be overseen by credible domestic and
international electoral observers, and for the
peaceful resolution of Sudan’s conflicts;
(4) encourages the African Union and its
member states to continue supporting the
Sudanese people’s aspirations for democracy,
justice, and peace;
(5) expresses concern that the participation
in the transitional government of individuals
who have been implicated in possible war
crimes would undermine efforts to restore
peace and democracy and pursue justice and
accountability in Sudan;
(6) emphasizes that until a transition to a
credible civilian-led government that re-
flects the aspirations of the Sudanese people
is established, the process to consider remov-
ing Sudan from the State Sponsor of Ter-
rorism List, lifting any other remaining
sanctions on Sudan, or normalizing relations
with the Government of Sudan will continue
to be suspended; and
(7) stands in solidarity with the people of
Sudan and their aspirations for a demo-
cratic, participatory government.
SA 909. Mr. THUNE (for Mr. CRUZ (for
himself and Mr. DURBIN)) proposed an
amendment to the resolution S. Res.
188, encouraging a swift transfer of
power by the military to a civilian-led
political authority in the Republic of
the Sudan, and for other purposes; as
follows:
Strike the preamble and insert the fol-
lowing:
Whereas the nation of Sudan has endured
corrupt and brutal dictatorships for most of
its post-independence period since 1956;
Whereas President Omar al-Bashir came to
power through a military coup in 1989, and
for the next 3 decades his government was
responsible for horrendous crimes in Sudan,
especially in Darfur, South Kordofan, Blue
Nile, and in what is now the Republic of
South Sudan;
Whereas the United States Government
designated Sudan as a State Sponsor of Ter-
rorism on August 12, 1993, for its support to
international terrorist organizations and ex-
tremists, including elements of what would
later be known as al Qaeda;
Whereas more than 2 decades of civil war
between President al-Bashir’s government
and insurgents in southern Sudan resulted in
more than 2,000,000 deaths and led to the
eventual independence of South Sudan in
2011;
Whereas in 2003, President al-Bashir’s gov-
ernment launched a ruthless crackdown
against insurgents and civilians in Darfur,
which killed at least 300,000 Sudanese and
displaced 2,500,000 more people, prompting
Congress and the Administration of Presi-
dent George W. Bush, in 2004, to describe the
Government of Sudan’s actions in Darfur as
genocide;
Whereas in 2011, when conflict resumed in
South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, Presi-
dent al-Bashir’s government conducted in-
discriminate bombings, raided villages,
raped and killed civilians, and waged a cam-
paign of forced starvation in the Nuba Moun-
tains region of South Kordofan that dis-
placed as many as 2,000,000 people;
Whereas, while the fighting between gov-
ernment forces and insurgents in Darfur has
subsided since 2016, violent attacks against
civilians continue and humanitarian access
remains restricted in some opposition
stronghold areas of Darfur, South Kordofan,
and Blue Nile;
Whereas President al-Bashir remains the
subject of 2 outstanding arrest warrants
from the International Criminal Court based
on charges that include 5 counts of crimes
against humanity, 2 counts of war crimes,
and 3 counts of genocide;
Whereas Sudan’s economic crisis risks
bringing the national economy to total col-
lapse, further increasing the possibility of
state failure and broader regional desta-
bilization that could threaten a wide array
of United States’ interests in East and North
Africa and the Red Sea regions;
Whereas the people of Sudan have engaged
since December 2018 in a wave of peaceful
protests throughout the country, demanding
an end to President al-Bashir’s brutal regime
and pressing for a citizen-centered demo-
cratic transition;
Whereas women have played a prominent
role in the protest movement and have
helped to bring about the ouster of former
President al-Bashir;
Whereas President al-Bashir’s government
unlawfully detained and tortured hundreds
of Sudanese during the protests, including
political leaders, journalists, doctors, union-
ists, and youth and women leaders, in gross
violation of international civil and human
rights, some of whom remain in detention;
Whereas on February 22, 2019, President al-
Bashir declared a year-long nationwide state
of emergency and curfew, dissolved his gov-
ernment, replaced state governors with sen-
ior security officers, and expanded the pow-
ers of Sudan’s security forces;
Whereas when protesters in early April
2019 challenged President al-Bashir’s decrees
and gathered in the tens of thousands in
front of Sudan’s military headquarters in
Khartoum to call for an end to the al-Bashir
regime, some elements of the security forces
tried to disperse the crowds with violence,
leading to clashes between internal security
forces and the military as some soldiers
sought to protect the protesters;
Whereas on April 11, 2019, after 5 days of
mass protests in front of their headquarters,
Sudan’s military removed President al-
Bashir from office, and the country’s First
Vice President and Minister of Defense, Lt.
General Awad Ibn Auf—
(1) announced that he would lead a Transi-
tional Military Council that would rule the
country for a 2-year period;
(2) suspended the Constitution;
(3) the dissolved the National Assembly;
and
(4) imposed a 3-month State of Emergency
and nightly curfew;
Whereas Lt. General Abdel-Fattah al-
Burhan, former general inspector of the Su-
danese Armed Forces, who replaced Lt. Gen-
eral Ibn Auf on April 12, 2019, as the chair-
man of the Transitional Military Council,
said, on April 21, 2019, that the council was
‘‘ready to hand over power tomorrow to a ci-
vilian government agreed by political
forces’’;
Whereas the Rapid Support Forces, para-
military forces led by Lt. General Moham-
med Hamdan Dagolo (also known as
‘‘Hemmeti’’), a former Janjaweed leader who
currently serves as the deputy chairman of
the Transitional Military Council—
(1) have been implicated by the United Na-
tions Panel of Experts in widespread viola-
tions of international humanitarian law that
human rights groups suggest may amount to
war crimes; and
(2) have been accused of killing protesters
during the recent uprising;
Whereas, the African Union Peace and Se-
curity Council convened on April 30, 2019,
and reiterated its conviction that ‘‘a mili-
tary-led transition in Sudan will be totally
unacceptable and contrary to the will and le-
gitimate aspirations’’ of the Sudanese peo-
ple, expressed ‘‘deep regret’’ that the mili-
tary had not stepped aside, and, noting nego-
tiations were underway, demanded that the
military hand over power to a civilian-led
transitional authority within 60 days;
Whereas on June 3, 2019, the Rapid Support
Forces led a brutal attack on peaceful pro-
testers, with the aim of eradicating a large
sit-in site in front of Sudan’s military head-
quarters in Khartoum, which resulted in
more than 100 deaths, hundreds of injuries,
several cases of rape, indiscriminate beat-
ings and shooting of unarmed protesters, and
other human rights abuses;
Whereas, the Khartoum massacre on June
3, 2019, was followed by a nationwide crack-
down led by the Rapid Support Forces
against peaceful protesters and civilians that
included—
(1) violent attacks on citizens in Khartoum
and other major cities;
(2) the brutal detention of protesters and
opposition leaders like Yasir Arman, with
many disappearances of those detained;
(3) the targeting of hospitals and medical
workers caring for the injured; and
(4) the overt attempts by Sudanese au-
thorities to cover-up the scale of their atroc-
ities by dumping bodies in the Nile river and
shutting off access to the Internet; and
Whereas, the international community has
widely condemned the actions of the Rapid
Support Forces, with the African Union’s
Peace and Security Council voting on June 6,
2019, to suspend Sudan from all African
Union activities until a civilian government
is formed, and United Nations’ experts ap-
pointed by the United Nations Human Rights
Council, on June 12, 2019, calling for an inde-
pendent investigation into the violence
against protesters in Sudan: Now, therefore,
be it
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I have 5
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.025 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4736 July 9, 2019
of the Senate on Tuesday, July 9, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
July 9, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a
hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON EMERGING THREATS AND
CAPABILITIES
The Subcommittee on Emerging
Threats and Capabilities of the Com-
mittee on Armed Services is authorized
to meet during the session of the Sen-
ate on Tuesday, July 9, 2019, at 3 p.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON AVIATION AND SPACE
The Subcommittee on Aviation and
Space of the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Tuesday, July 9, 2019, at 3
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENERGY
The Subcommittee on Energy of the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
July 9, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a
hearing.
f
ENCOURAGING A SWIFT TRANS-
FER OF POWER BY THE MILI-
TARY TO A CIVILIAN-LED POLIT-
ICAL AUTHORITY IN THE REPUB-
LIC OF THE SUDAN
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 106, S. Res. 188.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 188) encouraging a
swift transfer of power by the military to a
civilian-led political authority in the Repub-
lic of the Sudan, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution,
which had been reported from the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations, with an
amendment to strike all after the re-
solving clause and insert in lieu thereof
the following:
Whereas the nation of Sudan has endured
corrupt and brutal dictatorships for most of its
post-independence period since 1956;
Whereas President Omar al-Bashir came to
power through a military coup in 1989, and for
the next three decades his government was re-
sponsible for horrendous crimes in Sudan, espe-
cially in Darfur, South Kordofan, Blue Nile,
and in what is now the Republic of South
Sudan;
Whereas the United States Government des-
ignated Sudan a State Sponsor of Terrorism on
August 12, 1993, for its support to international
terrorist organizations and extremists, including
elements of what would later be known as al
Qaeda;
Whereas more than two decades of civil war
between President al-Bashir’s government and
insurgents in southern Sudan resulted in more
than 2,000,000 deaths and led to the eventual
independence of South Sudan in 2011;
Whereas in 2003, President al-Bashir’s govern-
ment launched a ruthless crackdown against in-
surgents and civilians in Darfur that killed at
least 300,000 Sudanese and displaced 2,500,000
more, resulting in Congress and the Administra-
tion of President George W. Bush in 2004 de-
scribing as genocide the Government of Sudan’s
actions in Darfur;
Whereas in 2011, when conflict resumed in
South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, President
al-Bashir’s government conducted indiscrimi-
nate bombings and raided villages, raping and
killing civilians, and waged a campaign of
forced starvation in the Nuba Mountains region
of South Kordofan that displaced as many as
2,000,000 people;
Whereas, while the fighting between govern-
ment forces and insurgents in Darfur has sub-
sided since 2016, violent attacks against civilians
continue and humanitarian access remains re-
stricted in some opposition stronghold areas of
Darfur, South Kordofan, and Blue Nile;
Whereas President al-Bashir remains the sub-
ject of two outstanding arrest warrants from the
International Criminal Court based on charges
including five counts of crimes against human-
ity, two counts of war crimes, and three counts
of genocide;
Whereas Sudan’s economic crisis risks bring-
ing the national economy to total collapse, fur-
ther increasing the possibility of state failure
and broader regional destabilization that could
threaten a wide array of United States interests
in East and North Africa and the Red Sea re-
gions;
Whereas the people of Sudan have engaged
since December 2018 in a wave of peaceful pro-
tests throughout the country demanding an end
to President al-Bashir’s brutal regime and press-
ing for a citizen-centered democratic transition;
Whereas women have played a prominent role
in the protest movement, helping bring about
the ouster of former President al-Bashir;
Whereas President al-Bashir’s government un-
lawfully detained and tortured hundreds of Su-
danese during the protests, including political
leaders, journalists, doctors, unionists, and
youth and women leaders, in gross violation of
international civil and human rights, and some
of them remain in detention;
Whereas on February 22, 2019, President al-
Bashir declared a year-long nationwide state of
emergency and curfew, dissolved his govern-
ment, replaced state governors with senior secu-
rity officers, and expanded the powers of Su-
dan’s security forces;
Whereas when protesters in early April chal-
lenged President al-Bashir’s decrees and gath-
ered in the tens of thousands in front of Su-
dan’s military headquarters in Khartoum to call
for an end to the regime, some elements of the
security forces tried to disperse the crowds with
violence, leading to clashes between internal se-
curity forces and the military as some soldiers
sought to protect the protesters;
Whereas on April 11, 2019, after five days of
mass protests in front of their headquarters, Su-
dan’s military removed President al-Bashir from
office and the country’s First Vice President
and Minister of Defense, Lt. General Awad Ibn
Auf, announced he would lead a Transitional
Military Council that would rule the country
for a two-year period, suspended the Constitu-
tion, dissolved the National Assembly, and im-
posed a three-month State of Emergency and
nightly curfew;
Whereas Lt. General Abdel-Fattah al-Burhan,
former general inspector of the Sudanese Armed
Forces, who replaced Lt. General Ibn Auf on
April 12, 2019, as the chairman of the Transi-
tional Military Council, said on April 21, 2019,
that the council was ‘‘ready to hand over power
tomorrow to a civilian government agreed by po-
litical forces’’;
Whereas the Rapid Support Forces, para-
military forces led by Lt. General Mohammed
Hamdan Dagolo, also known as ‘‘Hemmeti’’, a
former Janjaweed leader who currently serves as
the deputy chairman of the Transitional Mili-
tary Council, have been implicated by the
United Nations Panel of Experts in widespread
violations of international humanitarian law
that human rights groups suggest may amount
to war crimes, and have also been accused of
killing protesters during the recent uprising;
and
Whereas, the African Union Peace and Secu-
rity Council convened on April 30, 2019, and re-
iterated its conviction that ‘‘a military-led tran-
sition in Sudan will be totally unacceptable and
contrary to the will and legitimate aspirations’’
of the Sudanese people, expressed ‘‘deep regret’’
that the military had not stepped aside, and,
noting negotiations were underway, demanded
that the military hand over power to a civilian-
led transitional authority within 60 days: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the African Union Peace and Se-
curity Council’s initial two-week deadline urg-
ing a swift transfer of power by the military to
a civilian-led political authority in Sudan
that—
(A) has a civilian character and composition
reflecting the will of the Declaration of Freedom
and Change Forces leading negotiations on be-
half of citizens; and
(B) immediately begins a transparent process
leading to credible elections and security sector
reforms;
(2) calls on the ruling authorities in Sudan
to—
(A) respect the right to freedom of association
and expression;
(B) protect the rights of opposition political
parties, journalists, human rights defenders, re-
ligious minorities, nongovernmental organiza-
tions, and civic movements to operate without
interference;
(C) lift the bureaucratic restrictions on and
facilitate access for humanitarian relief oper-
ations;
(D) introduce strong measures to create trans-
parency and address the structural corruption
and kleptocracy of the state;
(E) pursue accountability for serious crimes
and human rights abuses by former President
al-Bashir’s regime and elements of the security
forces under the control of the Transitional
Military Council; and
(F) release remaining political prisoners and
refrain from arbitrary arrest, detention, and tor-
ture;
(3) urges the United States Government to
support efforts to advance a peaceful transfer of
power and a civilian-led transition period that
creates the conditions under which timely demo-
cratic elections can be held that will meet inter-
national standards and be overseen by credible
domestic and international electoral observers,
and for the peaceful resolution of Sudan’s con-
flicts;
(4) encourages the African Union and its
member states to continue supporting the Suda-
nese people’s aspirations for democracy, justice,
and peace;
(5) expresses concern that the participation in
the transitional government of individuals who
have been implicated in possible war crimes
would undermine efforts to restore peace and
democracy and pursue justice and account-
ability in Sudan;
(6) emphasizes that until a transition to a
credible civilian-led government that reflects the
aspirations of the Sudanese people is estab-
lished, the process to consider removing Sudan
from the State Sponsor of Terrorism List, lifting
any other remaining sanctions on Sudan, or
normalizing relations with the Government of
Sudan will continue to be suspended; and
(7) stands in solidarity with the people of
Sudan and their aspirations for a democratic,
participatory government.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the com-
mittee-reported amendment to the res-
olution be withdrawn; that the Cruz
substitute amendment to the resolu-
tion at the desk be considered and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.027 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4737
July 9, 2019
agreed to; that the resolution, as
amended, be agreed to; that the com-
mittee-reported amendment to the pre-
amble be withdrawn; that the Cruz
amendment to the preamble at the
desk be considered and agreed to; and
that the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The committee-reported amendment
to the resolution, in the nature of a
substitute, was withdrawn.
The amendment (No. 908), in the na-
ture of a substitute, was agreed to as
follows:
(Purpose: In the nature of a substitute)
Strike all after the resolving clause and in-
sert the following:
That the Senate—
(1) supports the African Union Peace and
Security Council’s initial 2-week deadline
urging a swift transfer of power by the mili-
tary to a civilian-led political authority in
Sudan that—
(A) has a civilian character and composi-
tion reflecting the will of the Declaration of
Freedom and Change Forces leading negotia-
tions on behalf of citizens; and
(B) immediately begins a transparent proc-
ess leading to credible elections and security
sector reforms;
(2) calls on the ruling authorities in
Sudan—
(A) to respect the right to freedom of asso-
ciation and expression;
(B) to protect the rights of opposition po-
litical parties, journalists, human rights de-
fenders, religious minorities, nongovern-
mental organizations, and civic movements
to operate without interference;
(C) to lift the bureaucratic restrictions on,
and facilitate access for, humanitarian relief
operations;
(D) to introduce strong measures to create
transparency and address the structural cor-
ruption and kleptocracy of the state;
(E) to pursue accountability for serious
crimes and human rights abuses by former
President al-Bashir’s regime and permit
international human rights monitors to de-
ploy in Sudan to examine the allegations of
atrocities committed against protesters and
civilians during 2019;
(F) to release remaining political prisoners
and refrain from arbitrary arrest, detention,
and torture; and
(G) to immediately restore Internet access
and avoid further denial of access to suppress
the fundamental human right of freedom of
expression and association by Sudanese citi-
zens;
(3) urges the United States Government to
lead in efforts that advance a peaceful trans-
fer of power and a civilian-led transition pe-
riod focused on creating the conditions under
which timely democratic elections can be
held that will meet international standards
and be overseen by credible domestic and
international electoral observers, and for the
peaceful resolution of Sudan’s conflicts;
(4) encourages the African Union and its
member states to continue supporting the
Sudanese people’s aspirations for democracy,
justice, and peace;
(5) expresses concern that the participation
in the transitional government of individuals
who have been implicated in possible war
crimes would undermine efforts to restore
peace and democracy and pursue justice and
accountability in Sudan;
(6) emphasizes that until a transition to a
credible civilian-led government that re-
flects the aspirations of the Sudanese people
is established, the process to consider remov-
ing Sudan from the State Sponsor of Ter-
rorism List, lifting any other remaining
sanctions on Sudan, or normalizing relations
with the Government of Sudan will continue
to be suspended; and
(7) stands in solidarity with the people of
Sudan and their aspirations for a demo-
cratic, participatory government.
The resolution (S. Res. 188), as
amended, was agreed to.
The committee-reported amendment
to the preamble was withdrawn.
The amendment (No. 909) to the pre-
amble was agreed to as follows:
(Purpose: To amend the preamble)
Strike the preamble and insert the fol-
lowing:
Whereas the nation of Sudan has endured
corrupt and brutal dictatorships for most of
its post-independence period since 1956;
Whereas President Omar al-Bashir came to
power through a military coup in 1989, and
for the next 3 decades his government was
responsible for horrendous crimes in Sudan,
especially in Darfur, South Kordofan, Blue
Nile, and in what is now the Republic of
South Sudan;
Whereas the United States Government
designated Sudan as a State Sponsor of Ter-
rorism on August 12, 1993, for its support to
international terrorist organizations and ex-
tremists, including elements of what would
later be known as al Qaeda;
Whereas more than 2 decades of civil war
between President al-Bashir’s government
and insurgents in southern Sudan resulted in
more than 2,000,000 deaths and led to the
eventual independence of South Sudan in
2011;
Whereas in 2003, President al-Bashir’s gov-
ernment launched a ruthless crackdown
against insurgents and civilians in Darfur,
which killed at least 300,000 Sudanese and
displaced 2,500,000 more people, prompting
Congress and the Administration of Presi-
dent George W. Bush, in 2004, to describe the
Government of Sudan’s actions in Darfur as
genocide;
Whereas in 2011, when conflict resumed in
South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, Presi-
dent al-Bashir’s government conducted in-
discriminate bombings, raided villages,
raped and killed civilians, and waged a cam-
paign of forced starvation in the Nuba Moun-
tains region of South Kordofan that dis-
placed as many as 2,000,000 people;
Whereas, while the fighting between gov-
ernment forces and insurgents in Darfur has
subsided since 2016, violent attacks against
civilians continue and humanitarian access
remains restricted in some opposition
stronghold areas of Darfur, South Kordofan,
and Blue Nile;
Whereas President al-Bashir remains the
subject of 2 outstanding arrest warrants
from the International Criminal Court based
on charges that include 5 counts of crimes
against humanity, 2 counts of war crimes,
and 3 counts of genocide;
Whereas Sudan’s economic crisis risks
bringing the national economy to total col-
lapse, further increasing the possibility of
state failure and broader regional desta-
bilization that could threaten a wide array
of United States’ interests in East and North
Africa and the Red Sea regions;
Whereas the people of Sudan have engaged
since December 2018 in a wave of peaceful
protests throughout the country, demanding
an end to President al-Bashir’s brutal regime
and pressing for a citizen-centered demo-
cratic transition;
Whereas women have played a prominent
role in the protest movement and have
helped to bring about the ouster of former
President al-Bashir;
Whereas President al-Bashir’s government
unlawfully detained and tortured hundreds
of Sudanese during the protests, including
political leaders, journalists, doctors, union-
ists, and youth and women leaders, in gross
violation of international civil and human
rights, some of whom remain in detention;
Whereas on February 22, 2019, President al-
Bashir declared a year-long nationwide state
of emergency and curfew, dissolved his gov-
ernment, replaced state governors with sen-
ior security officers, and expanded the pow-
ers of Sudan’s security forces;
Whereas when protesters in early April
2019 challenged President al-Bashir’s decrees
and gathered in the tens of thousands in
front of Sudan’s military headquarters in
Khartoum to call for an end to the al-Bashir
regime, some elements of the security forces
tried to disperse the crowds with violence,
leading to clashes between internal security
forces and the military as some soldiers
sought to protect the protesters;
Whereas on April 11, 2019, after 5 days of
mass protests in front of their headquarters,
Sudan’s military removed President al-
Bashir from office, and the country’s First
Vice President and Minister of Defense, Lt.
General Awad Ibn Auf—
(1) announced that he would lead a Transi-
tional Military Council that would rule the
country for a 2-year period;
(2) suspended the Constitution;
(3) the dissolved the National Assembly;
and
(4) imposed a 3-month State of Emergency
and nightly curfew;
Whereas Lt. General Abdel-Fattah al-
Burhan, former general inspector of the Su-
danese Armed Forces, who replaced Lt. Gen-
eral Ibn Auf on April 12, 2019, as the chair-
man of the Transitional Military Council,
said, on April 21, 2019, that the council was
‘‘ready to hand over power tomorrow to a ci-
vilian government agreed by political
forces’’;
Whereas the Rapid Support Forces, para-
military forces led by Lt. General Moham-
med Hamdan Dagolo (also known as
‘‘Hemmeti’’), a former Janjaweed leader who
currently serves as the deputy chairman of
the Transitional Military Council—
(1) have been implicated by the United Na-
tions Panel of Experts in widespread viola-
tions of international humanitarian law that
human rights groups suggest may amount to
war crimes; and
(2) have been accused of killing protesters
during the recent uprising;
Whereas, the African Union Peace and Se-
curity Council convened on April 30, 2019,
and reiterated its conviction that ‘‘a mili-
tary-led transition in Sudan will be totally
unacceptable and contrary to the will and le-
gitimate aspirations’’ of the Sudanese peo-
ple, expressed ‘‘deep regret’’ that the mili-
tary had not stepped aside, and, noting nego-
tiations were underway, demanded that the
military hand over power to a civilian-led
transitional authority within 60 days;
Whereas on June 3, 2019, the Rapid Support
Forces led a brutal attack on peaceful pro-
testers, with the aim of eradicating a large
sit-in site in front of Sudan’s military head-
quarters in Khartoum, which resulted in
more than 100 deaths, hundreds of injuries,
several cases of rape, indiscriminate beat-
ings and shooting of unarmed protesters, and
other human rights abuses;
Whereas, the Khartoum massacre on June
3, 2019, was followed by a nationwide crack-
down led by the Rapid Support Forces
against peaceful protesters and civilians that
included—
(1) violent attacks on citizens in Khartoum
and other major cities;
(2) the brutal detention of protesters and
opposition leaders like Yasir Arman, with
many disappearances of those detained;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.048 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4738 July 9, 2019
(3) the targeting of hospitals and medical
workers caring for the injured; and
(4) the overt attempts by Sudanese au-
thorities to cover-up the scale of their atroc-
ities by dumping bodies in the Nile river and
shutting off access to the Internet; and
Whereas, the international community has
widely condemned the actions of the Rapid
Support Forces, with the African Union’s
Peace and Security Council voting on June 6,
2019, to suspend Sudan from all African
Union activities until a civilian government
is formed, and United Nations’ experts ap-
pointed by the United Nations Human Rights
Council, on June 12, 2019, calling for an inde-
pendent investigation into the violence
against protesters in Sudan: Now, therefore,
be it
The preamble, as amended, was
agreed to.
The resolution, as amended, and the
preamble, as amended, reads as follows:
S. RES. 188
Whereas the nation of Sudan has endured
corrupt and brutal dictatorships for most of
its post-independence period since 1956;
Whereas President Omar al-Bashir came to
power through a military coup in 1989, and
for the next 3 decades his government was
responsible for horrendous crimes in Sudan,
especially in Darfur, South Kordofan, Blue
Nile, and in what is now the Republic of
South Sudan;
Whereas the United States Government
designated Sudan as a State Sponsor of Ter-
rorism on August 12, 1993, for its support to
international terrorist organizations and ex-
tremists, including elements of what would
later be known as al Qaeda;
Whereas more than 2 decades of civil war
between President al-Bashir’s government
and insurgents in southern Sudan resulted in
more than 2,000,000 deaths and led to the
eventual independence of South Sudan in
2011;
Whereas in 2003, President al-Bashir’s gov-
ernment launched a ruthless crackdown
against insurgents and civilians in Darfur,
which killed at least 300,000 Sudanese and
displaced 2,500,000 more people, prompting
Congress and the Administration of Presi-
dent George W. Bush, in 2004, to describe the
Government of Sudan’s actions in Darfur as
genocide;
Whereas in 2011, when conflict resumed in
South Kordofan and Blue Nile states, Presi-
dent al-Bashir’s government conducted in-
discriminate bombings, raided villages,
raped and killed civilians, and waged a cam-
paign of forced starvation in the Nuba Moun-
tains region of South Kordofan that dis-
placed as many as 2,000,000 people;
Whereas, while the fighting between gov-
ernment forces and insurgents in Darfur has
subsided since 2016, violent attacks against
civilians continue and humanitarian access
remains restricted in some opposition
stronghold areas of Darfur, South Kordofan,
and Blue Nile;
Whereas President al-Bashir remains the
subject of 2 outstanding arrest warrants
from the International Criminal Court based
on charges that include 5 counts of crimes
against humanity, 2 counts of war crimes,
and 3 counts of genocide;
Whereas Sudan’s economic crisis risks
bringing the national economy to total col-
lapse, further increasing the possibility of
state failure and broader regional desta-
bilization that could threaten a wide array
of United States’ interests in East and North
Africa and the Red Sea regions;
Whereas the people of Sudan have engaged
since December 2018 in a wave of peaceful
protests throughout the country, demanding
an end to President al-Bashir’s brutal regime
and pressing for a citizen-centered demo-
cratic transition;
Whereas women have played a prominent
role in the protest movement and have
helped to bring about the ouster of former
President al-Bashir;
Whereas President al-Bashir’s government
unlawfully detained and tortured hundreds
of Sudanese during the protests, including
political leaders, journalists, doctors, union-
ists, and youth and women leaders, in gross
violation of international civil and human
rights, some of whom remain in detention;
Whereas on February 22, 2019, President al-
Bashir declared a year-long nationwide state
of emergency and curfew, dissolved his gov-
ernment, replaced state governors with sen-
ior security officers, and expanded the pow-
ers of Sudan’s security forces;
Whereas when protesters in early April
2019 challenged President al-Bashir’s decrees
and gathered in the tens of thousands in
front of Sudan’s military headquarters in
Khartoum to call for an end to the al-Bashir
regime, some elements of the security forces
tried to disperse the crowds with violence,
leading to clashes between internal security
forces and the military as some soldiers
sought to protect the protesters;
Whereas on April 11, 2019, after 5 days of
mass protests in front of their headquarters,
Sudan’s military removed President al-
Bashir from office, and the country’s First
Vice President and Minister of Defense, Lt.
General Awad Ibn Auf—
(1) announced that he would lead a Transi-
tional Military Council that would rule the
country for a 2-year period;
(2) suspended the Constitution;
(3) the dissolved the National Assembly;
and
(4) imposed a 3-month State of Emergency
and nightly curfew;
Whereas Lt. General Abdel-Fattah al-
Burhan, former general inspector of the Su-
danese Armed Forces, who replaced Lt. Gen-
eral Ibn Auf on April 12, 2019, as the chair-
man of the Transitional Military Council,
said, on April 21, 2019, that the council was
‘‘ready to hand over power tomorrow to a ci-
vilian government agreed by political
forces’’;
Whereas the Rapid Support Forces, para-
military forces led by Lt. General Moham-
med Hamdan Dagolo (also known as
‘‘Hemmeti’’), a former Janjaweed leader who
currently serves as the deputy chairman of
the Transitional Military Council—
(1) have been implicated by the United Na-
tions Panel of Experts in widespread viola-
tions of international humanitarian law that
human rights groups suggest may amount to
war crimes; and
(2) have been accused of killing protesters
during the recent uprising;
Whereas, the African Union Peace and Se-
curity Council convened on April 30, 2019,
and reiterated its conviction that ‘‘a mili-
tary-led transition in Sudan will be totally
unacceptable and contrary to the will and le-
gitimate aspirations’’ of the Sudanese peo-
ple, expressed ‘‘deep regret’’ that the mili-
tary had not stepped aside, and, noting nego-
tiations were underway, demanded that the
military hand over power to a civilian-led
transitional authority within 60 days;
Whereas on June 3, 2019, the Rapid Support
Forces led a brutal attack on peaceful pro-
testers, with the aim of eradicating a large
sit-in site in front of Sudan’s military head-
quarters in Khartoum, which resulted in
more than 100 deaths, hundreds of injuries,
several cases of rape, indiscriminate beat-
ings and shooting of unarmed protesters, and
other human rights abuses;
Whereas, the Khartoum massacre on June
3, 2019, was followed by a nationwide crack-
down led by the Rapid Support Forces
against peaceful protesters and civilians that
included—
(1) violent attacks on citizens in Khartoum
and other major cities;
(2) the brutal detention of protesters and
opposition leaders like Yasir Arman, with
many disappearances of those detained;
(3) the targeting of hospitals and medical
workers caring for the injured; and
(4) the overt attempts by Sudanese au-
thorities to cover-up the scale of their atroc-
ities by dumping bodies in the Nile river and
shutting off access to the Internet; and
Whereas, the international community has
widely condemned the actions of the Rapid
Support Forces, with the African Union’s
Peace and Security Council voting on June 6,
2019, to suspend Sudan from all African
Union activities until a civilian government
is formed, and United Nations’ experts ap-
pointed by the United Nations Human Rights
Council, on June 12, 2019, calling for an inde-
pendent investigation into the violence
against protesters in Sudan: Now, therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the African Union Peace and
Security Council’s initial 2-week deadline
urging a swift transfer of power by the mili-
tary to a civilian-led political authority in
Sudan that—
(A) has a civilian character and composi-
tion reflecting the will of the Declaration of
Freedom and Change Forces leading negotia-
tions on behalf of citizens; and
(B) immediately begins a transparent proc-
ess leading to credible elections and security
sector reforms;
(2) calls on the ruling authorities in
Sudan—
(A) to respect the right to freedom of asso-
ciation and expression;
(B) to protect the rights of opposition po-
litical parties, journalists, human rights de-
fenders, religious minorities, nongovern-
mental organizations, and civic movements
to operate without interference;
(C) to lift the bureaucratic restrictions on,
and facilitate access for, humanitarian relief
operations;
(D) to introduce strong measures to create
transparency and address the structural cor-
ruption and kleptocracy of the state;
(E) to pursue accountability for serious
crimes and human rights abuses by former
President al-Bashir’s regime and permit
international human rights monitors to de-
ploy in Sudan to examine the allegations of
atrocities committed against protesters and
civilians during 2019;
(F) to release remaining political prisoners
and refrain from arbitrary arrest, detention,
and torture; and
(G) to immediately restore Internet access
and avoid further denial of access to suppress
the fundamental human right of freedom of
expression and association by Sudanese citi-
zens;
(3) urges the United States Government to
lead in efforts that advance a peaceful trans-
fer of power and a civilian-led transition pe-
riod focused on creating the conditions under
which timely democratic elections can be
held that will meet international standards
and be overseen by credible domestic and
international electoral observers, and for the
peaceful resolution of Sudan’s conflicts;
(4) encourages the African Union and its
member states to continue supporting the
Sudanese people’s aspirations for democracy,
justice, and peace;
(5) expresses concern that the participation
in the transitional government of individuals
who have been implicated in possible war
crimes would undermine efforts to restore
peace and democracy and pursue justice and
accountability in Sudan;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.043 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4739
July 9, 2019
(6) emphasizes that until a transition to a
credible civilian-led government that re-
flects the aspirations of the Sudanese people
is established, the process to consider remov-
ing Sudan from the State Sponsor of Ter-
rorism List, lifting any other remaining
sanctions on Sudan, or normalizing relations
with the Government of Sudan will continue
to be suspended; and
(7) stands in solidarity with the people of
Sudan and their aspirations for a demo-
cratic, participatory government.
f
CHRISTA MCAULIFFE COMMEMO-
RATIVE COIN ACT OF 2019
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. 239 and that
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 239) to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of
Christa McAuliffe.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. THUNE. I further ask unanimous
consent that the Shaheen amendment,
which is at the desk, be considered and
agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 907) was agreed
to, as follows:
(Purpose: To improve the bill)
On page 4, line 13, strike ‘‘2020’’ and insert
‘‘2021’’.
On page 5, line 6, strike ‘‘2020’’ and insert
‘‘2021’’.
On page 5, line 7, strike ‘‘2020’’ and insert
‘‘2021’’.
Mr. THUNE. I ask unanimous con-
sent that the bill be considered read a
third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
for a third reading and was read the
third time.
Mr. THUNE. I know of no further de-
bate on the bill, as amended.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
If not, the bill having been read the
third time, the question is, Shall the
bill pass?
The bill, as amended, was passed, as
follows:
S. 239
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Christa
McAuliffe Commemorative Coin Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) Christa McAuliffe was a social studies
teacher at Concord High School in Concord,
New Hampshire.
(2) In 1985, Christa McAuliffe was selected
to be the first participant in the Teacher in
Space program of the National Aeronautics
and Space Administration.
(3) On January 28, 1986, Christa McAuliffe
and 6 other astronauts were tragically killed
during the Space Shuttle Challenger dis-
aster.
(4) In 1989, For Inspiration and Recognition
of Science and Technology (in this Act re-
ferred to as ‘‘FIRST’’) was founded to inspire
young people’s interest and participation in
science and technology.
(5) The mission of FIRST ‘‘is to inspire
young people to be science and technology
leaders, by engaging them in exciting men-
tor-based programs that build science, engi-
neering, and technology skills, that inspire
innovation, and that foster well-rounded life
capabilities including self-confidence, com-
munication, and leadership’’.
(6) 2019 marks the 30th anniversary of the
founding of FIRST.
(7) Each year, more than 1,000,000 children
from the United States and more than 86
countries participate in a FIRST program.
(8) Studies have shown that alumni of
FIRST programs are more likely to become
scientists and engineers and to volunteer in
their communities.
(9) FIRST is dedicated to carrying on the
mission of Christa McAuliffe of inspiring
students and creating a new generation of
dreamers and innovators.
(10) 2016 marked the 30th anniversary of
the Space Shuttle Challenger tragedy.
SEC. 3. COIN SPECIFICATIONS.
(a) DENOMINATIONS.—In commemoration of
Christa McAuliffe, the Secretary of the
Treasury (hereafter referred to in this Act as
the ‘‘Secretary’’) shall mint and issue not
more than 350,000 $1 coins, each of which
shall—
(1) weigh 26.73 grams;
(2) have a diameter of 1.500 inches; and
(3) contain at least 90 percent silver.
(b) LEGAL TENDER.—The coins minted
under this Act shall be legal tender, as pro-
vided in section 5103 of title 31, United States
Code.
(c) NUMISMATIC ITEMS.—For purposes of
sections 5134 and 5136 of title 31, United
States Code, all coins minted under this Act
shall be considered to be numismatic items.
SEC. 4. DESIGN OF COINS.
(a) DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The design of the coins
minted under this Act shall bear—
(A) an image of and the name of Christa
McAuliffe on the obverse side; and
(B) a design on the reverse side that de-
picts the legacy of Christa McAuliffe as a
teacher.
(2) DESIGNATION AND INSCRIPTIONS.—On
each coin minted under this Act, there shall
be—
(A) a designation of the value of the coin;
(B) an inscription of the year ‘‘2021’’; and
(C) inscriptions of the words ‘‘Liberty’’,
‘‘In God We Trust’’, ‘‘United States of Amer-
ica’’, and ‘‘E Pluribus Unum’’.
(b) SELECTION.—The design for the coins
minted under this Act shall be—
(1) selected by the Secretary, after con-
sultation with the family of Christa
McAuliffe, FIRST, and the Commission of
Fine Arts; and
(2) reviewed by the Citizens Coinage Advi-
sory Committee.
SEC. 5. ISSUANCE OF COINS.
(a) QUALITY OF COINS.—Coins minted under
this Act shall be issued in uncirculated and
proof qualities.
(b) MINT FACILITY.—Only 1 facility of the
United States Mint may be used to strike
any particular quality of the coins minted
under this Act.
(c) PERIOD FOR ISSUANCE.—The Secretary
may issue coins under this Act only during
the period beginning on January 1, 2021, and
ending on December 31, 2021.
SEC. 6. SALE OF COINS.
(a) SALE PRICE.—The coins issued under
this Act shall be sold by the Secretary at a
price equal to the sum of—
(1) the face value of the coins;
(2) the surcharge provided under section
7(a) with respect to the coins; and
(3) the cost of designing and issuing the
coins, including—
(A) labor;
(B) materials;
(C) dies;
(D) use of machinery;
(E) overhead expenses;
(F) marketing; and
(G) shipping.
(b) BULK SALES.—The Secretary shall
make bulk sales of the coins issued under
this Act at a reasonable discount.
(c) PREPAID ORDERS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ac-
cept prepaid orders for the coins minted
under this Act before the issuance of the
coins.
(2) DISCOUNT.—Sale prices with respect to
prepaid orders under paragraph (1) shall be
at a reasonable discount.
SEC. 7. SURCHARGES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—All sales of coins issued
under this Act shall include a surcharge of
$10 per coin.
(b) DISTRIBUTION.—Subject to section
5134(f) of title 31, United States Code, and
section 8(2), all surcharges received by the
Secretary from the sale of coins issued under
this Act shall be promptly paid by the Sec-
retary to the FIRST robotics program for
the purpose of engaging and inspiring young
people, through mentor-based programs, to
become leaders in the fields of science, tech-
nology, engineering, and mathematics.
(c) AUDITS.—The FIRST robotics program
shall be subject to the audit requirements of
section 5134(f)(2) of title 31, United States
Code, with respect to the amounts received
under subsection (b).
SEC. 8. FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
The Secretary shall take such actions as
may be necessary to ensure that—
(1) minting and issuing coins under this
Act result in no net cost to the Federal Gov-
ernment; and
(2) no funds, including applicable sur-
charges, are disbursed to any recipient des-
ignated in section 7(b) until the total cost of
designing and issuing all of the coins author-
ized by this Act, including labor, materials,
dies, use of machinery, overhead expenses,
marketing, and shipping, is recovered by the
United States Treasury, consistent with sec-
tions 5112(m) and 5134(f) of title 31, United
States Code.
Mr. THUNE. I further ask unanimous
consent that the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST
TIME—H.R. 2740 AND H.R. 3055
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I un-
derstand that there are two bills at the
desk, and I ask for their first reading
en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the bills by title for the
first time en bloc.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 2740) making appropriations
for the Departments of Labor, Health and
Human Services, and Education, and related
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY6.041 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4740 July 9, 2019
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 3055) making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
Mr. THUNE. I now ask for a second
reading, and I object to my own re-
quest, all en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will
receive a second reading on the next
legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY, JULY
10, 2019
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 9:30 a.m., Wednesday, July
10; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Wetherell nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order following the remarks of
Senator CASEY.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
f
NOMINATIONS
Mr. CASEY. Madam President, I rise
this evening to talk about judicial
nominations and, in my view, the state
of play, where we are. I want to high-
light some of the very real impacts
these nominations have on Americans
across the board.
We have had a number of opportuni-
ties this year to come together and
have agreement on some judicial nomi-
nations, but, frankly, this year—the
last several years—this issue has been
the subject of conflict and sometimes
rancor and division on the Senate floor
and in the committee, the committee
of jurisdiction, the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
I have raised concerns about the will-
ingness of Senate Republicans to dis-
mantle longstanding Senate rules but
also Senate norms, all in a rush to
pack the bench with nominees who are
often both ideological and also, in
some cases—not in all but in some
cases—both too ideological and often
unqualified.
Early this afternoon, the Senate
voted to confirm Daniel Aaron Bress to
a Ninth Circuit seat in California. I
will talk about his nomination just by
way of example, not by way of argu-
ment before a confirmation vote be-
cause that has passed.
I think his nomination and confirma-
tion are another example of the decline
of the Senate’s once-proud traditions
relating to judicial nominations.
He was opposed by both of his home
State Senators. Both Senator FEIN-
STEIN and Senator HARRIS did not re-
turn a blue slip for Daniel Aaron Bress.
The blue slip, as many people know,
is literally a single piece of paper
where Senators sign their name and
then check off whether they support or
oppose, as a way to have consensus be-
tween Senators from their home State,
and it has always been accorded re-
spect and deference in this Chamber,
but that has all changed now.
In this case, you had a California
nomination—I will get to that part of
it in a moment—where, as I said, both
Senators did not return blue slips. In
this case, in particular, I think it is
particularly offensive because Senator
FEINSTEIN is the ranking member of
the committee.
For those who don’t pay attention to
all this terminology, ‘‘ranking mem-
ber’’ is the top person in one party who
is not the chairman or chairwoman, as
the case may be.
So as the top Democrat, the ranking
member of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee, her opposition to Judge Bress
should be an important factor in his
nomination and confirmation.
Prior to this administration, the Ju-
diciary Committee had never held a
hearing for a nominee from the rank-
ing member’s home State without his
or her support. Again, that has all
changed just recently.
Prior rules and norms have not
stopped Republicans in the Senate
from pushing extreme and sometimes
corporate nominees through this proc-
ess, especially at the circuit court
level.
In a recent press release, Senator
FEINSTEIN and Senator HARRIS ex-
plained that they opposed Judge Bress
in part because he had so few connec-
tions to California. He lived in Cali-
fornia for only 1 year since graduating
from high school, he has not voted in
California in an election for over a dec-
ade, and the California bar lists him as
a Washington, DC, attorney.
I mention that because that should
be relevant. When a home State Sen-
ator—in this case, two home State Sen-
ators, one of whom is the top Democrat
on the Judiciary Committee—I think
in that case there should be deference
paid to that kind of concern that is
raised. After all, they both represent
their State.
As I mentioned earlier, the blue slip
process is predicated on the idea that
home State Senators are more familiar
than anyone else with their State’s
legal community. I think that goes
without saying. They serve an impor-
tant role in nominating individuals to
serve and represent the State.
Judge Bress is an example of why the
blue slip process is so important. He is
not part of the California legal commu-
nity. Despite objections of the Sen-
ators, he will now sit on the Ninth Cir-
cuit Court of Appeals and decide cases
for a State with over 39 million resi-
dents at last count.
Without blue slips, what would pre-
vent a California judge from being
nominated to a court in another State?
What would happen if you had someone
from a different State, who had very
little ties to a State, be nominated and
confirmed, for example, to serve in a
State like Pennsylvania? It doesn’t
make a lot of sense to most people. It
is a norm that should not be violated.
His nomination illustrates how the
blue slip process has been eviscerated,
especially for the circuit courts, which
is something that I had some firsthand
experience with. I did not return a blue
slip on one nominee who was con-
firmed, and in the second case, there
was a hearing scheduled over my objec-
tions by way of not returning a blue
slip.
That experience that I had as a Sen-
ator whose blue slip and the deference
that should be paid as part of that blue
slip process—that circumstance in my
case is at variance with my experience
for district court judges.
Senator TOOMEY and I—my colleague
from Pennsylvania—have worked to-
gether to jointly recommend experi-
enced, consensus nominees for the Fed-
eral district courts in Pennsylvania.
We have three districts—the Eastern
District, the Middle District, and the
Western District.
Unfortunately, this bipartisan dis-
trict court process has become the ex-
ception, not the rule. It used to pertain
here in the Senate, where every State
had some kind of process by which
nominees were presented for confirma-
tion by their home State Senators, and
the White House—the administration—
in every case would pay deference to
that.
That is exceedingly rare today. I am
thankful we have maintained it so far
in Pennsylvania with regard to the
work Senator TOOMEY and I do to-
gether and our staffs do together to
reach consensus. It doesn’t always
work, by the way, but usually no one
hears about the ones who don’t work
out because we keep that to ourselves
and move on to the next person and see
if we can’t reach consensus. I appre-
ciate that. I think we are either at 19
or 20 judges confirmed since 2011, work-
ing together, and I hope we can main-
tain that so that at least—at least—the
blue slip process can be respected for
district court nominees.
I think people who elect us in our
home States expect that. They expect
us to work together and to try to reach
consensus where we can. Sometimes it
is not possible, but they do expect us to
do that. If there is an expectation of
consensus and bipartisan cooperation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.053 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S4741
July 9, 2019
that adheres to or is expected of Sen-
ators, then there ought to be institu-
tional support for that here in the Sen-
ate and by the administration. As I
mentioned, that is not the case today,
at least as it relates to the appeals
court, the circuit courts around the
country.
This has relevance, of course, not
just to process and norms and tradi-
tions; that is in and of itself important.
It is of even greater significance when
you consider the issues these courts
will deal with.
Just today, for example, there was
oral argument before the Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals in the Texas v. United
States case—a monumental case that
has the potential to cause millions of
Americans to lose coverage. We know
that because we know that since the
Affordable Care Act was passed, more
than 20 million people have gained cov-
erage, the larger share of that being
people who gained coverage through
the expansion of Medicaid.
If that case were to be successful—a
case brought by Republican attorneys
general from around the country and
then later opposed by Democratic at-
torneys general—if that case is suc-
cessful, as it was at the district court
level, 20 million people stand to lose
their coverage, and a much larger num-
ber—depending on which number is on
the record currently, but at least 150
million-plus Americans have protec-
tions today because of the Affordable
Care Act, like the protection if you
have a preexisting condition protec-
tion.
Under the old system, the old rules,
the old law, you could be denied treat-
ment or coverage because you have a
preexisting condition. That was hap-
pening routinely. That is no longer the
law today. The law today is that if you
have a preexisting condition, you can
still get coverage. As I said, that would
be at risk for something north of 150
million Americans. Some of the data
tells us the numbers are equally sub-
stantial when it comes to different
parts of the law and those who are ad-
versely or potentially adversely af-
fected.
If you had to step back and summa-
rize where we have been in the last
more than—just about 21⁄2 years now
since the Trump administration came
into office, working with House Repub-
licans and Senate Republicans, you
have had a campaign—really a con-
stant campaign of what I would argue
is about three things, and maybe not
only three but at least three: ripping
away coverage; decimating the Med-
icaid Program or at least attempting
to over and over again; and thirdly,
sabotage—sabotage mostly by the ad-
ministration itself but also supported
by Republicans here in the Congress.
That sabotage has been, unfortunately,
successful.
As of January, for example, the Gal-
lup organization released data that
said the number of Americans—I am
reading from the first line of a news
story from the publication Vox. The
headline is ‘‘Under Trump, the number
of uninsured Americans has gone up by
7 million.’’ The sub-headline is ‘‘Even
in a strong economy, Americans are
losing their health coverage.’’ This is
an article written by Sarah Kliff—
someone who spends a lot of time writ-
ing about and analyzing healthcare as
an issue. It is dated January 23, 2019. I
will read just the first two sentences:
‘‘The number of Americans without
health insurance has increased by 7
million since President Donald Trump
took office, new Gallup data released
Wednesday shows.’’ Again, this is a
January 2019 story. It goes on from
there to say: ‘‘The country’s uninsured
rate has steadily ticked upward since
2016, rising from a low of 10.9 percent in
late 2016 to 13.7 percent—a four-year
high.’’
So at the end of 2016, at the begin-
ning of the Trump administration, the
uninsured rate was 10.9. At the end or
the latter part of 2018, going into 2019,
it stood at 13.7. So Gallup tells us that
7 million more people do not have
healthcare who had it when the Presi-
dent started his administration.
A number of organizations have
catalogued recent analyses of the po-
tential threats that could impact com-
munities if this Texas v. United States
case were successful. I will mention
again for the record that the liti-
gants—the ones who were bringing the
case, these Republican attorneys gen-
eral—prevailed at the district court
level. Now it is on appeal at the circuit
court, and, in my judgment, it is prob-
ably more likely than not that they
will prevail at that level too. Then, of
course, the only option would be the
Supreme Court, and I don’t have a lot
of confidence that this Supreme Court
would rule against that case, which
would result in chaos. That is a ter-
rible understatement for what would
happen when 20 million people poten-
tially lose their coverage and tens and
tens of millions more lose the protec-
tions they enjoy now, especially those
against the denial of treatment or cov-
erage because that individual has a
preexisting condition.
Here are the numbers, just to remind
folks. Everyone has heard the number
nationally. One hundred thirty-three
million Americans, roughly, have a
preexisting condition. In my home
State of Pennsylvania, that number is
a little more than 5.3 million people.
Those numbers are terribly high, but I
think the one really making an impres-
sion on me and I hope on others—espe-
cially those in Pennsylvania—is the
number of children in the Common-
wealth of Pennsylvania who have a pre-
existing condition. Six hundred forty-
two thousand seven hundred Pennsyl-
vania children have a preexisting con-
dition—642,700. No action by the U.S.
Congress, by the administration, or by
a court should ever result in any child
being denied coverage or treatment be-
cause of a preexisting condition—any
child but let alone numbers that are so
high and so offensive to even consider
that number of children or any portion
of that number could be denied cov-
erage.
The only number I will emphasize to-
night is 642,700 Pennsylvania children
with a preexisting condition. I won’t go
through all the numbers because I
know we are here late tonight, but an-
other number that jumps out at me—
and this number comes from a docu-
ment published by Protect Our Care
telling us in a publication today that
when you consider the doughnut hole
coverage, meaning that the Affordable
Care Act began to fill the coverage gap
when older Americans were paying for
prescription drugs and often paying ex-
orbitant prices for prescription drugs—
the Affordable Care Act began to chip
away at that number, so much and in
such a substantial fashion that the av-
erage senior, since the Affordable Care
Act was passed—and this is the period
of time between 2010 and 2016—that
seniors gained $2,272 on average, al-
most $2,300 per senior to help them
with their prescription drug costs by
helping to fill that so-called doughnut
hole, which is a very benign way to
talk about a terrible coverage gap that
burdens a lot of older Americans. In
Pennsylvania, that number is lower,
but it was still more than $1,100 per
person.
All of that will be at risk if this case
is successful. Just like the protections
for preexisting conditions are at risk,
the support that has been available up
until the recent past for prescription
drug coverage for seniors—that support
potentially could go away completely.
So seniors will again potentially be
footing the bill if this lawsuit is suc-
cessful.
Two more, just for the record. Access
to treatment would be in jeopardy for
some 800,000 people with opioid use dis-
order issues. We know there are a huge
number of Americans who have a sub-
stance use disorder issue, often an ad-
diction. A subcategory of that—prob-
ably the biggest subcategory—are
those with an opioid addiction. That
has hurt families of all kinds—rich and
poor, north and south, no matter where
you live—east, west, rural, urban, sub-
urban. It knows no bounds.
A lot of that support has come from
the support for quality treatment that
folks need to lift themselves out of the
grip of an addiction. A lot of that sup-
port comes from Medicaid expansion.
Whether it is the repeal bills that were
promoted on the Senate floor over and
over again or whether it is the lawsuit
that could have as devastating of an
impact on healthcare as any repeal bill
would, no matter where you turn, in
terms of Republican healthcare bills
and this lawsuit, you can see the ad-
verse impact on Medicaid expansion.
Virtually every one of them not only
wants to cut Medicaid expansion, in
most of the Republican bills, they want
to eliminate it over time—completely
eliminate Medicaid expansion. Some-
how it was wrong. I have to ask why.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.056 S09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S4742 July 9, 2019
Why was it wrong that millions of peo-
ple got their healthcare through an ex-
pansion of Medicaid? Why would any-
one ever doubt that someone next to
you who doesn’t have coverage, first
and foremost, and might have an opioid
addiction problem is getting coverage,
and because they have insurance cov-
erage, they can get treatment for that
terrible scourge our country is going to
be dealing with for decades—why is
that the wrong thing to do? How would
taking that coverage away from some-
one with an opioid problem advance
the interests of the American people?
The answer is, it wouldn’t. The answer
is, it would set back the efforts to deal
with a whole host of folks out there
who are getting treatment today sole-
ly, completely, because of Medicaid ex-
pansion.
The last thing I will mention is our
rural areas. I represent a State that
has 67 counties, and 48 of them are
rural. A lot of the rural hospitals in
those communities are already tee-
tering on the edge of collapse and have
been for years—not just the last sev-
eral years but for many years.
One of the fastest ways to ensure
that more rural hospitals would close
and collapse is to cut Medicaid or to
take away Medicaid expansion. That
has an adverse impact, the likes of
which we can’t even begin to calculate
because folks in rural Pennsylvania
will lose coverage if you decimate Med-
icaid or you take away Medicaid ex-
pansion, but that doesn’t end there.
A lot of folks in those communities
are getting treatment for an addiction
issue or something related. They will
be adversely impacted; their families
will; their communities will, but it
doesn’t stop there in a rural area.
In a lot of these rural areas in my
home State—and it is true all across
the country—the biggest employer, or
at least the second or third biggest em-
ployer, is often a hospital. In my State,
there are probably 25 counties where
the top employer in those 48 rural
counties—about half of them, rough-
ly—the No. 1 and No. 2 employer is a
hospital. So cutting Medicaid or elimi-
nating Medicaid expansion or sabo-
taging the health insurance markets or
taking away the coverage of the Af-
fordable Care Act has healthcare con-
sequences, has opioid addiction treat-
ment consequences, and of course has a
job consequence as well. If you cut
Medicaid in a lot of rural areas, you
are going to lose a lot of jobs. It is as
simple as that, as devastating as it is.
So we have a long way to go to make
progress on healthcare. I hope—I
hope—my Republican friends will come
together with us and work on lowering
the cost of healthcare and lowering the
cost of prescription drugs, but they
don’t seem to be that interested in
that. Some are, intermittently, once in
a while, but they don’t seem to be in-
terested because there is an obsession
in the Senate, on the Republican side,
with decimating the Medicaid Pro-
gram, ending Medicaid expansion, and
completely wiping out all the gains of
the Affordable Care Act.
That would be bad enough, but it is
doubly worse or it is doubly insulting,
I should say, when there is no plan for
replacement. So what if a court of law,
what if a Federal court in the Fifth
Circuit, in the next couple of months,
says the moving party here, the party
that wants to declare the Affordable
Care Act unconstitutional—declares
the moving party is the prevailing
party, that they win? Let’s say it
doesn’t go to the Supreme Court, but
even if it does, let’s say it loses there.
What happens then to those 20 million
people who got coverage? What hap-
pens to the 150 million-plus who have
coverage today, protections today, who
did not have it before the Affordable
Care Act? They were paying their pre-
miums for years, if not decades. They
had coverage for years, if not decades.
Their children were maybe covered in
their employer-sponsored plan, but in
many cases—maybe not in every case—
they didn’t have much protection from
preexisting conditions. They didn’t
have protections against lifetime lim-
its or caps on the treatment you can
get in a year or over a lifetime.
We had the bizarre and insulting and
degrading experience, where women
were discriminated against by the in-
surance companies because they were
women. Being a woman was actually,
in a sense, a preexisting condition.
That made no sense. Are we going to go
back to those days because a group of
attorneys general wanted to change
the law, and they couldn’t prevail on
the Senate floor, or they couldn’t pre-
vail over time in the House, or by way
of what the administration would do,
so they went into court, and they are
going to wipe out coverage for tens and
tens of millions of Americans? Is that a
good thing for America? I don’t think
so. I think that sends everything in the
wrong direction.
Unfortunately, that is not just the-
ory. Some of it is already happening.
As I said before, Gallup tells us that 7
million fewer people have healthcare
today, or at least as of January, than
did two Januarys before that. So we
have a long way to go to make progress
on healthcare, but we are not going to
make much progress around here if we
have a continual fight. I hope some will
agree to set aside the fight about re-
peal and lawsuits taking away cov-
erage. Let’s work together to lower
costs, and let’s work together to lower
the costs of prescription drugs, in par-
ticular, because I have to answer to a
lot of families.
One of them is Matt Stefanelli, a
young man we just spoke to today
talking about his children. Matt’s son
has type 1 diabetes. We are from the
same home county. He is worried not
only about his own healthcare, but he
is worried about his son’s healthcare.
We have an answer, and the answer is
to respond to families like Matt’s.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 7:07 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, July 10,
2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate July 9, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
DANIEL AARON BRESS, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G09JY6.055 S09JYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E877
July 9, 2019
TREATMENT OF DETAINEES AT
ICE DETENTION FACILITIES
HON. JASON CROW
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. CROW. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
clude in the RECORD two agency letters my of-
fice received in response to two inquiries I
sent in February.
The first is a June 25, 2019 letter in re-
sponse to a February 28, 2019 letter I wrote
with 19 of my colleagues to the U.S. Immigra-
tion and Customs Enforcement (‘‘ICE’’) regard-
ing public health risks and treatment of detain-
ees at ICE detention facilities and contract fa-
cilities.
The second is a June 28, 2019 letter in re-
sponse to a February 20, 2019 letter I wrote
to the Department of Homeland Security re-
garding medical concerns at the ICE contract
facility in Aurora, Colorado.
U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS
ENFORCEMENT,
June 18, 2019.
Hon. JASON CROW,
U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE CROW: Thank you
for your February 28, 2019 letter regarding
public health risks and treatment of detain-
ees at U.S. Immigration and Customs En-
forcement detention facilities and contract
facilities. Enclosed, please find answers to
the questions posed in your letter. The co-
signers of your letter will receive a separate,
identical response.
Thank you again for your letter and inter-
est in this important matter. Should you
wish to discuss this matter further, please do
not hesitate to contact me.
Sincerely,
RAYMOND KOVACIC,
Assistant Director, Office of
Congressional Relations.
U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCE-
MENT (ICE) RESPONSE TO THE FEBRUARY 28,
2019 LETTER REGARDING PUBLIC HEALTH
RISKS AND TREATMENT OF DETAINEES AT
DETENTION FACILITIES
1. How many and what kind of outbreaks
have occurred at ICE and contract detention
facilities nationwide in the past 12 months
and how many of those did the ICE Health
Service Corps oversee?
Response: In the past 12 months, the U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) Health Service Corps (IHSC) was noti-
fied of an estimated 308 public health inves-
tigations in 51 detention facilities housing
ICE detainees; those investigations affected
308 housing units. IHSC oversaw 112 of these
investigations in 15 facilities where IHSC is
the facility medical authority that operates
the medical clinic.
2. What is the ICE Health Service Corps
protocol for treating these diseases, includ-
ing the protocol to quarantine detainees?
Response: IHSC protocols and official guid-
ance for treating infectious diseases apply in
22 detention and staging facilities where
IHSC is the facility medical authority and
operates the medical clinic. ICE staff in
these 22 facilities conduct intake medical
screening for detainees inclusive of infec-
tious diseases and coordinate with local ICE
Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO)
personnel to implement a medical hold for
detainees diagnosed with infectious diseases
that pose a public health threat to detainees,
staff, visitors, and the community until the
detainee is rendered non-contagious. ICE
policies for these 22 facilities are designed to
control or limit the spread of infectious dis-
eases and minimize the impact on ICE oper-
ations. This action allows ICE staff suffi-
cient time to facilitate the necessary ar-
rangements for continuity of care prior to
the alien’s transfer, release, or removal.
Additionally, in these 22 facilities, an IHSC
medical provider or designee orders medical
isolation of detainees diagnosed with infec-
tious diseases in accordance with guidelines
on transmission-based precautions for the
duration of the infectious period to prevent
transmission. ICE staff are responsible for
providing a recommendation on cohorting
with restricted movement in adult detention
facilities and/or social distancing in family
residential facilities to help reduce the
spread of significant infectious diseases, if
appropriate.
IHSC does not have medical authority in
facilities where it does not operate the med-
ical clinic—each medical authority is re-
sponsible for developing its own facility poli-
cies and protocols for managing infectious
and communicable diseases in compliance
with governing detention standards. IHSC’s
assigned Field Medical Coordinators (FMCs)
in each area of responsibility conduct site
visits at locations housing detainees for over
72 hours to ensure that appropriate medical
services are being provided according to na-
tional detention standards and contractual
requirements.
3. How is the ICE Health Services Corps en-
suring that detainees are treated properly,
humanely and with dignity while in quar-
antine?
Response: ICE ERO oversees the civil im-
migration detention of one of the most high-
ly transient and diverse populations of any
detention or correctional system in the
world. ICE takes very seriously the health,
safety, and welfare of those in our custody,
and comprehensive medical care is provided
from the moment detainees arrive and
throughout the entirety of their stay.
As stated in Question 2, while IHSC does
not have direct operational oversight over
medical care in facilities where it does not
provide that care, its FMCs in each area of
responsibility work to ensure proper medical
services are being provided and that national
detention standards and contractual require-
ments are met.
In those facilities that are staffed by IHSC,
daily assessments are provided of those indi-
viduals that are cohorted due to exposure to
an infectious disease. IHSC monitors for
signs and symptoms associated with the con-
dition and also provides open access to sick
call and urgent care services that are usually
provided within the cohorted unit. During
these interventions, detainees have the op-
portunity to report any complaints related
to their medical and housing conditions.
4. Please provide a list of ICE-owned and
operated and contracted detention facilities
that ICE Health Services Corps has treated
for a disease outbreak and/or quarantine.
Response: The following indicates where
public health investigations occurred in the
past twelve months. Each facility’s medical
authority is responsible for overseeing public
health investigations in collaboration with
their local health department.
Facilities where IHSC is the medical au-
thority: Alexandria Staging Facility, Buffalo
(Batavia) Service Processing Center, Caro-
line Detention Facility, El Paso Service
Processing Center, Elizabeth Detention Cen-
ter, Eloy Federal Contract Facility, Flor-
ence Service Processing Center, Houston
Contract Detention Facility.
LaSalle ICE Processing Center (Jena),
Montgomery Processing Center (Houston),
Otay Mesa Detention Center (San Diego
CDF), Port Isabel, South Texas Family Resi-
dential Center (Dilley), South Texas ICE
Processing Center (Pearsall), T. Don Hutto
Residential Center.
Facilities where IHSC is not the medical
authority: Adelanto ICE Processing Center,
Albany County Jail, Broward Transitional
Center, Central Arizona Florence Correc-
tional Complex East, Cibola County Correc-
tional Center, Coastal Bend Detention Facil-
ity, Denver Contract Detention Facility,
East Hidalgo Detention Center, El Valle De-
tention Facility, Folkston ICE Processing
Center (D. Ray James), Geauga County Jail
(OH).
IAH Polk Adult Detention Facility, Impe-
rial Regional Detention Facility, James A.
Musick Facility, Jerome Combs Detention
Center, Joe Corley Detention Center, John-
son County Law Enforcement, La Palma
Correctional Center, Laredo Processing Cen-
ter, LaSalle County Regional Detention Cen-
ter (TX), McHenry County Jail (IL).
Mesa Verde ICE Processing Center, North-
east Ohio Correctional Ctr (Youngstown
CDF), Otay Mesa Detention Center (San
Diego CDF), Otero County Processing Cen-
ter, Pine Prairie ICE Processing Center,
Prairieland Detention Facility, Pulaski
County Detention Center, Rio Grande Deten-
tion Center, San Luis Detention Facility,
Stewart Detention Center.
Tallahatchie County Correctional Center,
Theo Lacey, Webb County Detention Center
(CCA), West Texas Detention Center, York
County Prison.
5. How many inter-facility detainee trans-
fers have occurred in the last 12 months na-
tionwide and how many of the detainees has
ICE Health Services Corps determined to
have had a viral disease?
Response: ICE cannot statistically report
this information in the manner in which it
was requested.
6. What is the ICE Health Service Corps
protocol for ensuring that newly-transferred
detainees do not pose a health risk to them-
selves or other detainees?
Response: At IHSC-staffed facilities, all de-
tainees are screened upon arriving at a facil-
ity and a prescreen is conducted to identify
those detainees who have acute or urgent
medical concerns so that further evaluation
can be prioritized. All facilities, including
those at which ICE houses its detainees pur-
suant to Intergovernmental Service Agree-
ments, conduct intake screenings to identify
individuals with time-sensitive health con-
cerns.
7. What is the ICE Health Service Corps
guidance in place to prevent communicable
diseases from spreading among detainee pop-
ulations?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY8.001 E09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E878 July 9, 2019
Response: Please see response to Question
2.
8. Which agency is responsible for over-
sight of the ICE Health Service Corps proto-
cols?
Response: IHSC is responsible for oversight
of IHSC protocols, which are only applicable
in the 22 facilities for which IHSC is the
medical authority and where IHSC operates
the medical clinic. These protocols comply
with state and local requirements, as well as
applicable detention standards.
9. What role does the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) play in re-
sponding to public health risks at ICE and
contract detention facilities?
Response: ICE defers questions on CDC au-
thorities and responsibilities to the CDC.
However, ICE notes that in general, public
health interventions fall under the authority
of local and state health departments, al-
though state health departments do occa-
sionally request assistance from the CDC. In
ICE’s case, IHSC routinely collaborates with
the CDC on public health interventions in-
volving multiple jurisdictions.
U.S. IMMIGRATION AND
CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT,
June 28, 2019.
Hon. JASON CROW,
House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE CROW: Thank you
for your February 20, 2019 letter to the De-
partment of Homeland Security.
I appreciate your concerns regarding the
recent expansion of the Denver Contract De-
tention Facility and welcome the oppor-
tunity to address them more fully. Please
see the attached enclosure with responses to
the specific questions posed in your letter.
Thank you again for your letter and inter-
est in this important matter. Please contact
the ICE Office of Congressional Relations for
additional assistance.
Sincerely,
MARK A. MORGAN,
Acting Director.
THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY’S
RESPONSE TO REPRESENTATIVE JASON
CROW’S FEBRUARY 20, 2019 LETTER
Please explain the number and types of dis-
ease outbreaks (i.e., chicken pox) in the past
year at the Denver Contract Detention Fa-
cility in Aurora, including the number of
outbreaks requiring quarantines. What are
the reporting criteria and requirements for
outbreaks and which entities receive the re-
ports?
The Denver Contract Detention Center
(CDF) has had seven cases of varicella and 15
probable or confirmed cases of mumps over
the past year.
In such cases, U.S. Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement’s (ICE) Health Service
Corps (IHSC) Public Health, Safety, and Pre-
paredness Unit (PHSP) and the Colorado
State Health Department are notified. Per
the ICE Performance-Based National Deten-
tion Standards 2011 (PBNDS 2011), facilities
shall comply with current and future plans
implemented by federal, state, or local au-
thorities addressing specific public health
issues including communicable disease re-
porting requirements (specific requirements
are codified in state regulations). Designated
medical staff shall notify the IHSC PHSP of
any ICE detainee with a significant commu-
nicable disease and of any contact or out-
break investigations involving ICE detainees
exposed to a significant communicable dis-
ease without known immunity.
Significant communicable diseases in-
clude, but are not limited to, varicella
(chicken pox), measles, mumps, pertussis
(whooping cough), and typhoid. Additionally,
IHSC provides a weekly cohort report to ICE
Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO)
leadership in those situations where
cohorting of exposed detainees is required.
2. What active have ICE and GEO taken to
respond to the recent varicella outbreaks
and what measures are being put in place to
prevent future outbreaks?
When active varicella is suspected or con-
firmed, the patient is isolated, placed under
airborne precautions, and the dorm in which
the patient was housed is placed under co-
hort status. In addition, dorm members and
susceptible contacts are then tested for their
immune status if documentation of immu-
nity is not available. Contacts with a posi-
tive titer, which is suggestive of immunity,
can be released from cohort status. Health
care staff monitor the dorms placed under
cohort status daily to identify any new pa-
tients with signs and symptoms of varicella.
The GEO Group Inc. (GEO) followed these
precautions in the seven cases identified.
Because medical staff from ICE and our
vendor, GEO, often do not know which de-
tainees have been in contact with or exposed
to disease prior to being detained, observa-
tion of early symptoms and prompt isolation
are used to prevent the spread of varicella.
IHSC and GEO have also consulted with the
state and local health departments regarding
their recommendations.
Additionally, ICE notes that six of the
seven varicella cases were at the facility for
less than three weeks prior to diagnosis. The
incubation period for varicella is 10 to 21
days, so it is not known whether they were
exposed to varicella before or after entering
the facility. All seven individuals came from
a facility in California where they were
housed for only a few days after crossing the
border.
3. Will ICE direct GEO to hire more prop-
erly-trained medical staff to accommodate
the increase in detainee admissions? Please
also describe what contract requirements
and oversight are in place to ensure that de-
tainees receive proper medical attention.
ICE continually evaluates medical services
nationwide to ensure the highest level of
care for its detained population. In accord-
ance with the terms and conditions related
to the number of full-time equivalent (FTE)
medical staff positions in ICE’s Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation (FAR)-based contract
with GEO, the service provider conducted a
staffing analysis and created a staffing plan
for the delivery of health care services. FAR-
based medical staffing plans, which typically
include additional FTEs for overtime, shift
rotations, and facility-specific cir-
cumstances, are reviewed by IHSC as part of
the initial acquisition process and, there-
after, as deemed necessary by ICE. IHSC also
has a Field Medical Coordinator (FMC) as-
signed to the Denver Area of Responsibility
who is responsible for monitoring medical
concerns at the Denver CDF. The FMC works
with local GEO medical staff to ensure de-
tainee healthcare services are being provided
appropriately and timely to detainees irre-
spective of the day-to-day changes in the
Denver CDF’s admissions and releases. In ad-
dition, the FMC receives reports regarding
medical cases on a routine basis.
All ICE-owned service processing centers,
contract detention facilities, and dedicated
inter-governmental service agreement facili-
ties are inspected annually by an ICE inspec-
tions contractor. ICE inspectors typically
spend three days auditing each facility. In
addition to environmental health, safety,
and corrections experts, each inspection
team includes a Detainee Rights subject
matter expert (SME) and a health profes-
sional (e.g., physician, physician’s assistant,
registered nurse, nurse practitioner, or a
medical professional SME). The health pro-
fessional conducts a Quality of Medical Care
(QMC) review as part of the inspection,
which measures the quality of detainee
health care across more than 20 areas of
health care, including such measures as
medication, grievances, suicide watch, hun-
ger strikes, screening and health assessment,
acute disease and chronic conditions, sick
call, urgent care, treatment of disability,
continuity of care, laboratory and
diagnostics, staffing, credentialing, and med-
ical recordkeeping practices. The results of
the QMC are reviewed by the IHSC division.
In addition to the annual inspection, de-
tention facilities are also subject to a num-
ber of special assessments conducted by ICE
ERO, as well as audits, reviews, and site vis-
its conducted by the Office of Detention
Oversight (ODO) within the ICE Office of
Professional Responsibility and by the OHS
Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties
(CRCL). When deficiencies are found during
any type of inspection or review, ICE works
with the field offices and facilities and col-
laborates with ICE ODO and CRCL to ensure
timely and appropriate corrective actions
are implemented to address issues and con-
cerns.
4. What requirements are in the GEO con-
tract or other ICE guidance to ensure detain-
ees are provided proper medical care?
ICE takes the health, safety, and welfare of
those in our care very seriously. Comprehen-
sive medical care is provided from the mo-
ment detainees arrive in ICE custody and
continues throughout the entirety of their
stay. This care includes an initial health
screening, as well as subsequent medical vis-
its, referrals to specialists, and 24-hour ac-
cess to emergency care as necessary.
Section IV.A.1.5–Management Plan of
ICE’s contract with GEO states that GEO
‘‘[u]understands the importance of a fully
qualified and trained professional staff in ap-
propriate number to operate a safe, secure,
and efficient medical department at the Au-
rora ICE Processing Center (the Center). Our
proposed staffing plan reflects a well thought
out and efficient strategy for staffing the
Center in order to provide detainees with ac-
cess to medical care 24 hours a day seven (7)
days a week.’’
Also, at Section IV.A.I.I–Quality Control
and Assurance. GEO is required to establish
a Quality Control Plan governing health
services at the Center to ensure that
healthcare services are in compliance with
the Performance Bases National Detention
Standards, court orders, American Correc-
tional Association (ACA) standards, stand-
ards established by the National Commission
of Correctional Health Care (NCCHC), and
specific client policies.
In addition, ICE’s PBNDS 2011 clearly lay
out the expected outcomes and expected
practices for detainee health care at dedi-
cated facilities like the Denver CDF in de-
tention standards 4.3–Medical Care and 4.4–
Medical Care (Women). These two standards
cover topics such as designation of author-
ity, communicable disease and infection con-
trol, notifying detainees about health care
services, translation and language access for
detainees with limited English proficiency,
pharmaceutical management, medications,
medical personnel, medical and mental
health screening of new arrivals, substance
dependence and detoxification, comprehen-
sive health assessment, mental health pro-
gram, medical/psychiatric alerts and holds,
annual health examinations, dental treat-
ment, sick call, emergency medical services
and first aid, delivery of medication, health
education and wellness information, re-
straints, continuity of care, informed con-
sent and involuntary treatment, medical
records, and documentation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY8.003 E09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E879
July 9, 2019
The Denver CDF is accredited by the ACA
and the NCCHC, and the facility is obligated
to comply with the requirements of both the
ICE PBNDS 2011 and the DHS Prison Rape
Elimination Act regulations. On October 4,
2018, ICE’s inspection contractor, The
Nakamoto Group, completed an annual de-
tention inspection. The Lead Compliance in-
spector recommended a final rating of
‘‘Meets Standards’’ and reported zero defi-
ciencies in medical care.
5. Please describe the contract relationship
between ICE and GEO and attach copies of
the relevant contract documents (e.g. agree-
ments, MOUs, guidance, etc.)
GEO was awarded an indefinite-delivery/in-
definite-quantity contract to provide deten-
tion services at the Denver CDF on Sep-
tember 15, 2011. The contract period of per-
formance included a 2-year base period and
four 2-year option periods. The contract Pe-
riod of Performance expires on September 16,
2021.
GEO provides full-time detention and
transportation services at the Denver CDF in
Aurora, Colorado, for ICE detainees. Services
are provided in compliance with the ICE
PBNDS 2011, ACA standards for adult local
detention facilities, standards for health
services in jails, NCCHC, and other applica-
ble state and local requirements.
6. Since 2015, how many 911 calls were
placed from the Facility to local and state
emergency professionals?
ICE is unable to provide a response, as it
does not track this data. However, as pre-
viously noted, detainees have access to 24-
hour emergency care as necessary.
7. When privately contracted facilities fail
to comply with their contractual obliga-
tions, ICE has the opportunity to issue com-
pliance waivers forgiving contractors for the
breach. Has ICE issued any compliance waiv-
ers for the Facility? If so, how many, and
what were the justifications for those waiv-
ers?
ICE has issued no compliance waiver to or
on behalf of the Denver CDF.
8. Since 2015, has ICE submitted a Contract
Discrepancy Report for the Facility fol-
lowing the granting of any compliance waiv-
ers? If so, please attach and all such reports
in your response.
ICE has not submitted a Contract Discrep-
ancy Report for the facility.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 37TH AN-
NUAL METRO DETROIT YOUTH
DAY
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the participants and orga-
nizers of the 37th annual Metro Detroit Youth
Day. This event provides young people in
Southeastern Michigan the opportunity to en-
gage with local officials and role models.
The Metro Detroit Youth Day started in 1981
to promote stronger relations between Detroit
residents and the business community. Since
it’s inception, the event has expanded to offer
approximately 35,000 children a day of recre-
ation and education on Belle Isle in the Detroit
River, becoming the largest youth event in the
state of Michigan. Metro Detroit Youth Day
hosts over 360 organizations and 260 busi-
nesses, allowing participants to build connec-
tions with civic leaders and nonprofit groups
that offer local employment and educational
opportunities. The event also provides college
scholarships to several graduating high school
students each year.
Metro Detroit Youth Day has received nu-
merous accolades for its work, including a
Point of Light Award from President George
H.W. Bush, and a Michigan Governor’s Award
on Physical Fitness for its promotion of phys-
ical activity and health. The event’s continued
success underscores its significant impact on
our nation’s youth by instilling the importance
of education and health. It has also provided
over 1,800 college scholarships since 1991,
making it an important fixture of educational
opportunity in the Detroit area. Metro Detroit
Youth Day provides vital contributions to the
vibrant and diverse community of Detroit
through its engagement of youth in South-
eastern Michigan.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the efforts of the organizers
and participants of the 37th annual Metro De-
troit Youth Day. It is my hope that Metro De-
troit Youth Day continues to serve young peo-
ple in Michigan and grow in the coming years.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF SFC
JOHNATHAN D. HOGGATT
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I am hon-
ored to recognize Sergeant First Class
Johnathan D. Hoggatt for his military service.
Sergeant First Class Hoggatt enlisted into
military service as an Infantryman at Fort
Benning, Georgia in 1998. He served in nu-
merous infantry leadership positions from Fire
Team Leader to Infantry Platoon Sergeant. His
last assignment was as the Battalion S2/S3-
Air and Ranger Instructor at the 6th Ranger
Training Battalion. He is currently an Oper-
ations NCOIC with Easy Squadron, Asym-
metric Warfare Group.
His assignments include A Co, 2nd Bat-
talion, 130th Infantry Regiment, Illinois Na-
tional Guard (Mattoon, Illinois); HHC, 6th
Ranger Training Battalion (Eglin AFB, FL); 1
Battalion, 9th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Infantry
Division (Fort Carson, CO); and numerous Vir-
ginia National Guard Units. He has deployed
to Iraq and Afghanistan, where he served dili-
gently and with honor to uphold and protect
the freedoms this nation provides.
SFC Hoggatt’s military education includes
Senior Leaders Course, Joint Fire Power
Course, Joint Air Operations Command and
Control Course, Military Free-Fall Basic
Course, Battle Staff Course, Pathfinder
Course, Tactical Certification Course,
Jumpmaster Course, Basic Instructor Course,
Emergency Medical Technician Course, Rang-
er School and Basic Airborne Course.
SFC Hoggatt has earned the Master Para-
chutist Badge, Pathfinder Badge, Ranger Tab,
Military Free-Fall Badge, Combat Infantry-
man’s Badge, and several other awards and
decorations. SFC Hoggatt holds a Bachelor of
Science in Biology from Virginia Common-
wealth University and is currently working on
a Masters of Arts in Biomedical Science from
Liberty University.
Madam Speaker, please join me in cele-
brating the courage displayed and sacrifice
made by Sergeant First Class Hoggatt during
his time in our nation’s armed forces. Our
gratitude to Sergeant First Class Hoggatt and
all our other servicemen and women cannot
be expressed enough.
f
HONORING COACH RON FIOCHETTA
HON. JOHN JOYCE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to congratulate Ron Fiochetta,
who will be posthumously inducted into the
All-American Amateur Baseball Association
Hall of Fame later this summer.
Baseball was not his only love. He also
coached football where I had the opportunity
to play for him. As a former player, student,
and someone who looked up to Coach Fio, I
realize this award is truly deserved. His late
wife, Joy, and his children continue to exem-
plify his commitment to community, coaching,
and leadership.
Sadly, Ron passed away in 1997 at the age
of 51, but his legacy lives on. He brought na-
tional recognition to Altoona in the AAABA
Tournament. He was the manager of Altoona’s
L.S. Fiore from 1984 through 1997. During his
tenure, L.S. Fiore won 10 Altoona AAABA
League championships, four AAABA Regional
championships, as well as a second place fin-
ish in the AAABA National Tournament in
1994. I take great pleasure in congratulating
the Fiochetta family on this great honor for
Coach Fio.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 60TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF ROGER AND RUTH
BORR
HON. BILL HUIZENGA
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, today I
rise to congratulate my longtime friends and
fellow West Michigan residents, Mr. Roger
Hale Borr and Mrs. Ruth Elaine Borr, who will
be celebrating their 60th wedding anniversary
this August.
This significant benchmark is a symbol of
their commitment to each other and to their
family. Throughout their marriage, Roger and
Ruth have been blessed with two children and
three grandchildren, who have seen firsthand
the love a dedicated marriage can bring. I am
happy to join their friends and loved ones in
extending my best to them as they celebrate
their 60th wedding anniversary on Tuesday,
August 6, 2019.
Over the years, I have personally witnessed
the devotion, affection, and passion they share
with not only each other, but the West Michi-
gan community as well. Through marriage,
Roger and Ruth have strived to serve others,
brought joy to one another, and shared their
wonderful example of kindness and love.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating my dear friends, Roger and Ruth,
on this exciting occasion. Happy 60th wedding
anniversary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A09JY8.005 E09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E880 July 9, 2019
HONORING IAN WOOLDRIDGE
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize Ian Wooldridge.
Ian is a very special young man who has ex-
emplified the finest qualities of citizenship and
leadership by taking an active part in the Boy
Scouts of America, Troop 1376, and earning
the most prestigious award of Eagle Scout.
Ian has been very active with his troop, par-
ticipating in many scout activities. Over the
many years Ian has been involved with scout-
ing, he has not only earned numerous merit
badges, but also the respect of his family,
peers, and community. Ian is a member of the
Order of the Arrow and holds the rank of
Firebuilder in the tribe of Mic-O-Say. Most no-
tably, Ian has contributed to his community
through his Eagle Scout project. For his
project, Ian constructed shelving units in the
storage annex of the Second Baptist Church
of Liberty, Missouri.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in commending Ian for his accomplish-
ments with the Boy Scouts of America and for
his efforts put forth in achieving the highest
distinction of Eagle Scout.
f
RECOGNIZING THE BREESE
AMERICAN LEGION
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the American Legion of Breese, IL,
which is celebrating its 100th year anniversary
this month.
The American Legion was commissioned by
Congress as a patriotic veteran’s organization.
This not-for-profit organization became the na-
tion’s largest wartime veteran’s service organi-
zation. The American Legion is dedicated to
mentoring our youth, advocating patriotism
with honor and promoting strong national se-
curity to continue their dedication to their fel-
low veterans.
In recognition of a 100 years of faithful serv-
ice, the Breese American Legion is hosting a
picnic on July 20th at 3 p.m., to celebrate with
their community. Guests will enjoy great
music, delicious food, games for all ages, a
petting zoo, and much more. All the proceeds
will be put towards benefitting community
scholarships, schools, youth programs, and
veterans.
It is an honor to extend my well wishes and
profound congratulations to the current offi-
cers—Commander Jeff Jung, Auxiliary Rep.
Julie Tebd, Sons of the American Legion Rep.
Mike Haag—and many others who have
upheld and played major roles to continue the
success of this organization.
Madam Speaker, over the past 100 years,
the Breese American Legion have supported
and uplifted their communities through their
many charitable programs. It is an honor to
recognize this organization as it celebrates
100 momentous years of service. I am excited
to see how it will continue to grow and wish
it all the best in the future.
MICHAEL WYNN RECEIVES THE
COLLIER COUNTY CITIZEN OF
THE YEAR FOR 2019
HON. FRANCIS ROONEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise to congratulate Michael Wynn who was
recently voted the Collier County Citizen of the
Year for 2019.
Being chairman and president of Sunshine
Ace Hardware in Naples, Mr. Wynn provides
leadership to stores delivering friendly and
helpful service with ‘‘Big City’’ quality in stores
in Estero, Bonita Springs, Golden Gate, Marco
Island, Naples, Port Charlotte, Largo and Port
Charlotte. Since 1992, Mr. Wynn has held var-
ious positions increasing in responsibility with
Sunshine Ace Hardware.
Michael is especially grateful for the oppor-
tunity to provide several basic hardware lines,
such as tools, builders’ hardware, paint and
glass, housewares and household appliances,
outdoor living and fishing products to the citi-
zens of Florida. His good-natured service to
the community has led to Michael being voted
as the Collier County Citizen of the Year for
2019.
I am grateful for Michael and his commit-
ment to his community. I look forward to see-
ing what the future holds from the positive ef-
fects of Mr. Wynn and Sunshine Ace Hard-
ware.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF NANCY
HAMOOD FOR HER EXEMPLARY
SERVICE
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Nancy Hamood for her ex-
emplary service with the Dearborn Police De-
partment. Her years of dedicated work are
worthy of commendation.
A lifelong resident of Dearborn, Nancy
Hamood dedicated her life to serving her com-
munity. Ms. Hamood was hired by the Dear-
born Police Department in 1979, initially work-
ing with the department’s operations division.
After a brief period in that position, Ms.
Hamood became the Administrative Assistant
to the Chief of Police, where she served under
Dearborn’s past five police chiefs. In her role,
she helped coordinate important community
events as well as meetings with Heads of
State, Federal Government Officials, and State
leaders. Ms. Hamood’s efforts ensured that
the department ran efficiently and effectively
during her tenure. After forty years of service
to the Dearborn community, Nancy Hamood
retired from the Dearborn Police in June of
this year.
Throughout her decorated career, Ms.
Hamood has served with distinction. Called
the ‘‘ultimate professional’’ by coworkers,
Nancy Hamood was highly respected during
her extended career. She often undertook
tasks and responsibilities beyond the normal
purview of her position, highlighting her dedi-
cation to service. We thank Nancy Hamood for
her commitment to professional excellence
and we congratulate her on her retirement.
Her dedicated leadership will be missed, but
we wish her good health and every happiness
in her retirement years.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Nancy Hamood for her four
decades of service with the Dearborn Police
Department. Her work has had a profound im-
pact on the police department and on the larg-
er Dearborn community.
f
CELEBRATING ANNIE CUMMINS’
20TH YEAR IN EMPLOYMENT
HON. BRAD R. WENSTRUP
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. WENSTRUP. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor and thank a member of my staff, who
is also a constituent from Ohio’s Second Dis-
trict, Annie Cummins.
Annie and her stepmother, Linda, have
worked alongside me for much of my careers
both in Congress and in private medical prac-
tice. Linda devoted 20 years as a medical as-
sistant in my practice, and 2019 marks Annie’s
20th year working for me in my medical prac-
tice and then in my Congressional office.
Annie Cummins is a hard worker, a caring
mother, and a loyal friend to all who know her.
I am honored to have worked with Annie for
two decades now. She has selflessly dedi-
cated her life to the people of Southern and
Southwestern Ohio, and her influence has
made my offices and our community a better
place.
I thank Annie for her dedication and hard
work throughout the years. I look forward to
working with her for many more.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF
MICHAEL THOMAS GEORGE
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Michael ‘‘Mikey’’ Thomas
George, 16, who passed away surrounded by
his loving family on Sunday, June 23, 2019.
Mikey was a proud student of St. Edward
High School in Lakewood and a dedicated Mi-
chael Bublé and Roman Reigns fan. His
friends and family knew Michael for his con-
tagious smile, laughter, and quick wit.
His favorite summers were spent on Kelley’s
Island, enjoying the sun and island lifestyle.
Mikey was known to entertain all with his sing-
ing, dancing, and with the creative nicknames
he gave to people.
Mikey loved his family dearly. He is survived
by his loving parents, Kristine and Tony
George, his triplet siblings, David and Julia,
his older siblings, Joseph George, Justin Rose
(Lisa), Robert George, Krystle George-Kearns
(Christian) and Jonathon Rose (Amber);
grandmother Glenna Botkins, along with nu-
merous aunts, uncles and cousins.
My deepest condolences go out to the
George Family, and all whose lives were
touched by Mikey. He will most certainly live
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JY8.010 E09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E881
July 9, 2019
on in the hearts and minds of all that knew
him.
f
COLORADO RAILROAD MUSEUM
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and commend the Colo-
rado Railroad Museum on their 60th anniver-
sary.
Railroads have played a unique role in the
development and history of the state of Colo-
rado, enabling the safe transportation of peo-
ple and goods across Colorado’s rugged ge-
ography and serving as the backbone of Colo-
rado’s economy and culture since 1876.
Connecting the past and future of Colorado,
the Museum serves to tell the story of America
from the First Nations of the region to the im-
migrants and their families who came after to
build their new lives in Colorado. Servicing
more than 100,000 visitors annually, the Mu-
seum provides hands-on educational oppor-
tunity, preserves and displays educational his-
torical artifacts, and offers exemplary edu-
cational programs to the community including:
‘‘Day Out with Thomas’’ events for children
and ‘‘Living History’’ train rides in a restored
steam locomotive. Thanks to a fundraising ef-
fort the Museum has expanded their work to
include a climate-controlled library to handle
archival records and a roundhouse to ensure
the safety of their rolling stock so generations
to come may continue to enjoy them. As such
they have continually ranked amongst the top
10 paid attractions in the Denver metro area
and as one of the top 10 railroad museums in
the United States.
The Museum has been recognized by the
Smithsonian Institute and others for their work
in preserving the history of the Rocky Moun-
tain West. I extend my deepest congratula-
tions to the Colorado Railroad Museum for
their well-earned accolades and I look forward
to another 60 years of their service to our
community and the people of Colorado.
f
HONORING COMMUNITY CHAMPION
SAM ZURZOLO
HON. MIKE KELLY
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I would like to recognize one of my con-
stituents from back home in Western Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. Sam Zurzolo. Sam is a lifelong resi-
dent of Butler County and an admirable vet-
eran who proudly served as a Sergeant Major
in the United States Marine Corps. Sam is the
epitome of a service-minded citizen and his
unwavering dedication to the community is in-
spiring and praiseworthy.
Sam had a successful military career, dedi-
cating thirty years to the United States Marine
Corps and the United States Marine Corps
Reserves. During this time, Sam served in
various capacities and was stationed all
throughout the country. Regardless of the as-
signment or location, Sam displayed an exem-
plary work ethic and went above and beyond
to serve the surrounding communities and vol-
unteer where there was a need. His efforts did
not go unnoticed and he was awarded numer-
ous certificates of appreciation and meritorious
mast, including the following: Navy Com-
mendation Medal, Armed Forces Expedi-
tionary Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, Na-
tional Defense Service Medal with Star, Ma-
rine Corp Good Conduct Medal with 3 Stars,
Marine Corps Reserve Medal, Marine Corps
Recruiting Ribbon, Cold War Certificate & Rib-
bon, Rifle Expert Badge and numerous Pistol
Expert Badges.
After his military service Sam spent eight-
een years working as a maintenance super-
intendent for Oxford Development, a real es-
tate and construction company, before retiring.
Driven by a desire to continue serving, he got
involved with local government and in 2005
Sam was elected to serve as a Butler Town-
ship Commissioner, a position which he main-
tains today. Furthermore, Sam is the Vice-
Chairman of the Butler Township Planning
Commission and he serves on the Executive
Committee for the American Legion Post 778.
Sam is actively involved with the Butler
County United Way and the Butler County Ro-
tary Club. As a tireless volunteer for these or-
ganizations, his involvement has been abso-
lutely essential to the success of many
projects. From taking the lead on a major
west-end revitalization project to overseeing
the construction of local playgrounds, Sam
has spent thousands of hours working to en-
hance the community. He has installed flag
poles, constructed monuments and memorials,
remodeled homes for wounded marines,
mentored local Eagle Scouts, and much more.
In addition, Sam is a past master of the Ma-
sonic Lodge, a 32nd Degree Mason, and a
lifelong volunteer with Lifesteps and the group
Toys for Tots, which he started in Butler in
1983. His involvement does not stop there,
Sam is also a member of countless civic orga-
nizations, such as, but not limited to: 2nd Ma-
rine Division Association, Sons of Italy, Loyal
Order of the Moose, and Butler County Law
Enforcement Association.
Sam has been a catalyst for improvement
throughout the community and his passion
and dedication deserve praise. He is a leader
in the truest sense of the word and a role
model for those who are privileged to know
him. Sam has built a legacy based on selfless-
ness, compassion, and integrity. He has set a
standard of excellence and generosity that will
inspire others for generations to come.
Therefore, on behalf of the 16th Congres-
sional District, the State of Pennsylvania, and
the United States of America, I would like to
express sincere gratitude and appreciation to
Sam Zurzolo—an extraordinary individual, a
noble public servant, and a true Community
Champion.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE RETIRE-
MENT OF DEARBORN POLICE
CORPORAL MICHAEL NELSON
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Police Corporal Michael
Nelson for his many years of service to the
Dearborn Police Department. Corporal Nelson
recently retired after thirty years of exemplary
work with the department.
Prior to his service in the Dearborn Police
Department Corporal Nelson served three
years in the United States Army and was de-
ployed to Grenada. Corporal Nelson began at
the Dearborn Police Department in 1989 as an
Animal Control Officer. In 1994, Corporal Nel-
son became a certified Motor Carrier Officer
and a regional instructor specializing in com-
mercial vehicle enforcement. In this role, he
trained hundreds of police officers and created
a safer environment for everyone in the Dear-
born community. In 2003, he was promoted to
the rank of Corporal and was placed in charge
of the Animal Control and Parking Systems
Operations.
Corporal Nelson served the Dearborn com-
munity in various roles for a total of thirty
years. His commitment to protecting the Dear-
born Community has impacted hundreds of his
fellow officers and residents. His work training
officers in commercial vehicle enforcement
has been crucial to the continued safety of
Dearborn. His exemplary service to the com-
munity stands as a role model of the dedica-
tion, sacrifice, and commitment of our police
officers. His dedicated leadership will be
missed, but we wish him good health and
every happiness in his retirement years.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the thirty years of service of
Police Corporal Michael Nelson to his country
and to the Dearborn, Michigan community. His
commitment to public safety is worthy of com-
mendation.
f
IN HONOR OF DAVID TRAN
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the life of Mr. David Tran, an es-
teemed Californian and a caring person to ev-
eryone who knew him.
Mr. Tran passed away on June 30, 2019 but
will continue to be remembered for his love of
family and commitment to serving his commu-
nity.
Mr. Tran was born on February 8, 1957 in
Phu Nhuan, Saigon, Vietnam. After coming to
the United States, Mr. Tran worked in a vari-
ety of different fields. Mr. Tran worked as a
middle school teacher for 20 years, then as an
insurance agent for 7 years, and after as a
data entry clerk for 10 years. Those who
worked with him can attest to his commitment
to professional service and valuable contribu-
tions.
Mr. Tran was a role model to all and upheld
the virtues of integrity and devotion throughout
his life. Mr. Tran spent his time enriching the
lives of countless others who had the privilege
of knowing him.
He enjoyed playing soccer and tennis, as
well as playing the guitar. He was a member
of the Lien Hoa Temple and Pho Da Temple,
where he demonstrated his commitment to his
spirituality and serving others.
David Tran lived a life worthy of honor and
remembrance. His kindness and love of all
people persists with his wife, Quyen Tran; his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JY8.015 E09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E882 July 9, 2019
two children, Anh Tran and Julie Quynh Nhu
Tran; and his two grandchildren, Alexander
Tran and Benjamin Tran.
I ask my colleagues to join me in recog-
nizing the legacy of Mr. David Tran. May his
honor and commitment serve as an example
for all and his spirit rest in peace and glory.
f
HONORING THE FAMILY OF GREG
MCDANIEL
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the family of Greg McDaniel on
Atwater’s 2019 4th of July parade. On Decem-
ber 25, 2018, the greater Atwater community
lost one of their most dedicated leaders who
served as the President of Atwater’s 4th of
July Committee for over 20 years. In honor of
Mr. McDaniel’s many years of commitment to
organizing this parade, his wife Pinky has
been named the Grand Marshal of this year’s
parade.
As President of the Atwater 4th of July
Committee, Mr. McDaniel played an integral
role in the planning of Atwater’s annual 4th of
July parade and celebration. Each year he
successfully helped raise the necessary funds
and oversaw many of the operations that
helped make the parade the event it has
grown into today. Mr. McDaniel was com-
mitted to making each year’s celebration bet-
ter than the year before, which is reflected in
what Atwater’s 4th of July celebration has be-
come.
Atwater’s 4th of July celebration is now a
day consisting of a morning run, parade, and
fireworks that attracts thousands from through-
out the City of Atwater and other cities in
Merced County. The positivity Mr. McDaniel
exuded in this endeavor is now present in the
Atwater community members that have
stepped up to continue the traditions Mr.
McDaniel cared so deeply about.
Mr. McDaniel was joined in all he did by his
wife of 45 years, Pinky. She was by his side
assisting him in all his tremendous community
contributions. In addition to planning the 4th of
July celebration, Mr. McDaniel spent many
years with local youth sports organizations,
announced the Atwater High School football
games, and served many times as the presi-
dent of the Atwater Chamber of Commerce,
among various other civic engagements.
Though he is deeply missed, his wife Pinky,
sons Christopher and Jeffory, grandchildren,
and residents of Atwater continue to carry on
the legacy he left.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the family of Greg McDaniel.
It is both fitting and appropriate that we honor
them as his wife Pinky is recognized as the
Grand Marshal of a parade and celebration
her husband dedicated so many years to. I
wish his family and the residents of Atwater
the best as they celebrated the 4th of July.
HONORING THE RETIREMENT OF
CAPTAIN JASON B. FITCH
HON. MIKE LEVIN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the retirement of Cap-
tain Jason B. Fitch. Captain Fitch has devoted
his young adult life to the service of his family
and country. Later this year, on December 1,
2019, Captain Fitch will retire from active duty
after honorably serving this Nation for 28
years. As he completes his tour of duty in the
Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Navy
for Research, Development and Acquisition,
and prepares to hang up his military uniform,
we all know that his influence has reached far
beyond the strict confines of his rank and pre-
vious job titles.
Captain Fitch’s military career began 28
years ago today as a Midshipman when he
took the Oath of Office at the United States
Naval Academy in Annapolis, Maryland. After
graduation, he was commissioned as an En-
sign into the United States Navy. He served
honorably in uniform for nearly three decades
with tours of duty across the United States
and deployments around the world. He served
as the Supply Officer for Naval Special War-
fare Center in Coronado, California. He served
aboard the USS Bonhomme Richard (LHD 6)
and the USS Mount Vernon (LSD 39). In
2006, Captain Fitch was recognized as the
Navy Fuel Officer of the Year and as the Fuel
Director for the Navy Bulk Fuel Terminal of the
Year for 2007. He also served as the Naval
Aviation Enterprise Officer and Director for the
H–60 ‘‘Seahawk’’ Integrated Weapons Support
Team at Naval Inventory Control Point in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. While assigned to
U.S. Special Operations Command, he de-
ployed to Operation Enduring Freedom (2013)
in support of the Special Operations Joint
Task Force-Afghanistan (SOJTF–A) as the J4
director.
Captain Fitch was entrusted with command
ashore, where he served as the Commanding
Officer for Naval Special Warfare Group ONE
Logistics Support Unit. During his tenure in
command, he deployed to Operation INHER-
ENT RESOLVE (2015) as the J4 director of
Combined Joint Special Operations Task
Force-Iraq and received the Bronze Star
Medal. He currently serves at the Pentagon as
the Director for Outcome Based Logistics and
Supply Chain Management, in the Office of
the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy for
Expeditionary Programs and Logistics Man-
agement (E&LM).
In addition, Captain Fitch earned a master’s
degree in Business Administration with con-
centrations in Petroleum Management and
International Business from the University of
Kansas. He earned a Master of Science in
National Security and Resource Strategy from
the National Defense University’s Eisenhower
School. Captain Fitch also completed
Kellogg’s Executive Development Program.
In honor of his service, I would like to ex-
press my gratitude for Captain Jason B.
Fitch’s dedication to this country and our com-
munity. I wish him and his family the best as
he retires to San Diego this December.
CAPE CORAL CITIZEN FLORIAN
MICKULEIT RECEIVES THE CIT-
IZEN COMMENDABLE ACTION
COIN
HON. FRANCIS ROONEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. ROONEY of Florida. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to congratulate Florian Mickuleit on
receiving the Citizen Commendable Action
Coin for aiding law enforcement in rescuing a
man from a canal. This award is given by an
Officer of the Cape Coral Police Department
to a civilian for exemplary behavior or a re-
markable act.
On June 4, 2019, a concerned citizen called
Cape Coral Police to report that a man had
been swimming in the canal by their home for
an extended period, and he refused to come
out of the water. When police arrived, they
found the man was not acting rationally and
was out of their rescue rope’s range. The man
claimed that the current was too strong for him
to swim to shore.
Mickuleit had been delivering a rental boat
in the area and offered to use the boat in a
rescue attempt. He drove the boat to the mid-
dle of the canal with officers onboard, and
they were finally able to bring the man safely
to shore. The man was then taken to the local
hospital by Lee County Emergency Medical
Services.
I am grateful for Florian and his actions to
help save a citizen in need. I commend his ac-
tions and congratulate him on receiving this
honor.
f
MEDICAID AND CHIP TERRITORY
TRANSPARENCY AND INFORMA-
TION ACT
HON. GREGORIO KILILI CAMACHO
SABLAN
OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the Medicaid and CHIP Territory
Transparency and Information Act, which
would require the Centers for Medicare &
Medicaid Services (CMS) to publish on its
website, and periodically update, specified in-
formation related to federal expenditures
under Medicaid and the Children’s Health In-
surance Program (CHIP) in each of the U.S.
territories.
Presently, data reporting for the Northern
Mariana Islands’ (NMI) Medicaid program is
waived at the discretion of Secretary of Health
and Human Services, as allowed by Section
I902(j) of the Social Security Act. American
Samoa also has this waiver. Absent this waiv-
er, other insular areas are required to maintain
appropriate reporting systems as a condition
of receiving Medicaid funds. However, there is
little evidence to suggest that CMS has been
carrying out any robust oversight. An April
2016 Government Accountability Office report
found that ‘‘the lack of enforcement of pro-
gram integrity mechanisms and information
systems—have contributed to the limited fed-
eral program integrity efforts in the territories.’’
The report goes on to state ‘‘until recently,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JY8.019 E09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E883
July 9, 2019
CMS regulations exempted territories from the
requirement to develop a Medicaid Manage-
ment Information System, which could provide
more detail on the territories’ Medicaid and
CHIP spending, including increasing the level
of detail on the territories’ . . . reporting.’’
Data collection on existing insular area Med-
icaid programs is not only important for trans-
parency and accountability, but essential if
long-term Medicaid funding solutions are to be
developed for our most remote U.S. jurisdic-
tions. Gathering enrollment, utilization, and ex-
penditure data will allow for a greater under-
standing of unique health care needs—ena-
bling local government and CMS officials to
make evidenced based decisions when it
comes to Medicaid program improvements for
our insular areas.
The gentleman from Florida, Mr. BILIRAKIS
originally introduced this bill in the 115th Con-
gress and is an original co-sponsor of this bill
today along with my colleagues, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. SAN NICOLAS,
and Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN. This bill is impor-
tant to the future of Medicaid in the U.S. Terri-
tories. I urge all my colleagues to support this
bipartisan legislation.
f
REMEMBERING JULIUS W.
HEGELER II OF DANVILLE, ILLI-
NOIS
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
note the passing of a most remarkable man.
Julius W. Hegeler II of Danville, Illinois died
July 5, 2019 at the age of 91.
To say that Mr. Hegeler led an impactful life
would be to gloss over the thousands who
benefitted from his caring nature, his gen-
erosity of spirit, and his humanity. Few people
are in a position to make such a positive im-
pact, and even fewer take the opportunity. Mr.
Hegeler will forever be remembered for having
seized his opportunity with such an outsized
desire to help that he never turned anyone
away.
A lifelong resident of Danville, Julius grad-
uated from Danville High School and went on
to earn a business degree before enlisting in
the Air Force. He flew 70 missions as a jet
pilot during the Korean War, was awarded the
Distinguished Flying Cross in May 1954 for
‘‘extraordinary achievement,’’ and earned the
Air Medal and Oak Leaf Cluster as well.
Returning from the war, Julius and others
built a chemical packaging company that he
later sold. His fortune made, in 1992 he
placed 90 percent of his wealth into the Julius
W. Hegeler II Foundation and set out to give
back to the community that he loved. Julius
was especially concerned with helping those
with disabilities and gave generously to local
organizations such as Danville AMBUCS and
WorkSource Enterprises. There were no limits
to causes he would support, however, as the
arts, education, recreation, community, and
youth-focused groups and organizations have
all benefited from Julius’s assistance.
Danville has lost one of its very best, a man
who shunned the limelight but who nonethe-
less made so many lives brighter and richer.
It has been my privilege to spend time with
Julius Hegeler, and those memories I will al-
ways hold dear.
Madam Speaker, I would like to offer my
sincerest condolences to the family of Julius
W. Hegeler II on the loss of this truly remark-
able individual, and I wish the family the best
during this very trying time.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 100TH AN-
NUAL ANN ARBOR CITY TENNIS
TOURNAMENT
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate Ann Arbor’s 100th City Ten-
nis Tournament. The event provides a vital
outlet promoting community building and
healthy competition.
Established in 1919, the Ann Arbor City
Tennis Tournament is one of the oldest city
tennis tournaments in the country. Starting
with a tournament of 24 men at West Park,
the competition has expanded to over one
hundred players across several categories,
adding a women’s event in 1922 and parent-
child matches. The Ann Arbor Area Commu-
nity Tennis Association organizes the tour-
nament, youth programs, and charity events
with the support of corporate sponsorships
and local donations. The Town Tennis Cele-
bration, a citywide event featuring afternoon
clinics, food, and a viewing of the doubles
finals of the competition, marks the conclusion
of the tournament.
The Ann Arbor City Tennis Tournament pro-
vides an outlet for community building and al-
lows local athletes to showcase their commit-
ment to the sport. The tournament under-
scores a dedication to fellowship and friendly
competition and its continued success high-
lights the importance of these events in our
communities. We are grateful for the commit-
ment of the Ann Arbor Area Community Ten-
nis Association for their exceptional work sup-
porting physical fitness, charity, and commu-
nity building.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating Ann Arbor’s 100th City Ten-
nis Tournament. We thank the Ann Arbor
Community Tennis Association for their exem-
plary work supporting the city of Ann Arbor.
f
HONORING JOHN FALKENBURY
AND HIS RETIREMENT AS PRESI-
DENT AND COO OF THE USO OF
NORTH CAROLINA
HON. RICHARD HUDSON
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mr. John Falkenbury, the President
and Chief Operating Officer for the United
Service Organizations (USO) of North Caro-
lina, on his decades of service to the State of
North Carolina.
John was appointed President and COO for
the USO of North Carolina in March 2009.
During his tenure, he was responsible for
planning, organizing and directing the oper-
ations of the state headquarters, five USO
fixed centers and a mobile center. More than
that, he helped organize and marshal thou-
sands of volunteers over the years to support
hundreds of thousands of active-duty
servicemembers, veterans and their families.
John brought 25 years of corporate and mili-
tary experience to the job, which allowed him
to grow and advance the mission of USO.
The USO centers across the state provide
vital resources and support to our men and
women in uniform and their families. These
services include transition assistance, financial
literacy, child educational programs, deploy-
ment and homecoming operations, military
and civilian outreach programs, Fallen and
Wounded Warrior escort services, and a focus
on providing the entire community with support
and assistance. Through his leadership, dedi-
cation and passion for service, John has been
a champion in ensuring these programs are
readily available for anyone who needs them.
A resident of North Carolina’s Eighth Con-
gressional District and someone I’ve been
lucky enough to call a friend for more than two
decades, I can say from experience that John
is a true pillar of the community above and be-
yond his USO and military service. John has
served as President and CEO of Five Oaks
Nursing Center in Concord, the Managing
Partner of the Falkenbury Family LLC, and
President of the Stephen D. Falkenbury Jr.
Foundation in Charlotte. He also served as the
WBT–AM radio station’s on-air analyst and
was a credentialed military consultant and fre-
quent guest for News14 Carolina. I know I
speak for everyone in the community when I
say we are truly grateful for his unwavering
service and cannot thank him enough. I would
like to offer my sincerest appreciation and
wish him a long and happy retirement.
Madam Speaker, please join me today in
honoring President John Falkenbury and his
service to our state.
f
HONORING ROSS PEROT
HON. EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam Speaker,
today, I would like to honor the life and legacy
of Ross Perot, a Texas native and gracious
philanthropist. His innovation, leadership, and
generosity in both the private and public sec-
tors were immeasurable.
Mr. Perot led a life of excellence and serv-
ice. He was a pioneer in the computer serv-
ices industry, founding the Electronic Data
Systems Corp. in 1962 and Perot Systems
Corp. in 1988. With his success, he prioritized
efforts to honor and care for our nation’s
POWs and veterans. For this work, he was
recognized with the Winston Churchill Award,
only the third American to receive this award.
His humanitarian efforts through the Perot
Foundation have brought immeasurable gains
to the Dallas community and the state of
Texas. He was a strong supporter of the Uni-
versity of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
in my district, and his family continues to
honor his legacy with the Perot Museum of
Nature and Science.
We are all grateful for the talents he shared
with us. I would like to extend my deepest
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JY8.023 E09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E884 July 9, 2019
sympathies to his wife, Margot; their five chil-
dren and spouses, Ross Jr. and Sarah Perot;
Nancy Perot and Rod Jones; Suzanne and
Patrick K. McGee; Carolyn and Dr. Karl
Rathjen; and Katherine and Eric Reeves; and
his 16 grandchildren.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:03 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A09JY8.027 E09JYPT1
D791
Tuesday, July 9, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
See Résumé of Congressional Activity.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S4705–4742
Measures Introduced: Nine bills and two resolu-
tions were introduced, as follows: S. 2058–2066, and
S. Res. 272–273. Pages S4729–30
Measures Reported:
S. 279, to allow tribal grant schools to participate
in the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program.
(S. Rept. No. 116–54)
S. Res. 198, condemning Brunei’s dramatic
human rights backsliding, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute and with an amended pre-
amble.
S. 1173, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to reauthorize the Emergency Medical Services for
Children program.
S. 1199, to amend the Public Health Service Act
to revise and extend the poison center network pro-
gram, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute.
S. Con. Res. 10, recognizing that Chinese tele-
communications companies such as Huawei and ZTE
pose serious threats to the national security of the
United States and its allies, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute and with an amended pre-
amble. Page S4729
Measures Passed:
Christa McAuliffe Commemorative Coin Act:
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
was discharged from further consideration of S. 239,
to require the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
coins in recognition of Christa McAuliffe, and the
bill was then passed, after agreeing to the following
amendment proposed thereto: Page S4739
Thune (for Shaheen) Amendment No. 907, relat-
ing to date changes. Page S4739
Encouraging a Swift Transfer of Power in the
Republic of the Sudan: Senate agreed to S. Res.
188, encouraging a swift transfer of power by the
military to a civilian-led political authority in the
Republic of the Sudan, after withdrawing the com-
mittee amendment in the nature of a substitute and
the committee reported amendment to the preamble,
and agreeing to the following amendments proposed
thereto: Pages S4736–39
Thune (for Cruz/Durbin) Amendment No. 908, in
the nature of a substitute. Pages S4736–38
Thune (for Cruz/Durbin) Amendment No. 909, to
amend the preamble. Page S4738
Wetherell II Nomination—Cloture: By 82 yeas to
16 nays (Vote No. EX. 192), Senate agreed to the
motion to close further debate on the nomination of
T. Kent Wetherell II, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Florida.
Page S4724
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 9:30 a.m., on Wednes-
day, July 10, 2019, Senate resume consideration of
the nomination, post-cloture. Page S4740
Leichty Nomination—Cloture: By 87 yeas to 11
nays (Vote No. EX. 193), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Damon Ray Leichty, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Indiana.
Pages S4724–25
Ranjan Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of J. Nicholas
Ranjan, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Pennsylvania. Page S4725
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 83 yeas to 15 nays (Vote No. EX. 194), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S4725
Nominations—Agreement: A unanimous-consent
agreement was reached providing that at 11 a.m., on
Wednesday, July 10, 2019, Senate vote on confirma-
tion of the following nominations in the order listed:
T. Kent Wetherell II, to be United States District
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09JY9.REC D09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D792 July 9, 2019
Judge for the Northern District of Florida, J. Nich-
olas Ranjan, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Pennsylvania, and Damon
Ray Leichty, to be United States District Judge for
the Northern District of Indiana; that at 4:30 p.m.,
Senate vote on the pending motions to invoke clo-
ture on the nominations of Robert L. King, of Ken-
tucky, to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary
Education, Department of Education, and John P.
Pallasch, of Kentucky, to be an Assistant Secretary
of Labor, and that if cloture is invoked, the votes on
confirmation of the nominations occur at a time to
be determined by the Majority Leader, in consulta-
tion with the Democratic Leader on Thursday, July
11, 2019; and that the motion to invoke cloture
with respect to the nomination of Peter C. Wright,
of Michigan, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of
Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency,
ripen following disposition of the nomination of
John P. Pallasch. Page S4725
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 53 yeas to 45 nays (Vote No. EX. 191), Dan-
iel Aaron Bress, of California, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit. Pages S4706–24
Measures Read the First Time: Page S4726
Executive Communications: Page S4726
Petitions and Memorials: Pages S4726–29
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S4730–32
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Page S4732
Additional Statements: Page S4726
Amendments Submitted: Pages S4733–35
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S4735
Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today.
(Total—194) Pages S4724–25
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:07 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, July 10, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the
remarks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S4740.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
USSOUTHCOM NATIONAL DEFENSE
STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Emerg-
ing Threats and Capabilities concluded a hearing to
examine implementation of the National Defense
Strategy in the United States Southern Command
area of responsibility, after receiving testimony from
Admiral Craig S. Faller, USN, Commander, United
States Southern Command, Department of Defense.
NASA EXPLORATION PLANS
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Aviation and Space concluded a hear-
ing to examine National Aeronautics and Space Ad-
ministration exploration plans, focusing on where we
have been and where we are going, after receiving
testimony from Eugene F. Kranz, former Apollo
Flight Director, Houston, Texas; Christine M. Dar-
den, formerly of the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration Langley Research Center, Hampton,
Virginia; Mary Lynne Dittmar, Coalition for Deep
Space Exploration, and Eric Stallmer, Commercial
Spaceflight Federation, both of Washington, D.C.;
and Homer Hickam, Rocket Boys, Huntsville, Ala-
bama.
ENERGY LEGISLATION
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Sub-
committee on Energy concluded a hearing to exam-
ine S. 1602, to amend the United States Energy
Storage Competitiveness Act of 2007 to establish a
research, development, and demonstration program
for grid-scale energy storage systems, S. 1593, to re-
quire the Secretary of Energy to establish an energy
storage research program, a demonstration program,
and a technical assistance and grant program, S.
1183, to establish an energy storage and microgrid
grant and technical assistance program, S. 1741, to
direct the Secretary of Energy to establish a program
to advance energy storage deployment by reducing
the cost of energy storage through research, develop-
ment, and demonstration, S. 2048, to require the
Secretary of Energy to establish a demonstration ini-
tiative focused on the development of long-duration
energy storage technologies, including a joint pro-
gram to be established in consultation with the Sec-
retary of Defense, S. 1685, to require the Secretary
of Energy to establish a program for the research, de-
velopment, and demonstration of commercially via-
ble technologies for the capture of carbon dioxide
produced during the generation of natural gas-gen-
erated power, S. 143, to authorize the Department
of Energy to conduct collaborative research with the
Department of Veterans Affairs in order to improve
healthcare services for veterans in the United States,
S. 983, to amend the Energy Conservation and Pro-
duction Act to reauthorize the weatherization assist-
ance program, S. 1857, to amend the National En-
ergy Conservation Policy Act to improve Federal en-
ergy and water performance requirements for Federal
buildings and establish a Federal Energy Manage-
ment Program, S. 1064, to require the Secretary of
Energy to conduct a study on the national security
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09JY9.REC D09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D793
July 9, 2019
implications of building ethane and other natural-
gas-liquids-related petrochemical infrastructure in
the United States, and H.R. 1138, to reauthorize the
West Valley demonstration project, after receiving
testimony from Senators Collins and Klobuchar; and
Bruce J. Walker, Assistant Secretary, Office of Elec-
tricity, and Shawn Bennett, Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary for Oil and Gas, Office of Fossil Energy, both
of the Department of Energy.
PROTECTING INNOCENCE IN A DIGITAL
WORLD
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine protecting innocence in a digital
world, after receiving testimony from Duffie Stone,
National District Attorneys Association, Bluffton,
South Carolina; Angela J. Campbell, Georgetown
Law, and Stephen Balkam, Family Online Safety In-
stitute, both of Washington, D.C.; Christopher
McKenna, Protect Young Eyes, Caledonia, Michigan;
and John F. Clark, National Center for Missing and
Exploited Children, Alexandria, Virginia.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 33 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 3628–3660; and 7 resolutions, H.
Con. Res. 52; and H. Res. 475–480 were intro-
duced. Pages H5301–03
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H5304–06
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 1988, to clarify seasoning requirements for
certain refinanced mortgage loans, and for other pur-
poses, with an amendment (H. Rept. 116–138, Part
1);
H.R. 677, to amend gendered terms in Federal
law relating to the President and the President’s
spouse (H. Rept. 116–139);
H.R. 2368, to amend the Omnibus Crime Control
and Safe Streets Act of 1968 to expand support for
police officer family services, stress reduction, and
suicide prevention, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–140);
H.R. 1986, to amend section 175b of title 18,
United States Code, to correct a scrivener’s error (H.
Rept. 116–141);
H.R. 1569, to amend title 28, United States
Code, to add Flagstaff and Yuma to the list of loca-
tions in which court shall be held in the judicial dis-
trict for the State of Arizona (H. Rept. 116–142);
and
H. Res. 476, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 2500) to authorize appropriations for fis-
cal year 2020 for military activities of the Depart-
ment of Defense and for military construction, to
prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal
year, and for other purposes, and providing for con-
sideration of motions to suspend the rules (H. Rept.
116–143). Pages H5293, H5301
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Clay to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H5273
Resignation from the House Republican Con-
ference: Read a letter from Representative Cheney
wherein she announced that Representative Amash
resigned from the House Republican Conference.
Pages H5273–74
Committee Election Vacated: Read a letter from
the Speaker wherein she announced that Representa-
tive Amash’s election to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform has been vacated effective July 9,
2019. Page H5274
Recess: The House recessed at 2:06 p.m. and recon-
vened at 4:31 p.m. Page H5274
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Protect Affordable Mortgages for Veterans Act of
2019: H.R. 1988, amended, to clarify seasoning re-
quirements for certain refinanced mortgage loans;
Pages H5274–76
Amending the Securities and Exchange Act of
1934 to amend the definition of whistleblower:
H.R. 2515, amended, to amend the Securities and
Exchange Act of 1934 to amend the definition of
whistleblower, by a 2/3 yea-and-nay vote of 410 yeas
to 12 nays, Roll No. 431; Pages H5276–78, H5287–88
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To
amend the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 to
amend the definition of whistleblower, to extend the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09JY9.REC D09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D794 July 9, 2019
anti-retaliation protections provided to whistle-
blowers, and for other purposes’’; Page H5288
Housing Financial Literacy Act of 2019: H.R.
2162, amended, to require the Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development to discount FHA single-
family mortgage insurance premium payments for
first-time homebuyers who complete a financial lit-
eracy housing counseling program; Pages H5278–80
Emphasizing the importance of grassroots inves-
tor protection and the investor education missions
of State and Federal securities regulators, calling
on the Securities and Exchange Commission to col-
laborate with State securities regulators in the pro-
tection of investors: H. Res. 456, emphasizing the
importance of grassroots investor protection and the
investor education missions of State and Federal se-
curities regulators, calling on the Securities and Ex-
change Commission to collaborate with State securi-
ties regulators in the protection of investors;
Pages H5280–82
Improving Investment Research for Small and
Emerging Issuers Act: H.R. 2919, to require the Se-
curities and Exchange Commission to carry out a
study to evaluate the issues affecting the provision of
and reliance upon investment research into small
issuers; Pages H5282–83
Expanding Investment in Small Businesses Act
of 2019: H.R. 3050, amended, to require the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission to carry out a study
of the 10 per centum threshold limitation applicable
to the definition of a diversified company under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, by a 2/3 yea-and-
nay vote of 417 yeas to 2 nays, Roll No. 432; and
Pages H5283–85, H5288
Expanding Access to Capital for Rural Job Cre-
ators Act: H.R. 2409, to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to expand access to capital for
rural-area small businesses, by a 2/3 yea-and-nay vote
of 413 yeas to 7 nays, Roll No. 433.
Pages H5285–87, H5288–89
Recess: The House recessed at 6:17 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H5287
Protecting Affordable Mortgages for Veterans
Act of 2019: The House agreed to discharge from
committee and pass S. 1749, to clarify seasoning re-
quirements for certain refinanced mortgage loans.
Page H5289
Recess: The House recessed at 8:03 p.m. and recon-
vened at 11:48 p.m. Page H5293
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H5287–88, H5288, and H5288–89. There
were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 2 p.m. and ad-
journed at 11:49 p.m.
Committee Meetings
NATIONAL DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION
ACT FOR FISCAL YEAR 2020
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 2500, the ‘‘National Defense Authorization
Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’. The Committee granted,
by record vote of 8–4, a structured rule providing
for consideration of H.R. 2500, the ‘‘National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’. The
rule provides one hour of general debate equally di-
vided and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on Armed Services.
The rule waives all points of order against consider-
ation of the bill. The rule provides that an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–19, modified by
the amendment printed in part A of the report, shall
be considered as adopted and the bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. The rule waives all
points of order against provisions in the bill, as
amended. The rule makes in order only those further
amendments printed in part B of the report and
amendments en bloc described in section 3 of the
resolution. Each amendment in part B may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in the re-
port, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent,
may be withdrawn by the proponent at any time be-
fore action thereon, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a demand for divi-
sion of the question. The rule waives all points of
order against the further amendments printed in part
B of the report or amendments en bloc described in
section 3 of the resolution. The rule provides that
the chair of the Committee on Armed Services or his
designee may offer amendments en bloc consisting of
amendments printed in part B of the report not ear-
lier disposed of. Amendments en bloc shall be con-
sidered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes
equally divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee on
Armed Services or their designees, shall not be sub-
ject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question. The rule provides
that at the conclusion of consideration of the bill for
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the
bill, as amended, to the House with such further
amendments as may have been adopted. The ques-
tion of such amendments’ adoption shall be put to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09JY9.REC D09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D795
July 9, 2019
the House en gros and without division of the ques-
tion. The rule provides one motion to recommit
with or without instructions. The rule provides that
clause 7(a)(1) of rule XV shall not apply with respect
to H.R. 553. Finally, the rule provides that it shall
be in order at any time on the legislative day of July
11, 2019, or July 12, 2019, for the Speaker to enter-
tain motions that the House suspend the rules, as
though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to the
bill (H.R. 1327) to extend authorization for the Sep-
tember 11th Victim Compensation Fund of 2001
through fiscal year 2090, and for other purposes.
Testimony was heard from Chairman Smith of
Washington, and Representatives Thornberry,
Garamendi, Armstrong, Bacon, Barr, Bishop of
Utah, Dunn, Gallagher, Hartzler, Lesko, Mast,
Olson, Pence, Smith of New Jersey, Shimkus,
Stauber, Yoho, Stivers, Wilson of South Carolina,
and Wenstrup.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
JULY 10, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: business meeting to con-
sider pending military nominations, 10 a.m., SR–222.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: busi-
ness meeting to consider S. 149, to establish a Senior
Scams Prevention Advisory Council, S. 153, to promote
veteran involvement in STEM education, computer
science, and scientific research, S. 384, to require the Sec-
retary of Commerce, acting through the Director of the
National Institute of Standards and Technology, to help
facilitate the adoption of composite technology in infra-
structure in the United States, S. 553, to direct the Sec-
retary of Commerce to establish a working group to rec-
ommend to Congress a definition of blockchain tech-
nology, S. 1148, to amend title 49, United States Code,
to require the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration to give preferential consideration to individ-
uals who have successfully completed air traffic controller
training and veterans when hiring air traffic control spe-
cialists, S. 1342, to require the Under Secretary for
Oceans and Atmosphere to update periodically the envi-
ronmental sensitivity index products of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration for each coastal area
of the Great Lakes, S. 1427, to amend the National Insti-
tute of Standards and Technology Act to improve the
Network for Manufacturing Innovation Program, S. 1601,
to direct the Secretary of Transportation to issue a rule
requiring all new passenger motor vehicles to be
equipped with a child safety alert system, S. 1611, to en-
sure appropriate prioritization, spectrum planning, and
interagency coordination to support the Internet of
Things, S. 1694, to require any Federal agency that issues
licenses to conduct activities in outer space to include in
the requirements for such licenses an agreement relating
to the preservation and protection of the Apollo 11 land-
ing site, S. 1881, to provide PreCheck to certain severely
injured or disabled veterans, and the nominations of Ste-
phen M. Dickson, of Georgia, to be Administrator of the
Federal Aviation Administration, Michelle A. Schultz, of
Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Surface Transpor-
tation Board, and a routine list in the Coast Guard, 10
a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine investing in America’s surface transpor-
tation infrastructure, focusing on the need for a multi-
year reauthorization bill, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine defense cooperation, focusing on the use of emergency
authorities under the Arms Export Control Act, 10:15
a.m., SD–419.
Special Committee on Aging: to hold hearings to examine
how the special diabetes program is changing the lives of
Americans with Type 1 diabetes, 9:30 a.m., SD–106.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘United States Efforts to Counter Russian
Disinformation and Malign Influence’’, 10 a.m., 2362–A
Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Consumer Protection and Commerce, markup on H.R.
2211, the ‘‘STURDY Act’’; H.R. 3172, the ‘‘Safe Sleep
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 3170, the ‘‘Safe Cribs Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 1618, the ‘‘Nicholas and Zachary Burt Carbon
Monoxide Poisoning Prevention Act of 2019’’; H.R. 806,
the ‘‘Portable Fuel Container Safety Act of 2019’’; and
H.R. 2647, the ‘‘SOFFA’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Monetary Policy and the State of the Economy’’,
10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneur-
ship, and Capital Markets, hearing entitled ‘‘Building a
Sustainable and Competitive Economy: An Examination
of Proposals to Improve Environmental, Social, and Gov-
ernance Disclosures’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘About Face: Examining the Department of
Homeland Security’s Use of Facial Recognition and Other
Biometric Technologies’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Crime,
Terrorism, and Homeland Security, hearing entitled
‘‘Marijuana Laws in America: Racial Justice and the Need
for Reform’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands, hearing on H.R.
252, the ‘‘Pershing County Economic Development and
Conservation Act’’; H.R. 1475, the ‘‘LOTTERY Act’’;
H.R. 2199, the ‘‘Central Coast Heritage Protection Act’’;
H.R. 2215, the ‘‘San Gabriel Mountains Foothills and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09JY9.REC D09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D796 July 9, 2019
Rivers Protection Act’’; H.R. 2250, the ‘‘Northwest Cali-
fornia Wilderness, Recreation, and Working Forests Act’’;
H.R. 2546, the ‘‘Colorado Wilderness Act of 2019’’; and
H.R. 2642, the ‘‘Wild Olympics Wilderness and Wild
and Scenic Rivers Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘The Trump Administration’s Attack on
the ACA: Reversal in Court Case Threatens Health Care
for Millions of Americans’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties,
hearing entitled ‘‘Kids in Cages: Inhumane Treatment at
the Border’’, 2:30 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Subcommittee
on Space and Aeronautics, hearing entitled ‘‘A Review of
NASA’s Plans for the International Space Station and Fu-
ture Activities in Low Earth Orbit’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Energy, markup on H.R. 3597, the
‘‘Solar Energy Research and Development Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3607, the ‘‘Fossil Energy Research and Develop-
ment Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 3609, the ‘‘Wind Energy
Research and Development Act of 2019’’, 2 p.m., 2318
Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Continuing to Serve: From Military to Entre-
preneur’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Water Resources Development
Acts: Status of Implementation and Assessing the Future
Needs’’, 10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Opportunity, hearing entitled ‘‘Economic Well-
being of Women Veterans’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘The Cost
of Caring’’, 2 p.m., HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 397, the ‘‘Rehabilitation for Multiemployer Pen-
sions Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D09JY9.REC D09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D797
July 9, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 53 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
135 reports have been filed in the House.
Résumé of Congressional Activity
FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3 through June 30, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 98 101 . .
Time in session ................................... 533 hrs., 9′ 438 hrs., 39′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 4,678 5,266 . .
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 867 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 10 14 24
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . .
Bills in conference ............................... . . . . . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 249 292 541
Senate bills .................................. 45 11 . .
House bills .................................. 16 180 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 23 1 . .
House joint resolutions ............... 4 7 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 8 4 . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... 6 8 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 147 81 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... *108 *127 235
Senate bills .................................. 65 . . . .
House bills .................................. 9 94 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . 1 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 2 . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 32 30 . .
Special reports ..................................... 12 7 . .
Conference reports ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 93 41 . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 2,394 4,187 6,581
Bills ............................................. 2,053 3,593 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 49 71 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 21 51 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 271 472 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 189 182 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 247 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... 1 1 . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3 through June 30, 2019
Civilian nominations, totaling 410, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 135
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 264
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 11
Other Civilian nominations, totaling 697, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 19
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 678
Air Force nominations, totaling 1,843, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,503
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 340
Army nominations, totaling 4,952, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 4,517
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 435
Navy nominations, totaling 1,827, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,821
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 6
Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,416, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,407
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 9
Summary
Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 0
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 11,145
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 9,402
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 1,732
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 11
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\CR\FM\D09JY9.REC D09JYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D798 July 9, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Wednesday, July 10
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will resume consider-
ation of the nomination of T. Kent Wetherell II, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern District of
Florida, post-cloture, and vote on confirmation of the
nominations of T. Kent Wetherell II, J. Nicholas Ranjan,
to be United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Pennsylvania, and Damon Ray Leichty, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern District of
Indiana, at 11 a.m.
At 4:30 p.m., Senate will vote on the motions to in-
voke cloture on the nominations of Robert L. King, of
Kentucky, to be Assistant Secretary for Postsecondary
Education, Department of Education, and John P.
Pallasch, of Kentucky, to be an Assistant Secretary of
Labor.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, July 10
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of H.R.
2500—National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal
Year 2020 (Subject to a Rule). Consideration of measures
under suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E881
Costa, Jim, Calif., E882
Crow, Jason, Col., E877
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E879, E880, E881, E883
Graves, Sam, Mo., E880
Hudson, Richard, N.C., E883
Huizenga, Bill, Mich., E879
Johnson, Eddie Bernice, Tex., E883
Joyce, John, Pa., E879
Kelly, Mike, Pa., E881
Levin, Mike, Calif., E882
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E881
Rooney, Francis, Fla., E880, E882
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E880
Sablan, Gregorio Kilili Camacho, Northern Mariana
Islands, E882
Shimkus, John, Ill., E880, E883
Wenstrup, Brad R., Ohio, E880
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E879
VerDate Sep 11 2014 08:09 Jul 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D09JY9.REC D09JYPT1
