Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3795
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 2019 No. 81
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Ms. SHALALA).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
May 15, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable DONNA E.
SHALALA to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
SYSTEM OF CHECKS AND
BALANCES IS AT RISK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, and still I rise because I love my
country. And still I rise because there
is a crisis that has to be addressed.
Madam Speaker, the system of
checks and balances that we have in-
stilled within our government, a sys-
tem that the Framers of the Constitu-
tion devised such that there would not
be a concentration of power in the
hands of the chief executive officer of
the government, in fact, is to prevent a
concentration of power in any aspect.
There is power that is spread across
the government.
There are three branches of the gov-
ernment. I want to focus this morning,
if I may, on two—the executive and the
legislative—because, Madam Speaker,
this morning, as I stand before you, a
proud American, I must inform all that
the system of checks and balances is at
risk.
It is at risk because we now have a
President who does not believe that he
can or will be impeached. We have a
President who refuses to allow Con-
gress to perform its constitutionally
accorded oversight responsibilities.
When you have a President who does
this, Madam Speaker, you lose the
power of Congress. It becomes con-
centrated in the President. The Presi-
dency becomes a place where power is
concentrated because the President has
no fear:
He doesn’t believe that there are con-
sequences for his going beyond what
the Constitution allows;
He will engage in conduct that Arti-
cle II, Section 4 of the Constitution
would prohibit; and
He will engage in impeachable of-
fenses because he knows that the Con-
gress will not impeach him.
It is impeachment that is the ulti-
mate guard against a reckless, ruth-
less, lawless President; and if we do not
exert our authority, this President,
knowing that we won’t, is capable of
doing things that we cannot imagine.
Madam Speaker, it is up to us, the
Members of this Congress, to assure
that this government continues to
have the checks and balances that the
Framers of the Constitution intended.
If we do not, if Congress does not fulfill
its responsibility, we won’t have a
Presidency. The power will be so con-
centrated that we will have a mon-
archy.
The Framers of the Constitution
never intended for a President to just
totally disregard the Congress. And
notwithstanding all that might happen
in the courts, notwithstanding all of
the subpoenas that may be taken to
court and have them litigated properly,
the ultimate check on a President is
Article II, Section 4 of the Constitu-
tion, and that is impeachment when he
commits impeachable acts.
We have the Mueller report. It speaks
for itself. And there are many constitu-
tional scholars who have said there has
been an obstruction to take place.
There are many lawyers who have
worked in the Justice Department.
They number hundreds now, the law-
yers who have signed on, indicating
that the President should be beneath
the law just as everyone else is, or the
law should apply to him. He shouldn’t
be above the law.
They are indicating that, if we don’t
act, we are showing the President that
he is above the law. He then becomes a
monarch, and we then become a weaker
form of government.
So I call upon this Congress: Let us
do what is expected of us. The Framers
of the Constitution gave us the way.
They have shown the way. We but only
have to have the will, and it is worth it
for us to do this because the country is
at stake in the sense that the govern-
ment is at risk.
Madam Speaker, I love my country.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECOGNIZING LIONS CLUBS
INTERNATIONAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to speak
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.000 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3796 May 15, 2019
about an organization that is near and
dear to my heart: the Lions Clubs
International.
I am a member of my hometown or-
ganization, the Howard Area Lions
Club. The Howard Area Lions Club has
consistently earned the recognition as
the largest Lions Club in Pennsylvania.
There are probably many factors that
have led them to this, but none more
significant than their commitment to
the Lions Club motto, ‘‘We Serve.’’
The members of my club served as
the chartering organization for the
Howard Boy Scout Troop 353; and, in
the past, I was proud to serve as Scout-
master of that unit.
Simply put, service is of the utmost
importance to the Lions. The clubs are
places where individuals can join to-
gether to give their valuable time and
effort to improving their communities
and the world.
Where there is a need, there is a
Lion. There are 1.4 million Lions
around the world, 47,000 Lions Clubs in
more than 200 countries. For more than
100 years, Lions have been serving hu-
manity.
The idea of the Lions Club began in
1917. A 38-year-old Chicago business
leader named Melvin Jones told mem-
bers of his local business club that they
should reach beyond business issues
and address the betterment of their
communities and the world. They
agreed.
Three years later, Lions Clubs be-
came an international organization.
Melvin Jones inspired generations of
people to become civic-minded individ-
uals, dedicated to using their talents
and ambitions to improve their com-
munities without financial reward.
Melvin Jones had a personal code:
‘‘You can’t get very far until you start
doing something for somebody else.’’
Madam Speaker, service to others is
what makes the Lions Clubs Inter-
national such a powerful force for good
in the world.
There are nearly 70 Members of Con-
gress who are involved in service orga-
nizations, and that is why I am proud
to be working with my colleague Con-
gressman JIMMY PANETTA to establish
the Congressional Service Organization
Caucus. We plan to launch the caucus
soon.
It will support the many operations
that are dedicated to giving back to
their communities. I encourage my col-
leagues to join because there are few
gifts greater than the gift of time and
service to others.
Madam Speaker, Lions Clubs Inter-
national is on Capitol Hill today to
raise awareness about how helpful serv-
ice organizations are to communities
across the Nation.
I am grateful that Lions Clubs
around the globe serve millions annu-
ally, and I am so proud to be a member
of an organization that not only lives
up to its remarkable ideals but exceeds
them time and time again.
NEWBORN SCREENING SAVES
LIVES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD) for 5
minutes.
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Madam
Speaker, I recently introduced the
Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reau-
thorization Act, which will continue
the important work of the original bill
and expand its critical programs to im-
prove infant health across the United
States. Every year, thousands of babies
are born with genetic, metabolic, hor-
monal, and functional conditions that
severely affect their development.
Fifty years ago, these rare disorders
in infants would have gone undetected
until symptoms appeared, often too
late to provide them with the essential
treatment needed to prevent lifelong
disability or even death. Today, we can
give newborn babies a simple blood test
that can identify such life-threatening
genetic illnesses before symptoms ap-
pear.
In 2008, Congress passed my original
bill, which was a major step toward es-
tablishing newborn screening guide-
lines across the United States. Until
that time, only 10 States and the Dis-
trict of Columbia required newborn
screening for a complete panel of rec-
ommended disorders, and there was no
Federal repository of information on
these diseases. Today, 49 States and
the District of Columbia screen for at
least 31 of the 35 currently rec-
ommended core conditions.
Each year, with newborn screening,
healthcare professionals identify ap-
proximately 12,000 babies who test posi-
tive for one of these rare conditions.
This invaluable early detection allows
for timely treatment to prevent long-
term damage and severe health com-
plications, which gives babies the op-
portunity to live relatively normal and
healthy lives.
For thousands of mothers and fami-
lies, this early and simple intervention
can also reduce the emotional stress of
trying to identify their baby’s correct
diagnosis.
Investments in newborn screening
can also save up to $1 million over a
child’s lifetime. This is a significant
savings for American families and our
financially burdened healthcare sys-
tem.
While it is true that since the origi-
nal passage of the Newborn Screening
Saves Lives Act, significant advance-
ments have been made in early detec-
tion and treatment, serious gaps in
newborn screening remain. The New-
born Screening Saves Lives Reauthor-
ization Act will build on the current
newborn screening infrastructure and
strengthen early detection of prevent-
able disease.
To ensure the quality of laboratories
involved in newborn screening, the bill
reauthorizes the Centers for Disease
Control grants, and it continues HRSA
grants to empower parents and health
professionals with education and re-
sources to improve newborn screening.
The bill also renews the Secretary’s
Advisory Committee on Heritable Dis-
orders in Newborns and Children,
which maintains and updates the rec-
ommended uniform screening panel
that States adopt and implement.
The bill funds research to identify
new screening technologies and treat-
ments, and a new provision in the bill
commissions the National Academy of
Medicine to issue recommendations to
modernize newborn screening systems
into the 21st century.
The Newborn Screening Saves Lives
Reauthorization Act will continue to
ensure that parents and health pro-
viders are knowledgeable about the
value of newborn screening, and it will
help ensure that infants across the
United States receive comprehensive
and consistent testing.
A coalition of public health groups,
including the March of Dimes, the As-
sociation of Public Health Labora-
tories, the American College of Medical
Genetics, and the National Organiza-
tion for Rare Disorders, support the
Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reau-
thorization Act. Their leadership has
been critical to advance newborn
screening across the United States.
Madam Speaker, newborn screening
is one of the most important public
health interventions of the 20th cen-
tury. It is critical that, in the 21st cen-
tury, we continue and strengthen the
programs and research of the Newborn
Screening Saves Lives Act.
I urge my colleagues to sponsor the
Newborn Screening Saves Lives Reau-
thorization Act to enhance the lives of
hundreds of infants and families each
year in the United States.
f
RECOGNIZING ZANE MOORE OF
THE BUCKS COUNTY YMCA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize an individual
and organization in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, working to make our
community a better place.
Earlier this month, Zane Moore, the
president and CEO of the YMCA of
Bucks County, walked across the en-
tire county to raise awareness of the
positive impact the YMCA has on our
neighbors and funding for its programs.
Last Thursday, Zane began his trek
at the YMCA in Quakertown, wrapping
up at the YMCA in Doylestown. He
picked up on Friday where he left off,
completing his journey that same day,
all the way to the YMCA in Lower
Bucks County in Fairless Hills.
Madam Speaker, I applaud Zane and
all the local leaders who joined him
along the way on his journey. We ap-
preciate the work of the YMCA and all
of its efforts to promote education,
physical well-being, and recovery pro-
grams for those in our community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.003 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3797
May 15, 2019
b 1015
RECOGNIZING ROTARIAN OF THE YEAR MAX ROSE
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker,
I rise to recognize a resident of Bucks
County, Pennsylvania, who was re-
cently honored as Rotarian of the Year
by the Rotary Club of Doylestown.
Last month, 24-year Rotary Club
member Max Rose received this dis-
tinction at the 10th annual Four-Way
Test Awards Fundraiser. During his
distinguished tenure, he twice served
as president of the Rotary Club of
Doylestown, has been an instrumental
force in the organization’s youth ex-
change program, and has assisted
greatly in local events such as the Bor-
ough Dam cleanup and the Doylestown
at Dusk Car Show.
Madam Speaker, I congratulate Max
on this well-deserved recognition. I
also thank Rotary Club president Gail
Linenberg, along with all the members
of the Rotary Club of Doylestown, for
their dedication and their service to
our community.
RECOGNIZING STUDENTS AND FACULTY OF ST.
ANDREW SCHOOL, NEWTOWN, PENNSYLVANIA
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize an out-
standing group of students in Bucks
County, Pennsylvania, who recently
partnered with a local organization to
comfort children who have experienced
traumatic events.
At St. Andrew School in Newtown, a
group of third-grade students partici-
pated in a service project in collabora-
tion with the Newtown Quilters’ Guild.
Using lighthearted drawings by the
students, the guild will create colorful
quilts and distribute them to the New-
town Township Police Department and
emergency services personnel to give
to young children who have been
through difficult situations.
Madam Speaker, I applaud these stu-
dents and the faculty of St. Andrew
School in Newtown, especially Prin-
cipal Nancy Matteo and third-grade
teachers Ashlyn Kalicki and Lynn
Dixon.
I also thank all the members of the
Newtown Quilters’ Guild for their
thoughtfulness, along with all the offi-
cers of the Newtown Township Police
Department on this National Police
Week. We appreciate all the work they
do for our community.
f
CELEBRATING 54TH ANNIVERSARY
OF HEAD START
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. WATERS) for 5 minutes.
Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support and celebration of
the 54th anniversary of the Head Start
program and the 25th anniversary of
the Early Head Start program.
As a former Head Start teacher, I
know how vital the program is to over
100,000 low-income children in Cali-
fornia and the more than 1 million
families across the country who rely on
its essential services.
I began my journey at Head Start as
an assistant teacher and later became
the supervisor of parent involvement
and volunteer services, helping parents
participate and contribute to their
children’s educational experiences.
Head Start services include health
screenings, nutritional education, and
social support for families with chil-
dren in the program. Early Head Start
provides services like home visits to
children at birth. Head Start even
funds research and functions as a lab-
oratory for early learning innovation.
From the moment I became involved
with Head Start, I saw the potential it
had to empower and uplift children and
their families. Since then, I have
worked hard to improve and expand
Head Start so that this potential is re-
alized and more families have an op-
portunity for a better life.
My role as supervisor of parent in-
volvement and volunteer services pro-
vided me with insights into the unique
and pivotal role parents play in the
Head Start community.
I am so appreciative of the Head
Start and Early Head Start programs
in my home district in California.
These programs basically provide re-
sources and referral services, and re-
search innovative new programs in the
areas of childcare, development, and
family well-being.
These programs serve tens of thou-
sands of low-income children and their
families, usually in communities like
South Los Angeles, Gardena, Haw-
thorne, Inglewood, and Lawndale, and
demonstrate Head Start’s trans-
formative potential.
I will continue to strengthen Con-
gress’ relationship with Head Start and
parents and encourage more Members
and families to become involved.
Since President Johnson first an-
nounced Head Start in the spring of
1965, the program and its services have
reached over 32 million children. Study
after study shows that providing early
childhood education to children is
transformative to their future aca-
demic success.
Children who joined Head Start grad-
uated high school and attended college
at higher rates than their siblings who
did not participate in the program.
Head Start participants consistently
show substantial improvements on test
scores early in life. Adults who partici-
pated in Head Start in their youth are
less likely to be charged with a crime
or become a teenage parent.
These programs are so much more
than federally funded preschool pro-
grams for the youngest Americans.
They are a lifeline for vulnerable com-
munities and provide future genera-
tions a chance to succeed.
This critical program is our national
pledge that every child, regardless of
circumstances at birth, has an oppor-
tunity to achieve and excel in school
and in life. There is perhaps no greater
purpose for an elected official than
working toward the realization of that
pledge. I will never stop.
In addition to my support here in
making sure that the funding con-
tinues and that it grows, I also focus on
the oversight, supervision, and man-
agement of Head Start programs.
In the greater Los Angeles commu-
nity, many of our delegate agencies are
overseen by LACOE. This is a county
organization.
I want LACOE to get more involved
in keeping Head Start programs rather
than shutting them down. I believe
there must be a strong component that
works with compliance and works with
training to make sure that the pro-
grams meet all the requirements be-
cause our teachers, our assistant
teachers, and our volunteers are doing
the very best job they can do. Many of
them need that kind of support. I am
not so sure they are getting all of it,
but I am going to pay even more atten-
tion to LACOE in the greater Los An-
geles area to ensure that they are pro-
viding the kinds of services that
strengthen Head Start programs and do
the kind of outreach in the commu-
nities to make sure that our families
know the availability of the Head Start
programs.
I believe that Head Start has been
one of the most significant programs of
the overall poverty program, and I am
one of its greatest supporters.
f
THIS HOUSE IS NOT IN ORDER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ZELDIN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. ZELDIN. Madam Speaker, this
Chamber is going in the wrong direc-
tion in the effort to combat the BDS
movement, to combat anti-Israel hate,
to combat anti-Semitism.
I went through kindergarten through
12th grade, college, law school, 4 years
of Active Duty. I never once experi-
enced anti-Semitism. But now I hear
countless stories all across our country
and college campuses today. It is infil-
trating American politics, college cam-
puses, and the Halls of Congress.
We need to do something about it,
not just send a strong message, which
is important, but actually pass some-
thing with teeth to do something about
it.
One of my colleagues from Michigan
gave a talk last Friday, gave an inter-
view. She was asked about her support
for a one-state solution that would re-
move Jews from power in their own
country, in Israel. Her response was
that the Holocaust gives her a calming
feeling because of the safe haven that
the Palestinians provided to Jews.
Now, that happens to be the opposite
of factually accurate. But then, if you
have any problem with those words,
that makes you automatically an
Islamophobe and a racist idiot, accord-
ing to the person who had said that.
Then the Speaker of the House is
calling for us to come to the floor and
apologize to Ms. TLAIB.
Well, here I am. My apology is for ev-
eryone who is insulted across America
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.005 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3798 May 15, 2019
that we passed a watered-down, spine-
less resolution, after countless acts of
anti-Semitism by another Member,
that does not name names.
I apologize to everyone across this
country expecting this House to act.
We failed them.
The students at the University of
California who had to read the posting:
‘‘Gas them, burn them, and dismantle
their power structure. Humanity can-
not progress with the parasitic Jew.’’
The founder of BDS was blatantly
anti-Semitic. Take his own words: ‘‘No
Palestinian—rational Palestinian, not
a sellout Palestinian—will ever accept
a Jewish state in Palestine.’’
Or this other quote: ‘‘We are wit-
nessing the rapid demise of Zionism,
and nothing can be done to save it, for
Zionism is intent on killing itself. I,
for one, support euthanasia.’’
Or we could take this quote: ‘‘Many
of the methods of collective and indi-
vidual ‘punishment’ meted out to Pal-
estinian civilians at the hands of
young, racist, often sadistic and ever
impervious Israeli soldiers . . . are
reminiscent of common Nazi practices
against the Jews.’’ This is the founder
of the BDS movement.
You want an apology, Madam Speak-
er? Well, how about the students at
Berkeley who sit in the classroom and
the maps that go up on the board?
Where it is supposed to say Israel, it
says Palestine. Or the students in
Michigan whose professor refused to
sign off on a letter of recommendation
because the student wanted to study
abroad in Israel.
This past Thursday, we had an imam
give the opening prayer here before
this Chamber. This imam—a simple
Google search, by the way, in the vet-
ting would have come up with the
background, and it is a long list—is not
just a supporter of the BDS movement
but has compared the Israelis to the
Nazis, called the Israelis a terrorist re-
gime, called for a third Palestinian
intifada, and posted in support of the
Muslim Brotherhood.
I mentioned earlier one of my col-
leagues who had multiple anti-Semitic
postings. One started with: ‘‘Israel has
hypnotized the world, may Allah awak-
en the people and help them see the
evil doings of Israel’’; or saying that if
you support Israel, then you must have
been bought off by Jews; or when she
said if you support the U.S-Israel rela-
tionship, then you must have pledged
your allegiance to a foreign power.
You want an apology, Madam Speak-
er? How about the students at Warren
Wilson College who had a speaker tell
them Jews are doing the same thing to
the Palestinians as the Nazis did to the
Jews?
Students from coast to coast all
across this entire country are expect-
ing, demanding, this House to act.
Now, you could go to the Twitter ac-
count of Ms. TLAIB. You will see over
the course of the last few days postings
from Tamika Mallory and fellow orga-
nizer Linda Sarsour.
Tamika Mallory says that Louis
Farrakhan is the ‘‘greatest of all
time,’’ Louis Farrakhan, the same guy
who said: ‘‘So when they talk about
Farrakhan, call me a hater, you do
what they do, call me an anti-Semite.
Stop it, I’m anti-Termite’’; or, ‘‘Sa-
tanic Jews have infected the whole
world with poison and deceit’’; or what
he said about Adolf Hitler of Nazi Ger-
many, who was responsible for mur-
dering 6 million Jewish people and mil-
lions of others, ‘‘He was a very great
man.’’
We have Members of this Chamber
who have associated themselves with
Farrakhan, not just Tamika Mallory.
I mentioned Linda Sarsour. She said:
‘‘Only Jews . . . are the ones that con-
done violence against Arabs and are
cool with mosques being attacked.’’
We have an issue in this Chamber,
and we need to do something about it,
not mask it, not empower it, not ele-
vate it. It must be identified and
crushed.
And no, Madam Speaker, I am not
coming to this floor and apologizing to
my colleagues who push it. I will apolo-
gize to everyone across this country of-
fended by the lack of action by the
Speaker.
Madam Speaker, your House is not in
order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair and not to a per-
ceived viewing audience.
f
MOURNING THE PASSING OF R.
NORMAN FRANCK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. SMUCKER) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. SMUCKER. Madam Speaker, it is
with a heavy heart that I rise today to
mourn the passing of Norman Franck,
a fire police officer and member of the
Willow Street Fire Company.
After responding to a crash this past
weekend, Norman fell ill and then
passed away at Lancaster General Hos-
pital. It was a tremendous loss to our
community and, certainly, even more
so to his wife, Marian.
Today, we remember her in our
thoughts and prayers and wish her
comfort and peace in this time of
mourning.
b 1030
Norman will be remembered as a giv-
ing man, described by Willow Street
Fire Company Chief Craig Rhineer as
someone who would do anything for
you. Norman, by the way, was also con-
sidered an authority on the history of
the Willow Street Fire Company.
He lived a life in service to the com-
munity, as a member of the fire service
and ambulance company since the
1980s. When he moved to Maryland, he
served there at the St. Michael’s Vol-
unteer Fire Company. Then, after re-
turning to Lancaster County, he re-
sumed his service once again at the
Willow Street Fire Company.
Even at age 81, Norman still self-
lessly served his community. His spirit
of volunteerism, his spirit of giving,
should be an example for us all.
We thank him for his years of serv-
ice.
Madam Speaker, I ask everyone to
join me in keeping his family and the
members of Willow Street Fire Com-
pany in our prayers.
Madam Speaker, members of our vol-
unteer fire companies are true heroes.
Today, we honor Norman Franck, a
hero who served in my community.
f
HOLD POLLUTERS ACCOUNTABLE
FOR PFAS CONTAMINATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. ROUDA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to shed light on PFAS contami-
nation, a crisis affecting water systems
that serve upward of 19 million people
across our great country.
For decades, manufacturing compa-
nies have known that these chemicals
are extremely hazardous to human
health, have actively taken steps to
bury unfavorable research, and have
used false uncertainty to fight off regu-
lations that could help ensure public
safety.
That is why I introduced H.R. 2570,
the PFAS User Fee Act, to hold chem-
ical manufacturers financially ac-
countable for their role in this con-
tamination crisis. These manufacturers
must take responsibility for their role
in this crisis and contribute to the so-
lution.
Congress must finally hold these pol-
luters accountable for the harm they
continue to cause. The safety of our
water systems and the air we breathe
is at stake.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 31
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker at
noon.
f
PRAYER
Dr. Benny Tate, Rock Springs
Church, Milner, Georgia, offered the
following prayer:
Our most kind, gracious Heavenly
Father, we come to You in the name of
our Lord, Jesus Christ. We lift this
body up to You because You admonish
us to pray for kings and for all who are
in authority.
I, first and foremost, lift up their
spiritual lives to You, realizing we are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.006 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3799
May 15, 2019
a spirit that has a soul, housed in a
body. May each Member have spiritual
peace.
I also pray for each Member
relationally. The Scripture admonishes
for leaders to lead a peaceable life. May
the blessing of peace rest on their
homes.
Lastly, I pray for them physically.
Would You grant strength, health, and
wisdom to each one. Lord, may every
Member realize You have placed them
here and acknowledge their ultimate
accountability is to You.
Lord, I thank You for this great op-
portunity, and I pray this prayer in the
name above every name, the name of
our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from California (Mr. TAKANO) come for-
ward and lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
Mr. TAKANO led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
WELCOMING DR. BENNY TATE
The SPEAKER. Without objection,
the gentleman from Georgia (Mr. FER-
GUSON) is recognized for 1 minute.
There was no objection.
Mr. FERGUSON. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor Dr. Benny Tate,
whose leadership and guidance have
made him an incredibly valuable mem-
ber of his community in Milner, Geor-
gia, and our Third District.
Dr. Tate has been the senior pastor of
Rock Springs Church in Milner for over
25 years. In that time, when it started
as a church of just 60, it has now grown
to a church of over 6,000.
Through this work, Dr. Tate has also
shepherded the creation of several min-
istries, including the Rock Springs
Medical Clinic, the Rock Springs Chris-
tian Academy, the Potter’s House for
Women, and Impact Christian Min-
istries for the homeless.
Benny has been married to his wife,
Barbara, for over 30 years, and they
have one daughter, Savannah Abigail,
who is here with him today.
I want to commend Dr. Tate for his
commitment to our community. There
is not a week that goes by where he
isn’t a welcoming part of the Third
District of Georgia.
The grace and love he has shown to
his parishioners and neighbors
throughout his 25 years in Milner is un-
paralleled, and I am truly honored to
have Dr. Benny Tate here with us
today.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER). The Chair will en-
tertain up to 15 further requests for 1-
minute speeches on each side of the
aisle.
f
WE THE PEOPLE
(Mr. TAKANO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, ‘‘We
the People’’ is a bold opening state-
ment enshrined in our Constitution.
Yet, the truth is that in most parts of
our country, LGBTQ Americans are not
included in ‘‘We the People.’’
Students in Arizona should go to
school free from fear and bullying.
Workers in Texas should not be afraid
of being fired because of who they are.
Renters in Mississippi should not be
evicted because of who they love.
No person, no matter where they live
in America, should face discrimination.
Equality should not depend on the ZIP
Code where you live. It is time to make
equality for LGBTQ people the law of
the land and to ensure that we, too, are
part of ‘‘We the People.’’
I urge my colleagues to be on the
right side of history and to vote ‘‘yes’’
on the Equality Act.
f
UMITA WILL HELP STATE AND
LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE RE-
NEWAL
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, as the national conversation
revolves around infrastructure this
week, I would like to highlight H.R.
300, the Unfunded Mandates Informa-
tion and Transparency Act, or UMITA,
which I introduced with my Demo-
cratic colleague, Representative
CUELLAR.
UMITA will further our goal of re-
newing our country’s infrastructure by
making sure that overly burdensome
Federal regulations don’t hinder
progress on State and local levels.
State and local governments shoul-
der the greatest cost of infrastructure
projects, and any Federal legislation to
assist their efforts must account for
costs of regulatory compliance. Every
dollar spent on compliance with bur-
densome mandates is less money for
the projects States and localities need.
UMITA passed with a bipartisan vote
in the last four Congresses, and I call
for it to be included in any comprehen-
sive infrastructure legislation consid-
ered in this body.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CLI-
MATE RESILIENCY and READI-
NESS ACT
(Ms. ESCOBAR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, cli-
mate change is a major threat to our
national security; and military leaders
agree.
Last year, the Department of Defense
studied 79 mission-critical bases and
found that climate change threatened
most of them. In the past year alone,
three of our military installations suf-
fered significant damage from natural
disasters, and they are still not fully
recovered.
It is clear that the scale of this chal-
lenge is great. That is why today I am
introducing the Department of Defense
Climate Resiliency and Readiness Act
to help tackle this challenge.
By setting clear goals and ensuring
regular dedicated resources, my bill
gives military leaders the tools and
flexibility to implement policies that
work best for their missions. We will
also ensure the DOD budgets for resil-
iency and maintains a focus on cut-
ting-edge technologies like hybrid
microgrids and additive manufac-
turing.
As one of the world’s largest energy
consumers, DOD can offer invaluable
leadership toward addressing the global
climate challenge, while bolstering
U.S. national security; and that starts
today.
f
WORK IN A BIPARTISAN WAY TO
DEFEAT RUSSIAN ELECTION IN-
TERFERENCE
(Mr. GAETZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GAETZ. Madam Speaker, by ex-
panding American energy, expelling
diplomats, and ensuring that the
United States takes its position in the
world, President Trump has been
tougher on Russia than any President
in a generation.
But the fact remains that the Rus-
sian military attacked the U.S. elec-
tion. And so it would seem reasonable
that, along with the Department of
Homeland Security, the FBI, and the
CIA, we would want the United States
military offering the full suite of capa-
bilities, both offensive and defensive,
to combat Russian election inter-
ference.
Today, the House Armed Services
Committee held a classified briefing on
the U.S. military and their participa-
tion in this critical mission. I was
deeply disappointed in what I learned.
The U.S. military is not sufficiently
engaged or informed on critical aspects
of the Russian election interference
campaign. They don’t even know which
two Florida counties were hacked.
And when DOD sent 11 people to go
work with the Department of Home-
land Security to have the full suite of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.009 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3800 May 15, 2019
authorities available to respond to
Russia, they were told they weren’t
needed.
Russia has a whole-of-government
approach to this problem, and I would
urge us to work in a bipartisan way in
the Defense Authorization Act to en-
sure that we are ready with our full au-
thorities to defeat Russia and their ef-
forts to interfere with our election.
f
HIGHLIGHTING THE STRUGGLE OF
RAIL COMMUTERS IN NEW JER-
SEY’S SEVENTH CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICT
(Mr. MALINOWSKI asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Madam Speaker,
today I rise to highlight the struggle
that rail commuters in New Jersey’s
Seventh District face each day.
Public transportation is vital to my
State, where twice as many of us de-
pend on it than the national average.
Right now, though, the 23,000 people
who rely on the main rail line that
cuts through the heart of my district,
the Raritan Valley Line, are the only
commuters in northern New Jersey
without one-seat ride access to Man-
hattan during peak hours. To get to
New York, they must transfer to New-
ark, adding at least 25 minutes to their
commutes.
Now, you might ask, why am I bring-
ing this local issue to the House? Why
can’t New Jersey solve it by itself?
Well, I will tell you why. Because
every rail passenger trying to get to
work along this economic corridor that
is so vital, not just to my State, but to
the economy of the United States,
must squeeze through a crumbling, 110-
year old bottleneck of a tunnel under
the Hudson River that is owned and op-
erated by the Federal Government, and
the Federal Government won’t fix it.
The Raritan Valley Line Mayor’s Al-
liance, representing over 30 mayors,
has been working to get one-seat ride.
We need to do our part by passing an
infrastructure bill this year that will
fund the Gateway tunnel.
f
HEALTHCARE PRICES
(Mrs. WAGNER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
rise to support the Payment Commis-
sion Data Act, which would make pre-
scription drug prices more transparent,
and the BLOCKING Act, which would
bring generic drugs to the market fast-
er.
I also support the Protecting Con-
sumer Access to Generic Drugs Act,
which would prohibit drug companies
from delaying the entry of generic
drugs into the market.
Unfortunately, Madam Speaker,
Democrats have packaged these bills
together with poison pills that would
prevent States from offering lower cost
healthcare plans.
Democrats want to increase
ObamaCare enrollment regardless of
cost, but ObamaCare is not affordable
for many Americans. The average
monthly premium for a family of four
is over $1,500, forcing Missourians to
cut housing and child care so they can
pay skyrocketing premiums. It is not a
solution. We must take immediate ac-
tion to allow States to promote choices
and affordability.
f
BLUE WATER NAVY VETERANS
(Ms. SCANLON asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, yes-
terday the House passed H.R. 299, the
Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans
Act of 2019. This long overdue legisla-
tion would finally provide disability
benefits to veterans who served in the
territorial seas surrounding Vietnam
during the Vietnam war and were ex-
posed to Agent Orange.
This change is long overdue but,
sadly, thousands of brave Vietnam vet-
erans have already suffered the con-
sequences of Agent Orange-related ill-
nesses.
A longtime resident of Media, Penn-
sylvania, John Bury, was a 22-year vet-
eran of the Navy and a legendary advo-
cate for sailors sickened by Agent Or-
ange. He, himself, survived cancer six
times related to Agent Orange, and
knew firsthand the challenges of navi-
gating the VA due to his service being
on ships, rather than land.
John passed away in late 2016, but his
memory and service will live on. Sail-
ors like John are heroes and deserve to
be treated as such by the VA.
I urge the Senate to quickly take up
this legislation and send it to the
President’s desk so that thousands of
others like John can get the care they
deserve.
f
b 1215
NATIONAL DRUG COURT MONTH
(Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky. Madam
Speaker, May is National Drug Court
Month, and I rise to recognize these re-
markable facilities on their 30th anni-
versary. Since 1989, drug courts have
provided countless addicted Americans
referral to treatment and a lifesaving
alternative to incarceration.
When I first started Operation
UNITE in my district in 2003, there
were only five drug courts in the whole
district of 30 counties. Today, we have
one in all 30 counties, and those volun-
teer judges are changing more lives
than ever before.
At this moment, drug courts are pro-
viding a new lease on life to 144,000
Americans around the country. Thank
you to the countless professionals who
make up our 3,000 drug courts. We have
got a long road ahead, but I look for-
ward to ensuring drug courts remain a
central part of that journey.
f
GUN SHOPS SHOULD MEET MIN-
IMUM SECURITY REQUIREMENTS
(Mr. MORELLE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MORELLE. Madam Speaker,
across our Nation, we face an epidemic.
In schools, in churches, on our streets,
Americans are dying from gun vio-
lence.
We have a moral responsibility to do
everything in our power to prevent
more people from suffering the loss of a
loved one to the scourge of illegal guns.
That is why I have introduced the Gun
Theft Prevention Act.
Last year, more than 500 gun shops
were burglarized nationwide, releasing
thousands of deadly weapons onto our
streets and into the hands of criminals.
In my district, a single gun shop was
broken into twice in the same week,
seven times in the span of a decade.
Yet licensed gun dealers are not re-
quired to take even the most basic pre-
cautions, like locking their doors at
night, to prevent these dangerous
weapons from falling into the wrong
hands.
My bill requires gun shops to meet
minimum security requirements, like
locked cabinets and video surveillance,
creates strong enforcement mecha-
nisms, requires reporting of stolen
guns, and authorizes 650 new ATF in-
spectors.
This is commonsense legislation that
will save lives, and I will work tire-
lessly to ensure its passage.
f
PEACE OFFICERS MEMORIAL DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, today is Peace Offi-
cers Memorial Day, when we pay trib-
ute to local, State, and Federal law en-
forcement officers who serve and pro-
tect our communities.
Today is an extra special day for one
of my constituents and his family:
Sugarcreek Police Sergeant Anthony
Gorman, who was shot April 4, 1997,
while investigating a suspicious car in
a parking lot in Franklin, Pennsyl-
vania. He never fully recovered from
his injuries.
In October of 2014, Sergeant Gorman
died at the age of 72, more than 17
years after that initial gunshot. While
his death was a direct consequence of
the 1997 shooting, a doctor listed his
cause of death as natural, which pre-
vented him from being honored at the
National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial here in Washington, D.C.
His son, Christopher, then embarked
on a mission to have his dad’s name
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.011 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3801
May 15, 2019
memorialized. After years of research,
petitions, and advocacy, it is now en-
graved at the East Pathway of Remem-
brance at section 25, line 31.
Sergeant Gorman’s family was here
this week for the candlelight vigil held
Monday on The Mall, and thanks to
Christopher Gorman’s determination,
his dad’s name is finally where he be-
longs.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, May 15, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
May 15, 2019, at 9:39 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 1231.
That the Senate passed S. 1436.
Appointment:
The Senate National Security Working
Group.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 5, EQUALITY ACT; PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 312, MASHPEE WAMPANOAG
TRIBE RESERVATION REAFFIR-
MATION ACT; AND PROVIDING
FOR CONSIDERATION OF H.R. 987,
MARKETING AND OUTREACH
RESTORATION TO EMPOWER
HEALTH EDUCATION ACT OF 2019
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 377 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 377
Resolved, That upon adoption of this reso-
lution it shall be in order to consider in the
House the bill (H.R. 5) to prohibit discrimi-
nation on the basis of sex, gender identity,
and sexual orientation, and for other pur-
poses. All points of order against consider-
ation of the bill are waived. The amendment
in the nature of a substitute recommended
by the Committee on the Judiciary now
printed in the bill shall be considered as
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be con-
sidered as read. All points of order against
provisions in the bill, as amended, are
waived. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill, as amended,
and on any further amendment thereto, to
final passage without intervening motion ex-
cept: (1) 90 minutes of debate equally divided
and controlled by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the Committee on the Ju-
diciary; and (2) one motion to recommit with
or without instructions.
SEC. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution it
shall be in order to consider in the House the
bill (H.R. 312) to reaffirm the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe reservation, and for other
purposes. All points of order against consid-
eration of the bill are waived. The amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute rec-
ommended by the Committee on Natural Re-
sources now printed in the bill shall be con-
sidered as adopted. The bill, as amended,
shall be considered as read. All points of
order against provisions in the bill, as
amended, are waived. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as
amended, and on any further amendment
thereto, to final passage without intervening
motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally
divided and controlled by the chair and rank-
ing minority member of the Committee on
Natural Resources; and (2) one motion to re-
commit with or without instructions.
SEC. 3. At any time after adoption of this
resolution the Speaker may, pursuant to
clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House
resolved into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 987) to amend the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care Act to
provide for Federal Exchange outreach and
educational activities. The first reading of
the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. General debate shall be confined to
the bill and amendments specified in this
section and shall not exceed 90 minutes, with
60 minutes equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Energy and Commerce and
30 minutes equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Education and Labor.
After general debate the bill shall be consid-
ered for amendment under the five-minute
rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature
of a substitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce now printed
in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a
substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116-14 shall be considered
as adopted in the House and in the Com-
mittee of the Whole. The bill, as amended,
shall be considered as the original bill for
the purpose of further amendment under the
five-minute rule and shall be considered as
read. All points of order against provisions
in the bill, as amended, are waived. No fur-
ther amendment to the bill, as amended,
shall be in order except those printed in the
report of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution. Each such further
amendment may be offered only in the order
printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment,
and shall not be subject to a demand for divi-
sion of the question in the House or in the
Committee of the Whole. All points of order
against such further amendments are
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of
the bill for amendment the Committee shall
rise and report the bill, as amended, to the
House with such further amendments as may
have been adopted. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as
amended, and on any further amendment
thereto to final passage without intervening
motion except one motion to recommit with
or without instructions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania is recog-
nized for 1 hour.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE),
pending which I yield myself such time
as I may consume. During consider-
ation of this resolution, all time yield-
ed is for the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers be given 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, on
Tuesday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 377,
providing for consideration of H.R. 5
under a closed rule, with 90 minutes of
debate equally divided and controlled
by the Chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on the Judi-
ciary.
The resolution also provides for con-
sideration of H.R. 312 under a closed
rule, with 1 hour of general debate
equally divided and controlled by the
Chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Natural Resources.
Lastly, this resolution provides for
consideration of H.R. 987 under a struc-
tured rule, with 90 minutes of general
debate, 60 minutes equally divided and
controlled by the Chair and ranking
minority member of the Committee on
Energy and Commerce and 30 minutes
equally divided and controlled by the
Chair and ranking minority member of
the Committee on Education and
Labor. Twenty-seven amendments are
made in order.
Madam Speaker, we are here today to
debate the rule for three important
pieces of legislation: H.R. 987, H.R. 312,
and H.R. 5.
H.R. 987 is the Strengthening Health
Care and Lowering Prescription Drug
Costs Act, a package of several bills,
many of them bipartisan, that went
through the House Energy and Com-
merce Committee under regular order.
This bill combines three key bills to
lower drug costs by promoting generic
competition and four key bills to
strengthen healthcare, reverse the sab-
otage of the ACA by this administra-
tion with respect to marketing and
outreach, and rescind the Trump ad-
ministration’s efforts to promote junk
plans that lack the protections of the
Affordable Care Act.
The American people are justifiably
demanding action by Congress to make
prescription drugs more affordable.
Prices are so high that recent data
show 24 percent of Americans didn’t fill
a prescription in the past year due to
high costs.
My constituents have been vocal in
demanding action on drug pricing, pa-
tients like Bill, a senior with diabetes
who attends my church, parents like
Sarah with children who have special
health needs. Folks like these need
help now.
This package would lower costs by
banning anticompetitive practices that
large drug companies employ to keep
generics off the market.
This bill will also tackle many of the
reasons we have seen enrollment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.013 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3802 May 15, 2019
through the Affordable Care Act de-
cline in recent years.
Since coming into office, President
Trump has cut paid advertising and
outreach efforts for healthcare ex-
changes by 90 percent. This wanton po-
litical decision to cut these efforts is
but one part of the administration’s at-
tempts to dismantle the Affordable
Care Act.
Furthermore, lack of transparency
on the part of Health and Human Serv-
ices around funding levels for outreach
plan enrollment rates and other vital
statistics has created an information
vacuum on the performance of the
ACA.
Greater transparency is required in
order for Congress to hold the adminis-
tration accountable for its efforts to
defund education and outreach for the
Affordable Care Act.
Second, we have H.R. 312, the Mash-
pee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Re-
affirmation Act. This important bill
recognizes and respects the Tribal sov-
ereignty of the Mashpee Wampanoag, a
Tribe that has inhabited New England
for over 12,000 years and, in fact, wel-
comed the Pilgrims to the new world.
This legislation has strong bipartisan
support in Massachusetts among other
Tribal nations and with Tribal allies in
Congress. Had President Trump not
tweeted about this bill last week, it
would have likely passed on suspension
and been sent to the Senate for consid-
eration. The members of this Tribe
cannot wait any longer for recognition,
and we need to pass this critical legis-
lation without further delay.
Finally, Madam Speaker, this is a
week that will be remembered in our
history books because, at long last,
this body is taking up consideration of
the Equality Act. Forty-five years ago
this week, the legendary Congress-
woman Bella Abzug introduced the
first version of the Equality Act, a bill
that will give full legal protections to
LGBTQ people all across our country.
This version of the Equality Act that
we consider today is the result of years
of careful legislative drafting and
amends existing civil rights laws to
provide protections from discrimina-
tion based on sexual orientation and
gender identity in key areas of public
life: employment, housing, credit, edu-
cation, public spaces and services, fed-
erally funded programs, and jury serv-
ice.
Additionally, the Equality Act up-
dates the public spaces and services
covered in current law to include retail
stores, services such as banks, legal
services, and transportation services.
These important updates will strength-
en existing protections for everyone.
The journey to this final version of
the Equality Act was led by a man who
is a history maker in his own right, co-
chair of the LGBTQ Equality Caucus
and my colleague on the Judiciary
Committee, Congressman DAVID
CICILLINE from Rhode Island.
b 1230
Congressman CICILLINE worked with
lawyers and advocates from the left
and the right, religious groups, and
myriad civil rights groups to make
sure that the language of the Equality
Act achieved full legal equality while
doing nothing to undermine existing
civil rights protections for other
marginalized groups.
The resulting bill is supported by 130
of the largest employers in the coun-
try, our largest labor unions, and hun-
dreds of organizations, including, to
name just a few, the Leadership Con-
ference for Civil and Human Rights,
the NAACP, the National Women’s
Law Center, the Episcopal Church, the
Union for Reform Judaism, and the
United Church of Christ.
Most importantly, it is supported by
a clear and overwhelming majority of
the American people. Seventy-one per-
cent of Americans support legislation
like the Equality Act to protect
LGBTQ people against discrimination
in employment, housing, and public ac-
commodations.
Rarely does Congress have the
chance to take up legislation so clearly
supported by our constituents. That is
probably why, since the day that Con-
gressman CICILLINE first introduced
this version of the Equality Act in 2015,
it has always earned bipartisan support
and currently has Republican cospon-
sors in both the House and the Senate.
The clear majority of both this
Chamber and the American people rec-
ognize that, for far too long, LGBTQ
people have faced discrimination with
no Federal legal recourse. It is beyond
dispute that LGBTQ people, especially
transgender people and especially
transgender women of color, face dis-
crimination across this country.
This is a personal issue for me. It has
been personal since my baby sister
came out to me about 40 years ago.
For many people in this country,
that is when the fight hits home. It
gets personal when someone you love
says, ‘‘This is who I am,’’ and you
know and value that person, and you
will do whatever you can to make sure
that your loved one can live life to the
fullest, free from hate and discrimina-
tion.
I am sad to say that my home in the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is one
of the 30 States that defies the will of
its people by not having legal protec-
tions for LGBTQ people. The idea that
my sister, someone who put her life on
the line for our country when she
served in the armed forces, could drive
across State lines and lose protections
is heartbreaking.
The Equality Act ends the patchwork
of State laws and creates uniform na-
tionwide protections. LGBTQ people
won’t have to worry that being trans-
ferred to another State by their em-
ployer or needing to move home to
take care of ailing parents will cause
them to lose civil rights protections.
From sea to shining sea, LGBTQ people
will have the security and stability
that comes from knowing that if they
face discrimination, they have legal re-
course.
It is also important to note what the
Equality Act does not do. The Equality
Act does not impinge on religious lib-
erty. Religious liberty is a cornerstone
value of our Constitution and our coun-
try. Religious organizations are able to
prefer their own members and their
version of morality in hiring for reli-
gious positions such as ministers, rab-
bis, or schoolteachers. The Equality
Act does nothing to change that.
The Equality Act clarifies what has
long been held, though, that religious
freedom laws do not create an exemp-
tion to civil rights laws. Just like a
person can’t use a claim of religious
freedom to refuse to sell a house to an
interracial couple, under the Equality
Act, LGBTQ families will be protected
from discrimination, regardless of its
motivation.
Consider the stakes facing LGBTQ
people too often across this country. A
same-sex couple walks into a res-
taurant. They hired a babysitter to
look after their young children and are
hoping to have a relaxing night out.
They are seated and looking at the
menu when the manager comes over
and tells them they have to leave.
They are not welcome there.
This kind of insecurity and humilia-
tion occurs on a daily basis across this
country. In 30 States, the couple would
have no legal recourse. Often, humilia-
tion is just the tip of the iceberg.
Same-sex couples are far more likely
to be denied housing. Qualified and
high-performing transgender people are
more likely to be fired from their jobs.
LGBTQ young people face rejection,
homelessness, and discrimination in
school, denying them an education.
These injuries compound and lead to
poverty, homelessness, and violence.
The impact is felt hardest by
transgender women of color, who con-
front racial discrimination, sex dis-
crimination, and gender-identity dis-
crimination. The intersection of these
forms of discrimination can even be
deadly, as it was for Shantee Tucker, a
transgender woman of color from
Philadelphia who was murdered last
fall.
The protections provided by the
Equality Act give LGBTQ people an
equal chance at the American Dream.
While discrimination and rejection
have ended the lives of too many
transgender people, many are suc-
ceeding, despite discrimination.
In Pennsylvania, Dr. Rachel Levine,
a transgender woman, serves in the
Governor’s cabinet as secretary for
health. Mara Keisling, a Pennsylvania
native, is the founder and executive di-
rector of the National Center for
Transgender Equality and a pioneer for
civil rights protections. Danica Roem,
the first transgender State legislator,
serves in the Virginia House of Dele-
gates. LaLa Zannell is fighting vio-
lence in New York City. Raffi Freed-
man-Gurspan was the first openly
transgender White House staffer. Miss
Major Griffin-Gracy, who was at Stone-
wall, has spent her life fighting to end
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.015 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3803
May 15, 2019
the over-incarceration of transgender
people. The list goes on and on.
I am proud that the House will fi-
nally act to provide Federal protec-
tions to LGBTQ people with passage of
the Equality Act. The fight for equal
rights is far from over, but I am proud
to be part of a majority that prioritizes
equal treatment for all of its citizens,
regardless of whom they love.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I want to begin by
thanking the gentlewoman from Penn-
sylvania (Ms. SCANLON), my good
friend, for yielding me the customary
30 minutes.
We, Madam Speaker, are here today
on three very different pieces of legis-
lation, which, unfortunately, makes
this a complicated rule. One of our bills
concerns civil rights, one concerns
healthcare, and one concerns Native
Americans. I will move through each of
these bills relatively quickly, and then
I want to address the process we fol-
lowed to get here today.
The first bill, Madam Speaker, H.R.
5, is a complicated and complex piece
of legislation that would make sweep-
ing changes to our Nation’s civil rights
laws, if enacted. In general, the bill
adds the terms ‘‘sexual orientation’’
and ‘‘gender identity’’ to the list of
protected classes under the Civil
Rights Act, joining classes like race,
gender, religion, and national origin.
As I noted in our hearing yesterday,
most Republicans in the House will op-
pose this bill not because we do not be-
lieve that all people should receive
equal treatment under the law but be-
cause we have real concerns about how
this bill will work in practice. A term
like ‘‘gender identity’’ has such a
vague definition that even proponents
of the bill do not agree on exactly what
the term means.
That should cause legislators to be
especially thoughtful and provide clar-
ity about what the term means and
how the law will be applied. But we
have not done so here.
Republicans have raised numerous
questions about how this bill will work
in practice. Will female athletes in jun-
ior high, high school, and college be
forced to compete in women’s athletics
against competitors who were born bio-
logically male? Will female sexual as-
sault victims be forced to share vulner-
able same-sex spaces like locker rooms
and dressing rooms with other individ-
uals who were born biologically male?
And since the legislation appears to
allow people to define their own gender
identity, will it allow people to shift
back and forth between gender as it
suits them?
These are not rhetorical questions.
They are real concerns that we have
raised, with good reason, throughout
the process.
H.R. 5 is known as the Equality Act,
and I know every Member of the House,
Republican and Democrat, agrees with
the principle that all people should be
treated equally under the law. But
even as we strive toward that goal,
when we are dealing with legislation of
this magnitude, we must consider how
the bill will work in practice.
Unfortunately, I don’t think my
friends in the majority have clear an-
swers to very legitimate questions.
Last night, during debate at the Rules
Committee, our concerns were dis-
missed as we were told that the courts
and administrative bureaucrats would
sort out these unanswered issues. That
is simply unacceptable.
Why would we want any ambiguity
when it comes to a person’s civil
rights? We should be very clear about
congressional intent, and the only way
to do that is to write a law the way you
intend for it to be carried out. Sadly,
this bill falls well short of that cer-
tainty.
The second bill, H.R. 987, is actually
seven bills: three genuinely bipartisan
bills addressing prescription drug costs
and four partisan and controversial
bills addressing ObamaCare.
As I pointed out last night in our
hearing, I don’t particularly under-
stand what the majority is trying to
accomplish here. There are three bills
that are all bipartisan that could eas-
ily progress to becoming law. I am even
a cosponsor of one of those bills. Yet, I
have to vote against the entire package
because I do not support the partisan
and controversial bills attached by
Democrats.
Madam Speaker, at some point, the
majority needs to decide if they are
here to score political points or if they
are here to govern. If they want to con-
tinue scoring rhetorical victories, then
by all means, they should keep doing
what they are doing, keep putting up
partisan bills that won’t go anywhere
in the Senate and won’t be signed into
law, keep putting up messaging bills
for the purpose of signaling to their
primary voters, and keep spending
their days engaged in show votes that
won’t ever improve the lives of those
they were elected to represent.
If they want to govern for the Amer-
ican people, then the majority must
move forward with real legislation that
can get real support here, in the Sen-
ate, and at the White House.
We had the chance to do that with
this package. The majority chose not
to do so. I think that is a real missed
opportunity for us, both as an institu-
tion and as a country.
Finally, the third bill, H.R. 312, the
Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reserva-
tion Reaffirmation Act, is a matter I
want to discuss at some length because
I think there has been, frankly, a lot of
misinformation put out about this par-
ticular piece of legislation.
The Mashpee Wampanoag is a feder-
ally recognized Tribe based in Mash-
pee, Massachusetts. H.R. 312 would
simply reaffirm the taking of land into
trust for the benefit of this Tribe.
When the Federal Government takes
land into trust for a Tribe, it is reserv-
ing that land for the benefit of the
Tribe and Tribal members both now
and into the future. It ensures that the
Tribes have a home, that they have a
stable place to build communities and
to marshal their resources and conduct
business. It ensures that the land that
was promised to Tribes, and that was
held by those Tribes, in many cases for
many centuries, remains in Tribal
hands.
Holding land in trust is a commit-
ment made to Tribes by the Federal
Government. It affirms Tribes will con-
tinue to be able to exercise sovereignty
over their own land. That is really all
this issue is about today, whether or
not the Mashpee Wampanoag will be
able to exercise their own sovereignty
over their own land.
Unfortunately, some who oppose this
bill are doing so because they are view-
ing this issue through a purely polit-
ical lens rather than what our own
Constitution says about Tribal sov-
ereignty. This isn’t a bill about a par-
ticular use for the land, and it isn’t a
bill about particular Members of this
institution or the Senate. Instead, this
is a bill about keeping Federal prom-
ises to Tribes.
Our country hasn’t always kept those
promises, and we have an opportunity
today to step up and make clear that
regardless of what happened in the
past, today, the Federal Government
keeps its promises to Tribes, no ifs,
ands, or buts.
Before I close, I would like to make a
couple of points about the process this
week, particularly on the Equality Act
and the healthcare issue.
On the Equality Act, 35 amendments
were proposed. I thought that many, if
not most, of these should have been
considered on the floor. Yet, in the
final rule, not one amendment was
made in order, and we are considering
this bill under a closed rule.
The majority is choosing not to
make in order many amendments that
deserve our consideration on the floor,
like Ms. HOLMES NORTON’s amendment
to clarify that Washington, D.C., resi-
dents cannot be excluded or disquali-
fied from jury service based on sexual
orientation or gender identity, or the
bipartisan amendment that would re-
store the application of the Religious
Freedom Restoration Act to this bill,
or Representative JOHNSON’s common-
sense amendment clarifying that noth-
ing in the act should be construed as to
deny parents the right to be involved
in their minor child’s medical care.
These are all deserving amendments
that should have been heard on the
floor, and yet the majority chose to
make precisely none in order.
On H.R. 987, the majority went in a
different direction. In total, 51 amend-
ments were submitted to the Rules
Committee, and 15 of those were spon-
sored by Republicans. Yet with today’s
rule, 27 amendments were made in
order, but just one amendment was
made in order that was sponsored by a
Republican, along with one bipartisan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.016 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3804 May 15, 2019
manager’s amendment—one out of 15.
All the remaining amendments, 92 per-
cent of those made in order, were spon-
sored solely by Democrats.
Madam Speaker, I think we can do
better than that.
Last week, I reminded the House that
when my party was in charge of the
last Congress, we went out of our way
to make minority and bipartisan
amendments in order. Forty-five per-
cent of all amendments made in order
in the last Congress were sponsored
solely by Democrats, while a further 17
percent were bipartisan.
As of today’s rule, the stats are look-
ing much worse for the current major-
ity. Seventy-three percent of all
amendments made in order were solely
sponsored by Democrats through May
14. Thirteen percent are bipartisan.
Just 14 percent were sponsored by Re-
publicans.
We had an opportunity today, par-
ticularly on H.R. 5 and H.R. 987, to
take steps toward remedying this
issue.
I must continue to encourage my
good friend, and he is my good friend,
the chairman of the Rules Committee,
to work with us to make more bipar-
tisan and minority amendments in
order and to ensure that all Members,
regardless of party, have an oppor-
tunity to be heard on the floor, as he
has often promised.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
the rule, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
b 1245
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
would just note that, with respect to
H.R. 5, we had regular order. H.R. 5, the
Equality Act, went through the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary. It had a hear-
ing, and then we also had a markup.
This is a new process, apparently, since
the last Congress. And then, of course,
we had the Rules hearing last night.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
SPEIER).
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Pennsyl-
vania for her leadership and for the
time.
Today is, indeed, a historic day. It is
a day that we will say to the LGBTQ
community across the land that you
matter, that you count, that the
Equality Act will be the new law of
this country. It is a basic heralding of
human decency.
America stands at a crucial cross-
roads in this generation’s fight for civil
rights. We should not have to remind
our Republican colleagues that no one
should ever be discriminated against
because of who they are, yet here we
are.
Without the explicit Federal protec-
tion provided in the Equality Act, the
LGBTQ community is at risk of being
marginalized, or worse, in the work-
place, housing, education, and even in
the military.
This administration is seeking to
make our LGBTQ families and friends
not just second-class citizens, but to
deny them the fundamental American
rights etched into our Constitution.
Congress cannot erase hatred with
legislation, but Congress has an obliga-
tion to lead, to stamp out discrimina-
tion wherever it exists.
We can and must all rise for the
LGBTQ community.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself a few seconds to respond to my
friend from Pennsylvania.
We don’t consider the markup in
committee a very good markup. Only
four amendments were considered,
none were accepted, and, frankly, a
number of Members seeking recogni-
tion for amendments were not recog-
nized. So to think that this was any-
thing other a train moving through a
station, I think, is to mischaracterize
how that particular markup worked.
With that, Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. BURGESS), my very good friend,
fellow member of the Rules Com-
mittee, and also a leading member of
the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, you can imagine my
surprise this morning checking the
email and the Health 202, an email put
out by The Washington Post—The
Washington Post, for crying out loud—
and here is the headline: ‘‘Democrats
Are Putting a Political Pothole in the
Way of Bipartisan Drug Pricing Bills.’’
They go on to say: ‘‘ObamaCare battles
threaten even the most bipartisan
healthcare efforts on Capitol Hill.’’
What a strange turn of events.
So here we have a rule today that
will allow a bill to be brought to the
floor where the Democrats are using bi-
partisan drug pricing bills to pay for
partisan politics.
Look, I am on the Energy and Com-
merce Committee as well as the Rules
Committee, so I am on the oldest and
second oldest committees in the United
States House of Representatives. We
worked in a bipartisan manner to en-
sure that the BLOCKING Act, the CRE-
ATES Act, and the Protecting Con-
sumer Access to Generic Drugs Act
would deliver drug pricing solutions to
Americans.
In the Rules Committee, I offered an
amendment that keeps the three drug
policies and uses the savings—some $5
billion from those policies—to pay for
bipartisan public health priorities.
I also introduced the standalone bill,
H.R. 2700, if you are keeping score at
home. This is the Lowering Prescrip-
tion Drug Costs and Extending Com-
munity Health Centers and Other Pub-
lic Health Priorities Act. H.R. 2700 cou-
ples the bipartisan drug pricing poli-
cies with reauthorization of programs
such as community health centers, spe-
cial diabetes programs, and the Na-
tional Health Service Corps.
Every Republican member of the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee is a co-
sponsor of H.R. 2700, signifying the
broad Republican support for both the
drug pricing and the public health pri-
orities.
Look, it is pretty clear: You can say
that it is more important to have a
navigated program that would never
pass any cost-benefit analysis; you can
say it is more important to have an
earmark for the State of New Jersey to
set up an ObamaCare exchange; or you
can say it is more important to reau-
thorize Community Health Centers.
Reauthorizations are tough. We did
multiple reauthorizations in the last
Congress, and they are difficult to get
across the line because so many people
have so many opinions.
All of these programs are going to ex-
pire in September, and we have taken
no activity towards reauthorization in
the Energy and Commerce Committee.
These reauthorizations, again, take a
substantial amount of time. The clock
is ticking, and we should act as soon as
possible.
Again, unfortunately, that amend-
ment was not made in order, but I do
encourage Members to look at H.R.
2700, a good bill. For this morning, I
think The Washington Post had it
right.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN), the
distinguished chairman of the Com-
mittee on Rules.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank the gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania (Ms. SCANLON) for yield-
ing me the time.
So maybe it is just me. You know, I
am still suffering from trauma, having
served in the minority under my Re-
publican friends for 8 years where, rou-
tinely, we were given a process where
we were almost always shut out.
In the last Congress, we had a record-
breaking 103 closed rules on major
bills—completely closed. You can’t
amend it. And they talk about all the
amendments they made in order, but
they don’t talk about the thousands
they did not make in order.
Now, look, I don’t want them to feel
the same way that I did in the minor-
ity. I want them to not have to go
through the trauma that so many of us
went through where we were routinely
shut out. And that is why, when we
came up with the Rules package, we
did things like required that bills had
to have hearings in committees of ju-
risdiction before they came to the
Rules Committee, that they had to
have markups in the committee of ju-
risdiction before they came to the
Rules Committee.
I mean, they routinely brought legis-
lation to the floor where committees of
jurisdiction never had a hearing, never
had a markup. They mysteriously ap-
peared. They would come to the Rules
Committee; they would get a closed
rule; and then we were forced to vote
up or down on it.
So I don’t really appreciate being lec-
tured on process. Yes, we need to do
better, and, yes, I understand that my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.018 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3805
May 15, 2019
Republican friends want more amend-
ments in order, but let’s not forget why
we are here today. We are here to pass
a historic civil rights bill. We are here
to pass the Equality Act.
When I look at the amendments that
were brought to the Rules Committee,
amendment after amendment would
target trans Americans and carve out
ways for discrimination to continue.
This is on a bill that is meant to elimi-
nate discrimination. They were trying
to enshrine discrimination. They were
trying to weaken the Civil Rights Act.
And, quite frankly, I think most of us
felt: You know what? We are not going
to allow that to happen.
That is not an appropriate use of the
rules of the House, to try to take away
the rights of people in this country, to
try to allow discrimination to con-
tinue.
We believe too strongly in the ideals
of the Civil Rights Act to risk letting
it be transformed into another weapon
for division and discrimination. I
mean, we listened to groups like the
National Urban League, the National
Action Network, the NAACP, the Lead-
ership Conference on Civil and Human
Rights, and others that asked us to
give this bill a straight up-or-down
vote.
And let’s be clear, Madam Speaker, a
good process is about more than just
amendments, as I mentioned. This bill
had a hearing, and it had a markup.
On the healthcare bill that we are
going to deal with, it is about lowering
the cost of prescription drugs.
My friends on the other side of the
aisle spent what seemed like an eter-
nity trying to rip away healthcare pro-
tections for people, I mean, bringing up
one bill after another after another to
the floor that never went through reg-
ular order, that would literally take
away protections from people with pre-
existing conditions.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
yield the gentleman from Massachu-
setts an additional 1 minute.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker,
they did nothing to lower the cost of
prescription drugs.
Then we had an election in Novem-
ber, and the big issue was healthcare.
People didn’t want to have their
healthcare protections ripped away.
And now, all of a sudden, they are con-
verts, and they say they want to pro-
tect people’s healthcare and expand
healthcare protections.
The bottom line is this: We are not
perfect all the time, and we need to do
better, but I believe that we are im-
proving the process. I look forward to
working with the gentleman, the rank-
ing member from Oklahoma, to try to
find ways forward.
But on the legislation here today
that we are going to consider, this is
important legislation. This is historic
legislation. Quite frankly, every Mem-
ber of this House who wants to end dis-
crimination in this country ought to
support the Equality Act, and every
Member of this House who wants to
deal with the high cost of prescription
drugs ought to support that bill as
well.
Madam Speaker, with that, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume for
just a few minutes to respond to my
good friend, the chairman. I want to
tell you, there is nobody I hold in high-
er regard in the House of Representa-
tives than Chairman MCGOVERN, no-
body I consider a better personal
friend, nobody I consider a more re-
sponsible Member.
On this, we disagree. The gentleman
is right, neither side is perfect. In this
case, we are going to bring attention to
this amendment issue until we see re-
sults. That is precisely what my friend
did when he was in the minority, and
there are some times we should have
listened to him and we did not.
In this case, I think the imbalance is
so egregious that we are going to con-
tinue to make that case until we see a
change. Maybe we won’t. Hopefully we
will, because I know my friend ap-
proaches this with good intentions.
Secondly, I would say this bill was so
important, the Equality Act, it ought
to have amendments. That is the point.
That is how you build consensus. I
think they are missing the opportunity
to get a lot of people who would sup-
port the basic concept that they are
trying to advance.
And, finally, on the drug bill, I have
just got to be honest with you. When
they had a chance to pass something
that would work and chose to bundle it
with something that they knew
couldn’t pass, that makes me wonder
how serious they are about dealing
with that problem.
But, hopefully, we will get an oppor-
tunity to deal with that again. And
that is an area we know we can work
together on. We have proved it in com-
mittee.
So, with that, I look forward to con-
tinuing to work with my good friend,
the chairman. I know that we will oc-
casionally have differences. That is
what this is all about. We will work
those differences out.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the distinguished gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER), my very
good friend, who also is a distinguished
member of the House Armed Services
Committee.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in opposition to this rule
and to the underlying legislation, H.R.
5.
Contrary to what has just been said
on the floor, this bill does not end dis-
crimination. In fact, the Equality Act
imposes top-down, government-led dis-
crimination against all Americans who
hold a differing view of human sexu-
ality and gender.
This grossly misnamed bill punishes
everyday citizens, silences free speech
and viewpoint disagreements, and dis-
criminates against people of faith. In
reality, this bill should be called the
women’s inequality act.
The policies of H.R. 5 have already
been used to trample female athletics,
eliminate safe spaces for women, harm
children, terminate parental rights,
and undermine the free exercise of reli-
gious freedom.
The legislation also provides for a
universal right to abortion, com-
promises taxpayers’ safeguards against
funding abortion, and eliminates con-
scious protections for healthcare pro-
viders that do not want to participate
in an abortion.
As a former track coach, I am deeply
committed to providing women and
girls with a level playing field. Title
IX, however, becomes irrelevant under
the women’s inequality act.
Vulnerable women seeking haven in
homeless women’s shelters will be re-
victimized under H.R. 5. This is already
happening.
In California, women who were sexu-
ally harassed in the shower by a bio-
logical male were threatened with ex-
pulsion from the women’s shelter.
In Alaska, a women’s shelter is being
sued for sending a transitioning indi-
vidual to the hospital instead of letting
him sleep 3 feet away from rape vic-
tims.
This is absurd. Under H.R. 5, women-
only spaces will be a thing of the past.
This bill also places children at risk
of medical experimentation and bleak
futures when they are given the right
to hormone blockers and sex change
operations.
b 1300
Most children, 98 percent of boys and
88 percent of girls, who question their
gender identity will grow into their
birth gender after passing through pu-
berty.
Parents who dare to oppose doctors
using off-label drugs that may sterilize
their child, or performing life-altering
surgical procedures, will be considered
abusive and neglectful. This has al-
ready happened with an Ohio couple
who lost custody of their daughter.
For the first time ever, H.R. 5 waives
the Religious Freedom Restoration
Act, enabling unhindered government
discrimination against the faith com-
munity. It also actively prohibits the
religious community from partnering
with the Federal Government.
Catholic schools will no longer be
able to participate in the National
School Lunch Program. Jewish syna-
gogues will lose Federal grant funding
to protect against terror threats, and
houses of worship will lose FEMA dis-
aster aid unless—here is the catch—
they abandon their core teachings on
morality, marriage, and sexuality.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Missouri.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Madam Speaker,
Members from both sides of the aisle,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.020 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3806 May 15, 2019
especially those who claim to be pro-
women and pro-children, need to stop
this devastating legislation.
The future of women’s rights, pri-
vacy, protection, and athletic potential
depends on it.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Massachusetts (Mrs. TRAHAN).
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise to offer my strong support for the
rule and for H.R. 5, the Equality Act.
Recent years have brought extraor-
dinary progress in the fight for full
equality for our LGBTQ community.
Like millions of others across the
country, I joined with friends and fam-
ily to celebrate Supreme Court rulings
paving the way for same-sex couples to
marry. But in the midst of these joyful
and historic victories, we knew that
the work was just beginning.
Though LGBTQ people could now get
married, in a majority of States they
could still be fired for having a picture
of their spouse on their desk or kicked
out of their home just for being who
they are. The fact is, LGBTQ people
are still at risk of discrimination
across key areas of life in huge swaths
of our country.
Recent national surveys of LGBTQ
people show that 42 percent of lesbian,
gay, and bisexual people; and 78 per-
cent of transgender people have experi-
enced discrimination or harassment on
the job because of who they are.
Only 21 States have explicit laws bar-
ring discrimination based on sexual
orientation and employment, housing
and public accommodations, and only
20 States have such protections for
gender identity.
The time to end this patchwork of
protections once and for all is now, and
to do that, we must pass this impor-
tant legislation.
The promotion of fairness and justice
is a hallmark of who we are as Ameri-
cans. Everyone should be afforded all of
the rights provided for in our Constitu-
tion and outlined in our Declaration of
Independence. These rights are funda-
mental to all human beings, and all
Americans deserve the same civil
rights regardless of gender, race, and
sexual orientation. We don’t need to
amend that.
Let’s pass the rule and let’s pass the
Equality Act.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I want to take this
opportunity to inform the House that
if we defeat the previous question, I
will offer an amendment to the rule to
immediately bring up H.R. 336, the
Strengthening America’s Security in
the Middle East Act of 2019.
This bill includes four titles, three of
which passed the House last Congress,
and one of which has already passed
the House this Congress on suspension.
My amendment will also include
three additional provisions agreed to
by the Senate when they considered
their version of this bill, so that what
we will debate will be identical to what
the Senate passed with an over-
whelming majority vote in February.
The most critical title of H.R. 336, in
my opinion, is the Combating BDS Act
of 2019, which will allow a State or
local government to adopt measures to
divest assets from entities using boy-
cotts, disbursements, or sanctions to
influence Israel’s policy.
Madam Speaker, yesterday was the
71st anniversary of the founding of the
State of Israel. I can think of no better
way to celebrate Israel’s independence,
reaffirm our support for Israel, and in-
dicate our ongoing commitment to a
peaceful and more secure Middle East
than to consider and pass H.R. 336 im-
mediately.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to insert the text of my
amendment in the RECORD, along with
extraneous material, immediately
prior to the vote on the previous ques-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma.
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I urge a
‘‘no’’ vote on the previous question,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD four letters, first, a letter from
the National Partnership for Women &
Families urging support; second, a let-
ter from the Human Rights Campaign,
also urging support for H.R. 5; third, a
letter from the American Federation of
Government Employees; and finally, a
letter from several civil rights groups,
all urging support for H.R. 5.
NATIONAL PARTNERSHIP
FOR WOMEN & FAMILIES,
Washington, DC, May 14, 2019.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: The National Part-
nership for Women & Families is a nonprofit,
nonpartisan organization that has fought for
decades to advance the rights and well-being
of America’s women and families. We work
to foster a society in which workplaces are
fair, equitable and family friendly; where ev-
eryone has access to quality, affordable
health care, including reproductive health
care; and where every person has the oppor-
tunity to achieve economic security and live
with dignity.
We write to voice our strong support for
the Equality Act (H.R. 5) and to urge you to
vote YES on this groundbreaking legislation.
We also urge you to vote NO on any motion
to recommit that may be offered to under-
mine or alter the Equality Act or otherwise
harm civil liberties.
Despite significant progress, lesbian, gay,
bisexual, transgender and queer (LGBTQ)
people still face considerable discrimination
and lack necessary protections across the
country. While some states have enacted
laws that protect against discrimination, the
patchwork nature of these protections means
that millions of people continue to face har-
assment, exclusion and uncertainty that
negatively impact their safety, their day-to-
day lives, their families and their ability to
participate fully in society.
Part of achieving our nation’s promise of
equality, dignity and fairness is ensuring
that all people, regardless of sexual orienta-
tion or gender identity, have equal oppor-
tunity to succeed. No one should have access
to services or doors to opportunity closed be-
cause of outdated gender stereotypes about
how people should act, look or behave. This
requires stronger national nondiscrimination
protections based on sex, sexual orientation
and gender identity.
The Equality Act is historic civil rights
legislation that would amend and supple-
ment the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and other
key federal nondiscrimination laws that pro-
vide protection from discrimination on the
basis of race, color, national origin or reli-
gion. This legislation would strengthen pro-
tections from discrimination on the basis of
sex, and add critical new protections from
discrimination on the basis of sexual ori-
entation and gender identity. Specifically, it
would provide clear, explicit protection
against discrimination based on sexual ori-
entation and gender identity in education,
employment, housing, credit, federally fund-
ed programs and federal jury services. These
protections are essential in ensuring that
LGBTQ people have the right to live with
dignity and equality.
While the primary focus of the Equality
Act is on LGBTQ people, the Act would also
close longstanding gaps in federal law and
provide important new legal protections for
all women by, for the first time, prohibiting
discrimination on the basis of sex in public
spaces and services and in all federally-fund-
ed activities. This means that, for example,
when women experience harassment as cus-
tomers in restaurants, stores, hotels, taxis or
airports, there will now be a remedy. The
law will also ensure that breastfeeding par-
ents aren’t excluded from or treated less fa-
vorably in public places just for feeding their
children, and it will make clear that phar-
macies can’t refuse to fill a woman’s birth
control prescription.
The bill’s provisions that would ensure
that sex does not stand as a barrier to full
participation in federally funded programs
or activities will mean, for example, that a
developer with a federal grant couldn’t dis-
criminate against women-owned businesses
in its contracting. Women would also have
new tools to challenge a police department’s
systematically inadequate response to sex-
ual violence and intimate partner violence,
if the police department received federal
funds; and would be able to challenge denials
of reproductive health care where a feder-
ally-funded entity otherwise provides com-
parable or comprehensive health care.
These protections against sex discrimina-
tion are a critical step forward in advancing
women’s equality in this country.
As a leading national women’s rights orga-
nization we also feel compelled to state em-
phatically that the Equality Act’s protec-
tions for transgender and gender noncon-
forming people in no way undermine the
rights or protections afforded to women and
do not jeopardize women’s safety or their
ability to participate fully or equally in
sport or in any other aspect of our society.
Transgender women are women, and any at-
tempt to mischaracterize their gender iden-
tity or suggest that they are trying to ‘‘take
advantage’’ of protected class status fun-
damentally misunderstands the reality of
transgender people’s lives and experiences.
Furthermore, it causes real harm to the
more than one million Americans who iden-
tify as transgender, a population already
subject to high rates of violence and abuse,
negative mental and physical health out-
comes, and experiences with discrimination
and stigmatization.
The Equality Act is a long-overdue step
forward in extending civil rights protections
to millions of women and LGBTQ people. Es-
tablishing clear protections is critical at a
time when vulnerable communities are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.022 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3807
May 15, 2019
under attack. The Equality Act would pro-
vide a consistent, national standard and en-
sure that everyone has the opportunity to
live safely and with dignity, to advance at
work, to provide for one’s family and to
thrive economically.
Sincerely,
National Partnership for Women & Families.
HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN,
Washington, DC, May 14, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
Human Rights Campaign, the nation’s larg-
est civil rights organization working to
achieve lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender,
and queer (LGBTQ) equality, I write to urge
you to vote in favor of H.R. 5, the Equality
Act, and against any Motion to Recommit.
We will consider both key votes.
Everyone—including LGBTQ people—
should have an opportunity to earn a living
and provide a home for their families with-
out fear of constant harassment or discrimi-
nation. The Equality Act would update our
nation’s existing civil rights laws to explic-
itly include sexual orientation and gender
identity, which would finally provide con-
sistent non-discrimination protections for
LGBTQ people across key areas of life, in-
cluding employment, housing, credit, edu-
cation, public spaces and services, federally
funded programs, and jury service. This
would ensure LGBTQ people have access to
the exact same protections as are currently
provided under federal law based on other
protected characteristics.
Currently, 30 states lack non-discrimina-
tion protections for LGBTQ people. The
patchwork nature of current laws leaves mil-
lions of people subject to uncertainty and po-
tential discrimination that impacts their
safety, their families, and their day-to-day
lives. In fact, two-thirds of LGBTQ Ameri-
cans report having experienced discrimina-
tion. The Equality Act would provide a na-
tionwide standard for non-discrimination
protections.
The Equality Act has unprecedented sup-
port. More than 200 major corporations have
endorsed the legislation, as well as more
than 40 trade associations including U.S.
Chamber of Commerce and the National As-
sociation of Manufacturers. Recent polling
finds that a growing majority of Ameri-
cans—including Republicans, Democrats and
Independents—support LGBTQ non-discrimi-
nation protections and LGBTQ equality. A
recent survey by PRRI found that nearly
seven in 10 Americans support laws like the
Equality Act. More than 500 national, state,
and local organizations have endorsed the
legislation, including social justice, reli-
gious, medical, and child welfare organiza-
tions.
Again, I urge you to vote in favor of the
Equality Act and against any Motion to Re-
commit.
Thank you for your consideration. If you
have any questions or need more informa-
tion, please do not hesitate to reach out to
me.
Sincerely,
DAVID STACY,
Government Affairs Director,
Human Rights Campaign.
AMERICAN FEDERATION OF
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES, AFL–CIO,
Washington, DC, May 14, 2019.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC.
DEAR REPRESENTATIVE: On behalf of the
700,000 federal and District of Columbia gov-
ernment employees represented by the
American Federation of Government Em-
ployees, AFL–CIO (AFGE) I write to urge
you to vote yes on H.R. 5, the Equality Act.
The Equality Act is long overdue legislation
with bipartisan support that affirms in the
United States all people should be treated
equally.
Currently, it is not a violation of federal
civil rights law for employers to fire, land-
lords to deny housing, or for schools to with-
hold educational opportunities from people
solely because they are a member of the
LGBTQ community. While some jurisdic-
tions provide protections to the LGBTQ com-
munity, the federal government cannot re-
main silent in the face of continued discrimi-
nation. The Equality Act extends protec-
tions against discrimination based on sexual
orientation or gender identity in employ-
ment, housing, access to public places, fed-
eral funding, credit education, and jury serv-
ice. Federal workers provide services to all
members of the public without discrimina-
tion and expect our nation’s laws to protect
all individuals in the same manner.
The Equality Act is endorsed by civil and
human rights advocates, educators, the busi-
ness community, and labor unions because
the United States can only move forward to-
gether when all, including citizens who are
LGBTQ, have full protection under the law
from discrimination. Again, I urge you to
vote in support of H.R. 5, the Equality Act.
Sincerely,
ALETHEA PREDEOUX,
Director, Legislative Department.
MARCH 12, 2019.
CHARLES E. SCHUMER,
Senate Minority Leader,
Washington, DC.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of U.S. House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR SCHUMER AND SPEAKER
PELOSI: We write today to memorialize the
shared agreement of African American civil
rights groups regarding the importance of
ensuring the protection of the provisions of
core civil rights statutes e.g. the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, the Fair Housing Act, the
Equal Credit Opportunity Act, etc., even as
legislators pursue amendments to those stat-
utes to add additional protections against
discrimination. We stand in solidarity and
support with our partners and colleagues in
a shared commitment to ensuring that these
protections are extended. But we have also
collectively agreed that these efforts must
not result in a weakening of the provisions
and protections of our bedrock civil rights
statutes, each of which represents the power-
ful and unrelenting demand of civil rights
activists and leaders—often at risk to their
own lives. While we have been gratified dur-
ing our conversations with House and Senate
committee leaders and bill sponsors, we re-
gard this matter as one of such importance
that we are memorializing by this letter the
understanding we have shared in our con-
versations for efforts that may arise by indi-
vidual legislators or groups during the proc-
ess of advancing these bills.
The reasons for our caution and concern
are, no doubt, evident to you. The current
environment is one in which we have seen
alarming animus and hostility to various
ethnic and minority groups, as well as legal
challenges to what were once regarded as un-
assailable civil rights legal standards. With-
out question we are confronting a concerted
and unrelenting effort to chip away and evis-
cerate existing civil rights protections. This
means that there are inherent dangers in
opening any civil rights statutes to legisla-
tive debate and review. Thus, the efforts cur-
rently underway to extend anti-discrimina-
tion protection in our core civil rights stat-
utes, must not be advanced without the clear
and explicit agreement among sponsors,
committee leadership and party leadership
that proposed amendments to our civil
rights statutes will be withdrawn should ef-
forts be introduced to weaken or diminish
the existing provisions of those statutes.
Bills which are of immediate concern in-
clude, The Equality Act and the American
Housing and Mobility Act; however, it is our
understanding that there may be others.
Below is a list of some of the safeguards/
guardrails we feel must be in place if/when
legislation proposing to amend civil rights
statutes is introduced. Each of these have
been discussed and agreed to by civil rights
groups, as well as the current sponsors of the
Equality Act. They include:
Establish a strong legislative record for
any proposed changes to core Civil Rights
statutes. This standard must be maintained;
Hearings, reports, testimony, etc.
Written assurances from Party Leadership
that existing protections will be preserved.
Written assurances from Sponsors that ex-
isting protections will be preserved.
Written assurances from Party Leadership
that if an amendment(s) to existing protec-
tions or amendment(s) creating restrictions
on any of the existing protections is ad-
vanced the bill will be pulled and no vote(s)
will be taken.
Written assurances from Sponsors that if
an amendment(s) to existing protections or
amendment(s) creating restrictions on any of
the existing protections is advanced* they
will withdraw their introduction of the bill
and work to have the bill pulled and no
vote(s) will be taken.
A demonstrated and shared understanding
from party leadership and legislative spon-
sors of the ability to impact the process once
legislation is introduced given current polit-
ical dynamics, including an explanation of
the procedural path forward and the proce-
dural path for withdrawal if that becomes
necessary.
Inclusion of Congressional Findings sec-
tion in every bill.
Rollout strategies which include explicit
statement(s) about need to preserve existing
protections and intent to withdraw the bill if
existing protections are threatened in any
manner.
Continue to explore standalone legislation
that does not amend the existing statute(s),
should this prove to be the safer course.
The history of civil rights in this country
is one fraught with violence, hostility and
long suffering. The fight to enforce those
rights continues to this day with resistance
and opposition morphing and growing. As
stewards of these critical laws, we all have a
responsibility and obligation to ensure that
the protections they embody are preserved.
We therefore want to be clear and direct in
expressing our insistence that any legisla-
tion proposing to amend legacy civil rights
statutes which is permitted to move forward,
do so ONLY when there is a commitment and
agreement to do no harm to the existing
statutes and where the safeguards/guardrails
outlined in this letter are put in place.
Sincerely,
SHERRILYN IFILL,
President and Direc-
tor-Counsel, NAACP
Legal Defense and
Educational Fund,
Inc.
HILLARY O. SHELTON,
Director, Washington
Bureau/SVP for Ad-
vocacy and Policy,
NAACP.
REVEREND AL SHARPTON,
President and Found-
er, National Action
Network.
MELANIE L. CAMPBELL,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.011 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3808 May 15, 2019
President and CEO,
National Coalition
on Black Civic Par-
ticipation.
MARC H. MORIAL,
President and Chief
Executive Officer,
National Urban
League.
KRISTEN CLARKE,
President & Executive
Director, Lawyers’
Committee for Civil
Rights Under the
Law.
VANITA GUPTA,
President and CEO,
Leadership Con-
ference for Civil and
Human Rights.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. CARTWRIGHT).
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker,
for nearly a decade, the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act has
helped millions of Americans get the
care that they need. It has allowed par-
ents to keep their kids on their own in-
surance plans, and it has protected mil-
lions and millions of Americans who
are living with preexisting conditions,
and that piece is so important.
It means that Americans living with
cancer, living with heart disease, and
living with diabetes can no longer be
thrown off their plans or denied cov-
erage simply because of their medical
history.
In my own State of Pennsylvania,
more than 5.4 million people depend on
these protections to treat their asth-
ma, to afford their insulin, and to re-
ceive treatments for other preexisting
illnesses.
Madam Speaker, I promise these
families that I will keep fighting to
keep them healthy, which is why this
week I am voting for the Strength-
ening Health Care and Lowering Pre-
scription Drugs Costs Act which will
ban junk insurance plans that don’t
offer sufficient coverage, bring lower-
priced generic prescription drugs to
market more quickly, and invest in
helping Americans sign up for
healthcare.
That is what Democrats are focused
on, moving forward, making sure sen-
iors, veterans, and working families
across our Nation have the healthcare
they need. I hope the current adminis-
tration will see this as an opportunity
to work with our House majority in
order to lower the cost of prescription
medications, and I hope Republicans in
Congress will join us in our mission to
keep working for the people and to
make sure that every American can af-
ford their prescription medications and
their healthcare.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Madam Speaker, in closing, I want to
urge opposition to the rule. The major-
ity has proposed three different meas-
ures today, and while I am a supporter
of the bill concerning Tribal rights, I
am opposed to H.R. 5 and H.R. 987, and
I regret that.
Quite frankly, had the process on
these bills been different, I think the
vote that we would see in this Chamber
would be very different today. I think,
literally, a more fulsome and more
open process and amendments on H.R.
5 might have unlocked dozens of addi-
tional votes for that legislation.
I think with H.R. 987 we don’t have to
speculate. We know three of those bills
passed out of the Energy and Com-
merce Committee with unanimous, bi-
partisan support, all of them dealing
with drug prices. That would have been
an easy vote. We could have moved
that through.
My friends could have still brought
the other four matters that they cared
about under a rule, brought it to the
floor. They have got the votes to move
it. It would have precisely the same
prospects of success it is going to have
in the United States Senate.
The President has already made it
clear, since he issued a statement, that
he is very likely to veto it if it were to
make it to his desk. So why in the
world we threw away an opportunity to
do some good for the American people
in an area where we agree, in order to
advance something that we know can-
not become law, is mystifying to me,
to say the least.
Again, H.R. 5 is well-intentioned and
designed to expand civil rights, but it
also adds a term with no clear defini-
tion to our civil rights laws without re-
gard for how it will work in practice.
H.R. 987 has four bills that are unac-
ceptable, three bills that are eminently
acceptable. I do want to close though
on a positive note.
Madam Speaker, I do applaud my
friends for bringing the Native Amer-
ican issue to fruition today. I am going
to be opposing them on the rule but
supporting them on that legislation. I
think it was a very wise decision to put
it under a rule, quite frankly, and I ap-
plaud my good friend Chairman GRI-
JALVA for working with my good friend
Chairman MCGOVERN and making sure
that that happened. This important
piece of legislation, which, quite frank-
ly, is important not just to the Tribe in
question, but establishes the principle
that we won’t let land going into trust
be taken out of trust, is very impor-
tant.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on the previous
question, ‘‘no’’ on the rule, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I include in the
RECORD a list of 364 organizations en-
dorsing the Equality Act, as well as a
list of companies supporting H.R. 5 who
employ over 9.8 million workers in the
United States.
EQUALITY ACT
364 ORGANIZATIONS ENDORSING THE EQUALITY
ACT
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
9 to 5, National Association of Working
Women; A Better Balance; ACRIA; ADAP
Advocacy Association; Advocates for Youth;
AFL-CIO; African American Ministers In Ac-
tion; AIDS United; Alan and Leslie Cham-
bers Foundation; American Association for
Access, Equity and Diversity; American As-
sociation of University Women (AAUW);
American Atheists; American Bar Associa-
tion; American Civil Liberties Union; Amer-
ican Conference of Cantors.
American Counseling Association; Amer-
ican Federation of State, County, and Mu-
nicipal Employees (AFSCME); American
Federation of Teachers; American Humanist
Association; American Medical Association;
American Psychological Association; Amer-
ican School Counselor Association; amfAR,
Foundation for AIDS Research; Anti-Defa-
mation League; Asian Americans Advancing
Justice ⎢ AAJC; Asian Pacific American
Labor Alliance (APALA); Association of
Flight Attendants—CWA; Athlete Ally; Au-
burn Seminary; Autistic Self Advocacy Net-
work.
BALM Ministries; Bend the Arc Jewish Ac-
tion; Black and Pink; Campaign for Youth
Justice; Caring Across Generations; Catho-
lics for Choice; Center for American
Progress; Center for Black Equity; Center for
Inclusivity; Center for Inquiry; Center for
LGBTQ and Gender Studies; CenterLink: The
Community of LGBT Centers; Central Con-
ference of American Rabbis; Child Welfare
League of America; Coalition of Labor Union
Women.
Communications Workers of America;
Community Access National Network
(CANN); Consortium for Children; Council
for Global Equality; DignityUSA; Disciples
Justice Action Network; Disciples LGBTQ+
Alliance; Disability Rights Education & De-
fense Fund (DREDF); Equal Rights Advo-
cates; Equality Federation; Estuary Space;
Faith in Public Life; Family Equality Coun-
cil; Feminist Majority; The Fenway Insti-
tute.
FORGE, Inc.; Forward Together; Freedom
Center for Social Justice; Freedom for All
Americans; Freedom to Work; Gay Men’s
Health Crisis (GMHC); Gender Spectrum;
Generation Progress; Georgetown University
Law Center—Civil Rights Clinic; Girls Inc.;
GLMA: Health Professionals Advancing
LGBTQ Equality; Global Justice Institute,
Metropolitan Community Churches; GLSEN;
Guttmacher Institute; Hadassah, The Wom-
en’s Zionist Organization of America, Inc.
Harm Reduction Coalition; HealthHIV;
Hindu American Foundation; Hispanic Fed-
eration; Hispanic Health Network; HIV Medi-
cine Association; Human Rights Campaign;
Human Rights Watch; Impact Fund; In Our
Own Voice: National Black Women’s Repro-
ductive Justice Agenda; Indivisible; Integ-
rity USA: Episcopal Rainbow; Interfaith Al-
liance; International Association of Machin-
ists & Aerospace Workers; International As-
sociation of Providers of AIDS Care.
Japanese American Citizens League; Jew-
ish Women International; Justice in Aging;
Keshet; Labor Council for Latin American
Advancement (LCLAA); Lambda Legal;
Latino Commission on AIDS; LatinoJustice
PRLDEF; League of United Latin American
Citizens; Lesbian and Gay Veterinary Med-
ical Association (LGVMA); LGBT Tech-
nology Partnership & Institute; Main Street
Alliance; MANA, A National Latina Organi-
zation; MAZON: A Jewish Response to Hun-
ger; Men of Reform Judaism.
Methodist Federation for Social Action;
Metropolitan Community Churches;
MomsRising; More Light Presbyterians;
Movement Advancement Project; Muslim
Advocates; Muslim Public Affairs Council;
Muslims for Progressive Values; NAACP;
NARAL Pro-Choice America; NASTAD (Na-
tional Alliance of State & Territorial AIDS
Directors); National AIDS Housing Coali-
tion; National Alliance for Partnerships in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.005 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3809
May 15, 2019
Equity (NAPE); National Alliance to End
Sexual Violence; National Asian Pacific
American Women’s Forum (NAPAWF).
National Association for Female Execu-
tives; National Association of County and
City Health Officials; National Association
of School Psychologists; National Associa-
tion of School Superintendents; National As-
sociation of Secondary School Principals;
National Association of Social Workers; Na-
tional Black Justice Coalition; National
Center For Lesbian Rights; National Center
for Transgender Equality; National Center
on Adoption and Permanency; National Coa-
lition for LGBT Health; National Coalition
of Anti-Violence Programs; National Council
for Occupational Safety and Health (COSH);
National Council of Jewish Women; National
Crittenton.
National Education Association; National
Employment Law Project; National Employ-
ment Lawyers Association; National Fair
Housing Alliance; National Hispanic Media
Coalition; National Hispanic Medical Asso-
ciation; National Latina Institute for Repro-
ductive Health; National Latinx Psycho-
logical Association; National LGBT Chamber
of Commerce; National LGBTQ Task Force
Action Fund; National Organization for
Women; National Partnership for Women &
Families; National PTA; National Queer
Asian Pacific Islander Alliance (NQAPIA);
National Taskforce on Tradeswomen Issues.
National Trans Bar Association; National
Urban League; National Women’s Health
Network; National Women’s Law Center;
NEAT—National Equality Action Team;
NETWORK Lobby for Catholic Social Jus-
tice; New Ways Ministry; NMAC; North
American Council on Adoptable Children;
Out & Equal Workplace Advocates;
OutServe-SLDN; Oxfam America; Parity;
People For the American Way; PFLAG Na-
tional.
Pharmaceutical Research and Manufactur-
ers of America; Physicians for Reproductive
Health; Planned Parenthood Federation of
America; Population Connection Action
Fund; Positive Women’s Network-USA; Pride
at Work; Promundo-US; Public Justice; Rab-
binical Assembly; Reconciling Ministries
Network; ReconcilingWorks: Lutherans for
Full Participation; Religious Coalition for
Reproductive Choice; Religious Institute;
RootsAction; Ryan White Medical Providers
Coalition.
SafeBAE; SAGE; Secular Coalition for
America; Secular Policy Institute; SER Jobs
for Progress National Inc.; Service Employ-
ees International Union; Sexuality Informa-
tion and Education Council of the U.S.
(SIECUS); Soulforce; Southern HIV/AIDS
Strategy Initiative (SASI); Stop Sexual As-
sault in Schools (SSAIS); SurvJustice;
T’ruah: The Rabbinic Call for Human Rights;
The AIDS Institute; The Episcopal Church;
The lnanna Project.
The Leadership Conference on Civil and
Human Rights; The National Coalition of
Anti-Violence Programs; The National
LGBTQ Workers Center; The TransLatin@
Coalition; The Trevor Project; The Tyler
Clementi Foundation; The Williams Insti-
tute; Transgender Law Center; Transgender
Legal Defense & Education Fund; Treatment
Action Group; True Colors United; UFCW
OUTreach; Ultra Violet; UMForward;
(un)common good collective; UnidosUS.
Unión = Fuerza Latinx Institute; Union for
Reform Judaism; Union of Affirming Chris-
tians; Unitarian Universalist Association;
Unitarian Universalist Women’s Federation;
United Church of Christ, Justice and Witness
Ministries; United State of Women; United
Synagogue of Conservative Judaism; URGE:
Unite for Reproductive & Gender Equity;
Voice for Adoption; Voices for Progress;
Vote Common Good, Greater Things; Voto
Latino; Witness to Mass Incarceration; Wom-
en’s Alliance for Theology, Ethics, and Rit-
ual (WATER); Young Feminists & Allies: Na-
tional Organization for Women’s (NOW) In-
augural Virtual Chapter.
STATE AND LOCAL ORGANIZATIONS
Alaskans Together For Equality, AK.
AIDS Alabama, AL.
Equality Alabama, AL.
Arizona Coalition to End Sexual & Domes-
tic Violence, AZ.
Equality Arizona, AZ.
9to5 California, CA.
Bienestar Human Services, CA.
California Employment Lawyers Associa-
tion, CA.
California LGBTQ Health and Human Serv-
ices Network, CA.
Equality California, CA.
Hollywood NOW, CA.
Latino Equality Alliance, CA.
Legal Aid At Work, CA.
LGBT Center OC, CA.
LGBT Community Center of the Desert,
CA.
Missiongathering Christian Church, CA.
Religious Coalition for Reproductive
Right—California, CA.
Stonewall Democratic Club, CA.
The Diversity Center of Santa Cruz Coun-
ty, CA.
The Los Angeles LGBT Center, CA.
The Source LGBT+ Center, CA.
9to5 Colorado, CO.
One Colorado, CO.
Out Boulder County, CO.
Rocky Mountain CARES, CO.
Triangle Community Center Inc., CT.
Asian/Pacific Islander Domestic Violence
Resource Project, DC.
GLAA, DC.
The DC Center for the LGBT Community,
DC.
Trans-Latinx DMV (DC, Maryland and Vir-
ginia), DC.
Whitman-Walker Health, DC.
Compass LGBTQ Community Center, FL.
Equality Florida, FL.
QLatinx, FL.
The Pride Center at Equality Park, FL.
Visuality, Inc., FL.
9to5 Georgia, GA.
Georgia Equality, GA.
Lake Oconee Community Church, GA.
The Rush Center, GA.
One Iowa, IA.
AIDS Foundation of Chicago, IL.
Arab American Family Services, IL.
Association of Latinas & Latinos Moti-
vating Action (ALMA), IL.
Chicago Alliance Against Sexual Exploi-
tation, Chicago Metropolitan Battered Wom-
en’s Network, Life Span, & Resilience, IL.
Equality Illinois, IL.
Illinois Accountability Initiative, IL.
Pride Action Tank, IL.
Resilience, formerly Rape Victim Advo-
cates, IL.
United Latinx Pride, IL.
Women Employed, IL.
Indiana Youth Group, IN.
End Rape on Campus, LA.
Louisiana Progress Action, LA.
Lousiana Trans Advocates, LA.
MassEquality, MA.
FreeState Justice, MD.
Gender Rights Maryland, MD.
Public Justice Center, MD.
EqualityMaine, ME.
Affirmations, MI.
Equality Michigan, MI.
Kalamazoo Gay Lesbian Resource Center,
MI.
Ruth Ellis Center, Inc., MI.
Gender Justice, MN.
OutFront MN, MN.
PROMO, MO.
St. Louis Effort for AIDS, MO.
Montana Coalition Against Domestic and
Sexual Violence, MT.
Charlotte Clergy Coalition for Justice, NC.
Equality North Carolina, NC.
Latinos in the Deep South, NC.
National Organization for Women Char-
lotte chapter, NC.
North Dakota Human Rights Coalition,
ND.
OutNebraska, NE.
New Hampshire Coalition Against Domes-
tic and Sexual Violence, NH.
Garden State Equality, NJ.
Hudson Pride Center, NJ.
Equality New Mexico, NM.
KWH Law Center for Social Justice &
Change, NM.
Southwest Women’s Law Center, NM.
Tewa Women United, NM.
Association of Legal Aid Attorneys
(ALAA) of UAW 2325, LGBTQ+ Caucus, NY.
Brooklyn Community Pride Center, NY.
Callen-Lorde Community Health Center,
NY.
Empire State Pride Agenda, NY.
Equality New York, NY.
Forefront Church NYC, NY.
Gay & Lesbian Independent Democrats
(GLID), NY.
Gender Equality Law Center, NY.
LGBT Bar Association of Greater New
York, NY.
LGBT Bar Association of New York, NY.
Sakhi for South Asian Women, NY.
The Volunteer Lawyers Project of Onon-
daga County, Inc., NY.
Theatre of the Oppressed NYC, NY.
VillageCare, NY.
Equality Ohio, OH.
Ohio Religious Coalition for Reproductive
Choice, OH.
TransOhio, OH.
Freedom Oklahoma, OK.
Basic Rights Oregon, OR.
Cascade AIDS Project, OR.
Christ Church: Portland, OR.
Oregon Abuse Advocates & Survivors in
Service, OR.
Mazzoni Center, PA.
Ni-ta-nee NOW (Centre County, PA), PA.
PA Religious Coalition for Reproductive
Justice, PA.
The Montgomery County LGBT Business
Council, PA.
PA Religious Coalition for Reproductive
Justice, PA.
Washington County Gay Straight Alliance,
Inc., PA.
Women’s Law Project, PA.
New Voices for Reproductive Justice, PA
and OH.
Women’s Rights and Empowerment Net-
work (WREN), SC.
Equality South Dakota, SD.
Tennessee Equality Project, TN.
American Association of University
Women Texas (AAUW Texas), TX.
Cathedral of Hope United Church of Christ,
TX.
Equality Texas, TX.
Esperanza Peace and Justice Center, TX.
Open Arms Rape Crisis Center & LGBT+
Services, TX.
Resource Center, TX.
Texas Freedom Network, TX.
The Afiya Center, TX.
Transgender Education Network of Texas
(TENT), TX.
Equality Utah, UT.
Diversity Richmond, VA.
Equality Virginia, VA.
Entre Hermanos, WA.
Gay City: Seattle’s LGBTQ Center, WA.
Gender Justice League, WA.
Legal Voice, WA.
Oasis Youth Center, WA.
Rainbow Center, WA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.009 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3810 May 15, 2019
9to5 Wisconsin, WI.
AIDS Resource Center of Wisconsin, WI.
FAIR Wisconsin, WI.
Wisconsin Coalition Against Sexual As-
sault, WI.
EQUALITY ACT
The Business Coalition for the Equality
Act is a group of leading U.S. employers that
support the Equality Act, which would fi-
nally guarantee explicit, permanent protec-
tions for lesbian, gay, bisexual and
transgender people under our existing civil
rights laws.
The companies:
Employ over 9.8 million workers in the
U.S.
Have combined revenue that exceeds $4.2
trillion.
Have operations in all 50 States:
A.T. Kearney Inc., Chicago, IL.
Abercrombie & Fitch Co., New Albany, OH.
Accenture, New York NY.
Adobe Systems Inc., San Jose, CA.
ADP, Roseland, NJ.
Advanced Micro Devices Inc., Sunnyvale,
CA.
Airbnb Inc., San Francisco, CA.
Alaska Airlines, Seattle, WA.
Alcoa Corp., Pittsburgh, PA.
Ally Financial Inc., Detroit, MI.
Amalgamated Bank, New York, NY.
Amazon.com Inc., Seattle, WA.
American Airlines, Fort Worth, TX.
American Eagle Outfitters Inc., Pitts-
burgh, PA.
American Express Global Business Travel,
Jersey City, NJ.
Apple Inc., Cupertino, CA.
Arconic, New York, NY.
Ascena Retail Group Inc., Mahwah, NJ.
Aspen Skiing Company LLC, Aspen, CO.
AT&T Inc., Dallas, TX.
Atlassian, San Francisco, CA.
Bain & Co. Inc./Bridgespan Group, Boston,
MA.
Bank of America Corp., Charlotte, NC.
Bayer U.S. LLC, Whippany, NJ.
BD, Franklin Lakes, NJ.
Best Buy Co. Inc., Richfield, MN.
Biogen, Cambridge, MA.
Boehringer Ingelheim USA Corp.,
Ridgefield, CT.
Booz Allen Hamilton Inc., McLean, VA.
Boston Scientific Corp., Marlborough, MA.
Box Inc., Redwood City, CA.
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., New York, NY.
Broadridge Financial Solutions Inc., Lake
Success, NY.
Brown-Forman Corp., Louisville, KY.
Caesars Entertainment Corp., Las Vegas,
NV.
Capital One Financial Corp., McLean, VA.
Cardinal Health Inc., Dublin, OH.
Cargill Inc., Wayzata, MN.
Chevron Corp., San Ramon, CA.
Chobani, Norwich, NY.
Choice Hotels International Inc., Rock-
ville, MD.
Cisco Systems Inc., San Jose, CA.
Citigroup Inc., New York, NY.
Citrix Systems Inc., Fort Lauderdale, FL.
CME Group Inc., Chicago, IL.
CNA Financial Corporation, Chicago, IL.
Coca-Cola Co., The, Atlanta, GA.
Compass Bancshares Inc. (BBVA Compass),
Birmingham, AL.
Corning, Corning, NY.
Converse Inc., Boston, MA.
Cox Enterprises Inc., Atlanta, GA.
CSAA Insurance Group, Walnut Creek, CA.
Cummins Inc., Columbus, IN.
CVS Health Corp., Woonsocket, RI.
Danone North America, White Plains, NY.
Darden Restaurants Inc., Orlando, FL.
Deloitte LLP, New York, NY.
Dell Technologies Inc., Round Rock, TX.
Depository Trust & Clearing Corp., The,
New York, NY.
Diageo North America, Norwalk, CT.
Dow Chemical Co., The Midland, MI.
Dropbox Inc., San Francisco, CA.
E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Co. (DuPont),
Wilmington, DE.
Eastern Bank Corp., Boston, MA.
Eaton Corp., Cleveland, OH.
eBay Inc., San Jose, CA.
Ecolab Inc., St. Paul, MN.
Edison International, Rosemead, CA.
Ernst & Young LLP, New York, NY.
Estee Lauder Companies Inc., The, New
York, NY.
Evolent Health Inc., Arlington, VA.
Exelon Corp., Chicago, IL.
Expedia Group, Bellevue, WA.
Facebook Inc., Menlo Park, CA.
First Data Corp., Atlanta, GA.
Food Lion, Salisbury, NC.
Gap Inc., San Francisco, CA.
General Electric Co., Boston, MA.
General Mills Inc., Minneapolis, MN.
General Motors Co., Detroit, MI.
Giant of Maryland LLC, Landover, MD.
Gilead Sciences Inc., Foster City, CA.
Glassdoor Inc., Mill Valley, CA.
Google Inc., Mountain View, CA.
Guardian Life Insurance Co. of America,
The, New York, NY.
Gusto, San Francisco, CA.
HERE North America LLC, Chicago, IL.
Hershey Co., The, Hershey, PA.
Hewlett Packard Enterprise Co., Palo Alto,
CA.
Hilton Inc., McLean, VA.
HP Inc., Palo Alto, CA.
HSF Affiliates LLC, Irvine, CA.
HSN Inc. St., Petersburg, FL.
Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, New York,
NY.
Hyatt Hotels Corp., Chicago, IL.
IBM Corp., Armonk, NY.
IHS Markit Ltd., New York, NY.
IKEA Holding US Inc., Conshohocken, PA.
Ingersoll-Rand Company, Davidson, NC.
Insight Enterprises Inc., Tempe, AZ.
Intel Corp., Santa Clara, CA.
Intercontinental Hotels Group Americas,
Atlanta, GA.
Iron Mountain Inc., Boston, MA.
John Hancock Financial Services Inc., Bos-
ton, MA.
Johnson & Johnson, New Brunswick, NJ.
JPMorgan Chase & Co., New York, NY.
Juniper Networks Inc., Sunnyvale, CA.
Kaiser Permanente, Oakland, CA.
Kellogg Co., Battle Creek, MI.
Kenneth Cole Productions Inc., New York,
NY.
KPMG LLP, New York, NY.
Lendlease Americas Inc., New York, NY.
Levi Strauss & Co., San Francisco, CA.
Linden Research Inc., Davis, CA.
Lush Fresh Handmade Cosmetics, Wil-
mington, NC.
Lyft Inc., San Francisco, CA.
Macy’s Inc., Cincinnati, OH.
Marriott International Inc., Bethesda, MD.
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.,
Springfield, MA.
Mastercard, Purchase, NY.
Medtronic PLC, Minneapolis, MN.
Merck, Kenilworth, NJ.
Meredith Corp. Des Moines, IA.
MGM Resorts International, Las Vegas,
NV.
Microsoft Corp., Redmond, WA.
Mitchell Gold + Bob Williams, Taylors-
ville, NC.
Moody’s Corp., New York, NY.
Morgan Stanley, New York, NY.
Nationwide, Columbus, OH.
Navient, Wilmington, DE.
Navigant Consulting Inc., Chicago, IL.
Netflix Inc., Los Gatos, CA.
Nike Inc., Beaverton, OR.
Northrop Grumman Corp., Falls Church,
VA.
Nuance Communications, Burlington, MA.
Office Depot Inc., Boca Raton, FL.
Oracle Corp., Redwood City, CA.
Patreon Inc., San Francisco, CA.
Paul Hastings LLP, Los Angeles, CA.
PepsiCo Inc., Purchase, NY.
Pfizer Inc., New York, NY.
Pinterest Inc., San Francisco, CA.
PNC Financial Services Group Inc., The,
Pittsburgh, PA.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, New York,
NY.
Procter & Gamble Co., Cincinnati, OH.
Pure Storage Inc., Mountain View, CA.
QUALCOMM Inc., San Diego, CA.
Realogy Holdings Corp., Madison, NJ.
Replacements Ltd., McLeansville, NC.
Royal Bank of Canada, New York, NY.
S&P Global Inc., New York, NY.
Salesforce, San Francisco, CA.
SAP America Inc., Newtown Square, PA.
Seagate Technology plc, Cupertino, CA.
Shire PLC, Lexington, MA.
Shook, Hardy & Bacon LLP, Kansas City,
MO.
Shutterstock Inc., New York, NY.
Siemens Corp., Washington, DC.
Sodexo Inc., Gaithersburg, MD.
Spotify USA Inc., New York, NY.
Square Inc., San Francisco, CA.
SurveyMonkey Inc., San Mateo, CA.
Symantec Corp., Mountain View, CA.
Synchrony, Stamford, CT.
Takeda Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., Deer-
field, IL.
Target Corp., Minneapolis, MN.
Tech Data Corp., Clearwater, FL.
TIAA, New York, NY.
T-Mobile USA Inc., Bellevue, WA.
TPG Global LLC, Forth Worth, TX.
TransUnion, Chicago, IL.
Turner Construction Co., New York, NY.
Twitter Inc., San Francisco, CA.
U.S. Bancorp, Minneapolis, MN.
Uber Technologies Inc., San Francisco, CA.
Ultimate Software, Weston, FL.
Under Armour Inc., Baltimore, MD.
Unilever, Englewood Cliffs, NJ.
United Airlines, Chicago, IL.
United Parcel Service Inc., Atlanta, GA.
Univision Communications Inc., New York,
NY.
Verizon Communications Inc., New York,
NY.
Visa, Foster City, CA.
Warby Parker, New York, NY.
WeddingWire Inc., Chevy Chase, MD.
Wells Fargo & Co., San Francisco, CA.
Whirlpool Corp., Benton Harbor, MI.
Williams-Sonoma Inc., San Francisco, CA.
Workday Inc., Pleasanton, CA.
Wyndham Hotels & Resorts Inc., Parsip-
pany, NJ.
Xerox Corp., Norwalk, CT.
Yelp Inc., San Francisco, CA.
Yext Inc., New York, NY.
Zillow Group, Seattle, WA.
Zimmer Biomet Holdings Inc., Warsaw, IN.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker,
today we will move forward on three
pieces of legislation whose timely con-
sideration is long overdue. We will
move to protect Americans’ access to
health insurance; provide much-needed
relief on prescription drug prices; pro-
vide Federal recognition to a Native
American community; and at long last,
pass the Equality Act, to remove the
burden of discrimination and move us
closer to a country where members of
the LGBTQ community have an equal
opportunity to achieve the American
Dream.
The Equality Act will not be the end
of our long journey towards full
LGBTQ equality, but it will finally get
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.007 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3811
May 15, 2019
our laws in line with the values our
country was founded upon. As was rec-
ognized in our founding documents, we
must continually take steps to make
our country more perfect.
Acknowledging in law the challenges
facing LGBTQ people, and taking con-
crete action to correct them, brings us
one step closer to that perfect union.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote
on the rule and the previous question.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
in strong support of the rule governing debate
of H.R. 5, the Equality Act, and the underlying
legislation.
I am proud to be an original co-sponsor of
this legislation and I commend once more the
tireless work of my colleague, the gentleman
from Rhode Island, Mr. CICILLINE.
I was proud to stand by him at its introduc-
tion, and championed it during our hearing on
the matter in this committee, the first such
hearing on the matter, for which I would also
like to commend the Judiciary Committee
Chairman, JERRY NADLER.
Much has changed in recent years about
Americans’ attitude towards members of the
LGBTQ community.
While Americans can be happy that we as
a society have made strides in marriage
equality, there is much work to do.
Despite significant legal advances over the
past several years—including marriage equal-
ity, LGBTQ Americans remain vulnerable to
discrimination on a daily basis and too often
have little recourse.
Fifty percent of the national LGBTQ commu-
nity live in states where, though they have the
right to marry, they have no explicit non-dis-
crimination protections in other areas of daily
life.
In most states, a same-sex couple can get
married one day and legally denied service at
a restaurant, be fired from their jobs or evicted
from their apartment the next.
The Equality Act is historic legislation that
says, unequivocally, that LGBTQ Americans
deserve the full protections guaranteed by the
landmark Civil Rights Act of 1964.
The Equality Act extends anti-discrimination
protections to LGBTQ Americans with regard
to employment, education, access to credit,
jury service, federal funding, housing, and
public accommodations.
No American should ever be treated as less
than equal in the eyes of the law.
The Equality Act will guarantee that LGBTQ
Americans in Texas and across the country
cannot be discriminated against because of
who they are or whom they love.
It is long past time for this legislation to be-
come law and that is why I proudly joined my
colleagues today to get the job done.
In some areas, federal law prohibiting sex
discrimination has already been properly inter-
preted by federal courts and administrative
agencies to include discrimination on the basis
of sexual orientation or gender identity.
The Equality Act affirms these interpreta-
tions of existing law and makes the prohibition
against discrimination on the basis of sexual
orientation or gender identity explicit, in order
to provide greater clarity to members of the
public, employers, schools, businesses and
others.
In areas where sex discrimination is not al-
ready prohibited, the bill amends existing law
to bar discrimination on the basis of sex, as
well as sexual orientation and gender identity.
The need for this legislation is all the more
urgent following recent news that the Supreme
Court has granted a writ of Certiorari to a trio
of three cases to test the reach of the Civil
Rights act to determine if they cover gay and
transgendered individuals.
With the political reality on the Court as it is,
this body—the House of Representatives—
owes it to our constituents to ensure that crit-
ical issues related to the civil rights of our fel-
low citizens are handled by their elected rep-
resentatives, and not left to the whims of a re-
constituted Trump Court demonstrably antago-
nistic towards the interests of minorities.
This is why the Equality Act has the bipar-
tisan support of Members of Congress, the
strong support of the business community,
and the overwhelming support of the American
people—with more than 7 in 10 supporting the
Equality Act.
On behalf of LGBTQ Texans and all Ameri-
cans, I am proud to be one of the original co-
sponsors of H.R. 5, the Equality Act.
I look forward to voting YES when it comes
to the House Floor, tomorrow and working to-
wards full enactment.
With this critical legislation, we will finally,
fully end discrimination against LGBTQ Ameri-
cans, and move our nation closer to fulfilling
the promise of equality, opportunity and justice
for every American.
In the meanwhile, I support the rule gov-
erning debate of H.R. 5 and the underlying
legislation.
The text of the material previously
referred to by Mr. COLE is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 377
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 4. Immediately upon adoption of this
resolution, the House shall proceed to the
consideration in the House of the bill (H.R.
336) to make improvements to certain de-
fense and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds to
Israel, to reauthorize the United States-Jor-
dan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes. All points of
order against consideration of the bill are
waived. The amendment described in section
5 of this resolution shall be considered as
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be con-
sidered as read. All points of order against
provisions in the bill, as amended, are
waived. The previous question shall be con-
sidered as ordered on the bill, as amended,
and on any further amendment thereto to
final passage without intervening motion ex-
cept: (1) one hour of debate equally divided
and controlled by the Majority Leader and
the Minority Leader or their respective des-
ignees; and (2) one motion to recommit with
or without instructions.
SEC. 5. The amendment referred to in Sec-
tion 4 is an amendment to H.R. 336 to add at
the end of the bill the following:
‘‘SEC. 406. CLARIFICATION OF DEADLINE FOR RE-
PORT ON ESTABLISHING AN ENTER-
PRISE FUND FOR JORDAN
‘‘For purposes of section 205(a), the term
‘establishment of the United States Develop-
ment Finance Corporation’ means the end of
the transition period, as defined in section
1461 of the Better Utilization of Investments
Leading to Development Act of 2018 (division
F of Public Law 115–254).
‘‘SEC. 407. FORM OF REPORT ON THE COOPERA-
TION OF THE UNITED STATES AND
ISRAEL WITH RESPECT TO COUN-
TERING UNMANNED AERIAL SYS-
TEMS
‘‘The report required under section 123(d)
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may include a classified annex.
‘‘SEC. 408. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON WITH-
DRAWALS OF UNITED STATES
FORCES FROM SYRIA AND AFGHANI-
STAN
‘‘(a) FINDINGS.—Congress makes the fol-
lowing findings:
‘‘(1) The foreign terrorist organization al
Qaeda, responsible for the attacks of Sep-
tember 11, 2001, maintains a presence in Af-
ghanistan.
‘‘(2) The Islamic State of Iraq and al Sham,
better known by its acronym ISIS, flour-
ished in the chaos unleashed by the civil war
in Syria and at one point controlled exten-
sive territory in Iraq and Syria.
‘‘(3) Al Qaeda, ISIS, and their affiliates
have murdered thousands of innocent civil-
ians.
‘‘(4) Al Qaeda, ISIS, and their affiliates
have proven resilient and have regrouped
when the United States and its partners have
withdrawn from the fight against them.
‘‘(b) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—Congress—
‘‘(1) acknowledges that the United States
military and our partners have made signifi-
cant progress in the campaign against al
Qaeda and the Islamic State of Iraq and al
Sham (ISIS), and honors the contributions
and sacrifice of the members of the United
States Armed Forces who have served on the
front lines of this fight;
‘‘(2) recognizes the continuing threat to
the homeland and our allies posed by al
Qaeda and ISIS, which maintain an ability
to operate in Syria and Afghanistan;
‘‘(3) expresses concern that Iran has sup-
ported the Taliban in Afghanistan and
Hizballah and the Assad regime in Syria, and
has sought to frustrate diplomatic efforts to
resolve conflicts in these two countries;
‘‘(4) recognizes the positive role the United
States and its partners have played in Syria
and Afghanistan fighting terrorist groups,
countering Iranian aggression, deterring the
further use of chemical weapons, and pro-
tecting human rights;
‘‘(5) warns that a precipitous withdrawal of
United States forces from the ongoing fight
against these groups, without effective,
countervailing efforts to secure gains in
Syria and Afghanistan, could allow terror-
ists to regroup, destabilize critical regions,
and create vacuums that could be filled by
Iran or Russia, to the detriment of United
States interests and those of our allies;
‘‘(6) recognizes that al Qaeda and ISIS pose
a global threat, which merits increased
international contributions to the counter-
terrorism, diplomatic, and stabilization ef-
forts underway in Syria and Afghanistan;
‘‘(7) recognizes that diplomatic efforts to
secure peaceful, negotiated solutions to the
conflicts in Syria and Afghanistan are nec-
essary to long-term stability and counterter-
rorism efforts in the Middle East and South
Asia;
‘‘(8) acknowledges the progress made by
Special Representative Khalilzad in his ef-
forts to promote reconciliation in Afghani-
stan;
‘‘(9) calls upon the Administration to con-
duct a thorough review of the military and
diplomatic strategies in Syria and Afghani-
stan, including an assessment of the risk
that withdrawal from those countries could
strengthen the power and influence of Russia
and Iran in the Middle East and South Asia
and undermine diplomatic efforts toward ne-
gotiated, peaceful solutions;
‘‘(10) requests that the Administration, as
part of this review, solicit the views of
Israel, our regional partners, and other key
troop-contributing nations in the fight
against al Qaeda and ISIS;
‘‘(11) reiterates support for international
diplomatic efforts to facilitate peaceful, ne-
gotiated resolutions to the ongoing conflicts
in Syria and Afghanistan on terms that re-
spect the rights of innocent civilians and
deny safe havens to terrorists;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.024 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3812 May 15, 2019
‘‘(12) calls upon the Administration to pur-
sue a strategy that sets the conditions for
the long-term defeat of al Qaeda and ISIS, as
well as the protection of regional partners
and allies, while ensuring that Iran cannot
dominate the region or threaten Israel;
‘‘(13) encourages close collaboration be-
tween the Executive Branch and the Legisla-
tive Branch to ensure continuing strong, bi-
partisan support for United States military
operations in Syria and Afghanistan; and
‘‘(14) calls upon the Administration to cer-
tify that conditions have been met for the
enduring defeat of al Qaeda and ISIS before
initiating any significant withdrawal of
United States forces from Syria or Afghani-
stan.
‘‘(c) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed as a declara-
tion of war or an authorization of the use of
military force.’’.
SEC. 6. Clause 1(c) of rule XIX shall not
apply to the consideration of H.R. 336.
Ms. SCANLON. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time, and
I move the previous question on the
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of adoption of the resolution.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 228, nays
189, answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting
13, as follows:
[Roll No. 205]
YEAS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—189
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Richmond
NOT VOTING—13
Abraham
Aderholt
Brooks (IN)
Cummings
Davis, Rodney
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
Keating
Norcross
Pence
Roby
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
b 1341
Messrs. TURNER, PALAZZO,
MULLIN, and DIAZ-BALART changed
their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. LARSON of Connecticut,
SCOTT of Virginia, and Mrs. BUSTOS
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
Mr. RICHMOND changed his vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘present.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 229, nays
188, not voting 14, as follows:
[Roll No. 206]
YEAS—229
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.024 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3813
May 15, 2019
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—188
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Langevin
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McAdams
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—14
Abraham
Aderholt
Brooks (IN)
Cummings
Davis, Rodney
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
Pence
Roby
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Walker
Weber (TX)
b 1350
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REPORT ON H.R. 2740, DEPART-
MENTS OF LABOR, HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES, AND EDU-
CATION, AND RELATED AGEN-
CIES APPROPRIATIONS BILL, 2020
Ms. DELAURO, from the Committee
on Appropriations, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–62) on the
bill (H.R. 2740) making appropriations
for the Departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, and Education,
and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes, which was referred to
the Union Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule XXI, all points of
order are reserved on the bill.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, lives
are literally hanging in the balance. I
urge the Speaker to immediately
schedule this important bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
REAFFIRMING AUTHORITY OF
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR TO
TAKE LAND INTO TRUST FOR IN-
DIAN TRIBES
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 375) to amend the Act of June
18, 1934, to reaffirm the authority of
the Secretary of the Interior to take
land into trust for Indian Tribes, and
for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 375
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. AUTHORITY REAFFIRMED.
(a) REAFFIRMATION.—Section 19 of the Act
of June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the ‘‘In-
dian Reorganization Act’’; 25 U.S.C. 5129), is
amended—
(1) in the first sentence—
(A) by striking ‘‘The term’’ and inserting
‘‘Effective beginning on June 18, 1934, the
term’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘any recognized Indian
tribe now under Federal jurisdiction’’ and in-
serting ‘‘any federally recognized Indian
Tribe’’; and
(2) by striking the third sentence and in-
serting the following: ‘‘In said sections, the
term ‘Indian tribe’ means any Indian or
Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo,
village, or community that the Secretary of
the Interior acknowledges to exist as an In-
dian tribe.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect as if
included in the Act of June 18, 1934 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Indian Reorganization
Act’’; 25 U.S.C. 5129), on the date of the en-
actment of that Act.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Ar-
izona (Mr. GRIJALVA) and the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. BISHOP) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and include extraneous material
on the measure under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, 10 years ago, the
Supreme Court handed down what is
known as the Carcieri decision. In that
decision, the Court determined that
trust land acquisition under the Indian
Reorganization Act of 1934 only applies
to Tribes that were under Federal ju-
risdiction in 1934.
Mr. Speaker, up until 2009, the De-
partment of the Interior, under both
Republican and Democratic adminis-
trations, had consistently construed
that the IRA authorizes the placement
of land into trust for any Tribe so long
as the Tribe is federally recognized at
the time of the trust application.
The decision overturned 75 years of
agency practice, both Democratic and
Republican administrations, and cre-
ated a two-tiered system for trust land
acquisition. This also opened up the
Tribes to frivolous lawsuits on land
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.013 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3814 May 15, 2019
that they had held in trust for years,
sometimes decades.
While this has been great for lawyers
and their firms, it is detrimental to the
health of a Tribe. The money to defend
these lawsuits could, instead, be used
to provide and improve the lives of
their members.
We have had to pass standalone bills
for individual Tribes on a piecemeal
basis to protect their lands, and we
should, since these Tribal lands are
under direct assault right now. We
must also address this going forward so
that other Tribes do not find them-
selves in the same dire straits.
Passage of H.R. 375 will restore clar-
ity and stability for all federally recog-
nized Tribes by ensuring they are all
treated equally, regardless of date of
recognition.
Let’s not forget history and the deci-
mation of Tribes and their homeland
by the hand of the Federal Govern-
ment. It has taken almost a century
for us to even attempt to undo the
damage we inflicted upon the indige-
nous peoples of this Nation.
This work is not complete. We are
still federally acknowledging Tribes to
this day. We are still striving to return
merely a portion of the land back to
Tribes. To say that Tribes that were
recognized after 1934 are somehow infe-
rior to Tribes that were recognized by
1934 is dangerously ignorant of history.
H.R. 375, introduced by Representa-
tive COLE of Oklahoma, is short, sim-
ple, and to the point. It will amend the
IRA to ensure that all federally recog-
nized Tribes are treated equally, re-
gardless of their date of recognition.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Oklahoma (Mr. COLE), the sponsor of
this bill.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend, the distinguished ranking mem-
ber, for yielding time.
I want to thank both my friends, the
chairman and the ranking member, for
their help in bringing this legislation
to the floor. It could not have happened
without both of their assistance.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 375, legislation that would
amend the Indian Reorganization Act
of 1934 and reaffirm the authority of
the Secretary of the Interior to take
land into trust for Indian Tribes.
Between the passage of the Dawes
Act in 1887 and the passage of the In-
dian Reorganization Act in 1934, the In-
dian landmass in the United States
shrank by 86 million acres.
b 1400
Since the enactment of the Indian
Reorganization Act, the Department of
the Interior has taken back approxi-
mately 9 million acres of land into
trust status. Tribes have used their
trust lands to build community facili-
ties such as schools, health centers,
and housing that serve their Tribal
members. This land is also used for
Tribal enterprises and promotes eco-
nomic development in communities
that are often underserved and pov-
erty-stricken.
In 2009, the Supreme Court of the
United States overturned long-existing
precedent in its decision on the
Carcieri v. Salazar case. The Supreme
Court ruled specifically that the Sec-
retary’s authority to hold land in trust
under the Indian Reorganization Act
was limited only to recognized Tribes
‘‘now under Federal jurisdiction,’’ with
the word ‘‘now’’ meaning June 18, 1934,
the date of the enactment of the Indian
Reorganization Act.
Previously, lower courts have viewed
the word ‘‘now’’ as the instant when
the Secretary invoked trust acquisi-
tion authority. However, the Supreme
Court reversed the lower court ruling
on the interpretation that the term
‘‘now under Federal jurisdiction’’ in
section 19 of the Indian Reorganization
Act was to be interpreted. It found that
the phrase refers only to those Tribes
that were under Federal jurisdiction of
the United States when the Indian Re-
organization Act was enacted in 1934.
As a result of the Carcieri decision,
the Secretary of the Interior may no
longer use the Indian Reorganization
Act to acquire trust land for any post-
1934 Tribe without specific authoriza-
tion from Congress. Because the Sec-
retary has acquired lands in trust for
dozens of Tribes recognized after 1934,
the Carcieri ruling calls into question
the validity of the trust status of such
lands and jeopardizes their immunity
from State and local taxation and reg-
ulatory jurisdiction.
Many Tribes have been forced into
court to defend the status of their trust
land, costing them millions of dollars
and compromising their investments
and jurisdiction.
H.R. 375 would amend the Indian Re-
organization Act and clarify the lan-
guage the Supreme Court ruled against
by striking ‘‘the term,’’ which I have
previously referenced, and inserting
the words ‘‘effective beginning on June
18, 1934, the term.’’ It would also amend
the statute language from ‘‘any recog-
nized Indian Tribe now under Federal
jurisdiction’’ to ‘‘any federally recog-
nized Indian Tribe.’’
The modest changes clarify that the
Secretary does have authority to take
land into trust for any Tribe that the
Federal Government has recognized.
As a member of the Chickasaw Na-
tion and co-chair of the Native Amer-
ican Caucus, I commend the Natural
Resources Committee for favorably
marking up this legislation and this
body for moving forward with the pas-
sage of this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on H.R. 375.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker,
may I inquire, first of all, if the gen-
tleman from Arizona has any speakers.
I do have several.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, we
have one speaker.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I appreciate this oppor-
tunity to be here. I also appreciate Mr.
COLE for his work on this particular
issue and the time he has put in over
the last decade in trying to find a
Carcieri fix.
That 2009 Supreme Court made the
decision, but it actually opened up
more questions than it provided solu-
tions and answers in the process.
In the years since that decision, the
Democrats, when they controlled the
House, the Senate, and the White
House, did not find a solution. Repub-
licans, when we were in the same situa-
tion, didn’t find a solution either, prob-
ably because there is even a bigger
question than what was decided in this
particular case. That bigger question is
one that is extremely complex and
grave, and it indicates the complexity
of this particular issue.
Lands taken into trust by Tribes
definitely have a benefit and an advan-
tage to the Tribe, but it also has an im-
pact on the counties and local govern-
ments where this trust issue is taking
place.
Let’s be clear that, prior to Carcieri,
the fee-to-trust process was broken and
fraught with conflicts. In fact, many
will still argue that even today, the
current Bureau of Indian Affairs proc-
ess provides very limited incentives for
any community or stakeholder to be
partners in this process. As a result, we
are often left with conflict and polit-
ical turmoil and accusations and re-
criminations on the local level.
Some areas of local government, es-
pecially the California State Associa-
tion of Counties, have been repeatedly
asking us to try to come up with a re-
form to the overall process because the
process impacts taxes and zoning in
communities where these trust lands
are acquired.
Local governments, States, and
stakeholders who have some kind of
role to play in this area, should they
have a seat at the table? Should they
be consulted? Should they have some
kind of input? Yes, obviously.
Should they have a veto in the proc-
ess? I don’t think so.
Where we draw that line to ensure
that there is consultation, so you en-
sure that people have a voice in the
process, that is the underlying ques-
tion. That is the complex question.
During markup of this bill, Mr.
HUFFMAN from California and Mr.
GOSAR from Arizona entered into a col-
loquy. They actually had a discussion,
one of the few times a committee did
what a committee is supposed to do,
talking about the need to come up with
some kind of variance to this under-
lying issue that is not necessarily the
crux of the 2009 decision. But how do
we come up with this process?
If this bill is going to go all the way
to the Senate and ultimately become
law, we need some help in finding a so-
lution to the bigger issue of how much
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.031 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3815
May 15, 2019
consultation should take place and who
should have their voices heard in the
overall process, a process that does not
happen right now.
There is a pathway to solve these
problems. We can address Carcieri or
we can move forward to prevent future
litigation that has plagued the land-in-
trust process. The Tribes and every
stakeholder in this process deserve as
much.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
as much time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
GALLEGO), my colleague and chair of
the Subcommittee for Indigenous Peo-
ples of the United States.
Mr. GALLEGO. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 375 introduced
by my friend Representative COLE from
Oklahoma.
H.R. 375 is a simple, straightforward
fix to a problem that has caused chaos
and uncertainty in Indian Country for
a decade.
Ten years ago, the Supreme Court
handed down what is now known as the
Carcieri decision. In that decision, the
Court determined that eligibility for
trust land acquisition under the Indian
Reorganization Act of 1934 only applies
to Tribes that were federally recog-
nized as of 1934.
The acquisition of trust land for the
benefit of Indian Tribes is absolutely
essential to Tribal self-determination,
economic development, and protection
of Tribal homelands. The Carcieri deci-
sion created an unfair, impractical,
two-tiered system for Tribes that
wanted to engage in this essential
function of Tribal sovereignty.
H.R. 375 simply amends the IRA to
ensure that all federally recognized
Tribes are treated equally, regardless
of the date of recognition.
The Carcieri decision and its con-
sequences harken back to the Federal
Government’s shameful history of op-
pression in Native communities. The
decimation of Tribes and their home-
land by the Federal Government is well
documented. For centuries, we ignored
their treaties and systematically
stripped them of their land. It has
taken almost a century for us to even
begin to undo the damage we have in-
flicted on indigenous peoples.
Mr. Speaker, that work is nowhere
near done. To this day, we are still fed-
erally recognizing tribes that the gov-
ernment tried to destroy. We are still
striving to return merely a small por-
tion of ancestral land back to Tribes so
they can have homelands to call their
own.
In order to continue to undo the
harm we have done, we must end this
system of haves and have-nots for trust
land acquisition. We must level the
playing field and alleviate the cata-
strophic consequences this decision has
had in Indian Country.
We must pass H.R. 375, the clean
Carcieri fix. If we do not, this adminis-
tration will continue to strip trust
land from Tribes like the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe, which is the subject
of another bill on the floor today.
Tribes will continue to suffer need-
lessly, once again at the hands of the
Federal Government.
Indian Country has been clamoring
for this clean, simple fix for a decade,
and we cannot make them wait any
longer.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to support this bill.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 6 minutes to the gentleman from
Arizona (Mr. GOSAR).
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Ranking Member BISHOP for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
opposition to the current form of H.R.
375.
In 1988, Congress enacted the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act, or IGRA, with
the intent to restrict casinos to Tribes’
original reservations. H.R. 375 reverses
a major 2009 Supreme Court decision,
and the bill would lead to future abuses
of IGRA.
The bill gives unelected bureaucrats
a blank check to take any land in trust
without respect for impacted commu-
nities, including other Tribes. More
importantly, H.R. 375 allows reserva-
tion shopping and for lands to be taken
into trust for off-reservation casinos in
places where States, local govern-
ments, and other Tribes oppose such
action.
H.R. 375 will result in a flood of new
off-reservation casinos that cause harm
to States and local communities. Many
of these casino locations that are no-
where near Tribes’ historic reserva-
tions will be handpicked by gambling
investors and Washington bureaucrats.
If H.R. 375 passes, all Tribes would
have to do in order to get land taken
into trust and open off-reservation ca-
sinos is to show that they are federally
recognized by the Department of the
Interior.
In the Natural Resources Committee
markup of this bill, the gentleman
from the Second District of California,
Mr. HUFFMAN, and I engaged in a pro-
ductive debate on this bill. We both
agreed to try to find common ground
on which to respond to my concerns
about off-reservation casino abuse and
the valid concerns brought to the com-
mittee by State and county govern-
ments. Bringing H.R. 375 up via suspen-
sion this week and not allowing any
amendments prohibits us from making
good on that agreement.
H.R. 375 should have been amended
prior to being brought to the floor to
address these bipartisan concerns.
Taking land into trust divests the af-
fected State and local governments of
jurisdiction. When land is taken into
trust, for example, the Tribe will not
pay any applicable taxes on the land,
but the county or city in which the
land is located might nonetheless be
required to supply the Tribe with coun-
ty and city services, and non-Tribal
residents will pay for it. At least con-
sultation should be a minimum.
The bill as currently drafted there-
fore increases the power of an
unelected bureaucracy to divest non-
consenting State and local govern-
ments of jurisdiction over their land.
This, by itself, is a great cause of con-
cern.
Let’s be clear about H.R. 375 and how
a bill of this scope and magnitude de-
serves more careful consideration than
is being given here today.
Currently, there are almost 600 rec-
ognized Tribes in the United States,
about 240 of which have gaming oper-
ations. H.R. 375 removes the dam that
provided some restraint on the number
of Tribal casinos and would be a dra-
matic departure from existing Federal
law that has been in place for almost a
century.
Before voting on this bill, I hope
Members all understand that H.R. 375
will open the floodgates to off-reserva-
tion Tribal casinos all over the United
States. If H.R. 375 passes, all federally
recognized Tribes will be eligible to re-
ceive land in trust and potentially open
off-reservation casinos. This includes
any Tribe recognized by the Depart-
ment of the Interior that was ineligible
to receive land in trust and/or was de-
nied land in trust prior to H.R. 375.
According to the National Indian
Gaming Commission fact sheet, as of
2016, approximately 329, or 58 percent,
of the recognized Tribes had no gaming
operations.
President Trump opposes H.R. 312
and with good reason. That bill gives
land in trust and a casino to a single
Tribe that is otherwise ineligible to re-
ceive those benefits, as well as reverses
Federal court and Interior decisions.
But H.R. 375 does all that and more.
Instead of giving land in trust to
only one Tribe, it lets an unelected bu-
reaucracy give whatever land it wants
to all recognized Tribes. Thus, the
same concerns that exist with respect
to H.R. 312, which we will be talking
later about, exist at an even greater
level with respect to H.R. 375.
The purpose of considering bills
under suspension is to dispose of non-
controversial measures expeditiously,
but H.R. 375 has controversy written
all over it.
H.R. 375 has ridden alongside H.R. 312
largely unnoticed, and no one has
pointed out two crucial facts: one, that
it exists as a contingency plan in case
its sister bill, H.R. 312, fails; and two,
that its effect would be national rather
than local.
H.R. 375 and H.R. 312 are two heads of
the same snake, one large, one small.
Senator WARREN, regardless, will get
her casino if either bill passes.
b 1415
Further, passage of H.R. 375 will
allow for new off-reservation casinos to
be opened in your States and commu-
nities and for land to be ripped away
from local jurisdictions without re-
course.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Ranking Mem-
ber BISHOP for the opportunity to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.033 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3816 May 15, 2019
speak on this important issue. I urge
all Members to vote ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 375.
Send it back to get consultation, at
least, put in.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
KENNEDY).
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for his assistance, for his
leadership on this important issue, and
for the time.
Mr. Speaker, this debate has been 10
years in the making for Indian Coun-
try. A decade ago, a Supreme Court
ruling created unnecessary confusion
in the interpretation and application of
the Indian Reorganization Act of 1934.
This bill, H.R. 375, would clarify the
ensuing confusion. Among other
things, it would ensure the IRA applies
to all Native American Tribes recog-
nized by the Federal Government, re-
gardless of their date of recognition.
For the last 10 years, the unnecessary
confusion has caused uncertainty for
Tribes seeking recognition and recog-
nized lands, has halted economic devel-
opment projects on Tribal lands, and
has resulted in costly and protracted
litigation.
Members and staff on both sides of
the aisle deserve significant recogni-
tion for getting us to where we are
today. But, in particular, Chairman
GRIJALVA, Representative MCCOLLUM,
and Representative COLE have been ex-
traordinary. I thank them for their in-
credible leadership on Tribal issues,
and their perseverance in pursuing a
clean Carcieri fix.
I am honored to have the opportunity
to speak on this. I urge my colleagues
to support this important legislation.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume to engage in a colloquy with the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr. GRI-
JALVA).
If we, indeed, are going to be serious
about a legislative solution to Carcieri,
then we need to work out some kind of
compromise that could pass both
Houses of Congress and be signed by
the President.
I have been encouraged by the debate
not only on the floor here, but also in
our committee, regarding the need to
consult with affected parties before
land is taken into trust.
Mr. Speaker, I ask Mr. GRIJALVA
whether he will commit to work with
us on this type of legislation to solve
this underlying problem as this bill
moves forward?
Mr. GRIJALVA. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. I yield to the
gentleman from Arizona.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, when a
Tribe applies to have land taken into
trust through the Department of the
Interior, local concerns are already
strongly considered, even more so when
the land is located away from existing
reservation lands.
However, I do recognize there is a de-
sire from some Members on both sides
of the aisle to work on stand-alone leg-
islation that would codify some of the
process.
I agree with the gentleman’s state-
ment about veto abilities. Any provi-
sion which would give counties or local
governments veto power over trust
land decisions is, frankly, a nonstarter.
Local input is vital to these decisions
and should be taken into account. How-
ever, Tribal consultation is solely the
responsibility of the Federal Govern-
ment, as is any final decision on trans-
ferring land into trust.
And I think because of the national
implications of the question of trust
land and the role that communities,
i.e., counties and municipalities, would
play, I think there is a need to some-
how accommodate a level of Tribal
consultation, because they are going to
be the most affected party by any deci-
sion that is made.
With that said, I do commit, Mr.
Speaker, to looking at any proposal on
the issue and to work moving forward
if it is to the betterment of all the
stakeholders and I would assist the leg-
islation in its final passage.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker,
reclaiming my time, I appreciate the
gentleman’s commitment and I appre-
ciate the comments that he will be
there.
There is this bigger question that
needs to be answered. Where we draw
the line is a matter that still needs
some kind of discussion, I recognize
that.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
a brilliant letter from me to Chairman
GRIJALVA on this particular issue.’
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON NATURAL RESOURCES,
Washington, DC, May 6, 2019.
Hon. RAÚL GRIJALVA,
Chairman, Committee on Natural Resources,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: It is frustrating that
the Democrat Leadership has scheduled H.R.
375, legislation to reverse Carcieri v. Salazar,
under suspension one week after the com-
mittee markup of the bill. It disregards what
I believe was a bipartisan agreement to work
on an amendment to the bill to improve con-
sultation between the Bureau of Indian Af-
fairs (BIA) and states and counties to miti-
gate the impacts of taking land in trust in
their jurisdictions. The Carcieri decision cre-
ated vast uncertainty over the fee-to-trust
process for tribes and impacted stakeholders.
I voted for H.R. 375 in committee as a display
of my support for resolving Carcieri. My sup-
port for the bill’s advancement is contingent
upon the inclusion of reasonable safeguards
on BIA’s powers.
During markup on H.R. 375, Messrs.
Huffman and Gosar discussed a mutual, bi-
partisan desire to respond to long-standing
state and local concerns. The California
State Association of Counties (CSAC), in a
letter submitted for the markup record, reit-
erated the counties’ ‘‘longstanding, valid
concerns’’ they have with a fee-to-trust proc-
ess conducted under a ‘‘fundamentally
flawed regulatory framework’’ and they also
submitted proposals to resolve these prob-
lems. I can attest that many counties in
Utah share these same concerns.
Mr. Huffman explained that he found him-
self in partial agreement with CSAC’s posi-
tion, and that there should be ‘‘meaningful
good faith consultation’’ with local govern-
ments. While saying the Gosar amendment
went too far, Mr. Huffman expressed a will-
ingness to ‘‘continue collaborating on this
issue’’ to ‘‘come up with something that
would at least codify that good faith con-
sultation part of a better process.’’
Bringing the bill to the Floor this Wednes-
day is not a sign that such collaboration is
being taken seriously by Democrat Leader-
ship nor is it a pragmatic approach to resolv-
ing Carcieri for the benefit of Indian Country.
The fee-to-trust system is broken because
of a provision of a 1934 law that has not been
updated since that law’s enactment. Real-
istically, H.R. 375 offers an opportunity
through which to fix it. Moving forward
without reasonable consultation safeguards
on BIA’s authority will undermine successful
resolution of Carcieri.
It was our hope that after debate on the
bill during markup you’d allow Messrs.
Huffman and Gosar, and other interested
Members (on and off the Committee), an op-
portunity to explore solutions with H.R. 375’s
sponsor, Mr. Tom Cole. We need to work on
a compromise bill that solves the underlying
issues and can become law.
Sincerely,
ROB BISHOP,
Ranking Member.
Mr. BISHOP of Utah. Mr. Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, for 10
years, the Carcieri decision has caused
anxiety and confusion in Indian Coun-
try, creating dangerous legal ambigu-
ities related to Indian trust lands.
Today, we can finally end all that.
We can remove the ambiguity and un-
certainty, and finally offer Tribal na-
tions peace of mind that their lands are
protected.
Mr. Speaker, I urge swift passage of
H.R. 375, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
RUIZ). The question is on the motion
offered by the gentleman from Arizona
(Mr. GRIJALVA) that the House suspend
the rules and pass the bill, H.R. 375.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
MASHPEE WAMPANOAG TRIBE
RESERVATION REAFFIRMATION
ACT
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, pursu-
ant to House Resolution 377, I call up
the bill (H.R. 312) to reaffirm the Mash-
pee Wampanoag Tribe reservation, and
for other purposes, and ask for its im-
mediate consideration in the House.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 377, the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, printed
in the bill, is adopted, and the bill, as
amended, is considered read.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:26 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.035 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3817
May 15, 2019
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 312
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffirmation
Act’’.
SEC. 2. REAFFIRMATION OF INDIAN TRUST LAND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The taking of land into
trust by the United States for the benefit of the
Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe of Massachusetts as
described in the final Notice of Reservation
Proclamation (81 Fed. Reg. 948; January 8, 2016)
is reaffirmed as trust land and the actions of the
Secretary of the Interior in taking that land
into trust are ratified and confirmed.
(b) APPLICATION.—Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, an action (including an action
pending in a Federal court as of the date of en-
actment of this Act) relating to the land de-
scribed in subsection (a) shall not be filed or
maintained in a Federal court and shall be
promptly dismissed.
(c) APPLICABILITY OF LAWS.—All laws (includ-
ing regulations) of the United States of general
applicability to Indians or nations, Indian
Tribes, or bands of Indians (including the Act of
June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.)), shall be
applicable to the Tribe and Tribal members, ex-
cept that to the extent such laws and regula-
tions are inconsistent with the terms of the
Intergovernmental Agreement, dated April 22,
2008, by and between the Mashpee Wampanoag
Tribe and the Town of Mashpee, Massachusetts,
the terms of that Intergovernmental Agreement
shall control.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill,
as amended, shall be debatable for 1
hour, equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
The gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
GRIJALVA) and the gentleman from Ari-
zona (Mr. GOSAR) each will control 30
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arizona (Mr. GRIJALVA).
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R. 312.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, H.R. 312, the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffir-
mation Act, will reaffirm the trust sta-
tus of Mashpee’s Tribal land and pro-
tect the Tribe from further attacks on
its land and its sovereignty.
The Mashpee relationship with the
Federal Government is one of the old-
est in the United States. In fact, their
ancestors are the ones who welcomed
the pilgrims who landed at Plymouth
Rock, as well as the people who aided
those pilgrims through hard times in
1621, in what we now refer to as the
‘‘First Thanksgiving.’’
Like many Tribes, the Mashpee were
intentionally and systematically ren-
dered landless, through no fault of
their own. They fought long and hard
over the years to reestablish both their
Tribe and their land base.
The Tribe first petitioned the Federal
Government for recognition in 1978. Fi-
nally, after 30 years, the Bush adminis-
tration extended formal recognition to
the Tribe in 2007. However, they still
remained landless.
This was remedied in 2015, when the
Department of the Interior took ap-
proximately 320 acres into trust to
serve as the Tribe’s reservation lands.
The two parcels that compose the 320
acres are both within the Tribe’s his-
toric and ancestral homelands.
The Tribe constructed a government
center on the land, which includes
their schools, courtrooms and multi-
purpose room, as well as a medical
clinic facility. And they broke ground
on a gaming facility that would even-
tually bring in much-needed revenue
for Tribal operations and programs.
However, in 2016, a group of Taunton
residents, backed by an out-of-state
commercial gaming company, filed a
Carcieri suit in federal court to chal-
lenge the Department of the Interior’s
action.
Initially, the executive branch de-
fended the decision to create the Mash-
pee reservation. However, in May 2017,
the Department of Justice, under the
Trump administration, inexplicably
withdrew from the litigation and is no
longer defending the status of the
Tribe’s land.
Then, in September 2018, the Depart-
ment of the Interior issued its first
Carcieri decision in which it refused to
reaffirm its own authority to confirm
the status of the Tribe’s lands into
trust. The effect of this decision cannot
be overstated. For the first time in this
century, a Tribe was stripped of its
sovereign rights to its land. It would
mark the first time since the dark days
of the termination era that the United
States acted to disestablish an Indian
reservation and render a Tribe land-
less.
These attacks on the reservation and
on the Tribe’s very status have been
devastating. The legal uncertainty
that has been imposed by these events
is forcing the Tribe to borrow thou-
sands of dollars every day just to keep
its government running, resulting in
devastating cuts to essential services,
and massive layoffs of Tribal members.
This is completely unacceptable. We
cannot idly stand by as Tribal people
are once again harmed by yet another
action by the Federal Government.
Let’s be honest, the Federal Govern-
ment has done a terrible job of living
up to its moral and legal obligations to
Indian Country.
Housing, education, healthcare, and
basic needs often go unmet in Tribal
lands. These are not extras or handouts
to Tribal people. It is part of a trust re-
sponsibility, enshrined in numerous
treaties, court rulings, and laws.
But the needs still need to be met,
despite the Federal Government’s
failings. So how do Tribes attempt to
make up for that shortfall? By uti-
lizing their land for economic develop-
ment, including gaming.
Economic development on Tribal
lands is vital to the prosperity of a
Tribe and the ultimate goal of self-de-
termination and self-reliance. We have
seen it numerous times across the Na-
tion: Tribes using those dollars to fund
their programs, construct housing and
health clinics, and take care of the
needs of their people.
The Mashpee Tribe should not be hin-
dered from economic development on
their land solely because the State of
Rhode Island wants to protect its own
State-run gaming interest.
H.R. 312 is widely supported in Indian
Country, with letters of support from
over 50 individual Tribes and pan-Trib-
al organizations.
Additionally, the bill has strong sup-
port, including from the cities of Taun-
ton and Mashpee, the Chambers of
Commerce of both cities, the State of
Massachusetts, numerous Members of
the Massachusetts State House and
State Senate, the Mayflower Society,
and many local businesses and business
leaders.
Passage of H.R. 312 will protect the
Mashpee Tribe’s reservation lands and
make clear that the Tribe is entitled to
be treated the same way as other feder-
ally recognized Tribes.
Mr. Speaker, I urge its adoption, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
b 1430
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume in
strong opposition to H.R. 312.
H.R. 312 is contrary to the view of the
Department of the Interior. It con-
tradicts a Supreme Court decision and
aims to reverse Federal court decisions
on this matter in order to build a mas-
sive 400,000-square-foot, off-reservation
gaming complex for the benefit of
Genting, a foreign Malaysian gaming
company.
H.R. 312 creates two reservations for
the Mashpee Tribe of Massachusetts:
One reservation will be the town of
Mashpee, the Tribe’s historic reserva-
tion lands. No casino will be allowed
within the geographical boundaries of
the town of Mashpee.
The other reservation is, oddly, 50
miles away from Mashpee, in the city
of Taunton. This site is not part of the
Tribe’s historic reservation and was se-
lected by the Tribe and Genting for a
billion-dollar casino project because of
its proximity to the Providence, Rhode
Island, casino market, 20 miles distant.
There is no reason for the second res-
ervation, other than to build an off-res-
ervation casino 50 miles away from the
Mashpee Tribe, where they currently
reside. In fact, the new off-reservation
casino will be only 20 miles from the
New England Patriots’ football sta-
dium and, again, 50 miles from the
Mashpees’ historic reservation.
In 1988, Congress enacted the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act, with the in-
tent to restrict casinos to Tribes’ origi-
nal reservations. By placing land in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.037 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3818 May 15, 2019
trust for the Mashpee Tribe for gaming
in Taunton, H.R. 312 creates an off-res-
ervation casino, which is inconsistent
with congressional intent. This is often
called reservation shopping, and it is
an abuse of the Indian Gaming Regu-
latory Act.
The Tribe’s lawyers knew that res-
ervation shopping was a political head-
ache, so they went to the bureaucrats
within the BIA to obtain the two res-
ervations through administrative ac-
tion. RedState recently reported:
No one is more desperate for H.R. 312 to
succeed than Genting Malaysia. If the casino
doesn’t come through, the Tribe doesn’t have
to pay Genting back the over half a billion
dollars it borrowed.
H.R. 312 is a financial bailout for
Genting. The Tribe is swamped with a
$500 million-plus debt to Genting, and
there is no way the Tribe can ever pay
this back and still make enough money
to sustain itself. Genting, therefore,
will be the real owner of the project,
not the Tribe.
This kind of arrangement where the
creditor practically controls the finan-
cial future of a debtor Tribe is contrary
to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act,
which requires every Tribal casino to
be 100 percent tribally owned.
At the committee hearing on this
bill, counsel for the Governor of Rhode
Island testified that H.R. 312 will cause
the State significant harm with re-
gards to revenues for education, infra-
structure, and social programs and is
contrary to the limitations contained
in the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act.
Moreover, the American Principles
Project also reported on the ties be-
tween convicted lobbyist Jack
Abramoff and the Mashpee Wampanoag
Tribe, stating:
The expansive Abramoff investigation un-
covered major corruption within the Mash-
pee Wampanoag Tribe. Its chief, Glenn Mar-
shall, pled guilty in 2009 to multiple Federal
charges, including embezzling Tribal funds
and campaign finance violations committed
while working with Abramoff to secure the
Federal recognition of the Tribe in 2007.
For my Republican colleagues: The
bill was opposed by 10 of the 13 voting
Republicans during the committee
markup, including the ranking mem-
ber, ROB BISHOP; President Trump
tweeted that he opposed the bill and
urged Republicans to do the same;
House Minority Whip STEVE SCALISE
also sent an email recommending
Members vote ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 312. Do you
really want to vote for ELIZABETH WAR-
REN’s top Tribal priority?
For my Democratic colleagues: Rep-
resentatives CICILLINE and LANGEVIN
strongly oppose this bill, and it is op-
posed by the Democratic Governor of
Rhode Island. The bill is also ‘‘strenu-
ously opposed’’ by other federally rec-
ognized Tribes in Massachusetts.
For Members on both sides of the
aisle: Do you really want your name
tied to a Tribe that only received Fed-
eral recognition in 2007 as a result of
shady lobbying by Jack Abramoff? Do
you really want to vote for a $500 mil-
lion bailout for a former gaming cor-
poration?
In short, H.R. 312 authorizes an off-
reservation casino, bails out a foreign
corporation from major financial prob-
lems of its own making, reverses the
judgment of a Federal court, and con-
tradicts the Supreme Court ruling.
Wow, all in one breath.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all Members on
both sides of the aisle to vote against
H.R. 312, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
as much time as he may consume to
the gentleman from Massachusetts
(Mr. KEATING), the sponsor of the legis-
lation.
Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for yielding, and I thank
the chairman for all his hard work on
this bill and so many others that are
related to this.
I also want to thank the Natural Re-
sources subcommittee chair and rank-
ing member, Mr. GALLEGO and Mr.
COOK.
I want to thank my colleague from
Massachusetts who has worked so hard
and is a cosponsor, Mr. KENNEDY.
I also want to give particular thanks
to the gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr.
COLE) for his support and also voice my
strong support for H.R. 375, the bill
that was just debated that is well
thought out, well worked through—
over a decade—and well worth the sup-
port of everyone here.
Mr. Speaker, the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe has resided in south-
ern New England for more than 12,000
years. To not have their land federally
recognized is simply a disgrace.
We have seen them in our history
books, in historical paintings, in iconic
murals. They are the Tribes that wel-
comed the Pilgrims for the first
Thanksgiving. This President even put
them in his own Thanksgiving procla-
mation just last year. He recognized
them.
Tragically, like so many Native
Americans, the Mashpee Wampanoag
Tribe has lived through centuries of in-
justice, the latest of which this House
is debating today.
For years, I have worked personally
with the Tribe as they have used hard-
earned Federal recognition to provide
adequate housing, jobs, job training,
and essential services, including native
language learning, early childhood edu-
cation.
And this is important. We all know,
in my region, the plague of the opioid
epidemic, through Cape Cod, in that re-
gion. The incidence of overdose for the
Wampanoag Tribe is 400 times. I will
repeat that, 400 times more, the num-
ber of overdoses for that Tribe. I have
worked with them and will continue to
work with them, if they are in exist-
ence, to try and help them deal with
this scourge.
The Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe is
also a Tribe that, as you look at the
landscape for Tribes around the coun-
try, is suffering so many things that
other Tribes are—the uncertainty of
their status.
And this is the Tribe, I think, that
best shows the inequities that are in-
volved in these types of recognition.
I will just say, I introduced this bill
last Congress when we first heard ru-
mors that the Department of the Inte-
rior was going to, for the first time, re-
verse the position of the previous ad-
ministration and refuse to defend the
Mashpee Wampanoag’s right to their
historic land. They are the only Tribe
that has received recognition and then
had it taken away from them.
Now the Tribe’s reservation is hang-
ing by a thread, and they have been
left to defend their land on their own.
This is an existential threat.
Without support from Congress, it
will be nearly impossible for the Mash-
pee to engage in any kind of true self-
government because they won’t own
their own land: no economic develop-
ment, no Tribal headquarters, no elder
housing, no pre-K programs. It means
being treated as a second-class Tribe
with no future.
Bipartisan legislation to help a Tribe
like the Mashpee would normally pass
the House without issue. Just 2 weeks
ago, we passed a parallel Republican-
led bill for a Tribe in California with-
out a single Member objecting—not a
peep from the other side. President
Obama signed a bill like this into law
in 2014, and, importantly, President
Trump did the same just last year.
Sadly, although the substance of
H.R. 312 is noncontroversial, the tac-
tics employed by the bill’s few oppo-
nents are not. Throughout this process,
we have seen gross mischaracterization
and outright lying for personal and fi-
nancial gain.
My Republican colleague, ranking
member in the Rules Committee, a
member of the Chickasaw Nation, a Re-
publican from Oklahoma and an expert
on these issues, said last night at the
Rules meeting, never has he seen such
misinformation about a simple bill, to
the point of being scurrilous.
This is not about gaming. It is not
about picking winners and losers. It is
simply about a Tribe’s rightful place in
its native land. That is all.
Mr. Speaker, I believe in the best in
this institution. I believe that many of
us in Congress are here to lead. We are
here to debate issues on their merits;
we are here to find common ground
when we might otherwise disagree; and
we are here to set an example to show
the American people what is right. Yet
what we have seen happen to the Mash-
pee bill in the past week reflects the
worst. No low seems too low.
Where is the bottom?
We have seen the President, through
his tweets, trying to sink an entire Na-
tive American Tribe in the name of
special interests, dirty lobbying, and
outright bigotry.
The cast of characters behind the
scenes spewing information is reveal-
ing: a rightwing lobbyist, Trump loy-
alist; a Trump campaign operative who
worked for convicted felon and Trump
campaign manager Paul Manafort; in-
dividuals with financial interests that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.039 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3819
May 15, 2019
are counter to the Tribe, including two
former Trump Plaza Casino officials
and a major financier with both casino
and National Enquirer interests.
Cultural warfare to benefit bank ac-
counts, corrupt intent for personal
gain, all in the form of a racist tweet.
And some Members of this body are
eager to let him get away with it. But
not me, not my cosponsors, and not the
majority of this House.
I still believe this House has an op-
portunity today to do what is right. We
can show the Native American people
that we will stand up for them, that
after nearly 250 years since our coun-
try’s founding we would not be where
we are without them. They deserve
that dignity; they deserve that respect;
and they deserve that sovereignty for
their historic homeland.
Mr. Speaker, let’s be on the right
side of history today. Vote ‘‘yes’’ and
save the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I want to
make sure that my colleagues on the
other side understand that, as the city
of Mashpee, no one has any problems,
but it is the city of Taunton that is
part of the problem, and that is where
we have the gist. So I caution them to
watch their rhetoric.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE).
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend for yielding. It is a very gen-
erous gesture when we have a different
point of view on the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 312, the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffir-
mation Act.
Mashpee Wampanoag people have
lived in the Massachusetts area for
thousands of years. In fact, our shared
Thanksgiving tradition highlights a
celebration of Pilgrims and Indians
breaking bread together over the first
colonial holiday, and it is the Mashpee
who sat at the table.
In 2007, the Mashpee Wampanoag
Tribe was federally recognized. Mr.
Speaker, 8 years later, the Bureau of
Indian Affairs approved the decision to
take land into trust on behalf of the
Mashpee for a reservation. The Tribe
was then able to provide services di-
rectly to its citizens, become eligible
for Federal programs, and explore eco-
nomic opportunities.
Shortly after, in 2016, the Mashpee’s
reservation decision was challenged in
court by plaintiffs stating that, be-
cause the Tribe was federally recog-
nized after 1934, the Department of the
Interior could not take land into trust
on behalf of a Tribe. This decision
stems from the 2009 Supreme Court de-
cision, Carcieri v. Salazar. It is an ex-
ample of why that law needs to be
fixed.
In 2018, the administration issued a
decision that would take the Mashpees’
reservation out of trust. This marked
the first time since the termination era
that a Tribe has lost their trust land.
Frankly, from my standpoint, Mr.
Speaker, an attack on trust land any-
where threatens trust land everywhere,
so I am very happy to be working with
my good friend, Mr. KEATING, on H.R.
312. It is a bipartisan bill, and it is nec-
essary. It will reaffirm the trust status
of the Mashpee reservation.
The local elected officials with juris-
diction over the land are supportive of
the bill, as is the State’s entire con-
gressional delegation, as is the Repub-
lican Governor of the State.
Mr. Speaker, a ‘‘yes’’ vote on this bill
will right a wrong. It is a vote for local
control. It is a vote for Tribal sov-
ereignty, and it brings the Mashpee
land back into trust. It marks another
important step in our shared American
journey.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on the bill.
b 1445
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. CICILLINE).
Mr. CICILLINE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to speak in
strong opposition to H.R. 312, the
Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reserva-
tion Reaffirmation Act. This bill will
allow the Mashpee Tribe to open a mas-
sive off-reservation casino right on the
border of Rhode Island and Massachu-
setts, nearly 40 miles away from their
historic Tribal lands in Cape Cod.
The Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe be-
came federally recognized in 2007.
Under the Indian Reorganization Act,
the United States Department of the
Interior is only allowed to take land
into trust for Tribes recognized before
1934.
In 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court con-
firmed this Federal standard in the
Carcieri v. Salazar decision. In 2015, the
U.S. Department of the Interior ig-
nored the Indian Reorganization Act
and the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling
and took land into trust for the Mash-
pee Tribe.
A year later, the residents of Taun-
ton, Massachusetts, sued and won in
U.S. district court to stop the casino
from being built in their town. The dis-
trict court ruled that the Department
of the Interior should not have taken
land into trust for the Mashpee Tribe
and instructed the Department to con-
duct a further review of the Tribe’s eli-
gibility.
After reviewing the Mashpee Tribe’s
application last year, the U.S. Depart-
ment of the Interior rejected the
Tribe’s claim based on the finding that
the Tribe was not under Federal juris-
diction in 1934, which meant the De-
partment lacked authority under Fed-
eral law to take land into trust on
their behalf.
Today’s bill would reverse this final
decision of the Federal court and the
Department of the Interior and dis-
regard the U.S. Supreme Court prece-
dent in allowing the Tribe to build an
off-reservation casino in Taunton, Mas-
sachusetts.
If H.R. 312 passes today, it would be
the first time—I repeat, the first
time—Congress ever reversed a final
Federal court ruling that determined a
Tribe did not meet the Federal stand-
ard to have land taken into trust by
the U.S. Department of the Interior.
The impact of this bill would be dis-
astrous and would open a floodgate for
Tribes to come to Washington to hire
the biggest lobbyists they can to get
their carve-out from Congress.
Do we really want to go down this
road? Does Congress want to be in the
business of picking winners and losers?
That is exactly what this bill does.
The Tribal land system shouldn’t de-
pend on which Tribes hire the most ex-
pensive lobbyists. Instead, it should be
based on fairness under our law and ap-
plied equally.
Instead of this bill directly bene-
fiting the Tribe, as some have sug-
gested, the bill will bail out Genting,
the Malaysian hedge fund that is fi-
nancing this deal. Even if this bill
passes today and the Mashpee build a
casino, it is very unlikely, according to
all the experts, that the Mashpee ca-
sino will ever be profitable for the
Tribe because they owe Genting a half-
billion dollars.
Proponents of this bill have argued
that Congress is the last hope for the
Mashpee Tribe and that they will go
bankrupt without this casino, but
Genting Malaysia has already written
off the half-billion dollars it gave to
the Tribe as a loss on its financial
statements. If today’s bill fails, the
Mashpee Tribe does not need to pay
back this money because, under the
agreement with Genting, it is contin-
gent on the casino being built. The
debt is erased.
Regardless of what happens with this
bill today, the Mashpee Tribe will still
be a federally recognized Tribe and will
continue to receive Federal benefits.
Mr. Speaker, I started off opposing
this bill because of the damage it
would do to Rhode Island’s economy.
The casino in Rhode Island generates
over $300 million in economic activity
and is responsible for thousands of jobs
in Rhode Island. I am very proud of my
fierce defense for my State, and put-
ting an off-reservation casino on the
border will have a significant, negative
impact on Rhode Island.
But the more I learned about this
legislation, the more I realized the
dangerous precedent this bill would set
if it became law. H.R. 312 would reverse
a Federal court ruling, undermine the
Indian Reorganization Act, ignore a
U.S. Supreme Court ruling, and reject
the 2018 decision by the U.S. Depart-
ment of the Interior. Most per-
niciously, it is a special deal for a sin-
gle Tribe, and that is just wrong.
I stand here in opposition to this bill
not only because of the impact on my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.040 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3820 May 15, 2019
State, and not because I am unsympa-
thetic to the challenges the Tribe
faces, but this legislation will continue
their exploitation by a powerful foreign
entity.
I urge my colleagues to defeat this
bill, and I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman from Rhode Island so
that we may have a quick colloquy.
As the gentleman made mention, it
was locals in Taunton that actually
sued; is that true?
Mr. CICILLINE. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. GOSAR. I yield to the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
Mr. CICILLINE. Yes.
Mr. GOSAR. Does the gentleman
think that the court in which they
sued had any of the information
skewed in front of it, in front of their
jurisdiction?
Mr. CICILLINE. I am not aware of
the information they had.
Mr. GOSAR. All this information
that we are hearing, that is myth
versus fact; is that true?
Mr. CICILLINE. Again, I don’t know
about the legal proceedings. I know
that the litigation was begun by the
people in the local community.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for engaging in the col-
loquy, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume to
address a point that was brought up
during the debate on this bill, that the
Mashpee Tribe will not lose its Federal
recognition if H.R. 312 does not pass.
That is true. We have never stated the
Federal recognition was in jeopardy.
What we are talking about, which is
fundamental to the survival of the
Tribe, is destroying a Tribe’s sovereign
government. That is really what is at
stake.
Mr. Speaker, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
Massachusetts (Mr. KENNEDY), another
sponsor of this legislation.
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the chairman for moving this critical
piece of legislation forward and for
shepherding it to the House floor
today.
I thank my colleague and friend,
Congressman KEATING, for his advo-
cacy on behalf of the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe, which calls both of
our districts home.
Nearly four centuries ago, the Mash-
pee Wampanoag Tribe opened their
homes and their lands to the Pilgrims
who sailed to our shores. That same
welcoming spirit survives in their an-
cestors who live in Massachusetts
today.
That is why I am proud to have the
Wampanoag people call my district
their home. They have planted their
roots deeply in Massachusetts, and
they see a future of self-determination
and prosperity in the city of Taunton.
But I am ashamed of how our Nation
has treated them in the 398 years since
they shared their precious resources
with those strangers, not to mention
the generations before them that called
the region home for nearly 12,000 years.
I am ashamed of how our Nation has
treated many Native people through-
out our history and how we have taken
their land, silenced their voices,
poisoned their water, and disrupted
their culture. We have dismissed their
very humanity.
It is that shame that leaves us here
today with a decision to make. Today,
as this House debates this bill, the
Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe is on the
verge of dissolution. An unjust Su-
preme Court decision, followed by a re-
versal by the Department of the Inte-
rior to take the Tribe’s land into trust,
has left the Tribe with no other op-
tions. They are without access to crit-
ical Federal funds to support their pub-
lic services, including health centers
and schools.
The question today is, do we allow
this to become a closing chapter in the
story of an indigenous people who put
their faith and trust into strangers? Do
we allow a legal loophole to define
American citizens out of existence?
Or do we begin to right the wrongs of
our past? Do we begin to march down a
path of justice and equality and hope
for the Native people whose dreams for
this country outlive our very democ-
racy?
To me, that choice is simple. It is a
matter of right and wrong, of cor-
recting a historical injustice that has
perpetrated for far too long. It would
simply put the Mashpee Tribe on equal
footing with all other federally recog-
nized Native American Tribes.
I want to take a minute, Mr. Speak-
er, to rebut some of the arguments
made by our colleagues.
One, that this is an off-reservation
development: There is no reservation.
There is nothing to be off-reservation.
I cannot imagine that the argument
actually is that, for a Tribe that called
thousands of acres home, you are going
to say they can only represent one
small portion of that and not have two
facilities. That can’t possibly be how
the U.S. Government is dictating what
Tribal lands can be today of an area
they called home for 12,000 years.
Two, my colleagues argued that this
overrules a court decision. The last
time I checked, that is what Congress
does. We write laws. The courts inter-
pret them. They strike down laws all
the time. We write them again. That is
in the Constitution. That is inherent in
our responsibilities, in our obligation.
The actual court decision, if you read
it, indicates that Congress has the in-
herent power to do exactly what we are
doing, 100 percent.
Three, our colleagues referenced the
Gun Lake decision and the Gun Lake
legislation. Gun Lake was a response
to a decision by the Supreme Court as
well, 100 percent.
We have heard allegations of lobby-
ists. The lobbyist for our colleagues in
Rhode Island for their casinos is mar-
ried to a communications official in
the White House. You can’t possibly be
saying that there is some issue here
with Federal lobbying that is not di-
rectly and 100 percent in line with lin-
ing their own pockets for the opposi-
tion to this bill.
They said that the Tribe is about to
go bankrupt. The Tribe is about to go
bankrupt, but all of a sudden, the Tribe
doesn’t owe the financiers money.
Which one is it?
Next, Federal benefits, they are say-
ing that all the Federal benefits will
remain. That ignores the Federal bene-
fits that come with Federal recognition
of reservations: the Indian Business
Development Program, Financial As-
sistance and Social Services, employ-
ment assistance for adult Indians, vo-
cational training for adult Indians,
educational contracts under the John-
son-O’Malley Act, food distribution
programs on the Indian reservation,
Tribal transportation programs, Bu-
reau of Justice Assistance Tribal jus-
tice system grants, treatment as a
State under the Clean Water Act,
treatment as a State under the Clean
Air Act, exercise of Special Domestic
Violence Criminal Jurisdiction. All of
those are contingent on this bill today.
A dangerous precedent is going to be
set. The dangerous precedent that is
going to be set is that Massachusetts
residents legalized gambling. The Tribe
went through a compact with the State
that was approved. They went through
a referendum with the people of Taun-
ton that was approved nearly 60–40 that
townspeople in Taunton want this bill.
They want this development.
It is a billion dollars for a working-
class community. The folks who don’t
are, yes, a few residents of that com-
munity whose lawsuit has been fi-
nanced by a rival casino developer to
end this project so they can build a dif-
ferent one down the road.
They say that this is too close to the
Rhode Island border. There is an exist-
ing casino in Rhode Island that re-
cently started 500 yards from the Mas-
sachusetts border. You cannot be seri-
ous about this.
There is no argument, other than
greed, that comes back to why anyone
should vote against this bill. This is
about the recognition of a sovereign
nation that welcomed strangers to
their land 400 years ago and helped us
celebrate our first Thanksgiving, and
the ability of our Federal Government
to recognize them for who they are. If
nothing else, this Tribe deserves that.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Rhode
Island (Mr. LANGEVIN).
Mr. LANGEVIN. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, and
I hope that I won’t take the whole 3
minutes.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong opposi-
tion to H.R. 312, the Mashpee
Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffir-
mation Act.
This bill will have enormous impacts
on my home State of Rhode Island. The
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.042 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3821
May 15, 2019
intent of this bill is to allow for the
construction of a new casino resort
near the State line between Rhode Is-
land and Massachusetts, which would
rival the existing casinos in our State.
The Twin River Casino Hotel and the
Tiverton Casino Hotel of Rhode Island
generate $300 million each year, rep-
resenting the State’s third largest
source of funding. These dollars sup-
port vital education and infrastructure
programs in Rhode Island. Rhode Is-
land would suffer tremendously if H.R.
312 became law.
Beyond the economic damage that
would occur to Rhode Island, the prece-
dent that would be set by this bill is
fundamentally unfair. The bill would
overturn a 2018 decision by the U.S. De-
partment of the Interior, and it would
reverse a 2016 ruling by the U.S. Dis-
trict Court for the District of Massa-
chusetts.
If Congress grants the Mashpee Tribe
this exception, then other Native
American Tribes would seek individual
relief. Congress would be creating an
unbalanced patchwork process for
Tribes to put land into trust. Such a
system would be based on lobbying, not
on firm principles or deliberative rule-
making.
b 1500
The process to take Tribal lands into
trust is complex and requires careful
consideration of the interests of our in-
digenous peoples in conjunction with
local communities. We know this com-
plexity firsthand in Rhode Island, as
the Supreme Court decision Carcieri v.
Salazar directly concerned our State.
But the solution is to create a uni-
form standard for the whole country,
not a haphazard process wherein Con-
gress chooses winners and losers,
again, based on lobbying. This is why I
urge my colleagues to oppose this bill.
The bill creates evident harms to our
State revenues in Rhode Island, but it
also represents a slipshod way of ad-
dressing the very real issues of how
Tribes have land taken into trust.
My friends in the Massachusetts dele-
gation insist that this issue be handled
with alacrity. I respectfully disagree.
The urgency they express is grounded
in the dollars and cents of gaming de-
velopment, money loaned on the prom-
ise of casino riches. Those loans may
have been imprudently granted, but we
cannot allow imprudent financial deal-
ings to force our hand.
Rather than rush a Tribe-specific
loophole, I ask my colleagues to vote
‘‘no’’ on H.R. 312 and to, instead, up-
date the Indian Reorganization Act to
make this process more transparent
and fair. Mr. Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no.’’
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, may I
inquire as to how much time is remain-
ing.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. GRIJALVA)
has 10 minutes remaining. The gen-
tleman from Arizona (Mr. GOSAR) has
15 minutes remaining.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Mas-
sachusetts (Mr. KEATING).
Mr. KEATING. Mr. Speaker, I have
been around here a little while, and I
have never heard so many people from
Arizona really concerned about any-
thing that is going on in Rhode Island.
For that matter, I haven’t heard many
people in Rhode Island that concerned
about what is happening in Massachu-
setts.
But this is what it is about, I guess.
It is not what it is about to me. It is
not what it is about to our cosponsors.
I know it is not what it is about to Mr.
KENNEDY. I know it is not what it is
about to the chairman of this com-
mittee.
I am puzzled. People are saying this
is a circumvention dealing with gam-
ing. This bill isn’t about gaming. Let
me bring it back into focus, but let me
just address one thing first.
I am puzzled because this Tribe went
through the State process. This wasn’t
a circumvention. They went through
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts’
process for deciding gaming institu-
tions. The State decided this. Congress
isn’t deciding this. The Commonwealth
of Massachusetts decided this. They
created an area in southeastern Massa-
chusetts along with two other areas in
the State where this would be located.
So I have got news for the people in
Rhode Island: They can do their best to
kill this bill and destroy this Tribe, but
it is still going to get a casino because
the State of Massachusetts said so.
So now that I am through just point-
ing out what this bill isn’t about, let
me just make the last point about
what it is about.
It is about justice. It is about doing
the right thing. It is about taking a
Tribe that, through its whole history,
has lost all of its land even though it
did occupy that land where it is in
Taunton, where it occupies it now.
This is about doing the right thing,
and it is a disgrace in this Congress
that politics, special interests, lob-
bying, and conflicts have taken over
this debate. Let’s do the right thing.
This is part of our history. We wouldn’t
be here where we are without this
Tribe. Let’s respect that. Let’s pass
this bill.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, the rhetoric coming
from the other side is hot and heavy
like I don’t know what I am talking
about with Native American Tribes
when I have lived my whole life in as-
sociation with Tribes. So let’s get
through some of the false myths that
are out here that continually are being
talked about.
Now, the myth is that Congress has
done this for other Tribes, i.e, we have
heard about the Gun Lake Tribe.
Fact: That is false. This will be the
first time, as my colleague from Rhode
Island said, that Congress would over-
turn a Federal Court decision where
the court ruled that the Tribe did not
meet the Federal standard to have land
taken into trust, a State-recognized
Tribe.
Myth: The Tribe is facing extinction
unless Congress acts.
That would be false. The Mashpee
Tribe will not lose its Federal recogni-
tion and will continue to receive Fed-
eral benefits and funding even if H.R.
312 does not pass. Further, if this is not
solely about a casino, then my amend-
ment should have been considered and
adopted in committee. The amendment
was a compromise that would have se-
cured a reservation for the Mashpee for
all purposes but not gaming.
Myth number three: H.R. 312 is not a
casino giveaway nor a case of reserva-
tion shopping.
Fact: It is both. There is no reason
for the second reservation other than
to build an off-reservation casino 50
miles away from where the Mashpee
Tribe currently resides. If this weren’t
solely about a casino, then my amend-
ment would have also been adopted in
committee.
Myth: The two tracts of land in the
town of Mashpee and the city of Taun-
ton both are sites within the Tribal
historical territories. My colleague
from Massachusetts actually alluded to
this.
That would be false. The Mashpee
Tribe will build a massive, 400,000-
square-foot, off-reservation casino
away from their Tribal land on the bor-
der. That would be Taunton, Rhode Is-
land.
In 1988, Congress passed the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act with the in-
tent to restrict casinos to Tribes’ origi-
nal reservations. By placing land in
trust for gaming in Taunton 50 miles
away from the Tribe’s historic reserva-
tion—he also brought that point up,
that it wasn’t their traditional land—
what Congress intended in the Gaming
Regulatory Act would be severely
harmed.
Myth: This bill has nothing to do
with approving a specific casino
project.
Fact: We actually heard it again
from the other side. If that were the
case, then my amendment would have
been made in order and received votes
or deemed adopted at the committee
level. The amendment would have se-
cured a reservation for the Mashpee
Tribe for any nongaming purposes.
These may include, but not be lim-
ited to, the construction and operation
of Tribal government facilities and in-
frastructure, housing, a hospital, a
school and library, a museum, a com-
munity center, assisted living for Trib-
al elders, business development, nat-
ural resources management, the
Tribe’s exercising its government juris-
diction over Tribal members, and many
other Tribal uses.
The next myth is that H.R. 312 is not
a bailout.
H.R. 312 is not a bailout? In fact, the
Malaysian hedge fund, Genting Malay-
sia, that is underwriting the casino—
yes, underwriting this casino.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.044 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3822 May 15, 2019
The Mashpee Tribe will not receive a
penny of revenue from the casino for
many years, if ever, because of the
massive size of the $500 million-plus
debt they have incurred to Genting.
Genting, therefore, will be the real
owner of the project, not the Tribe.
This kind of arrangement where the
creditor practically controls the finan-
cial future of a debtor Tribe is contrary
to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act,
which requires every Tribal casino to
be 100 percent tribally owned.
The last myth: The Mashpee Tribe
will go bankrupt if H.R. 312 does not
pass.
Fact: The Mashpee Tribe will only be
required to repay its debt to the Ma-
laysian company underwriting the deal
if H.R. 312 is enacted and the casino is
approved.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Kansas (Ms. DAVIDS).
Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today in support of this bill. I
have heard a lot of rhetoric today
about the role of Congress and the role
of the administration in recognizing or
not recognizing Tribal lands, Tribal
governments, reservations, and the
ability of Tribes to participate in what-
ever kind of economic development
they so desire.
I have also heard a lot of talk and
discussion. I am pleased to hear talk
and discussion on this House floor
about the need to make sure that
Tribes are recognized, that Tribal sov-
ereignty is recognized, and that this
government needs to do right by Na-
tive people and indigenous people to
this land.
But the basis for support of this bill
today is not necessarily rooted in
whether or not we are doing the ‘‘right
thing.’’ Congress has a duty to properly
exercise our plenary power over inter-
actions with Tribal people and with
Tribal governments. The Constitution
gives Congress plenary power over
interactions with Indian Tribes. What
is at stake here today is how Congress
and the Federal Government are going
to continue to interact with Indian
Tribes.
Tribes don’t need Congress Members’
sympathy. What Tribes need is for us
to properly exercise our duty. This bill
does that. This bill exercises Congress’
proper power to recognize a Tribe, to
recognize Tribal reservation lands, and
it has nothing to do with what happens
afterwards.
This bill wouldn’t abrogate or alter
the application of the Indian Gaming
Regulatory Act or any other piece of
legislation. This bill would simply do
exactly what Congress’ job is to do:
recognize the Federal-Tribal relation-
ship that exists and the Tribal lands
that are properly held in trust and
should be held in trust for an Indian
Tribe. That is what we are doing right
now.
All the talk and discussion about
other pieces of legislation that might
be called into question after this bill is
passed should be debated later. That
has nothing to do with what this spe-
cific bill applies to.
Our role here is very simple. We have
got to recognize the Mashpee Tribe’s
reservation. We have got to recognize
their sovereignty and their self-deter-
mination.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I just want to address
Congress’ intent, under article I, sec-
tion 8.
As I said before, the Mashpee reserva-
tion of the city of Mashpee is not of
consequence. It is the area outside of
their previous homeland of Taunton
that is of discussion. That is only the
aspect here. What has happened here is
the bypassing of protocol and law that
actually causes the problem.
So let me give you a little bit of
background about why I have this
problem.
We had seen previous abuse in the
past where the off-reservation land was
taken in a trust against the will of
States, compacts, and local commu-
nities for the sole purpose of building
new casinos.
This was certainly the case of the
Tohono O’odham Nation right in Ari-
zona when they acted against the fel-
low Tribes, the State of Arizona, and
the general public to open an off-res-
ervation casino in Glendale, despite
agreeing to a voter-approved compact
not to build any more casinos in the
Phoenix metro area until the compact
was renegotiated. Litigation discovery
and audio recordings affirm this
shameful conspiracy implemented by
the Tohono O’odham.
I am concerned that this bill as writ-
ten will encourage future abuse in that
regard and allow for more off-reserva-
tion casinos to be built against the ob-
jections of local communities.
Furthermore, there is no CBO score
for this bill. There is no committee re-
port that I have seen. We are pushing
this bill through that has no chance of
being signed into law without amend-
ment and without knowing the full
ramifications of this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time to close.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Let’s go back to some more of the
myths.
The Mashpee Tribe will lose its Fed-
eral recognition and benefits if H.R. 312
does not pass.
Once again, that is false. The Mash-
pee Tribe will not lose its Federal rec-
ognition and will continue to receive
Federal benefits and funding even if
H.R. 312 does not pass.
Here is the next myth. It was the in-
tent of Congress for all Tribes to have
land and trust under the IRA of 1934 re-
gardless of when the Tribes obtained
Federal recognition.
Fact: That is not what the Supreme
Court said in Carcieri v. Salazar. The
Supreme Court said that the Tribal as-
pect of the IRA of 1934 does not author-
ize the Secretary of the Interior to
place land in trust for Tribes that were
not under Federal jurisdiction on the
date of enactment of IRA, or 1934.
Fact: There is no evidence that Con-
gress, in 1934, thought that off-reserva-
tion gaming would turn into the con-
troversial mess it has become today.
Myth: After a Federal judge struck
down the Obama administration’s sec-
ond definition of Indian analysis, the
Trump administration chose not to de-
fend the decision.
Fact: The Trump administration
chose not to defend the decision be-
cause the judge said it was ‘‘not even
close,’’ and the Obama administration
had not used this analysis in any other
Tribe’s trust land case. It was used
once only for the Mashpee. The Court
remanded the matter back to Interior
for an examination under the same
‘‘first definition of Indian’’ analysis
used for all other Tribes.
In applying the Obama administra-
tion’s analysis used for all other
Tribes, the Trump administration de-
termined the Mashpee did not qualify,
and yet Tribes blame the Trump ad-
ministration for something the Obama
administration could have done years
ago but chose not to.
b 1515
Could the fate of a billion-dollar ca-
sino be the reason why the Obama ad-
ministration bent the rules? I wonder.
H.R. 312 doesn’t amend the IRA. It
doesn’t amend any law. Rather, H.R.
312 declares the Obama action struck
down by the U.S. district court to be
lawful and proper. The bill also orders
the court to dismiss the lawsuit con-
cerning the casino property and to pro-
hibit the filing of any future lawsuit
over it.
Mr. Speaker, we constantly see over
and over again, the problem with H.R.
312 is it is once again being rushed to
the floor.
I want to reference a letter from
Eagle Forum and highlight, basically,
their reservations.
‘‘This bill is a deceptive plan to un-
dermine the Federal Government’s de-
cision to deny the Mashpee Tribe land
for a new casino. The Mashpee Tribe
has previously engaged in questionable
financial and lobbying dealings. They
are currently $450 billion in debt to
Genting, a foreign Malaysian gaming
company, because of this project.
‘‘The Tribe has no way of paying the
company back, which means Genting
will be the true owner of this project.
Taxpayers should not be responsible for
the bailout of their irresponsible deal-
ings.’’
Down further it goes:
‘‘Just the issue of gambling alone has
been devastating to families across the
United States, especially among Native
Americans.’’
Further down it goes:
‘‘For these reasons, we urge you to
vote ‘no’ on H.R. 312, Mashpee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.046 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3823
May 15, 2019
Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffir-
mation Act.’’
I also want to reference Americans
for Limited Government:
‘‘The House of Representatives
should reject H.R. 312, the Senator
ELIZABETH WARREN-led attempt to
punch piecemeal holes through the In-
dian Gaming Regulatory Act. This
isn’t about the ability of Tribes using
land that is part of their long-estab-
lished heritage for casino development,
but, instead, it is about whether Con-
gress should place gambling institu-
tions on unrelated land based upon
proximity to urban areas.
‘‘If Senator WARREN and her bene-
factors wish to change the Indian gam-
ing laws, they should introduce whole-
sale reforms rather than turning the
existing law into Swiss cheese for noth-
ing more than investor pecuniary in-
terests.
‘‘Rick Manning, President, Ameri-
cans for Limited Government.’’
We actually have our opposition to
312:
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on 312,
the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation
Reaffirmation Act, when it comes before the
House today.
H.R. 312 is contrary to the view of the De-
partment of the Interior, contradicts a Su-
preme Court decision, and aims to reverse
Federal court decisions on this matter in
order to build a massive, 400,000-square-foot,
off-reservation gaming complex for the ben-
efit of Genting, a foreign Malaysian gaming
company.
The bill forever strips the Federal Govern-
ment of its jurisdictions over this Tribal ca-
sino and overturns a well-reasoned decision
from a Federal judge.
H.R. 312 also provides a massive tax shelter
for Genting by shielding the land—and the
casino on it—from taxation and State regu-
lation.
The bill creates two reservations for the
Mashpee Tribe of Massachusetts, one res-
ervation which we have no problem with, in
the town of Mashpee, the Tribe’s historic
reservation lands. No casino will be allowed
within the geographical boundaries of the
town of Mashpee.
The other reservation will be 50 miles away
from Mashpee in the city of Taunton. This
site is not part of the Tribe’s historic res-
ervation and was selected by the Tribe and
Genting for a billion-dollar casino project
because of its proximity to the Providence,
Rhode Island, casino market, 20 miles away.
In 1988, Congress enacted the Indian Gam-
ing Regulatory Act with the intent to re-
strict casinos to Tribes’ original reserva-
tions.
By placing land in trust for gaming in
Taunton, H.R. 312 creates an off-reservation
casino, which is inconsistent with congres-
sional intent. This is often called ‘‘reserva-
tion shopping,’’ and it is an abuse of the In-
dian Gaming Regulatory Act.
The Tribe’s lawyers knew that reservation
shopping was a political headache, so they
went to the previous administration to ob-
tain the two reservations through adminis-
trative action.
Once again, the Federal judge, however,
ruled that what the previous administration
did was unlawful, so now they need legisla-
tion to authorize this off-reservation casino.
The bill was opposed by 10 of the 13 voting
Republicans in the committee markup.
Ranking Member Rob Bishop was one of
those. These Members are joined by Ameri-
cans for Limited Government, the American
Principles Project, the Coalition for Amer-
ican Values, Eagle Forum, the Governor of
Rhode Island, Wampanoag Tribe of Gay
Head, Congressman David Cicilline, Con-
gressman James Langevin, and President
Donald Trump in opposing this bill.
President Trump tweeted that he opposed
the bill and urged Members of Congress to do
the same last week. House Minority Whip
Steve Scalise also sent an email recom-
mending Members vote ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 312.
The bill is also strenuously opposed by the
only other Federally-recognized Tribe in
Massachusetts.
All of this opposition was enough to have
the bill pulled from consideration by the
House of Representatives under the suspen-
sion of the rules procedures one week after it
was considered in committee with no bill re-
port or score—actually, there was a bill re-
port but no score from the Congressional
Budgetary Office.
Now, the Democrat leadership is using a
closed rule and not allowing any amend-
ments to get this controversial bill out of
the House of Representatives. Given that
H.R. 312 authorizes an off-reservation casino,
bails out a foreign corporation from major
financial problems of its own making, and
reverses the judgment of a Federal court and
contradicts Interior and Supreme Court deci-
sions, it is no wonder that the majority had
to resort to these drastic measures.
I urge everyone to vote ‘‘no’’ and to oppose
this bill that sets a dangerous precedent that
will open the floodgates to off-reservation
Tribal casinos all over the United States if
enacted into law.
Once again, I want to reiterate, if
you have a problem with the Indian
Gaming Regulatory Act, let’s do the
wholesale changes on a massive scale,
not do it one piece at a time, one Tribe
at a time, not allowing lawful actions
to occur.
So, I ask all my colleagues to vote
‘‘no’’ against this bill. Send a clear
message that we have got to follow the
law or change it wholesale for every-
body.
Mr. Speaker, I ask a ‘‘no’’ vote from
my colleagues, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. GRIJALVA. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Upholding the establishment of Trib-
al homelands should be, and is, one of
the most important actions that this
Congress can take. It is not just about
tax-exempt status or economic devel-
opment, both of which are vitally im-
portant to Tribal communities.
It is also about the construction of
schools, housing, clinics, elder care fa-
cilities, things that are extremely vital
to the quality of life and well-being of
Tribal members.
It is also about recognizing a Tribe’s
historical, cultural, and spiritual con-
nection.
It is not about protecting a market
share. It is not about the tweets from
the President. It is not about the scare
tactics and hysteria of off-reservation
gaming that is constantly used in try-
ing to fight the self-determination and
the ability of Tribes to take care of
themselves.
And it is about identity.
I want to just follow up on the gen-
tlewoman from Kansas’ comment. To
ensure Tribal sovereignty and self-gov-
ernance, land is critical to the connec-
tion of people to their land. And the
real-world decisions that we are mak-
ing have real consequences.
To strip people of their land is to
strip them of their identity, to strip
them of their self-governance and their
self-determination. It is a sad state
that, nearly 400 years later, the Mash-
pee still have to fight for land that is
rightfully theirs.
But we can remedy that today.
I want to thank our colleagues Mr.
KEATING and Mr. KENNEDY, as well as
the entire Massachusetts delegation,
for spearheading this effort to save the
Mashpee’s land, preserve their way of
life, and reestablish and not allow a
precedent to stand where trust land
that was given is taken away.
This is an important piece of legisla-
tion with implications across Indian
Country.
Mr. Speaker, I urge the swift adop-
tion of H.R. 312, and I yield back the
remainder of my time.
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I include in the
RECORD the following letter from the
Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head Aquinnah ex-
pressing their concerns about this legislation.
I want to reiterate that I support this legisla-
tion. However, I believe it is important that the
concerns of this sister tribe be included in this
debate.
WAMPANOAG TRIBE OF
GAY HEAD AQUINNAH,
Aquinnah, MA.
To: The United States House of Representa-
tives, Honorable Representatives
From: Chairwoman Cheryl Andrews-Maltais,
The Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head
Aquinnah (The Aquinnah Wampanoag)
Date: May 15, 2019
Re: H.R. 312
THE WAMPANOAG TRIBE OF GAY HEAD
AQUINNAH (AQUINNAH WAMPANOAG TRIBE)
STRENUOUSLY OPPOSES H.R. 312, MASHPEE
WAMPANOAG TRIBE RESERVATION REAFFIR-
MATION ACT
The Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head
Aquinnah (Aquinnah Wampanoag) strenu-
ously opposes the above referenced Bill due
to the fact that it creates two classes of
Tribes within the same Wampanoag Tribal
Nation.
H.R. 312 unfairly provides a pathway for
economic development for one Tribe (the
Mashpee Wampanoag) while simultaneously
creating an obstruction to the other
Wampanoag Tribe (the Aquinnah
Wampanoag) whose Tribal community also
lives within the same shared Ancestral terri-
tory of the Wampanoag Nation.
The Bill sets forth a pathway for one Tribe
(the Mashpee) to acquire lands in trust out-
side of its original homeland ‘‘village site’’
of the Town of Mashpee and does not provide
the same opportunity for the other Tribe
(the Aquinnah).
H.R. 312 also removes all clouds of the ap-
plicability of the Indian Reorganization Act
(as Amended), and all other laws enacted for
the benefit of Federally Recognized Tribes
for one Tribe (the Mashpee) and not for the
Aquinnah who is of the same Wampanoag
Nation and who was federally recognized 25
years earlier.
The Bill provides a remedy to the Depart-
ment of the Interior’s (DOI’s) egregious de-
termination that the Wampanoag are not eli-
gible to have lands taken into trust for one
Tribe (the Mashpee Wampanoag), while
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.048 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3824 May 15, 2019
omitting the other Wampanoag Tribe (the
Aquinnah Wampanoag) from this remedy
from which the Aquinnah Wampanoag are
also suffering.
The Aquinnah Wampanoag would support
this Bill, H.R. 312 if included as part of ‘‘and
for other purposes’’. The simple request is
for a simple amendment to create fairness,
equity and parity for both Wampanoag
Tribes within Massachusetts.
SEC. (d) REAFFIRMATION OF INDIAN TRUST
LAND TO ALSO INCLUDE THE
WAMPANOAG TRIBE OF GAY HEAD
AQUINNAH (THE AQUINNAH
WAMPANOAG)
(a) IN GENERAL.—The taking of any land
into trust by the United States for the ben-
efit of the Wampanoag Tribe of Gay Head
Aquinnah of Massachusetts is reaffirmed as
trust land and the actions of the Secretary
of the Interior in taking that land into trust
are ratified and confirmed.
(b) APPLICABILITY OF LAWS.—All laws (in-
cluding regulations) of the United States of
general applicability to Indians or nations,
Indian Tribes, or bands of Indians (including
the Act of June 18, 1934 (25 U.S.C. 51O1 et
seq.)), shall be applicable to the Wampanoag
Tribe of Gay Head Aquinnah and its Tribal
members.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 377,
the previous question is ordered on the
bill, as amended.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. GOSAR. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on passage of the bill will
be followed by 5-minute votes on:
The motion to suspend the rules and
pass H.R. 375; and
The motion to suspend the rules and
pass H.R. 1892.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 275, nays
146, not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 207]
YEAS—275
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moolenaar
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Walorski
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
NAYS—146
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cicilline
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamborn
Langevin
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
McCarthy
McCaul
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Mooney (WV)
Norman
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rose, John W.
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Waltz
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Abraham
Brooks (IN)
Cleaver
Cummings
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
Pence
Roby
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
b 1555
Mr. MARSHALL changed his vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. BERGMAN, AUSTIN SCOTT
of Georgia, SMITH of Washington,
HORSFORD, BABIN, and MASSIE
changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to
‘‘yea.’’
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REAFFIRMING AUTHORITY OF
SECRETARY OF INTERIOR TO
TAKE LAND INTO TRUST FOR IN-
DIAN TRIBES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 375) to amend the Act of June
18, 1934, to reaffirm the authority of
the Secretary of the Interior to take
land into trust for Indian Tribes, and
for other purposes, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Arizona (Mr. GRI-
JALVA) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 323, nays 96,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 208]
YEAS—323
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Clyburn
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.026 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3825
May 15, 2019
Cohen
Cole
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Fortenberry
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Granger
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hastings
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Tipton
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Yarmuth
Young
NAYS—96
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Arrington
Banks
Biggs
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cicilline
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Courtney
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DeLauro
DesJarlais
Duncan
Estes
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Guthrie
Hartzler
Hayes
Hice (GA)
Himes
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (OH)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Langevin
Latta
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Marchant
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Norman
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Perry
Posey
Riggleman
Rose, John W.
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (NE)
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Timmons
Titus
Walker
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—12
Abraham
Brady
Brooks (IN)
Cleaver
Cummings
Diaz-Balart
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
Pence
Roby
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
b 1603
Ms. GRANGER changed her vote
from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
QUADRENNIAL HOMELAND SECU-
RITY REVIEW TECHNICAL COR-
RECTIONS ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 1892) to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to make technical
corrections to the requirement that
the Secretary of Homeland Security
submit quadrennial homeland security
reviews, and for other purposes, on
which the yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico
(Ms. TORRES SMALL) that the House
suspend the rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 415, nays 0,
not voting 16, as follows:
[Roll No. 209]
YEAS—415
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McClintock
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.023 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3826 May 15, 2019
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—16
Abraham
Brooks (IN)
Cleaver
Cline
Cummings
Doggett
Ferguson
Gohmert
Higgins (LA)
Johnson (LA)
McCaul
Pence
Roby
Rutherford
Ryan
Swalwell (CA)
b 1613
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
b 1615
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that the Committee on
the Judiciary be discharged from fur-
ther consideration of H.R. 962, the
Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protec-
tion Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. CLOUD. Mr. Speaker, if this
unanimous consent cannot be enter-
tained, I urge the Speaker and the ma-
jority leader to immediately schedule
the Born-Alive bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not been recognized for de-
bate.
f
REPORT ON H.R. 2745, MILITARY
CONSTRUCTION AND VETERANS
AFFAIRS AND RELATED AGEN-
CIES APPROPRIATIONS BILL, 2020
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, from
the Committee on Appropriations, sub-
mitted a privileged report (Rept. No.
116–63) on the bill (H.R. 2745) making
appropriations for military construc-
tion, the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, and related agencies for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes, which was referred to
the Union Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1, rule XXI, all points of
order are reserved on the bill.
f
EXPAND HEALTHCARE ACCESS
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, the
contrast between Republicans and
Democrats on the issue of healthcare
could not be any clearer.
Why do Republicans in the Trump ad-
ministration want to make Americans
sick again?
They want to eliminate protections
for people with preexisting conditions.
They want to take us backward.
Democrats, on the other hand, want
to make America healthy.
We want to expand healthcare access.
We want to strengthen the Affordable
Care Act, and we want to make sure
that people with preexisting conditions
are not denied insurance coverage.
Madam Speaker, more than 200,000
people in New Jersey who purchased
their insurance through the Affordable
Care Act marketplace have preexisting
conditions. That is why H.R. 986, the
Protecting Americans with Preexisting
Conditions Act, is so important.
It would block the Trump adminis-
tration’s efforts to weaken the Afford-
able Care Act’s protections for pre-
existing conditions, because there is no
going back to healthcare discrimina-
tion.
f
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK 2019
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize this
week, May 12 through 18, as National
Police Week 2019.
It is a privilege to take time this
week to remember and honor our Fed-
eral, State, and local law enforcement
officers who courageously defend
American citizens and protect our com-
munities.
They selflessly put their lives on the
line to ensure that this Nation is one of
safety and order.
Just this past week, in the First Con-
gressional District of Georgia, this re-
ality hit home when Sergeant Kelvin
Ansari passed away in the line of duty
while investigating a robbery.
Overall last year, 158 police officers
died in the line of duty across the
country.
As tens of thousands of police officers
gather this week in Washington, D.C.,
and other cities throughout America, I
hope that everyone will take some
time to thank these individuals who
work to keep us all safe.
To all of our police officers, thank
you for your service to our commu-
nities. God bless you.
f
TRUMP ADMINISTRATION AND
UKRAINE
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, how
does one define a traitor?
According to Merriam Webster, a
traitor is one who betrays another’s
trust or is false to an obligation or
duty.
How does one define a traitor to a
Nation?
By this definition, the Trump admin-
istration and some of its minions have
some explaining to do. While snub-
bing—and even offending—key U.S. al-
lies, the President and several of his
crew have cozied up with Russia time
after time.
This certainly doesn’t strike me as
dutiful.
Well, look at Paul Manafort, his cam-
paign manager, or Michael Flynn, who
have chosen to serve their Nation now
in Federal prison because of violating
the trust of the American people.
This blatant disregard of duty has
reached new lows. President Trump’s
personal lawyer, Rudy Giuliani, re-
cently announced a visit to Ukraine to
chase conspiracy theories.
This is a dangerous time for Ukraine.
Following a historic election, the Na-
tion is now undergoing a transition of
power in the face of Russian invasion.
The House of Representatives is
watching. The American people are
watching. Pay attention to traitors.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
TLAIB). Members are reminded to re-
frain from engaging in personalities to-
ward the President.
f
REBUILDING OUR NATION’S
CRUMBLING INFRASTRUCTURE
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in honor of Infrastructure Week,
a week to highlight the importance and
necessity of rebuilding our country’s
crumbling infrastructure, thus invest-
ing in our own future.
The American Society of Civil Engi-
neers gives U.S. infrastructure a ‘‘D
plus’’ with over 56,000 bridges consid-
ered structurally deficient, major air-
ports unable to keep up with the de-
mand and outdated water pipelines ex-
periencing an estimated 240,000 water
main breaks annually.
In fact, my own district in Central
Florida, one of the fastest growing in
America, is crisscrossed by Interstate
4, which has been deemed one of the
most dangerous highways in the entire
Nation.
The need to invest in highway im-
provements, auxiliary roads, public
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.027 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3827
May 15, 2019
transportation, and airports is pal-
pable.
As a member of the House Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure Committee,
upgrading infrastructure with 21st cen-
tury technology would benefit all
Americans, and can be done in a bipar-
tisan manner.
If we seek to sustain the economic
growth witnessed these last 2 years or
simply keep our citizenry safe, further
expansion of infrastructure hubs is nec-
essary, and we should no longer delay
in investing in our future. It is time to
build and time for Congress to get to
work.
f
HONORING THE KNIGHTS OF
COLUMBUS
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
from the moment of their founding in
1882, the Knights of Columbus have
made charity their first principle.
Their Liberty Council 1910, based at
the parish of the Holy Cross in Bridge-
ton, New Jersey, is made up of a di-
verse group of men of the Catholic
faith who are guided by the principles
of charity, unity, fraternity, but par-
ticularly, by charity.
A short list of the good works they
do includes: blood drives, planning and
implementing youth activities, paint-
ing the parking lines in their churches,
helping the homeless, advocating for
the most vulnerable in our society,
leading a diaper drive for new mothers
in need of assistance, and helping with
various fundraisers in the parish.
The Knights are committed to serv-
ing their parish, their community, and
their country, and they do it without
fanfare and without expecting thanks.
I want to thank the men of Liberty
Council 1910 and all the local councils
for their service to South Jersey, and
the National Organization for its serv-
ice to our great country, the United
States of America.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF BILL DUNLAP
(Mr. STIVERS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. STIVERS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor an outstanding con-
stituent of the 15th Congressional Dis-
trict, Mr. Bill Dunlap, as he retires
from his role as deputy director of the
Athens-Hocking-Vinton 317 Board.
Madam Speaker, it is not news that
we are facing a drug epidemic in this
country. Families from Ohio to Oregon
are torn apart by addiction, and we
can’t hope to overcome this crisis with-
out outstanding individuals on the
ground in each of those communities,
without people who are compassionate
and dedicated to their neighbors, with-
out people like Bill Dunlap.
I have had a chance to see Mr.
Dunlap’s work firsthand over the
years. We have collaborated on drug
task forces, and other community ini-
tiatives, and I can’t say enough about
his dedication and commitment to
combating the drug crisis.
I can say without a doubt, Athens,
Hocking and Vinton Counties—and
truly, all of southeastern Ohio—are
better and healthier places as a result
of his efforts.
Madam Speaker, I am incredibly
grateful for Bill’s service and his lead-
ership. I wish him the best in his next
chapter.
f
ENSURING RELIGIOUS LIBERTY
(Mr. LIPINSKI asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LIPINSKI. Madam Speaker, all
Americans deserve equal treatment
under the law and should have these
rights protected, including individuals
in the LGBT community.
They should be able to compete
equally for jobs, be assured equal op-
portunity in education, housing, finan-
cial, and judicial settings.
At the same time, the free exercise of
religious beliefs is a core ideal of our
country, protected in the Constitution
and through Federal law.
The Equality Act explicitly prevents
application of the Religious Freedom
Restoration Act, RFRA. This law was
passed nearly unanimously in 1993 by a
Democratic House, Senate, and White
House.
Congress has never passed a law that
shrinks or exempts itself from RFRA.
It is critical to ensuring that religious
freedom stands a chance of being fully
lived out and fairly treated in court.
This week, I will vote for the Equal-
ity Act for the broader goals. But be-
fore it becomes law, we must do more
to ensure religious liberty.
f
THE EQUALITY ACT ENDGAME
(Mr. FULCHER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. FULCHER. Madam Speaker, usu-
ally it is easy to identify the endgame
for bad policy.
Those who want open borders are
looking for more votes. Those who sup-
port things like the Green New Deal
want to eliminate fossil fuels and
American energy strength along with
it.
But here is the endgame for the
Equality Act, or H.R. 5. It would flip
our moral, social, legal, and religious
fabric of this Nation upside down.
By erasing the recognition of gender
from Federal law, the traditional fam-
ily, laws, religious beliefs, morality
and/or identity gets erased with it.
Madam Speaker, every man and
woman in this body are special, and
they should vote ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 5.
b 1630
THE MUELLER REPORT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from Illi-
nois (Ms. SCHAKOWSKY) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to lead a reading of parts
of the Mueller report, otherwise called
the ‘‘Report On The Investigation Into
Russian Interference In The 2016 Presi-
dential Election.’’ As I said, it is more
commonly known as the Mueller re-
port. It documents widespread and ef-
fective foreign intervention to target
voters and influence the outcome of
the 2016 election.
This operation, led by Russian
agents, was a direct attack on our de-
mocracy. The report has not been
taken seriously by the administration.
Even worse, it has been ignored for fear
it would somehow minimize President
Trump’s electoral college victory and
bruise his ego.
It is critical that we set the record
straight and work to address an ongo-
ing threat that Russia poses to our fu-
ture elections.
My fellow Members and I will be
reading excerpts taken directly from
the report, documenting the Russian
campaign to secure a Trump Presi-
dency.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I yield to the gentleman from Wash-
ington (Mr. HECK), to read his quote.
Mr. HECK. Madam Speaker, from
volume I, page 14, section 2, entitled:
‘‘Russian ‘Active Measures’ Social
Media Campaign,’’ it read as follows:
‘‘The IRA’’—which was a Russian
troll farm. ‘‘The IRA and its employees
began operations targeting the United
States as early as 2014. Using fictitious
U.S. personas, IRA employees operated
social media accounts and group pages
designed to attract U.S. audiences.
These groups and accounts, which ad-
dressed divisive U.S. political and so-
cial issues, falsely claimed to be con-
trolled by U.S. activists. Over time, the
social media accounts became a means
to reach large U.S. audiences. IRA em-
ployees traveled to the United States
in mid-2014 on an intelligence-gath-
ering mission to obtain information
and photographs for use in their social
media posts.’’
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman for coming.
I yield to the gentlewoman from Wis-
consin (Ms. MOORE) to read a quote
from the Mueller report.
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, of
course I am reading from volume I,
pages 22 through 24, inclusive.
‘‘Dozens of IRA employees were re-
sponsible for operating accounts and
personas on different U.S. social media
platforms. The IRA referred to employ-
ees assigned to operate the social
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.057 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3828 May 15, 2019
media accounts as ‘specialists.’ Start-
ing as early as 2014, the IRA’s U.S. op-
erations included social media special-
ists focusing on Facebook, YouTube,
and Twitter. The IRA later added spe-
cialists who operated on Tumblr and
Instagram accounts.
‘‘Initially, the IRA created social
media accounts that pretended to be
the personal accounts of U.S. persons.
By early 2015, the IRA began to create
larger social media groups, or public
social media pages that claimed (false-
ly) to be affiliated with the U.S. polit-
ical and grassroots organizations. In
certain cases, the IRA created accounts
that mimicked real U.S. organizations.
For example, one IRA-controlled Twit-
ter account, @TEN—GOP, purported to
be connected to the Tennessee Repub-
lican Party. More commonly, the IRA
created accounts in the name of ficti-
tious U.S. organizations and grassroots
groups and used these accounts to pose
as anti-immigration groups, Tea Party
activists, Black Lives Matter pro-
testers, and other U.S. social and polit-
ical activists.
‘‘The IRA closely monitored the ac-
tivity of the social media accounts—re-
dacted. By February 2016, internal IRA
documents referred to support for the
Trump campaign and opposition to
candidate Clinton. For example,—re-
dacted—directions to IRA operators—
redacted. ‘Main idea: Use any oppor-
tunity to criticize Hillary Clinton and
the rest, (except Sanders and Trump—
we support them)’—redacted.
‘‘The focus on the U.S. Presidential
campaign continued throughout 2016.
In—redacted—2016 internal—redacted—
reviewing the IRA-controlled Facebook
book ‘Secured Borders’ the author
criticized the ‘lower number of posts
dedicated to criticizing Hillary Clin-
ton’ and reminded the Facebook spe-
cialist, ‘it is imperative to intensify
criticizing Hillary Clinton.’ IRA em-
ployees also acknowledged that their
work focused on influencing the U.S.
Presidential election—redacted.’’
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentlewoman for reading.
Madam Speaker, I am going to read a
quote from the Mueller reporter deal-
ing with Russian interference.
‘‘The first form of Russian election
influence came principally from the
Internet Research Agency’’—and you
will hear this evening, over and over
again, the name IRA, and that is what
it is—‘‘the Internet Research Agency,
LLC (IRA), a Russian organization,
funded by Yevgeniy Viktorovich
Prigozhin and companies he controlled,
including Concord Management and
Consulting LLC and Concord Catering,
(collectively ‘Concord’). The IRA con-
ducted social media operations tar-
geted at large U.S. audiences with the
goal of sowing discord in the U.S. polit-
ical system. These operations con-
stituted ‘active measures’’’—and it is
translated into Russian—‘‘a term that
typically refers to operations con-
ducted by Russian security services
aimed at influencing the course of
international affairs.’’
That is volume I, page 14.
I am going the read one more, and
this is from volume I, pages 14 and 15.
‘‘By the end of the 2016 U.S. election,
the IRA’’—that is that Russian organi-
zation that has influenced the media in
the United States of America in our
elections—‘‘the IRA had the ability to
reach millions of U.S. persons through
their social media accounts. Multiple
IRA-controlled Facebook groups and
Instagram accounts had hundreds of
thousands of U.S. participants. IRA-
controlled Twitter accounts separately
had tens of thousands of followers, in-
cluding multiple U.S. political figures
who retweeted IRA-created content. In
November 2017, a Facebook representa-
tive testified that Facebook had identi-
fied 470 IRA-controlled Facebook ac-
counts that collectively made 80,000
posts between January 2015 and August
2017. Facebook estimated the IRA
reached as many as 126 million persons
through its Facebook accounts. In Jan-
uary 2018, Twitter announced that it
had identified 3,814 IRA-controlled
Twitter accounts and notified approxi-
mately 1.4 million people Twitter be-
lieved may have been in contact with
an IRA-controlled account.’’
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from Wisconsin (Ms. MOORE).
Ms. MOORE. ‘‘The IRA organized and
promoted political rallies inside the
United States while posing as U.S.
grassroots activists. First, the IRA
used one of its preexisting social media
personas (Facebook groups and Twitter
accounts, for example) to announce and
promote the event. The IRA then sent
a large number of direct messages to
followers of its social media account
asking them to attend the event. From
those who responded with interest in
attending, the IRA then sought a U.S.
person to serve as the event’s coordi-
nator. In most cases, the IRA account
operator would tell the U.S. person
that they personally could not attend
the event due to some preexisting con-
flict or because they were somewhere
else in the United States. The IRA then
further promoted the event by con-
tacting U.S. media about the event and
directing them to speak with the coor-
dinator. After the event, the IRA post-
ed videos and photographs of the event
to the IRA’s social media accounts.
‘‘The office identified dozens of U.S.
rallies organized by the IRA. The ear-
liest evidence of a rally was a ‘confed-
erate rally’ in November 2015. The IRA
continued to organize rallies, even
after the 2016 U.S. Presidential elec-
tion. The attendance at rallies varied.
Some rallies appear to have drawn few
(if any) participants, while others drew
hundreds. The reach and success of
these rallies was closely monitored—
redacted.’’
‘‘Redacted.’’
‘‘From June 2016 until the end of
Presidential campaign, almost all the
U.S. rallies organized by the IRA fo-
cused on the U.S. election, often pro-
moting the Trump campaign and op-
posing the Clinton campaign. Pro-
Trump rallies included three in New
York, a series of pro-Trump rallies in
Florida in August 2016, and a series of
pro-Trump rallies in October 2016 in
Pennsylvania. The Florida rallies drew
the attention of the Trump campaign,
which posted about the Miami rally on
candidate Trump’s Facebook account
(as discussed below).
‘‘Many of the same IRA employees
who oversaw the IRA’s social media ac-
counts also conducted the day-to-day
recruiting for political rallies inside
the United States.’’
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker,
let me just remind everyone that the
IRA stands for the organization that
coordinated all of the online activities
dealing with interference in the U.S.
election.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms. SPEIER)
to read a quote.
Ms. SPEIER. Madam Speaker, this is
from volume I, page 6.
‘‘Summer 2016. Russian outreach to
the Trump campaign continued into
the summer of 2016, as candidate
Trump was becoming the presumptive
Republican nominee for President. On
June 9, 2016, for example, a Russian
lawyer met with senior Trump cam-
paign officials Donald Trump, Jr.,
Jared Kushner, and campaign chair-
man Paul Manafort to deliver what the
email proposing the meeting had de-
scribed as ‘official documents and in-
formation that would incriminate Hil-
lary.’ ’’
b 1645
‘‘The materials were offered to
Trump Jr. as ‘part of Russia and its
government’s support for Mr. Trump.’
The written communications setting
up the meeting showed that the cam-
paign anticipated receiving informa-
tion from Russia that could assist can-
didate Trump’s electoral prospects, but
the Russian lawyer’s presentation did
not provide such information.’’
Testimony of Colin Stretch, the gen-
eral counsel of Facebook. This is in
volume I, page 15.
‘‘ ‘We estimate that roughly 29 mil-
lion people were served content in their
news feeds directly from the IRA’s,’’ ’
and that stands for the Internet Re-
search Agency’s, ‘‘ ‘80,000 posts over the
2 years.’ ’’
The IRA is the Russian organization
in which some 30 persons have been in-
dicted.
‘‘ ‘Posts from these pages were also
shared, liked, and followed by people
on Facebook, and, as a result, three
times more people may have been ex-
posed to a story that originated from
the Russian operation. Our best esti-
mate is that approximately 126 million
people may have been served content
from a page associated with the IRA at
some point during the 2-year period.’
‘‘The Facebook representative also
testified that Facebook had identified
170 Instagram accounts that posted ap-
proximately 120,000 pieces of content
during that time. Facebook did not
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.059 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3829
May 15, 2019
offer an estimate of the audience
reached via Instagram.’’
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Reading from
volume I, page 33.
‘‘The investigation identified two dif-
ferent forms of connections between
the IRA and members of the Trump
campaign. (The investigation identified
no similar connections between the
IRA and the Clinton campaign.) First,
on multiple occasions, members and
surrogates of the Trump campaign pro-
moted—typically by linking,
retweeting, or similar methods of re-
posting—pro-Trump or anti-Clinton
content published by the IRA through
IRA-controlled social media accounts.
Additionally, in a few instances, IRA
employees represented themselves as
U.S. persons to communicate with
members of the Trump campaign in an
effort to seek assistance and coordina-
tion on IRA-organized political rallies
inside the United States.’’
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from the great State of Wis-
consin (Ms. MOORE).
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I will
be reading now from volume I, page 36.
‘‘Beginning in March 2016, units of
the Russian Federation’s Main Intel-
ligence Directorate of the General
Staff (GRU) hacked the computers and
email accounts of organizations, em-
ployees, and volunteers supporting the
Clinton campaign, including the email
account of campaign chairman John
Podesta. Starting in April 2016, the
GRU hacked into the computer net-
works of the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee (DCCC) and the
Democratic National Committee
(DNC).
‘‘The GRU targeted hundreds of
email accounts used by Clinton cam-
paign employees, advisers, and volun-
teers. In total, the GRU stole hundreds
of thousands of documents from the
compromised email accounts and net-
works. The GRU later released stolen
Clinton campaign and DNC documents
through online personas, ‘DCLeaks’
and ‘Guccifer 2.0,’ and later through
the organization WikiLeaks. The re-
lease of the documents was designed
and timed to interfere with the 2016
U.S. Presidential election and under-
mine the Clinton campaign.
‘‘The Trump campaign showed inter-
est in the WikiLeaks releases and, in
the summer and fall of 2016—redacted.
After—redacted—WikiLeaks’ first Clin-
ton-related release—redacted—the
Trump campaign stayed in contact—re-
dacted—about WikiLeaks’ activities.
The investigation was unable to re-
solve—redacted—WikiLeaks’ release of
the stolen Podesta emails on October 7,
2016, the same day a video from years
earlier was published of Trump using
graphic language about women.’’
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Volume I, page
35.
‘‘Starting in June 2016, the IRA con-
tacted different U.S. persons affiliated
with the Trump campaign in an effort
to coordinate pro-Trump IRA-orga-
nized rallies inside the United States.
In all cases, the IRA contacted the
campaign while claiming to be U.S. po-
litical activists working on behalf of a
conservative grassroots organization.
The IRA’s contacts included requests
for signs and other materials to use at
rallies, as well as requests to promote
the rallies and help coordinate logis-
tics.
‘‘While certain campaign volunteers
agreed to provide the requested support
(for example, agreeing to set aside a
number of signs), the investigation has
not identified evidence that any Trump
campaign official understood the re-
quests were coming from foreign na-
tionals.’’
Volume I, page 35.
‘‘In sum, the investigation estab-
lished that Russia interfered in the 2016
Presidential election through the ‘ac-
tive measures’ social media campaign
carried out by the IRA, an organization
funded by Prigozhin and companies
that he controlled. As explained fur-
ther . . . the office concluded (and a
grand jury has alleged) that Prigozhin,
his companies, and IRA employees vio-
lated U.S. law through these oper-
ations, principally by undermining
through deceptive acts the work of
Federal agencies charged with regu-
lating foreign influence in the U.S.
elections.’’
That is also volume I, page 35.
Volume I, pages 42 and 43.
‘‘On June 14, 2016, the DNC and its
cyber-response team announced the
breach of the DNC network and sus-
pected theft of DNC documents. In the
statements, the cyber-response team
alleged that Russian state-sponsored
actors (which they referred to as
‘Fancy Bear’) were responsible for the
breach.
‘‘Apparently in response to that an-
nouncement, on June 15, 2016, GRU offi-
cers,’’ that is, the Russian spy agency
officers, ‘‘using the persona Guccifer
2.0 created a WordPress blog. In the
hours leading up to the launch of that
WordPress blog, GRU officers logged
into a Moscow-based server used and
managed by Unit 74455 and searched for
a number of specific words and phrases
in English, including ‘some hundred
sheets,’ ‘illuminati,’ and ‘worldwide
known.’ Approximately 2 hours after
the last of those searches, Guccifer 2.0
published its first post, attributing the
DNC server hack to a lone Romanian
hacker and using several of the unique
English words and phrases that the
GRU officers had searched for that day.
‘‘That same day, June 15, 2016, the
GRU also used the Guccifer 2.0
WordPress blog to begin releasing to
the public documents stolen from the
DNC and DCCC computer networks.
The Guccifer 2.0 persona ultimately re-
leased thousands of documents stolen
from the DNC and DCCC in a series of
blog posts between June 15, 2016, and
October 18, 2016.
‘‘Released documents included oppo-
sition research performed by the DNC
(including a memorandum analyzing
potential criticisms of candidate
Trump), internal policy documents
(such as recommendations on how to
address politically sensitive issues),
analyses of specific congressional
races, and fundraising documents. Re-
leases were organized around thematic
issues, such as specific States (e.g.,
Florida and Pennsylvania) that were
perceived as competitive in the 2016
U.S. Presidential election.’’
That is volume I, pages 42 and 43.
This is now volume I, pages 49 and 50.
‘‘Unit 26165 officers also hacked into
a DNC account hosted on a cloud-com-
puting service—redacted. On Sep-
tember 20, 2016, the GRU began to gen-
erate copies of the DNC data using—re-
dacted—function designed to allow
users to produce backups of databases
(referred to—redacted—as ‘snapshots’).
The GRU then stole those snapshots by
moving them to—redacted—account
that they controlled; from there, the
copies were moved to GRU-controlled
computers. The GRU stole approxi-
mately 300 gigabytes of data from the
DNC cloud-based account.’’
That was volume I, pages 49 and 50.
This is volume I, page 50.
‘‘In addition to targeting individuals
involved in the Clinton campaign, GRU
officers also targeted individuals and
entities involved in the administration
of the elections. Victims included U.S.
State and local entities, such as State
boards of elections (SBOEs), secre-
taries of state, and county govern-
ments, as well as individuals who
worked for those entities. The GRU
also targeted private technology firms
responsible for manufacturing and ad-
ministering election-related software
and hardware, such as voter registra-
tion software and electronic polling
stations.’’
b 1700
‘‘The GRU continued to target these
victims through the elections in No-
vember 2016. While the investigation
identified evidence that the GRU tar-
geted these individuals and entities,
the office did not investigate further.
The office did not, for instance, obtain
or examine servers or other relevant
items belonging to these victims. The
office understands that the FBI, the
U.S. Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, and the States have separately in-
vestigated that activity.’’
This is volume I, pages 51 and 52.
‘‘The Trump campaign showed inter-
est in WikiLeaks’ releases of hacked
materials throughout the summer and
fall of 2016—redacted.
‘‘On June 12, 2016, Assange claimed in
a televised interview to ‘have emails
relating to Hillary Clinton which are
pending publication,’ but provided no
additional context.
‘‘In debriefings with the office,
former Deputy Campaign Chairman
Rick Gates said that,—redacted. Gates
recalled candidate Trump being gen-
erally frustrated that the Clinton
emails had not been found.’’
‘‘Gates recalled candidate Trump
being generally frustrated’’—again it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.061 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3830 May 15, 2019
says—‘‘that the Clinton emails had not
been found.’’
Again, that is volume I, pages 51 and
52.
I am hoping that some more Mem-
bers come down, but if not, I am going
to read just a couple more things.
‘‘Many IRA operations used
Facebook accounts created and oper-
ated by its specialists—redacted.
‘‘IRA Facebook groups active during
the 2016 campaign covered a range of
political issues and included purported
conservative groups (with names such
as ‘Being Patriotic,’ ‘Stop All Immi-
grants,’ ‘Secured Borders,’ and ‘Tea
Party News,’), purported Black social
justice groups (’Black Matters,’
‘Blacktivist,’ and ‘Don’t Shoot Us’),
LGBTQ groups (’LGBT United’), and
religious groups (’United Muslims of
America.’)
‘‘Throughout 2016, IRA accounts pub-
lished an increasing number of mate-
rials supporting the Trump campaign
and opposing the Clinton campaign.
For example, on May 31, 2016, the oper-
ational account ‘Matt Skiber’ began to
privately message dozens of pro-Trump
Facebook groups asking them to help
plan a ‘pro-Trump rally near Trump
Tower.’
‘‘To reach larger U.S. audiences, the
IRA purchased advertisements from
Facebook that promoted the IRA
groups on the news feeds of U.S. audi-
ence members. According to Facebook,
the IRA purchased over 3,500 advertise-
ments and the expenditures totaled ap-
proximately $100,000.
‘‘During the U.S. Presidential cam-
paign, many IRA-purchased advertise-
ments explicitly supported or opposed
a Presidential candidate or promoted
U.S. rallies organized by the IRA (dis-
cussed below). As early as March 2016,
the IRA purchased advertisements that
overtly opposed the Clinton campaign.
For example, on March 18, 2016, the
IRA purchased an advertisement de-
picting candidate Clinton and a caption
that read in part, ‘If one day God lets
this liar enter the White House as a
President—that day would be a real na-
tional tragedy.’ ’’
That was a quote from the ad that
they paid for.
‘‘Similarly, on April 6, 2016, the
IRA purchased advertisements for
its account ‘Black Matters’ calling for
a ‘flash mob’ of U.S. persons to ‘take a
photo with
#HillaryClintonForPrison2016 or
#noHillary2016.’ IRA-purchased adver-
tisements featuring Clinton were, with
very few exceptions, negative.’’
Again, this is a Russian agency, Rus-
sian corporation.
‘‘IRA-purchased advertisements ref-
erencing candidate Trump largely sup-
ported his campaign. The first known
IRA advertisement explicitly endorsing
the Trump campaign was purchased on
April 19, 2016. The IRA bought an ad-
vertisement for its Instagram account
‘Tea Party News’ asking U.S. persons
to help them ‘make a patriotic team of
young Trump supporters’ ’’—I will say
that again: ‘‘make a patriotic team of
young Trump supporters’’—‘‘by
uploading photos with the hashtag
#KIDS4TRUMP. In subsequent months,
the IRA purchased dozens of advertise-
ments supporting the Trump campaign,
predominantly through the Facebook
groups ‘Being Patriotic’, ‘Stop All In-
vaders’ and ‘Secured Borders.’
‘‘Collectively, the IRA’s social media
accounts reached tens of millions of
U.S. persons. Individual IRA social
media accounts attracted hundreds of
thousands of followers. For example, at
the time they were deactivated by
Facebook in mid-2017, the IRA’s
‘United Muslims of America’ Facebook
group had over 300,000 followers, the
‘Don’t Shoot Us’ Facebook group had
over 250,000 followers, the ‘Being Patri-
otic’ Facebook group had over 200,000
followers, and the ‘Secured Borders’
Facebook group had over 130,000 fol-
lowers. According to Facebook, in total
the IRA-controlled accounts made over
80,000 posts before their deactivation in
August 2017, and these posts reached at
least 29 million U.S. persons and ‘may
have reached an estimated 126 million
people.’ ’’
That is Volume I, pages 24 to 26.
Madam Speaker, I am going to yield
back my time.
I think it is worth people taking a
look at the Mueller report. You can get
it in book form. You can also download
it for free. It can be downloaded for
free from—I think it is the Justice De-
partment, isn’t it? The Justice Depart-
ment website.
I think, seeing the extent and read-
ing the words that talk about the ex-
tent of Russian interference in our
elections is really important, espe-
cially as we head into a new election
cycle where Americans want to have
confidence that their vote really mat-
ters, that the messages that they are
getting are legitimate ones from inside
the United States of America, and that
Russian or any other foreign influence
is not using the internet, using names
that are supposed to sound like they
are American organizations and Amer-
ican websites and American Facebook
pages.
I think it is very important for peo-
ple to learn about that. It is worth the
read.
Actually, if you consider all the
redactions, it is not as long a read as
you might think. And then all of us
would be informed.
About 3 percent of Americans have
read the Mueller report, and I would
certainly encourage more.
One of our colleagues, MARY GAY
SCANLON, I know, is going to begin at
noon tomorrow with a full reading. It
is going to be done in one of the House
rooms here, upstairs in the Rules Com-
mittee, a reading of the Mueller report.
Otherwise, I think people have mis-
guided information about what is in it
and the idea that there is really noth-
ing at all that is important.
Those Americans who are interested
in the sanctity of our elections, I would
very much encourage. You could even
watch the reading that is going on
starting at noon tomorrow of the full
Mueller report. And consider the threat
to our elections and that we have to do
everything we can to make sure that
there is no outside interference.
Madam Speaker, with that, I yield
back the balance of my time.
f
REPUBLICAN STUDY COMMITTEE
BUDGET
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Indi-
ana (Mr. BANKS) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Indiana?
There was no objection.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, the
former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Mike Mullen, called our national
debt ‘‘the single biggest threat to na-
tional security.’’
Since then, we have added more than
$7 trillion more in red ink. Our na-
tional debt today stands at $22 trillion,
and it is only getting worse.
The Congressional Budget Office is
projecting trillion-dollar deficits in
perpetuity. These deficits will leave fu-
ture generations like my daughter’s
generation saddled with higher taxes,
stagnant growth, and a lower standard
of living. This is simply unacceptable.
Thankfully, pro-growth policies im-
plemented by President Trump and
congressional Republicans have led to
a booming economy with 3.2 percent
GDP growth and unemployment below
4 percent.
Our strong economy provides Con-
gress a unique opportunity to tackle
this problem, but bold leadership is re-
quired to do so.
Unfortunately, it is clear that there
will be no such leadership from the
Democrats. The Democrats have failed
to perform the most basic function of
government, which is passing a budget.
In fact, they have not even bothered to
bring a budget to the floor for a vote.
Why, you might ask? Because the rad-
ical left is now in control of the Demo-
cratic agenda and demanding trillions
of dollars in additional spending for
programs like the Green New Deal,
which aims to eliminate everything
from air travel to requiring every sin-
gle building in the United States to be
rebuilt or upgraded, banning farting
cows, and will cost upwards of $92 tril-
lion to implement; or, another budget-
busting initiative like Medicare-for-all,
which would increase government
spending by $32 trillion over the next
decade.
b 1715
Think about that for a moment. The
Democrats look at $22 trillion in debt,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.063 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3831
May 15, 2019
trillion-dollar deficits, and think that
we aren’t spending enough already of
our taxpayer dollars.
Thankfully, the Republican Study
Committee is here to do something
about it, and we have taken the chal-
lenge head-on.
As chairman of the Republican Study
Committee’s Budget and Spending
Task Force, I am very proud to have
worked with a task force of eight of my
colleagues, as well as the rest of our
141-member strong Republican Study
Committee, to produce the ‘‘Preserving
American Freedom’’ budget resolution.
This budget reduces government debt
by cutting $12.6 trillion in wasteful
spending over the next 10 years.
It ensures permanent solvency for
Medicare and Social Security so that
these programs will exist for the sen-
iors who rely on them today, as well as
for future generations.
It repeals ObamaCare and gives un-
precedented control to the States to
design healthcare programs that fit the
unique needs of their citizens.
It reforms welfare to move more peo-
ple into employment with a sense of
purpose and self-reliance.
Finally, it matches President
Trump’s commitment to national secu-
rity by fully funding the border wall
and making the necessary investments
in our military to ensure the safety of
the American people from foreign
threats.
The ‘‘Preserving American Freedom’’
budget is the only serious proposal
from Congress to address Washington’s
addiction to spending and a bloated
and growing national debt. I am very
proud to have led the RSC’s effort to
tackle this generational challenge and
ensure a brighter future for all Ameri-
cans.
Madam Speaker, tonight, we are
going to hear from some of my col-
leagues about this very important
budget proposal and what we can do to
address fiscal responsibility so des-
perately needed in Washington, D.C.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. CLOUD).
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I am
rising also to join my coworkers in ad-
vocating for fiscal responsibility as
Congress seeks to craft a budget.
The RSC budget is bold, and I am
pleased to see it include such proposals
as requiring the Congressional Budget
Office to account for debt servicing in
the cost estimates they prepare for
Congress. My bill, H.R. 638, the Cost
Estimates Improvement Act, would do
that very thing.
Before legislation passes either the
House or the Senate, lawmakers should
know how much it will actually cost.
This would seem to go without saying,
but lawmakers consistently overlook
one key cost, the new interest pay-
ments their spending will create. Folks
back home understand how important
this is, that we should be honest about
the true cost of spending.
If you were budgeting for monthly
car payments and only considered the
list price of the car itself and didn’t
factor in the extra cost of interest pay-
ments, you would later discover that
the total cost is more than you could
afford. Unfortunately, this is exactly
what Congress does when considering
new spending.
Congress relies on the nonpartisan
Congressional Budget Office and the
Joint Committee on Taxation to esti-
mate the cost of legislation. But Con-
gress does not require either of them to
include the cost of servicing the addi-
tional debt that is created by author-
izing or reauthorizing spending. This
results in an incomplete picture of the
total actual cost.
Servicing national debt is becoming
a substantial part of Federal spending.
Within just a few years, our Nation
will be spending more on interest pay-
ments than on the entire Department
of Defense. This should alarm all of us,
as this will increasingly crowd out
other spending priorities.
I introduced H.R. 638, the Cost Esti-
mates Improvement Act, to address
these problems by requiring the Con-
gressional Budget Office and the Joint
Committee on Taxation to add the cost
of servicing the debt to the cost esti-
mates of any future legislation.
In essence, Congress is not consid-
ering the comprehensive budgetary im-
pact of spending and tax proposals.
This distorts congressional decision-
making in favor of more spending and
debt accumulation.
Congress routinely ignores the true
costs and overstates the benefits of
new spending. The American people
have to account for the cost of debt in
their family budgets, and providing
Congress with accurate cost estimates
that include the cost of debt servicing
is a commonsense reform that would
hold Congress to the same standard,
forcing lawmakers to reckon with the
actual cost of raising our national
debt.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
MITCHELL), my good friend and fellow
classmate of the last congressional
class, a great conservative leader in
the Congress.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
thank the budget action team chair for
this fine work and for yielding time.
We should be debating right now in
Congress a budget. We should be debat-
ing ideas from the Democrats, ideas
from the Republicans, the RSC budget.
We should be doing that to develop a
road map for the current year and for
future years for appropriations, what
our priorities are.
You will note that we are talking
about it, but it is pretty quiet down
here today. Why? Because, unfortu-
nately, the leadership of the Demo-
cratic Party has been unable to
produce a budget. They can’t agree,
even among themselves, what a budget
should be.
I spent 35 years in private business.
Budgets are pretty basic. Without
them, I don’t know how you operate.
Apparently, we are going to try, and
that is unfortunate.
My focus tonight is on the Federal
budgeting and appropriations process
and what we need to do to fix it. We
can fix individual items in our budget,
but long term, we need to fix the proc-
ess, or we are, in fact, as noted earlier
by Mr. CLOUD, doomed for some pretty
dire outcomes.
The Federal budget and appropria-
tions restraints under current law are
totally ineffective. They simply do not
work. And you know what? We can fix
this.
Virtually all Federal spending right
now is mandatory. Two-thirds of what
we spend every year is called manda-
tory spending. It is on autopilot.
Let me give you some examples of
what that means. $2,523 billion is man-
datory. Our interest payments in 2018
will be $325 billion. I want you to stop
and think about what a massive num-
ber that is.
The Federal debt crossed $22 trillion
last year. It now exceeds the entire an-
nual production of the United States
and equates to more than $67,000 for
every American in this country. Over
the next 10 years, interest alone on the
Federal debt will be the third largest
Federal expenditure.
Now, at home, if that was what you
were dealing with, you would be calling
a debt counselor. If your interest pay-
ment alone was the third highest ex-
penditure you had—never mind prin-
cipal, just the interest—you are in seri-
ous trouble. Here, we call it govern-
ment.
This process robs the American peo-
ple of their voice, their representation.
Long term, it will rob them of the
basic opportunity for services if we
don’t get this under control.
The RSC ‘‘Preserving American Free-
dom’’ budget proposal and what I pro-
pose address that issue.
First and foremost, we must address
what is called mandatory spending.
Mandatory spending has taken on this
huge component. As I said, it is two-
thirds of Federal expenditures.
We need to move everything except
Social Security, Medicare, and
TRICARE to discretionary spending
and require everybody in this room and
this building to vote, to put their pri-
orities forward, rather than have it be
on autopilot.
The second thing we need to do is not
have it simply be whatever we spent
last year. How much more are we going
to spend? We need to require zero-based
budgeting of all agencies every few
years—maybe 3 years because they are
so big, frankly—where they have to
justify down to the penny what they
are spending money on. Because you
know what a budget cut is in Wash-
ington? A budget cut in Washington is
you get less money than the increase
you asked for and they tell you they
took a budget cut.
I spent 35 years in private business. A
budget cut means you actually spend
less than what you spent last year. You
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.065 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3832 May 15, 2019
spend less money, less real cash, not
that you didn’t get as much as you
asked for.
Frankly, that is like my teenagers
and allowance. Well, you cut my budg-
et. No, I didn’t give you as much as you
asked for.
Second, the next thing we need to do
is we need to use a 51-vote requirement
for budgets, 51 votes to pass a budget,
a simple majority. We need to say 51
votes to make any change in discre-
tionary outlays. That way, in fact, we
can manage our budget appropriations
and not have the system manage us,
not have the Senate decide no, we need
60 votes, and we just go along our
merry way, putting out money hand
over fist.
Additionally, we need to change a
few rules about how we manage our-
selves. We need to require there be no
recess until budget appropriations are
completed. Everyone stays here.
Frankly, I think we just lock the doors
and stay here till we get it done be-
cause, far too often, we will just do a
continuing resolution.
You would be disgusted at the num-
ber of continuing resolutions that hap-
pen for a week, 3 days. All these con-
tinuing resolutions, all we do is spend
the same money. So, sorry, no recess
until we get it done.
Additionally, we need to withhold
the pay for all Members of Congress
until we get the job done, until there
are budget and appropriations resolu-
tions done for the year.
When we hit the time that we should
be funded already for the year, if it is
not done, everyone on the payroll here
that is a Member of Congress doesn’t
get paid, because I know how to get
folks’ attention after 35 years in pri-
vate business.
There is one way to put it: Follow
the money. Other ways are not appro-
priate on the floor of the House, but
you have the idea.
We have to address this issue. The
only way to address this is to get our
appropriations under control.
One of the things I proposed, in con-
junction with another Member, is the
Protecting Our Children’s Future Act,
which talks about these changes that
must be made in how we do budgeting
and appropriations in a process. Other-
wise, we just do the same thing over
and over again here in Congress, and
that, Madam Speaker, is the perfect
definition of insanity.
I appreciate the time to talk about
something I think is so urgent because,
without this fundamental change, we
are tilting at windmills. We need to
make this change sooner than later.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, what I
hear from Hoosiers all over my district
is that they sent their Representatives
here to bring back fiscal sanity, to bal-
ance our budget. That is what hard-
working Hoosier families do every day.
It is what they have come to find in
their State legislature in my great
home State of Indiana as well. Indiana
has a balanced budget amendment. We
have legislators who go to the State
house and pass fiscally responsible
budgets every 2 years.
It was a pleasure of mine for 6 years
to serve with the next speaker, some-
body who is a true American hero and
one of the great conservative leaders of
this freshman class in the new Con-
gress.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Indiana (Mr. BAIRD).
Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to offer my support for the RSC
2020 budget.
I have a copy of that here, so I en-
courage everyone to take the oppor-
tunity to study it and look for those
positive aspects that are important
that Congressman BANKS and his team
put together to have a balanced budg-
et.
It reduces Federal spending by over
$12 trillion in the next decade and bal-
ances our Federal budget in the next 6
years.
As the gentleman mentioned, the
State of Indiana passed an amendment
to the constitution in 2018 to require
our budgets to balance, and Hoosiers
have enjoyed a balanced State budget
since 2012.
We are among a minority of States
that have a Triple-A credit rating, and
Indiana has cut 15 different taxes while
still balancing our budget and funding
key State priorities.
This proposed budget addresses out-
of-control spending and rightfully aims
to significantly decrease our national
debt. We are $22 trillion in debt as a
Nation. That is not my money. That is
money that belongs to the taxpayers.
Because we have been paying interest
on this debt for decades, it is really the
money of our next generation of Amer-
ican taxpayers, our kids and our grand-
children.
Madam Speaker, I am proud of what
Hoosiers have been able to do in our
State, and I will continue to fight for
that same Hoosier common sense here
in D.C.
b 1730
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, the
State of Indiana has so much to be
proud of. Indiana provides a road map
for the rest of the Nation when it
comes to fiscal responsibility.
There are few leaders in the House of
Representatives who do as much for
the conservative cause and promote fis-
cal responsibility as Representative
HICE from the great State of Georgia.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. HICE).
Mr. HICE of Georgia. Madam Speak-
er, I thank my good friend for yielding,
and I appreciate those kind words.
Madam Speaker, I rise with my col-
leagues this evening in support of the
Republican Study Committee budget
for 2020.
Here in Congress, there are immense
problems and vast issues that we deal
with, and sometimes they can feel
overwhelming. For that reason, it is
important that we have a purpose, that
we have a vision, that we have a path-
way to get us out of some of the issues
that we face and to give us a sense of
purpose for getting through those
things, a playbook, if you will.
Madam Speaker, I just want to pub-
licly commend my colleagues who have
labored so diligently to put together
this draft. I especially want to recog-
nize the RSC chairman, MIKE JOHNSON,
and the Spending Task Force chair-
man, JIM BANKS, my good friend. Their
leadership has been invaluable, and we
are deeply appreciative to all of them.
I am particularly pleased that in this
budget they have included a proposal
to eliminate official time. This is
something I have been working on for a
long time.
For those who may not be familiar
with it, official time allows a Federal
employee who is part of a union to con-
duct union activities in the course of
their workday even if that means not
doing the job that they were hired to
do.
In many cases, people are hired to do
a job and yet 100 percent of their time
is spent doing Federal union activities,
and so the taxpayer is paying these
people to do a job which they are not
doing. It ends up these agencies have to
hire someone else to do a job while the
first individual is doing union activi-
ties rather than that for which they
were hired.
Over the years since I have been here,
I have personally tried to cut some of
the official time usage. That didn’t
work. We have tried diligently to re-
form official time, to no avail. We have
even tried to just provide some degree
of transparency, and yet in every at-
tempt, everything that we have tried
to do, we have faced tremendous oppo-
sition both from Federal employee
unions and many of their allies here in
Congress.
Make no mistake, the opposition is
real; it is strong; it is entrenched in
this place. And yet we have got to con-
tinue to move forward. We have got to
try to address these issues.
The Federal bureaucracy has tremen-
dous power and influence over our
lives, and yet in this case of official
time, there is little to no transparency
or accountability.
To add to the problem, it is virtually
impossible to remove a Federal em-
ployee. According to the GAO, the Gov-
ernment Accountability Office, it can
take between 170 and 370 days to re-
move a bad actor, a bad worker in a
Federal position, and this is because of
the appeals process, grievances that
can be filed, complaints that just drag
on and on and on.
There are thousands, by the way, of
Federal employees who agree with me.
Recently, a survey found that 31 per-
cent of Federal employees feel that
there are few to little steps taken to
remove or deal with poor-performing
employees in the Federal Government.
So, Madam Speaker, we need to re-
store fiscal sanity around here. We
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.066 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3833
May 15, 2019
need to enforce accountability and in-
still transparency in our Federal Gov-
ernment, and I believe this RSC budget
is a step in that direction. It rises in
stark contrast to the nonexistent budg-
et of the Democratic majority.
So with that, again, I thank my
friend for yielding to me.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his comments to-
night.
Madam Speaker, as I said before,
there are 140 members of the Repub-
lican Study Committee. Many of those
140 members are new freshman Mem-
bers who were elected just beginning of
this Congress, who are conservative
Members who stepped up to the plate
to preach fiscal responsibility, to keep
the commitments that they made on
the campaign trail. One of those new
Members is my colleague and friend,
Representative HERN from Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. KEVIN
HERN).
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I stand with my col-
leagues today to stress the importance
of fiscal health in our country.
There is a very real problem here. If
we don’t address it, we are condemning
our children to doom.
My colleagues across the aisle like to
use the 12 years left hyperbole to talk
about the necessity to act on climate
change, but they ignore the fiscal cliff
we are standing on, a much more immi-
nent threat to the well-being of our
country and our people.
Instead of addressing the debt crisis,
the Democrat majority chose not to
draft a budget at all this year. That
tells us all we need to know about their
priorities.
Speaker PELOSI herself said: Show
me your budget, and I will show you
your values.
So, without a budget, what are the
majority’s values?
The RSC budget addresses our defi-
cits and aims to balance by 2025. This
budget refocuses spending on our core
constitutional responsibilities and lim-
its the growth of government.
Forty-nine out of the 50 United
States are required to have a balanced
budget, but the Federal Government
does not have that requirement. A
budget that balances is the first and
most important step towards financial
well-being for our country.
I spent more than 30 years as a busi-
ness owner before coming to Congress.
In the business world, a company will
fail if they continually spend more
money than they bring in. You just
can’t do it.
That is a foreign concept to many of
my colleagues here. In fact, several
people in this building believe that the
best way to address our debt is to ig-
nore its existence entirely. That is just
simply ridiculous. Problems don’t just
disappear. They don’t disappear for you
or me. You have to take corrective ac-
tion, and this budget does just that.
The former Secretary of Defense,
General James Mattis, testified that
our national debt is the greatest threat
to our democracy. It is rather chilling
that we borrow money from other na-
tions to fund things like our military,
who then must protect us from the
very nations that we borrow money
from.
We can only defend ourselves on bor-
rowed money for so long. What happens
when we run out of other people’s
money?
I find it interesting that Democrats
only seem to care about our debt after
we start putting taxpayer dollars back
in people’s pockets. No one is talking
about the fact that Democrat proposals
coming from Congress will, alone, cost
over $100 trillion in new spending. Why
aren’t we holding hearings about that?
This budget is the only budget put
forward in the House so far. It deserves
our attention and our consideration be-
cause we are the only ones trying to
right the ship.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his comments.
As the gentleman from Oklahoma
said, the Republican Study Committee
budget is the only budget proposal on
the table. It is the only proposal that
balances the budget, that begins to
rein in wasteful government spending
and begins to pay down a disastrous $22
trillion national debt.
There are few Members in this Con-
gress whom I have served with who
have preached fiscal responsibility as
much as my friend and my colleague
from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN).
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. ALLEN).
Mr. ALLEN. Madam Speaker, I thank
Congressman BANKS for yielding, for
the Special Order here this evening, for
his leadership in crafting this very im-
portant budget, and for this discussion
we are having on it tonight.
Madam Speaker, obviously, we have
been waiting on a budget to vote on in
the United States Congress and have
yet to see a budget. Then I think we
learned that there may not be a budget
in the United States Congress this
year.
That is very hard to understand be-
cause we are spending $4 trillion to $4.2
trillion. Two-thirds of that $4.2 trillion
is mandatory spending, which is basi-
cally on automatic pilot, and it is sky-
rocketing. The biggest increases in our
deficit are created by this mandatory
spending.
On the discretionary side, it is about
a third of what we spend totally. As far
as discretionary spending goes, we have
had some modest increases.
For the first part of the time that I
was in Congress, we basically had budg-
et caps, and, actually, discretionary
spending was held to the same level the
entire time.
I think it is sad that we are financing
our standard of living in my generation
on the backs of my children and their
children and their children and their
children.
So what do we do about it?
I am very proud to talk about what
JIM BANKS and his leadership and what
the Republican Study Committee have
done in presenting here this evening.
This budget exemplifies fiscal sanity
and preserves American freedom.
As most of you know, I spent my ca-
reer in the running of small businesses,
starting out in the construction indus-
try, then participating in the banking
industry and electronic medical
records and real estate development. I
did this in conjunction with my wife,
Robin, as my partner.
Many times, we would sit down at
the kitchen table, just like every other
American family, and we would map
out a budget. I knew that spending
more than my means was simply out of
the question.
Well, folks, why can’t we do that
here in Washington? We need more fis-
cal common sense here in Washington,
and the RSC fiscal year 2020 budget
does just that.
Picture this: $12.6 trillion in total
deficit reduction over 10 years, bal-
ancing the budget in just 6 years by
2025. On that fact alone, I would hope
that every Member of this body would
offer their support.
This budget also fosters a rewarding
environment for economic growth and
job creation.
We have heard it over and over again
from those who deal in investments
and deal with the economy and the
growth of the economy that the biggest
wind at our face is this budget deficit.
It is a headwind. It is going to be a
headwind against the growth of this
economy if we don’t get serious about
a budget.
This budget will give us that oppor-
tunity for economic growth and job
creation.
Right now, we have the best economy
in the world: 263,000 jobs were created
last month, and over 7 million jobs are
available throughout this Nation, far
exceeding the number of jobseekers.
I was so glad to work with my col-
leagues here in Congress the last 2
years and with the President in mak-
ing this happen. But the American peo-
ple made it happen. All we did was pro-
vide an opportunity. We reformed regu-
lations and we passed a tax reform bill
that gave the economy a boost.
Frankly, in dealing with the budget
deficit and going forward, our only
hope in this is to grow our economy.
We must have GDP growth.
In a telephone townhall with con-
stituents from Georgia’s 12th District
last night, 73 percent of participants
reported that our economy is headed in
the right direction. When I ran for Con-
gress in 2014, 70 percent of the people in
my district said that the economy was
going in the wrong direction, and we
have flipped it.
However, a soaring economy also cre-
ates challenges. As we face increasing
workforce needs, this budget prioritizes
moving Americans off the sidelines and
back into the workforce, rewarding
work and promoting innovation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.068 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3834 May 15, 2019
Madam Speaker, I am the grand-
father of 13 beautiful grandchildren,
and the last thing I want to do is leave
an insurmountable debt behind for our
future generations. I strongly encour-
age all of my colleagues to get onboard
with the RSC budget to restore a sense
of fiscal responsibility to Washington.
Our future depends on it.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Georgia, a great
friend and a great conservative in the
House of Representatives, for being
here tonight.
Madam Speaker, when the chairman
of the Republican Study Committee,
MIKE JOHNSON from Louisiana, asked
me to take on this task as chairman of
the Budget and Spending Task Force, I
was very proud to do so, not just be-
cause I have enormous respect for
Chairman JOHNSON as a conservative
leader in this Congress, but because of
the stature and reputation of the Re-
publican Study Committee.
b 1745
At one point, our Vice President,
from my home State, MIKE PENCE, one
of the greatest conservative leaders in
this Nation, was chairman of the Re-
publican Study Committee. And so,
too, was another man whom I respect
just as much, one of the greatest lead-
ers in our Nation, the Republican whip,
Mr. STEVE SCALISE, from Louisiana,
chair of the Republican Study Com-
mittee, too. The reputation of RSC is
important because it is the conserv-
ative vehicle in the Congress to ad-
vance conservative principles. No one
does that more on a daily basis than
my friend from Louisiana (Mr. SCA-
LISE).
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. SCALISE).
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Indiana for
yielding and for his kind words, too, es-
pecially. He has been a great friend and
a great leader on this front. I want to
commend him for taking on the task of
putting together a budget, Madam
Speaker, that confronts some of the
challenges that our country is facing in
a way that not only protects those
promises that were made, for example,
to seniors.
Seniors were promised the safety net
of Medicare, and yet, if we do nothing—
and there are some suggesting that we
leave Medicare where it is today—it ac-
tually goes bankrupt, Madam Speaker,
in the next 8 years. It would be irre-
sponsible for us, as Members of Con-
gress, to sit back and say we are afraid
to confront these important issues, be-
cause failing to confront them literally
would lead to a bankrupt program for
seniors today and a broken promise by
the Federal Government to those sen-
iors.
So we save Medicare from bank-
ruptcy and, in fact, we do it in a way
that nothing changes for current sen-
iors. In fact, the only thing that would
change is if we didn’t do this, it would
go bankrupt. So the program is actu-
ally solvent again, not only for current
seniors, but for younger people, too,
who don’t think it will be there. In
fact, it won’t be there for them the way
it is for current seniors if we don’t
make these bold reforms.
Madam Speaker, we also save the So-
cial Security program, another impor-
tant promise made to people who work
through their years and then want to
retire and have a safety net. And,
today, maybe they have got a lot of
other means of savings, too. They
might have 401(k)s, or they might have
a pension plan from their company.
But they also paid into that Social Se-
curity trust fund. And, again, if we do
nothing, that program goes bankrupt,
as well. So we save that program,
again, not only for current seniors, but
then for younger people. It will also be
there for them, too, generationally sav-
ing it.
Just like when Ronald Reagan
worked with Tip O’Neill to save Social
Security from bankruptcy, they did it
in a way that actually strengthened
the program. So for those people who
want to hold their head in the sand and
say, don’t do anything, not doing any-
thing means those two vital pro-
grams—Medicare and Social Security—
would go bust for seniors today. We
can’t let that happen.
Madam Speaker, I thank our leader,
Mr. BANKS, for doing that.
And then, again, we strengthen de-
fense. We continue to build on the re-
forms we have made to our economy so
that we are able to create more jobs, so
that we repeal the death tax. We con-
tinue lowering taxes, which has gotten
such a great revolution in job creation
and higher wages for workers. The
things that we are doing that are work-
ing, we build upon those things and
make this country even stronger and
greater for generations.
So while putting a budget together is
tough—and I know the other side
hasn’t even passed a budget out of com-
mittee, Madam Speaker—we, with this
RSC budget, have shown what bold
conservative reforms can do to
strengthen programs like Medicare,
like Social Security, encourage innova-
tion in failing programs, block grant-
ing Medicaid to States so States can
innovate, strengthening defense, and,
again, building on the great successes
we are seeing in our economy so that
wages can be higher, and we protect
people with preexisting conditions.
These are the kinds of things that
people call on us to do. We come here
to Congress to do the big things, to
tackle the tough problems in a way
where we protect people who count on
us and actually strengthen this coun-
try for future generations, so we can
build on this great American Dream.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, this
Republican Study Committee budget
proposal was a gigantic effort: over 300
member proposals from the 141 mem-
bers of the Republican Study Com-
mittee who offered ideas and proposals
to include in this budget proposal.
Over the past several weeks, we met
on a weekly basis, almost a dozen
times, to put together this budget pro-
posal, assembling a task force of eight
conservative members, who gathered
on a weekly basis to comb through the
Federal budget to talk about ways that
we could put forth something that con-
servatives, not just in Congress but
throughout the country, could be very
proud of.
I am really proud that, on our task
force, we had Members who came from
different States, different perspectives,
who had different ideas. That made the
effort stronger and, in the end, it al-
lowed us to produce a stronger budget
proposal. One of those members, I am
very proud to say, is my friend, the
representative from Florida, my col-
league, Representative YOHO.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Florida (Mr. YOHO).
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, I appre-
ciate the chairman of the RSC Budget
Committee for yielding to me, along
with Chairman MIKE JOHNSON, for lead-
ing the way on this task. I thank all of
my colleagues who participated in this,
and the RSC staff who did the hard
work. They were there every night and
every day to bring this budget to-
gether—Richard Stern, Jay, and Mark.
Many times, they don’t get recognized
for the work that they did, but yet
they put in a lot of effort.
So why do a budget? Everybody asks,
why do you guys worry about a budget?
Well, this House is tasked with the
power of the purse. We are the ones
who are supposed to be in charge of a
budget and spending the people’s
money, because the American people
care how we spend their money. They
want us to spend it smartly, prudently,
and responsibly. If you don’t have a
budget, can you do that?
We have got a budget. Right here, we
have got a budget. This is a budget.
This is a good budget. We are at $22
trillion in debt. This Nation is at $22
trillion in debt.
In the previous administration, we
saw the debt double. This administra-
tion, it will probably double again. And
if a Democrat gets in, or a Republican,
it will probably double again. If this
body does not come together, not as
Republicans or Democrats, but as
Americans, this problem will never be
addressed. What happens is a political
divide happens because we can blame
the other side for not doing what they
are supposed to.
We didn’t have a budget last year and
the Democrats don’t have a budget this
year. So how serious is this body about
correcting this? The Republican Study
Committee has a budget. This budget
needs to be looked at.
I was born in the fifties—1955—and I
grew up during the sixties. Our manda-
tory spending in this country was
roughly 30 percent: 70 percent was dis-
cretionary spending. Do you know
what that allows you to do? That al-
lows you to do an interstate system,
and it allows you to have a space pro-
gram and have aspirations of going to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.070 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3835
May 15, 2019
the Moon and coming back by a Demo-
cratic President who put country above
politics. We came together, and we did
that because we could.
Do you know what? We can’t do that
today, because, today, 71 percent of our
spending is mandatory, and 29 percent
is discretionary. But let me tell you
who can do that.
China can go to the Moon. China can
do infrastructure. In fact, they are
doing it all over the world. Do you
know why? Because they are cash rich.
We are cash poor. In fact, they hold a
large portion of our debt.
Let me tell you what $22 trillion in
debt is. If you take $22 trillion and di-
vide it by 330 million Americans,
roughly, that comes down to $67,000,
not per family, but per individual. So
for 300 million Americans, they are
$67,000 in debt.
Is it my fault? Yeah, I guess so, be-
cause I am here. It is your fault, it is
their fault. If we are here, this is our
generation’s fault, and this is some-
thing that we have to come together as
Americans to fix.
If we don’t have a budget, can we fix
a budget problem? If we don’t have a
budget, can we acknowledge a problem?
As I pointed out, the other side
doesn’t have a budget. There is a budg-
et and if we come together as Ameri-
cans and put down the crazy politics of
fighting one side over the other, we can
fix the problems of this country. We
can fix education, we can fix
healthcare, we can fix infrastructure,
and we can plan for a future brighter
than today. We can create a vision for
this country 50 to 100 years down the
road, but we can’t do it if we are fight-
ing over budgetary problems in this
Nation.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate the
honor to be able to be on this com-
mittee. I hope it sinks into the other
side that we come together, and we
come together as Americans.
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, we
need to confront this fiscal challenge
now, as it is no longer a far-off con-
cern.
Currently, we are set to run trillion-
dollar deficits in perpetuity. The So-
cial Security trust fund will be bank-
rupt by 2035. The Medicare trust fund
will be bankrupt by 2026. Without bold
and immediate action, this growing
debt will condemn America to a future
that is less prosperous and less free.
My colleagues and I from the Repub-
lican Study Committee are determined
to make sure that this never material-
izes. The Republican Study Committee
preserving the American freedom budg-
et would not only prevent that bleak
future, it would ensure even greater
prosperity for all Americans for years
and generations to come.
I could not be prouder to lead this ef-
fort on behalf of the Republican Study
Committee and its 141 conservative
members.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Ms. Mariel
Ridgway, one of his secretaries.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE OF
THE SENATE AND THE SPEAKER
OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Honorable CHUCK
GRASSLEY, President pro tempore of
the Senate, and the Honorable NANCY
PELOSI, Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, May 15, 2019.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section
201(a)(2) of the Congressional Budget and Im-
poundment Control Act of 1974, Public Law
93–344, the President pro tempore of the Sen-
ate and the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives hereby appoint Dr. Phillip
Swagel as the Director of the Congressional
Budget Office, effective June 3, 2019, for the
term expiring January 3, 2023.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore
of the Senate.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House
of Representatives.
f
DECLARING A NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY TO SECURE THE INFOR-
MATION AND COMMUNICATIONS
TECHNOLOGY AND SERVICES
SUPPLY CHAIN—MESSAGE FROM
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–35)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.),
and section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, I hereby report that I have issued
an Executive Order declaring a na-
tional emergency to deal with the
threat posed by the unrestricted acqui-
sition or use in the United States of in-
formation and communications tech-
nology or services designed, developed,
manufactured, or supplied by persons
owned by, controlled by, or subject to
the jurisdiction or direction of foreign
adversaries.
Foreign adversaries are increasingly
creating and exploiting vulnerabilities
in information and communications
technology and services, which store
and communicate vast amounts of sen-
sitive information, facilitate the dig-
ital economy, and support critical in-
frastructure and vital emergency serv-
ices, in order to commit malicious
cyber-enabled actions, including eco-
nomic and industrial espionage against
the United States and its people. Al-
though maintaining an open invest-
ment climate in information and com-
munications technology, and in the
United States economy more generally,
is important for the overall growth and
prosperity of the United States, such
openness must be balanced by the need
to protect our country against critical
national security threats. To deal with
this threat, additional steps are re-
quired to protect the security, integ-
rity, and reliability of information and
communications technology and serv-
ices provided and used in the United
States.
The Executive Order prohibits cer-
tain transactions involving informa-
tion and communications technology
or services where the Secretary of
Commerce (Secretary), in consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, the
United States Trade Representative,
the Director of National Intelligence,
the Administrator of General Services,
the Chairman of the Federal Commu-
nications Commission, and, as appro-
priate, the heads of other executive de-
partments and agencies (agencies), has
determined that:
(i) the transaction involves informa-
tion and communications technology
or services designed, developed, manu-
factured, or supplied, by persons owned
by, controlled by, or subject to the ju-
risdiction or direction of a foreign ad-
versary; and
(ii) the transaction:
(A) poses an undue risk of sabotage
to or subversion of the design, integ-
rity, manufacturing, production, dis-
tribution, installation, operation, or
maintenance of information and com-
munications technology or services in
the United States;
(B) poses an undue risk of cata-
strophic effects on the security or re-
siliency of United States critical infra-
structure or the digital economy of the
United States; or
(C) otherwise poses an unacceptable
risk to the national security of the
United States or the security and safe-
ty of United States persons.
I have delegated to the Secretary the
authority to, in consultation with, or
upon referral of a particular trans-
action from, the heads of other agen-
cies as appropriate, take such actions,
including directing the timing and
manner of the cessation of transactions
prohibited pursuant to the Executive
Order, adopting appropriate rules and
regulations, and employing all other
powers granted to the President by
IEEPA, as may be necessary to imple-
ment the Executive Order. All agencies
of the United States Government are
directed to take all appropriate meas-
ures within their authority to carry
out the provisions of the Executive
Order.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.072 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3836 May 15, 2019
I am enclosing a copy of the Execu-
tive Order I have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 15, 2019.
f
b 1800
WOMEN IN THE ARMED FORCES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
HOULAHAN) for 30 minutes.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks on the subject of my Special
Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania?
There was no objection.
Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Speaker,
there are over a dozen caucuses in Con-
gress today that address issues facing
servicemembers and/or veterans, but
none of these are geared towards ad-
dressing the issues faced by the fastest
growing cohort in our Nation’s mili-
tary: women.
Today, that changes.
My name is CHRISSY HOULAHAN, and I
represent Pennsylvania’s Sixth Con-
gressional District. Today I am an-
nouncing the launch of the first ever
Servicewomen and Women Veterans
Congressional Caucus.
When the draft ended in 1973, women
represented just 2 percent of the en-
listed force and 8 percent of the officer
corps. Today, those numbers have
grown to 16 percent and 18 percent, re-
spectively. Currently, there are 2 mil-
lion living women veterans in the
United States, and in the next 25 years,
women veterans are projected to nearly
double their population and will ac-
count for one in five living veterans.
We cannot afford to wait, and the
time to act is now.
Twenty-seven years ago, I gave birth
to my first child, my daughter Molly. I
was Active Duty at the time, and I was
given 6 weeks of maternity leave. When
I returned, I intended to enroll my
daughter in the on-base childcare but
discovered that there was a 6-month-
long waiting list. I looked for private
care in Boston where I was serving, but
the cost was too high. In fact, my en-
tire paycheck would have gone to
childcare.
I was a lieutenant in the Air Force,
stationed at Hanscom Air Force Base
at the time, and my assignment, my
job, was to determine what kind of in-
formation people needed and in what
order and in what visual display when
ballistic missiles were raining down on
them and the end of the world was
coming.
I am a very well-educated engineer. I
became an engineer in the Air Force,
and yet I couldn’t, with my skills and
my education, figure out how I was
supposed to make ends meet and make
childcare work to fulfill my military
responsibilities and serve our country.
I was going against the system in
many ways, a new mother serving in
the military with a working civilian
husband. That is not what most people
picture when they picture a traditional
military family. It wasn’t even what I
saw as a young girl when I was growing
up.
I was the daughter and grand-
daughter of career Naval officers and
career Navy wives, and I watched as
my mother and my grandmother
moved us all around the country and
cared for us while my father and my
grandfather served. My mother’s job
was to create a sense of home in every
new place that we moved. Her job was
my brother and I.
So there I was with a new baby of my
own and a mission to deal with bal-
listic missile defense, no viable options
for childcare, and working within a
system that had not yet caught up
with me and my career. So I decided to
make a very difficult choice, and I sep-
arated from the Air Force.
You see, at that time, I didn’t really
have any role models, anyone that I
knew or could look up to who had
walked in my boots, so to speak, and
had navigated being a new mother
while simultaneously serving our coun-
try. So few women were really high up
in the Air Force’s ranks at the time, so
there were very few I knew who could
show me what Active Duty looked like
as a mother.
But that is changing. In 2019, women
represent the fastest growing cohort in
America’s military. More and more
women are hearing that same call that
I and my friends here heard—the call
to serve.
What is upsetting, though, is 27 years
later, despite women’s increased pres-
ence across all branches of the mili-
tary, we all still struggle with many of
the same issues, including access to
quality and affordable childcare, and I
find this unacceptable.
In this 116th Congress, we set a
record. For the first time in history,
there are more than two women vet-
erans serving in the House of Rep-
resentatives. There are now four. It
was the realization that I was sur-
rounded by three other women who
served our country that inspired me to
start this caucus.
Now is the time to address these
issues that have been plaguing our
servicewomen and women veterans for
years, and that is what today is about.
That is what the Servicewomen and
Women Veterans Congressional Caucus
is about.
We four women are here to enact
change to better support the brave
women who have also answered the call
to serve. We four are here as four
women veterans who will lead this cau-
cus with our lived experiences in the
Armed Forces and who will evaluate
the unique issues that our women face
and who will work towards enacting
legislation that better serves them and
better serves their families.
This is not a Democratic issue nor is
it a Republican issue. It is neither a
man’s issue nor a woman’s issue. It is
an intrinsically American and human
issue, and that is why this caucus has
members from both sides of the aisle,
and that is why we have veterans and
nonveterans as participants, men and
women.
This caucus is comprised of people
who are held together by a shared un-
derstanding that, when Congress ne-
glects its duty to support the men and
women who serve, it hasn’t done its
job. It undermines our country’s na-
tional security and our military’s read-
iness.
I remember thinking to myself when
I got here that I was just one person.
Then when I got here, I met Represent-
ative TULSI GABBARD, Representative
ELAINE LURIA, Representative MIKIE
SHERRILL, and the one became four.
And now, today, I am launching that
Servicewomen and Women Veterans
Congressional Caucus, the very first
caucus in our country’s history to spe-
cifically address the issues facing serv-
icewomen and women veterans.
We are more than 50 strong in num-
ber now; 1 became 4, and 4 became
more than 50. We have a mission. We
have our marching orders. And speak-
ing as an Air Force veteran, I can
promise I won’t stop fighting until our
mission has been accomplished.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
MAKING THE MATH WORK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT) for 30 minutes.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
this is actually something we try to do
about once a week, come in here and
actually sort of talk about our unified
theory in our office: What do we do to,
basically, keep our promises?
Here is a thought experiment.
Social Security and Medicare are two
of the greatest fragilities we have in
our society because we are getting
older very fast. Remember, we have
talked about this over and over and
over. In about 81⁄2 years, 50 percent of
the spending in this body, less interest,
will be to those 65 and up.
How do you make the math work?
And in an intellectual, lazier time, you
would get some that would say: Well,
we could raise taxes here or we can do
entitlement reform here.
Well, it turns out that math really
actually doesn’t work anymore. Now,
we actually have to do everything to
make the math work. So we have been
trying to actually sell this concept
that it is economic growth, and within
economic growth it is how we design
our tax system, how we design trade,
how we design our regulatory environ-
ment, how we actually do population
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.029 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3837
May 15, 2019
stability—and this one actually gets
complicated.
You saw the article in The Wall
Street Journal today about what has
happened to U.S. birth rates. How do
you encourage family formation, but
also how do you deal with the immigra-
tion system that maximizes a talent-
based immigration system to maximize
that economic velocity?
Remember, this is about us having a
vibrant enough economy so we can
keep our promises, but within that, we
also have some other issues. How do
you do what we call labor force partici-
pation?
Countries like Japan and some in
Western Europe are dealing with how
they get those who are older, and if
they are healthy and want to, how they
create incentives to actually say: Are
you willing to stay in or come back
into the labor force?
We actually have this quirky math
here in our country of millennial
males. In December, we started to see
this breakthrough of millennial fe-
males entering the workforce. We still
actually have a whole bunch of millen-
nial males who are missing in the
workforce who should be there. How do
we build a society that encourages par-
ticipation in that labor force?
It turns out, if you actually look at a
lot of our economic data, from the
Joint Economic Committee to the
Joint Committee on Taxation, when
they talk about what are the barriers
for us to be able to keep growing and
continue this actually incredibly ro-
bust cycle we are having right now, it
is capital stock.
Well, actually, the numbers since tax
reform have been dramatically
healthier than we modeled for, with
folks having savings, and that savings
actually becoming lendable capital.
You actually can see that in just na-
tionwide interest rates.
The second fragility that was being
written about was labor force partici-
pation, and we now live in a society
where we have hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of thousands of jobs and
no workers. So who would have ever
thought a couple years ago you would
live in a society with more job open-
ings than available workers?
This is a wonderful problem, but it
actually does genuinely become a bar-
rier to economic growth, and it is
something we have to find a way to
deal with.
Part of this is actually really opti-
mistic, though, as we started to see in
the data over the last several months
the number of business organizations
and others who are taking a chance on
people, hiring right out of correctional
facilities, making accommodations for
our brothers and sisters who may have
a personal impairment, a personal
handicap; and we actually see that in
some of the Social Security disability
numbers of individuals actually mov-
ing into the labor force.
So, look, this is just our unified the-
ory.
Today, we are actually going to start
to talk about technology, which is one
of our five pillars, and how aggressive I
believe the adoption of technology has
to be to keep the economic growth
going.
We have done lots of floor time over
the last couple months on the
healthcare technology, the revolution
that I believe, our office believes, some
of the people we work with believe,
that is about to happen and the ability
for you to take care of yourself, the
wearables—the kazoo you blow into
that instantly tells you if you have the
flu, to the other side of the spectrum,
the single shot cure for hemophilia—
and how do we finance those types of
disruptions.
Wouldn’t it be amazing if this body
were no longer having the, actually, in
some ways, insane debate we have had
for decades about who gets subsidized,
who gets to pay in healthcare, and
started actually talking about what we
pay and how we are going to cure our
brothers and sisters who have chronic
conditions? We all know, the 5 percent
of Americans with those chronic condi-
tions are well over half of our
healthcare spending.
So what happens when we actually
bring cures to market? And then our
obligation: How do we finance them so
we roll them out as fast as possible?
But today, we are going to talk about
another fixation of mine, and that is
environment issues.
I wish I had a more delicate way to
talk about this. Often, the discussion
around here is almost Malthusian, say-
ing the pie is only so big. If you care
about global warming, if you care
about greenhouse gases, we must
shrink the economy; we must get indi-
viduals to drive less; we must generate
less power; we must do these types of
things.
And a decade or so ago, maybe that
was a legitimate view, but they have
missed an entire technology revolution
that is going on around us, and there
should be optimism in this body that,
if you are someone who cares about
greenhouse gases in our national and
world environment, the revolution is
here, and it is a technology one.
b 1815
How does this body start to remove
the barriers that have slowed down the
adoption of this clean generation, these
alternative generations that are in our
marketplace? A simple thought: solar
generation.
I hope I get this story, which is com-
ing out of New Mexico, correct. They
wanted to run a power line to Arizona.
They have been working on the power
transmission lines for a dozen years.
We have seen the discussion in the
upper Midwest. I believe it is Iowa,
with wind generation, finally figuring
it out and saying maybe we can run the
power lines in the railroad right-of-way
because we want this power to make it
to Illinois. That is where the demand
is, and over here is where the clean
generation is.
These are things we often don’t think
about. It is not enough to have the
technology. How do you get the power
to where it needs to be consumed? We
have never fixed the bureaucratic bar-
riers to moving that power.
It is like some of the discussions we
have had in our office. A couple of
years ago, we did a math experiment. A
pipeline in west Texas, a pipeline loop
that would capture methane so you
didn’t have to flare it off, had a really
impressive calculation in U.S. green-
house gas emissions, but it requires
permitting a pipeline.
I need us to remove some of our ideo-
logical blinders and think of pro-
growth, pro-environment, pro-effec-
tiveness. We have to be willing to
change the permitting system and so
much of the litigation and bureaucracy
that slows these things down.
We are going to walk through a cou-
ple of these boards, just because I
think there is incredible optimism out
there.
This one I am sort of thrilled with.
This is a chart that talks about battery
efficiency. For those of you that geek
out on this stuff with me, you probably
all saw the article—I think it was April
1—on some new solid-state battery
technology. It looks like they finally
have a major breakthrough on what we
call power density.
This chart here, do you see that com-
ing down? That is the cost of battery
storage. It is a remarkable reduction.
In Arizona, we have our largest and
best utility, Arizona Public Service.
When you read some of the articles
that are going on right now with them,
the amount of solar that is now in
their portfolio, they have baseline nu-
clear and now the holy grail. What hap-
pens when you live in the desert South-
west as I do? I am blessed to live in the
Phoenix-Scottsdale area. We produce
lots of solar.
Into the peak of the afternoon, Cali-
fornia now produces so much alter-
native solar generation that they can’t
use it all. On some days, they paid Ari-
zona to buy it off them.
What happens when a company like
APS gets really creative and says: How
do we have solar power at night when,
if you live in the Phoenix area, you are
still running your air-conditioner into
the evening? It turns out the battery
investment is about to bring solar gen-
eration into the hours it is dark be-
cause they will store it. If you design
that type of battery storage that holds
for about 4 hours, you get us through
the peak.
It is referred to as the duck curve. If
you see the back of a duck, we have all
this production, and then it collapses.
Yet, we still have all this demand. How
do you cover that gap?
In the past, we used peaking power
plants, fire them up to cover those few
hours. Now, with what is happening
with battery storage, it is here.
Our privately owned utility in Ari-
zona, APS, recently did an RFP or
RFQ. The numbers that came back
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.076 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3838 May 15, 2019
were remarkably competitive. It is
happening.
When on this floor we discuss global
warming, greenhouse gases, and what
we are going to do in alternative gen-
eration, it is here. We just need to un-
derstand what is happening right
around us.
How do you keep curves like this line
continuing? When we are reading that
there is a breakthrough in battery
technology, how do we remove barriers
so that technology rolls out and be-
comes part of what we do here in the
United States and around the world?
Here is something else. I am blessed
to be on the Ways and Means Com-
mittee. Last year, we updated a tax
credit mechanism for carbon sequestra-
tion. It turns out that we have mul-
tiple facilities now that were an experi-
ment, but they are growing. They are
about to go to large-scale commercial
where they capture all the carbon.
This first one, I believe this is the
NET Power facility outside Houston. It
is a natural gas-fired facility, so they
are using a hydrocarbon and they have
no smokestack. They capture not only
the manmade CO2, but they even cap-
ture any other gas throw-off.
The remarkable design is that they
throw a little oxygen. They heat it up,
and heat it really, really hot. They use
that to spin the turbines. Then they
cool it down and pull out the CO2 and
then use that to sell for other purposes.
They don’t have a smokestack.
This technology is up and running
today. The proof of concept is done.
Now we are heading toward, I believe, a
fairly substantial expansion in the
scale of the facility.
This was research that has been
going on for years. Those of us here in
this body, a year ago, we updated the
carbon sequestration tax credits. It is
paying off.
The next one is another facility that
is also in Texas. This one was really an
interesting experiment because, in
many ways, it broke through a bit of
folklore.
It sits right next to an existing coal-
fired generation facility. It is a coal-
fired carbon capture plant. They are
spinning the turbines, burning coal,
and they capture the carbon.
It was only 2 or 3 years ago when we
had witnesses around here saying this
sort of technology would not work. It
is up and running today.
There should be joy and optimism
around this place because the ability to
basically say, for the hydrocarbons we
have, what happens if we can use them
to help us through this transition of
time and we are capturing the CO2?
This is wonderful.
Let’s go even further. If we are going
to continue the thought experiment,
you have already seen the United
States do some pretty remarkable re-
ductions. Most of it has come from nat-
ural gas, but there have been some
pretty remarkable reductions in our
CO2 production.
A lot of the rest of the world hasn’t
even come close. For the number of
new coal-fired plants moving in South-
east Asia, part of the Chinese Belt and
Road Initiative, they are not going to
have the types of capture technology
we have here in the United States.
We have to have a worldwide strat-
egy. I am one of those who has been
really excited because I have been fol-
lowing a facility that is going up in
Canada. It looks like they have suc-
ceeded in the breakthrough of mining
the air to pull CO2 out of it. Mathe-
matically, we had lots of smart people
saying this is absurd, that you are not
going to be able to do it.
We had a very smart professor in Ari-
zona at Arizona State University who
had been working on sort of a carbon
capture artificial tree. This technology
is rolling out. It is under production
right now, and they are moving up to
industrial scale. The amazing thing is,
they think they can do it for about $100
a ton, which is remarkable if you have
actually played the math game. This is
for the new facility.
What happens if they start to break
that curve? If you understand that car-
bon that has been captured, to have the
ability to refine it and do other things,
even make another fuel source out of
it?
The other thing is, think about the
article we hopefully all saw last week
about what the Dutch are doing. The
Dutch are basically about to take a de-
pleted oil field and take carbon that
they have captured and shove it back
in the ground and sequester it.
All of a sudden, it is a negative cal-
culation. In this place, in a lot of the
debate, for a lot of the witnesses we
have had in previous years, the concept
of mining and having negative emis-
sions was considered absurd. It is here.
The technology is here.
This is a facility that has, appar-
ently, really smart, really wealthy peo-
ple investing in it because they are so
excited about the technology. We need
to understand that there is optimism
out here.
How do we get ourselves up to date
on the cutting-edge technology? How
do we move it forward and promote it?
We also need to understand that the
theater that we engage in here often is
not good math. I wish I had a more re-
cent date, but the latest we could find
is 2015 on this.
Do you see the yellow bar on the
side? That is all the photovoltaic solar
that rolled out in 2015. It was an im-
pressive year. There were fairly aggres-
sive subsidies, State, local, and Fed-
eral.
Do you see the other bar chart next
to it? That was all the nuclear that
went offline that year.
The reality of it is, in 2015, if you
were thinking about power generation
in the United States that did not
produce CO2 and you were joyful that
this much solar hit the grid, under-
stand that almost the equal amount of
nuclear came off the grid. We were ped-
dling in place.
We need to be honest about the math,
and we need to be honest about that
baseload nuclear being really, really
important if you care about this issue.
There are a couple of quirky things I
wanted to throw out here. This one is
just fun. It is sort of an odd thought ex-
periment.
In the desert Southwest and moun-
tain Southwest, uranium mining has
always been a dodgy issue. We need it.
We know we need it. We need it for ev-
erything from our X-rays to refining
and refining and refining for a nuclear
power plant.
In previous decades, we have been
able to take very high grades and step
it down, but that was some of the ex-
cess that was out there after the Cold
War. That stock has been substantially
used up. So what are we going to do?
There is a technology breakthrough
of mining seawater for uranium. We
should be joyful and pushing these
technologies. They solve some of the
moving problem of wanting nuclear
generation but where are we going to
get the uranium? How are we going to
step it up? It turns out, even on that,
the technology has moved forward.
Look at other little thought experi-
ments. How many of us in high school
with Popular Science magazine used to
get excited about how you generate
power from ocean waves? It turns out
that a new design is rolling out. It is
sort of a bobbing power generation. It
exists now, and it works. It is much
more robust than anything that has
ever been designed.
We should be joyful and trying to
promote more of this type of tech-
nology, but we have to deal with how
you bring the power in from the shore.
All of a sudden, you have a whole other
layer of regs, rules, and permitting.
You want clean power. We all want
it, but we have to deal with the bureau-
cratic malaise, mess, and blocks that
stop us from being able to pull this
type of new power generation into our
communities and our country.
What is exciting about that is that is
a type of power generation that, if we
make it work, it can be all over the
world. Being someone who, as a young-
er man, trekked Indonesia, Vietnam,
lots of India, and Sri Lanka, think
about most of the world’s population
living near coastal communities.
Wouldn’t that be exciting?
Why aren’t we promoting these types
of technologies? We need to get rid of
this Malthusian mindset that the pie is
only so big, that we can cut it only so
many ways, that once you cut it those
ways, there is never an opportunity for
it to grow.
There are still people who believe
that the 1968 book ‘‘The Population
Bomb’’ was real. The only thing they
got accurate was the author’s name.
b 1830
We need to understand there is a
technology breakthrough happening
around us, in particularly power gen-
eration. But if you want to have a rev-
olution—and I am sort of banking on
being one of the first people to talk
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.077 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3839
May 15, 2019
about this because this one is really
disruptive, but it is worth the thought
experiment.
For anyone who might be watching
or having an interest in this Google,
‘‘photosynthesis 40 percent’’. Read the
complete articles that have been writ-
ten.
Madam Speaker, you remember your
high school biology class talking about
plants and plant cells having a certain
inherent inefficiency, where there is a
flaw that has been there for millions
and millions of years where it reaches
out and grabs the oxygen molecule
when it should have grabbed the carbon
molecule.
Through some synthetic biology they
fixed the inefficiency. It now will reach
over and grab the carbon molecule
every time. All of a sudden it means a
40 percent efficiency in growth.
So, what happens tomorrow when
crops require 40 percent less water, 40
percent less land, and 40 percent less
fuel?
What does it mean to the world?
Thought experiment: I need you to
take it a step further. World agri-
culture represents 2.2 times the total
greenhouse gases of every automobile
on Earth. Just adopting this plant
technology in our agriculture equals
removing every car off the face of the
Earth.
As this rolls out, how fast would it
take to change the seed stock around
the world?
There are solutions, and they are not
always a linear thought. They some-
times require some creativity. Let’s
face it. We work in a math-free zone
that also lacks creativity. This exists.
This is rolling out. It is a revolution.
Yes, it is going to be incredibly dis-
ruptive to agriculture around the
world. It is going to be incredibly dis-
ruptive.
At the same time, what happens
when you want to plant trees and you
can grow them 40 percent more effi-
ciently, and they are just little carbon
capture machines?
This is here. We should be excited
about it.
The last one is just more of the
thought experiment of trying to say, if
we really care, we need to stop the the-
ater that seems to be what happens be-
hind these microphones and actually
understand the problem, understand
the math, and then focus on that solu-
tion. Because often around here I be-
lieve a solution is a problem for us be-
cause the very thing that we got elect-
ed on, that we love coming and com-
plaining about, oh, dear heaven, what
happens if we solve it?
So let’s actually talk about some-
thing that is part of our pop culture
right now, but it is a real issue. For
someone like myself, I grew up scuba
diving. I love scuba diving, and I have
been blessed to do it in a lot of really
neat places. Ninety percent of the plas-
tic in the world’s oceans come from 10
rivers. Eight of these rivers are in Asia,
and two of those rivers are in Africa.
Ninety percent of the plastic in the
ocean comes from 10 rivers. If you give
a darn about plastic in the ocean, ban-
ning straws in your community is the-
ater. It is absurd math. It may make
you feel better and get you in the local
newspaper, but you didn’t do anything.
This body here immediately should
figure out what aid programs we have,
what research, what we can do to go to
those 10 rivers that are 90 percent of
the plastic in the ocean and help, in-
stead of complaining about it and in-
stead of doing a nice video of going out
and saying, I am going to pick up plas-
tic off a beach.
No. If you care, it is 10 rivers, we
know where the problem is. If you real-
ly want to have an impact, go where it
is coming from. This is a simple exam-
ple of we talk, talk, talk, talk, and
talk around this place, but if we solve
it, then we don’t get to actually talk
about it. But solving is the most eth-
ical thing we can do as a body.
Policy that is made with math and
policy that is made with facts can do
amazing things for our country, my 3-
year-old little girl, and for this world.
Policy around here that is done by
folklore, by an anecdote, and by feel-
ings, time and time again, when we
look back, it may have been well-in-
tended, but ultimately it hurts people.
If we get our math right, if we actu-
ally understand the underlying basis of
a problem, figure out an honest solu-
tion that continues to grow our econ-
omy and continues to provide opportu-
nities instead of this sort of constant
Malthusian echo around here that says
that we can’t grow anymore, we can’t
do this—they are wrong, and the folks
who embrace that philosophy have
been wrong for centuries now.
There are technology breakthroughs
happening all around us. You actually
saw the latest one on this. Finally, we
have broken the code on a plastic that
truly breaks down. Let’s incentivize
that. There are solutions. This body is
an honorable body, but it needs to be-
come one about solutions instead of
theatrics.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
PUBLICATION OF BUDGETARY
MATERIAL
REVISION TO THE AGGREGATES, ALLOCATIONS,
AND OTHER BUDGETARY LEVELS FOR FISCAL
YEAR 2020
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET,
Washington, DC, May 15, 2019.
MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974 (CBA), the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 (BBEDCA), and H. Res. 293 (116th
Congress), I hereby submit for printing in
the Congressional Record a revision to the
aggregates and allocations set forth in the
Statement of Aggregates, Allocations, and
Other Budgetary Levels for Fiscal Year 2020
published in the Congressional Record on
May 3, 2019.
This revision is for allowable adjustments
for amounts for program integrity initia-
tives and Overseas Contingency Operations
pursuant to section 251(b) of BBEDCA. These
amounts are contained respectively in the
text of H.R. 2740, the Departments of Labor,
Health and Human Services, and Education,
and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2020, and of H.R. 2745, the Military Construc-
tion, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies
Appropriations Act, 2020, as reported by the
Committee on Appropriations.
Accordingly, I am revising aggregate
spending levels for fiscal year 2020 and the
allocation for the House Committee on Ap-
propriations for fiscal year 2020. For pur-
poses of enforcing titles III and IV of the
CBA and other budgetary enforcement provi-
sions, the revised aggregates and allocation
are to be considered as aggregates and allo-
cations included in the budget resolution,
pursuant to the Statement published in the
Congressional Record on May 3, 2019.
Questions may be directed to Jennifer
Wheelock or Raquel Spencer of the Budget
Committee staff.
JOHN YARMUTH.
TABLE 1.—REVISION TO ON-BUDGET AGGREGATES
[On-budget amounts, in millions of dollars]
2020 2020–2029
Current Aggregates:
Budget Authority ...................................... 3,709,585 n.a.
Outlays ..................................................... 3,676,452 n.a.
Revenues .................................................. 2,740,533 34,847,515
Revision for Program Integrity (H.R 2740):
Budget Authority ...................................... 1,842 n.a.
Outlays ..................................................... 1,481 n.a.
Revenues .................................................. – – – – – –
Revision for Overseas Contingency Operations
(H.R. 2745):
Budget Authority ...................................... 921 n.a.
Outlays ..................................................... 7 n.a.
Revenues .................................................. – – – – – –
Revised Aggregates:
Budget Authority ...................................... 3,712,348 n.a.
Outlays ..................................................... 3,677,940 n.a.
Revenues .................................................. 2,740,533 34,847,515
n.a. = Not applicable because annual appropriations for fiscal years
2021 through 2029 will not be considered until future sessions of Congress.
TABLE 2.—REVISED ALLOCATION OF SPENDING AUTHOR-
ITY TO THE HOUSE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
[In millions of dollars]
2020
Base Discretionary Action:
BA ...................................................................................... 1,295,018
OT ...................................................................................... 1,360,935
Revision for Program Integrity (H.R. 2740):
BA ...................................................................................... 1,842
OT ...................................................................................... 1,481
Revision for Overseas Contingency Operations (H.R. 2745):
BA ...................................................................................... 921
OT ...................................................................................... 7
Revised Allocation:
BA ...................................................................................... 1,297,781
OT ...................................................................................... 1,362,423
Current Law Mandatory:
BA ...................................................................................... 1,075,820
OT ...................................................................................... 1,067,358
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Madam Speaker,
I move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 6 o’clock and 35 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, May 16, 2019, at 10 a.m. for
morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
1026. A letter from the Deputy Under Sec-
retary, Comptroller, Department of Defense,
transmitting a semi-annual report titled,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15MY7.079 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3840 May 15, 2019
‘‘Acceptance of contributions for defense
programs, projects, and activities; Defense
Cooperation Account’’, pursuant to 10 U.S.C.
2608(i); Public Law 101-403, title II, Sec.
202(a)(1) (as amended by Public Law 103-160,
Sec. 1105(b)); (107 Stat. 1750); to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
1027. A letter from the Under Secretary,
Army, Department of Defense, transmitting
annual audit of the American Red Cross’s
consolidated financial statements for the
year ending June 30, 2018, pursuant to 36
U.S.C. 300110(b); Public Law 105-225, Sec.
300110(b); (112 Stat. 1493); to the Committee
on Foreign Affairs.
1028. A letter from the Director, Office of
White House Liaison, Department of Edu-
cation, transmitting a notification of a des-
ignation of acting officer, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112
Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
1029. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Civil Rights, Department of the Inte-
rior, transmitting the Department’s FY 2018
No FEAR Act report, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
2301 note; Public Law 107-174, 203(a) (as
amended by Public Law 109-435, Sec. 604(f));
(120 Stat. 3242); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
1030. A letter from the Director, Federal
Housing Finance Agency, transmitting the
Agency’s inventories of commercial and in-
herently governmental activities performed
by federal employees for Fiscal Year 2017,
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 501 note; Public Law
105-270, Sec. 2(c)(1)(A); (112 Stat. 2382); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
1031. A letter from the Chairman, Federal
Labor Relations Authority, transmitting a
notification of a nomination, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 3349(a); Public Law 105-277, 151(b); (112
Stat. 2681-614); to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
1032. A letter from the Chairman, Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission, transmitting
the Commission’s inventories of commercial
and inherently governmental activities per-
formed by employees for fiscal year 2017, pur-
suant to 31 U.S.C. 501 note; Public Law 105-
270, Sec. 2(c)(1)(A); (112 Stat. 2382); to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
1033. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Energy, transmitting a letter sub-
mitted to amend Sec. 661 of the Department
of Energy Organization Act of 1977; jointly to
the Committees on Energy and Commerce
and the Judiciary.
1034. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
of Defense, Legislative Affairs, Department
of Defense, transmitting a draft of proposed
legislation, titled the ‘‘National Defense Au-
thorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020’’; jointly
to the Committees on Armed Services, Nat-
ural Resources, Veterans’ Affairs, Small
Business, the Judiciary, Transportation and
Infrastructure, Oversight and Reform, For-
eign Affairs, Appropriations, and Science,
Space, and Technology.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. DeLAURO: Committee on Appropria-
tions. H.R. 2740. A bill making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, and Education, and re-
lated agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes (Rept.
116–62). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ: Committee
on Appropriations. H.R. 2745. A bill making
appropriations for military construction, the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes (Rept.
116–63). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. ROUDA (for himself, Mr.
CRAWFORD, Mr. PERRY, Ms. GRANGER,
Mr. RYAN, Ms. NORTON, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, and Mr. GARAMENDI):
H.R. 2739. A bill to amend title 49, United
States Code, to limit certain rolling stock
procurements, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Mr.
RUSH, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. ENGEL, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. CAS-
TOR of Florida, Mr. SARBANES, Mr.
MCNERNEY, Mr. WELCH, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. TONKO, Ms. CLARKE of New York,
Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. RUIZ,
Mr. PETERS, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
VEASEY, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, Mr. SOTO, and Mr.
O’HALLERAN):
H.R. 2741. A bill to rebuild and modernize
the Nation’s infrastructure to expand access
to broadband and Next Generation 9-1-1, re-
habilitate drinking water infrastructure,
modernize the electric grid and energy sup-
ply infrastructure, redevelop brownfields,
strengthen health care infrastructure, create
jobs, and protect public health and the envi-
ronment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on Natural Re-
sources, Science, Space, and Technology,
Ways and Means, Transportation and Infra-
structure, and Education and Labor, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BIGGS (for himself, Mr. WEBER
of Texas, Mr. BUDD, Mr. STEUBE, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Mr. BUCK, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
KING of Iowa, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. GIBBS,
Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. LATTA, Mr.
GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. GROTHMAN,
Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. JOYCE of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. NORMAN, and Mr. ABRA-
HAM):
H.R. 2742. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide that amounts
paid for an abortion are not taken into ac-
count for purposes of the deduction for med-
ical expenses; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. BUDD (for himself, Mr. MOONEY
of West Virginia, and Mr. DAVIDSON
of Ohio):
H.R. 2743. A bill to repeal the Office of Fi-
nancial Research, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. MCCAUL (for himself and Mr.
ENGEL):
H.R. 2744. A bill to authorize the Adminis-
trator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development to prescribe the man-
ner in which programs of the agency are
identified overseas, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. KIND (for himself, Mr. SMITH of
Nebraska, Mr. SCHRADER, and Mr.
YOHO):
H.R. 2746. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for an exclusion
for assistance provided to participants in
certain veterinary student loan repayment
or forgiveness programs; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr.
CARBAJAL, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. CRIST,
Mr. DEUTCH, Ms. NORTON, Mr. KIL-
MER, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
PETERS, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Ms. TITUS, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ,
Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. ENGEL, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. PAL-
LONE, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. LARSEN
of Washington, Ms. MENG, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. SCANLON,
Mr. TED LIEU of California, Ms.
ESHOO, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
COHEN, Mrs. CRAIG, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. NADLER, Mrs. HAYES, Mr.
MORELLE, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD):
H.R. 2747. A bill to prevent harassment at
institutions of higher education, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. PANETTA, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. COHEN, Ms. ESHOO, Ms.
LEE of California, Ms. MENG, and Mr.
MCGOVERN):
H.R. 2748. A bill to establish an integrated
national approach to respond to ongoing and
expected effects of extreme weather and cli-
mate change by protecting, managing, and
conserving the fish, wildlife, and plants of
the United States, and to maximize Govern-
ment efficiency and reduce costs, in coopera-
tion with State, local, and Tribal Govern-
ments and other entities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr.
SCOTT of Virginia, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. COHEN, Mr. COOPER,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS
of Illinois, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. EVANS, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KILDEE,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mrs. MCBATH, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
MCEACHIN, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MEEKS, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
PORTER, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. SMITH of Washington,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
TAKANO, Mr. TONKO, Mr. VELA, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, and Ms. CASTOR of Florida):
H.R. 2749. A bill to prohibit forced arbitra-
tion in work disputes, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary,
and in addition to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L15MY7.000 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3841
May 15, 2019
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, and Mr. TAKANO):
H.R. 2750. A bill to amend title 9 of the
United States Code to prohibit predispute ar-
bitration agreements that force arbitration
of certain disputes arising from claims of
servicemembers and veterans; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. MOORE (for herself, Ms.
HAALAND, and Mrs. DINGELL):
H.R. 2751. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to provide coverage
under the Medicaid program for services pro-
vided by doulas and midwives, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. ALLRED:
H.R. 2752. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to furnish medically nec-
essary transportation for newborn children
of certain women veterans; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 2753. A bill to amend the Fair Credit
Reporting Act to require certain consumer
reporting agencies to include a credit score
when providing consumers with a free annual
consumer report; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Miss RICE
of New York, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. LEWIS,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. HECK, and Mr. COO-
PER):
H.R. 2754. A bill to amend the Help Amer-
ica Vote Act of 2002 to require paper ballots
and risk limiting audits in all Federal elec-
tions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on House Administration.
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania (for himself, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. POCAN,
Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. SHERMAN, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. LAMB, Mr. SOTO, Ms.
FINKENAUER, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, and Mr.
VEASEY):
H.R. 2755. A bill to standardize and extend
certain Buy America provisions; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self and Mr. BANKS):
H.R. 2756. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Defense to develop workforce development
investment incentives and to consider a
qualified training program of an offeror as
part of the past performance rating of such
offeror, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM (for himself, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, and Mr. EVANS):
H.R. 2757. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for adjust-
ments to the Medicare part D cost-sharing
reductions for low-income individuals; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELAURO (for herself and Mrs.
HAYES):
H.R. 2758. A bill to provide disaster relief
assistance to individuals for the purpose of
clearing fallen debris, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Transportation and In-
frastructure.
By Ms. ESCOBAR (for herself, Ms. HILL
of California, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
GALLEGO, and Mr. CISNEROS):
H.R. 2759. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense to enhance the readiness of the De-
partment of Defense to challenges relating
to climate change and to improve the energy
and resource efficiency of the Department,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Ms. ESHOO (for herself and Mr.
SHIMKUS):
H.R. 2760. A bill to further deployment of
Next Generation 9-1-1 to enhance and up-
grade the 9-1-1 systems of the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. FLETCHER (for herself, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. BABIN, Mr.
BRADY, Mr. CARTER of Texas, Mr.
CRENSHAW, Mr. FLORES, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of
Puerto Rico, Mr. GRAVES of Lou-
isiana, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. RICE of
South Carolina, Mr. YOHO, Mr.
OLSON, Mr. ROUZER, Mr. CUNNINGHAM,
and Mr. BUTTERFIELD):
H.R. 2761. A bill to require the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget to im-
mediately release certain grant funds award-
ed for mitigation activities under the Com-
munity Development Block Grant program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
ESCOBAR, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. VELA,
Mrs. TRAHAN, and Ms. TORRES SMALL
of New Mexico):
H.R. 2762. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to provide for the modification
and clarification of construction authority
in the event of a declaration of war or na-
tional emergency, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Ms. GARCIA of Texas (for herself,
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Ms. ESCOBAR, and Mr.
CORREA):
H.R. 2763. A bill to prohibit the Secretary
of Housing and Urban Development from im-
plementing certain rules; to the Committee
on Financial Services.
By Mr. LEVIN of California (for him-
self and Mr. NEGUSE):
H.R. 2764. A bill to amend the Clean Air
Act to create a national zero-emission vehi-
cle standard, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MOOLENAAR (for himself and
Mr. CUELLAR):
H.R. 2765. A bill to allow qualified current
or former law enforcement officers to pur-
chase their service weapons, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. MOOLENAAR:
H.R. 2766. A bill to nullify certain memo-
randum of the Office of Chief Counsel of the
Internal Revenue Service regarding the ap-
plication of the excise tax on heavy trucks
and trailers to certain chassis renovations;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. MOULTON (for himself and Mr.
MAST):
H.R. 2767. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to provide for eating disorders
treatment for members and certain former
members of the uninformed services, and de-
pendents of such members, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself, Ms.
STEFANIK, and Ms. FUDGE):
H.R. 2768. A bill to amend the General Edu-
cation Provisions Act to allow the release of
education records to facilitate the award of a
recognized postsecondary credential; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2769. A bill to amend the District of
Columbia Home Rule Act to permit the
Council of the District of Columbia to enact
laws with respect to the organization and ju-
risdiction of the District of Columbia courts;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. SCHIFF,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. LANGEVIN,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. MASSIE, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Mr. MOULTON, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. FOSTER, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. CICILLINE, Miss RICE
of New York, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. KING of
Iowa, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr.
KILMER, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. SERRANO, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
CLAY, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Mr. ROGERS of Ken-
tucky, Mr. WILSON of South Carolina,
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr.
GOLDEN, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. KING
of New York, Mr. HUNTER, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. COOPER, Ms. KAPTUR,
Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. SMITH of New Jer-
sey, Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. HILL of
Arkansas, Mr. POCAN, Mr. BEYER, and
Mr. COOK):
H.R. 2770. A bill to waive the 24-month
waiting period for Medicare eligibility for in-
dividuals disabled by Huntington’s disease;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mrs. RODGERS of Washington (for
herself and Mr. LOEBSACK):
H.R. 2771. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to revise regula-
tions with respect to payment rates for dura-
ble medical equipment under the Medicare
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. RUPPERSBERGER (for him-
self, Mr. STIVERS, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, Mr. ZELDIN, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. CUELLAR, and Mr.
BARR):
H.R. 2772. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reinstate advance re-
funding bonds; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. SABLAN (for himself, Mr. SAN
NICOLAS, and Mrs. RADEWAGEN):
H.R. 2773. A bill to amend title 13, United
States Code, to direct the Secretary of Com-
merce to conduct a mid-decade census of
population for the Northern Mariana Islands,
Guam, American Samoa, and the U.S. Virgin
Islands, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself and
Ms. STEFANIK):
H.R. 2774. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to require coverage with-
out a deductible of certain primary care
services by high deductible health plans; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. SHALALA (for herself, Ms. HILL
of California, Mr. POCAN, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. MORELLE,
Mrs. CRAIG, Ms. SCANLON, Ms. DAVIDS
of Kansas, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms. GARCIA
of Texas, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L15MY7.100 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3842 May 15, 2019
CLARKE of New York, Ms. NORTON,
and Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York):
H.R. 2775. A bill to amend the Child Abuse
Prevention and Treatment Act to ensure
protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and
transgender youth and their families; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. TRAHAN (for herself, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. ROUDA,
Ms. TLAIB, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. TRONE, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. RYAN,
Mr. BEYER, and Mr. SERRANO):
H.R. 2776. A bill to make certain munici-
palities eligible for grants under the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for
herself and Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana):
H.R. 2777. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to protect coverage for
screening mammography, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committees on
Ways and Means, and Veterans’ Affairs, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self, Ms. ADAMS, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms.
BONAMICI, Ms. CLARK of Massachu-
setts, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
COHEN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms. DELBENE,
Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE
of Pennsylvania, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. FOSTER, Ms.
FRANKEL, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois, Mr. KHANNA, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK,
Mr. LANGEVIN, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. LEWIS, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Ms. MENG, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. NADLER,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
RASKIN, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
TRONE, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. BROWN of
Maryland, Ms. BASS, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, and Mr. RICHMOND):
H.R. 2778. A bill to amend title XXVII of
the Public Health Service Act to provide for
a special enrollment period for pregnant
women, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committees on Ways and
Means, Oversight and Reform, and Education
and Labor, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.J. Res. 58. A joint resolution requiring
congressional approval prior to engaging in
hostilities within the sovereign country of
Iran; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. SHERMAN (for himself, Mr.
BANKS, Mr. FOSTER, Mr. FORTEN-
BERRY, Mr. LUJÁN, and Mr.
FLEISCHMANN):
H. Con. Res. 39. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that the Trea-
ty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weap-
ons (NPT) continues to make an invaluable
contribution to United States and inter-
national security, and noting former Senator
Richard G. Lugar’s indispensable contribu-
tions to international security and reducing
nuclear weapons-related risks; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. GUEST (for himself and Mr.
KING of New York):
H. Res. 383. A resolution expressing support
for recognizing the week of May 13 through
May 19, 2019 as ‘‘National Police Week’’; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself, Mr.
KING of New York, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, and
Mr. BEYER):
H. Res. 384. A resolution recognizing the
September 11th National Memorial Trail as
an important trail and greenway to be en-
joyed by all in honor of the heroes of Sep-
tember 11th; to the Committee on Natural
Resources.
f
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
50. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Legislature of the State of Oregon, rel-
ative to House Joint Memorial 3, urging the
Congress of the United States to enact the
IDEA Full Funding Act, which would fully
fund the Individuals with Disabilities Edu-
cation Act; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. ROUDA:
H.R. 2739.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 2741.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution. That provision gives Congress
the power ‘‘to regulate commerce with for-
eign nations, and among the several states,
and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 2742.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 2743.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. McCAUL:
H.R. 2744.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. KIND:
H.R. 2746.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 2747.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 2748.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3. To regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 2749.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 2750.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. MOORE:
H.R. 2751.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. ALLRED:
H.R. 2752.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the Necessary and Proper Clause.
By Mrs. BEATTY:
H.R. 2753.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2754.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section IV, Clause I
By Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 2755.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion under the General Welfare Clause.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 2756.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 2767.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to Section 8
of Article I of the United States Constitu-
tion.
By Ms. DELAURO:
H.R. 2758.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I of the United States Constitution
and its subsequent amendments, and further
clarified and interpreted by the Supreme
Court of the United States.
By Ms. ESCOBAR:
H.R. 2759.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Constitutional Authority—Necessary and
Proper Clause (Art. I, Sec. 8, Clause 18)
THE U.S. CONSTITUTION
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8: POWERS OF
CONGRESS
CLAUSE 18
The Congress shall have power . . . To
make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution the fore-
going powers, and all other powers vested by
this Constitution in the government of the
United States, or in any department or offi-
cer thereof.
By Ms. ESHOO:
H.R. 2760.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L15MY7.100 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3843
May 15, 2019
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mrs. FLETCHER:
H.R. 2761.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.R. 2762.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. GARCIA of Texas:
H.R. 2763.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. LEVIN of California:
H.R. 2764.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. MOOLENAAR:
H.R. 2765.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
section 8 of article I of the Constitution.
By Mr. MOOLENAAR:
H.R. 2766.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 1
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.R. 2767.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 2768.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 2769.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 17 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 2770.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, clause 1 of the United States Constitution
By Mrs. RODGERS of Washington:
H.R. 2771.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Consistent with the understanding and in-
terpretation of the Commerce Clause, Con-
gress has authority to enact this legislation
in accordance with Clause 3 of Section 8, Ar-
ticle 1 of the U.S. Constitution.
By Mr. RUPPERSBERGER:
H.R. 2772.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 and Article
1, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. SABLAN:
H.R. 2773.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 2, Clause 3 and Ar-
ticle IV, Section 3, Clause 2 of the Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 2774.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Ms. SHALALA:
H.R. 2775.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts,
and Excises, to pay the Debts, and provide
for the common Defence and general Welfare
of the United States; but all Duties, Imposts
and Excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States.
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 2776.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3, of the Con-
stitution.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ:
H.R. 2777.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
Article I, Section 8, clause 1
Article I, Section 8, clause 3
Article I, Section 8, clause 14
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 2778.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. MOULTON:
H.J. Res. 58.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 95: Mr. TAYLOR, Mr. CLEAVER, and Mr.
AMODEI.
H.R. 141: Mr. BYRNE, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, and
Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 158: Mr. HASTINGS and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 249: Mr. MAST.
H.R. 250: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 275: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mrs. CRAIG, and Ms.
BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 285: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 307: Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. PETERS, Mr. STIVERS, Mr.
MALINOWSKI, and Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 336: Ms. FOXX of North Carolina, Mrs.
HARTZLER, and Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 372: Mr. VEASEY and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 444: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 500: Mr. HUNTER and Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 535: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 553: Mr. DOGGETT, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Ms. SCHRIER, and Mrs.
TRAHAN.
H.R. 554: Mr. MALINOWSKI and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 594: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 613: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 647: Mr. MEEKS and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 663: Mr. COOPER, Mr. PHILLIPS, and
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 677: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 692: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma and
Mr. BALDERSON.
H.R. 693: Mr. DESAULNIER and Mrs. LEE of
Nevada.
H.R. 717: Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 720: Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 748: Mr. STEIL, Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH,
Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. EVANS, and Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 803: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr. DOG-
GETT, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mrs. ROBY,
and Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 849: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 865: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 873: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. TRONE, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 874: Mr. PAPPAS, Mrs. NAPOLITANO,
and Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 877: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 884: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington.
H.R. 887: Mr. MCADAMS, Mr. STEWART, and
Mr. BISHOP of Utah.
H.R. 913: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 925: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 929: Mr. CROW, Mr. CHABOT, Mr. PHIL-
LIPS, Mr. PERRY, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee, and
Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 983: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. VAN DREW,
Ms. DEAN, and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1024: Ms. SHALALA.
H.R. 1030: Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 1055: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1139: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 1140: Mr. TONKO, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms.
KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. CORREA,
Mr. MALINOWSKI, and Mr. RUIZ.
H.R. 1155: Ms. DEAN, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1171: Mrs. MURPHY, Ms. DELAURO, and
Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1200: Mr. KIND and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 1210: Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mrs. CRAIG, and Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 1220: Mr. LAWSON of Florida and Mrs.
BEATTY.
H.R. 1225: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 1257: Mr. COX of California, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, and Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 1287: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 1309: Mr. DOGGETT and Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 1326: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1327: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina,
Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. VARGAS, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, and Mr. DEUTCH.
H.R. 1370: Mr. DOGGETT and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 1379: Mr. CROW, Mrs. LEE of Nevada,
and Mrs. CRAIG.
H.R. 1411: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 1415: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 1417: Mr. SERRANO and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 1423: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. O’HALLERAN,
Mr. CRIST, and Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1444: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 1450: Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. MEEKS, and Ms. KELLY of Illi-
nois.
H.R. 1485: Mr. HIMES, Mr. SOTO, and Mr.
MCGOVERN.
H.R. 1527: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 1622: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1629: Mrs. LEE of Nevada and Mrs.
AXNE.
H.R. 1636: Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. PLASKETT, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. WATERS, and Mr. CASTRO of
Texas.
H.R. 1641: Mr. WEBSTER of Florida and Mr.
PAPPAS.
H.R. 1668: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1680: Mr. FOSTER, Mr. SOTO, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. PALAZZO, and
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 1696: Ms. STEFANIK and Mr.
GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1705: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1709: Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. SARBANES, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
VELA, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
of Pennsylvania, and Ms. WILD.
H.R. 1741: Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 1753: Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 1754: Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. SERRANO, and
Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 1770: Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. EMMER, Mr.
KING of Iowa, Mr. COMER, Ms. BROWNLEY of
California, Mr. BACON, and Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire.
H.R. 1781: Mrs. WAGNER, Ms. UNDERWOOD,
and Mr. STANTON.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.041 H15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3844 May 15, 2019
H.R. 1830: Mr. BOST, Mrs. LESKO, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms. SCHRIER,
and Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi.
H.R. 1832: Mr. PHILLIPS.
H.R. 1846: Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. HIMES, Miss RICE of New York,
and Mr. CUMMINGS.
H.R. 1851: Mr. DUNN.
H.R. 1873: Mr. KING of New York, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. MARSHALL, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, and Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1903: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1910: Mr. GREEN of Tennessee.
H.R. 1948: Mr. FERGUSON, Ms. SCANLON, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. GALLA-
GHER, Mr. PETERSON, and Mr. COLLINS of New
York.
H.R. 1959: Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 1965: Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 1978: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1979: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 1982: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr.
SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 1992: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1994: Ms. SCHRIER, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
MCCAUL, and Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 2009: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H.R. 2010: Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. OLSON, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, and Mr. DESJARLAIS.
H.R. 2015: Ms. CHENEY and Mr. HURD of
Texas.
H.R. 2042: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2053: Mr. SWALWELL of California.
H.R. 2088: Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. SLOTKIN, and
Ms. MATSUI.
H.R. 2091: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK and Ms. LOF-
GREN.
H.R. 2093: Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. HECK, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, and Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 2096: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. PAPPAS,
Mr. TONKO, and Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2113: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2123: Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 2148: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 2149: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2150: Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, and Ms. STEFANIK.
H.R. 2151: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 2164: Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 2167: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 2178: Mr. DELGADO, Mr. ENGEL, and
Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 2180: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2213: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 2214: Ms. PORTER, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2219: Mrs. WALORSKI.
H.R. 2231: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 2247: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Ms. DELBENE, Ms.
JAYAPAL, and Ms. SCHRIER.
H.R. 2249: Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 2255: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2262: Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CLEAVER,
Mr. CLYBURN, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
GREEN of Texas, Mr. PAYNE, Ms. KELLY of Il-
linois, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. JOHNSON of Texas,
Ms. FUDGE, Ms. MOORE, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Ms. BASS, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
EVANS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. MEEKS, and
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 2266: Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 2319: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2329: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 2334: Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 2335: Mr. CLOUD.
H.R. 2340: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 2348: Mr. EVANS and Mr. RODNEY
DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2349: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 2352: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 2354: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. PRICE of North Carolina,
Mr. CARBAJAL, Ms. MOORE, and Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY.
H.R. 2377: Mr. KIM, Mr. COHEN, and Mr.
LUJÁN.
H.R. 2382: Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mr. BRINDISI, Miss RICE of New
York, Mrs. AXNE, and Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 2388: Mr. CRIST and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2402: Mr. CRIST, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. LAMB, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, and Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 2410: Mr. CÁRDENAS and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2415: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. CUMMINGS, Mr.
RASKIN, and Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 2428: Mr. GREEN of Texas.
H.R. 2430: Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 2439: Mr. KING of New York and Mr.
KATKO.
H.R. 2441: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 2457: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 2474: Ms. MENG, Mr. JOHNSON of Geor-
gia, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
SCHRIER, Ms. BASS, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
FOSTER, Ms. SLOTKIN, and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 2480: Mrs. MCBATH and Mr. CASTRO of
Texas.
H.R. 2481: Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. TIMMONS,
Mrs. AXNE, Mr. ENGEL, and Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 2482: Mr. WATKINS, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. NORTON, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. TAYLOR, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, and
Ms. DELAURO.
H.R. 2483: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. CUELLAR,
Mr. SUOZZI, and Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 2508: Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. PINGREE, and
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 2516: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 2525: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2534: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York and Mr. HECK.
H.R. 2561: Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 2570: Mr. KHANNA, Mr. LUJÁN, and
Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 2585: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. ENGEL, Mr.
CISNEROS, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 2591: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 2602: Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
ESCOBAR, and Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2615: Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, Mr. HURD of Texas, and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2619: Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 2634: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 2635: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 2649: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 2655: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 2656: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 2662: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2692: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. TIPTON, Mr.
COLLINS of New York, Ms. DELBENE, Mr.
POCAN, Mr. SWALWELL of California, and Mr.
STIVERS.
H.R. 2733: Mr. MCNERNEY.
H.J. Res. 2: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H. Con. Res. 36: Mr. LANGEVIN, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. RUSH, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. TLAIB, Mr.
LUJÁN, and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H. Res. 23: Ms. WILD and Mr. PASCRELL.
H. Res. 45: Mrs. CRAIG.
H. Res. 60: Ms. WILD.
H. Res. 138: Ms. JOHNSON of Texas.
H. Res. 152: Ms. LOFGREN and Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York.
H. Res. 220: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
BISHOP of Georgia, Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN
of Oklahoma, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H. Res. 221: Mr. PHILLIPS, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H. Res. 222: Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
GIANFORTE, and Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H. Res. 246: Mr. CLINE, Mr. STEWART, Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK, Mr. YOUNG, and Mr. ROONEY of
Florida.
H. Res. 259: Mrs. ROBY, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Ms.
LOFGREN, and Mr. WELCH.
H. Res. 276: Mr. STANTON.
H. Res. 277: Mr. CASE and Ms. LOFGREN.
H. Res. 326: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. SERRANO, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Il-
linois, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. AGUILAR, and
Mr. PAYNE.
H. Res. 354: Ms. SLOTKIN, Mrs. MCBATH, Ms.
WATERS, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms.
DELBENE, Ms. UNDERWOOD, Ms. HOULAHAN,
Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ, Miss RICE of New York, Ms. SÁNCHEZ,
Ms. SCANLON, Mrs. AXNE, Ms. SCHRIER, Mrs.
FLETCHER, Mrs. TORRES of California, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Ms. GRANGER, Mrs. MILLER, Mrs.
RODGERS of Washington, Ms. FOXX of North
Carolina, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mrs. ROBY,
Mr. MCCARTHY, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. PLASKETT,
Ms. HILL of California, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mrs.
CRAIG, Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. PINGREE, and Ms.
DAVIDS of Kansas.
H. Res. 369: Mr. BEYER and Mr. RASKIN.
H. Res. 372: Mr. CUMMINGS.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
The amendment to be offered by Rep-
resentative PALLONE or a designee to H.R.
987 the Strengthening Health Care and Low-
ering Prescription Drug Cost Act, does not
contain any congressional earmarks, limited
tax benefits, or limited tariff benefits as de-
fined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY7.034 H15MYPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2845
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, MAY 15, 2019 No. 81
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal Spirit, our shelter in the
time of storm, when our hearts grow
faint and weary, renew our strength
and enable us to soar above our chal-
lenges.
Today, fill our lawmakers with the
spirit of wisdom. May their different
approaches to problem-solving for our
Nation and world contribute to more
effective solutions for freedom in the
years to come. Lord, deliver our Sen-
ators from the spirit of pessimism, and
bless them as they seek to honor You.
In their thoughts, words, and deeds,
may they passionately strive to glorify
You, ever seeking Your divine ap-
proval.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session to resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read the nomination of Kenneth Kiyul
Lee, of California, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
PENTAGON OVERSIGHT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today to shed light
on yet another really dark cloud that
is hanging over our Department of De-
fense. In fact, for decades, a dark cloud
of fiscal mismanagement has loomed
large over the Pentagon. During my
very first term here in the Senate, I
began my quest to bring fiscal account-
ability to the Pentagon. Four decades
later, I am still keeping tabs on the
money trail. That money trail is some-
times difficult to follow. Back then, it
was a bit like David taking on Goliath.
We all know that the United States
of America has the strongest and
mightiest military in the world. I am
thankful for that because a strong
military is not meant to fight a war; it
is meant to maintain the peace. We
haven’t had a world war III since we
have had a strong military.
Our brave men and women who serve
in the U.S. Armed Forces protect our
shores at home and abroad to keep us
safe and to protect the blessings of lib-
erty for our children and grand-
children. That is exactly why it is so
very important to keep check on the
Pentagon’s ledgers, to help make sure
that every tax dollar assigned to the
Nation’s defense is actually spent ef-
fectively and not squandered on waste,
fraud, and abuse.
With the help of brave whistleblowers
who stuck their necks out to ‘‘commit
truth,’’ I stuck my neck out during the
Reagan administration. That is when I
learned about the Pentagon’s little
shop of price horrors.
Of course, ripping off the taxpayers
started during the Revolutionary War,
when contractors sold rotten meat to
the Continental Army, and it contin-
ued during the Civil War, when profit-
eers sold ammunition filled with saw-
dust and shoddy shoes and horses to
the Union Army. It looks like it con-
tinues to this day.
Back in 1985, Americans will recall,
the Defense Department was shelling
out vast amounts of taxpayer dollars
for spare parts. Remember back then
the $450 hammers and the $640 toilet
seats? That sounds like a real bargain
compared to the more recent wasteful
spending at the Pentagon, such as the
$1,280 coffee mug and the $14,000 toilet
seat lid. Obviously, the cost of waste is
getting a whole lot more expensive for
our taxpayers.
Back in the 1980s, I fought to win a
spending freeze on unchecked spending
sprees. Misspending and overspending
were riddling the defense budget at the
expense of the American taxpayer.
Military readiness drives the spend-
ing decisions that Members of Congress
make when we cast our votes on the
defense budget. Our constituents ex-
pect their elected representatives to
make sure that the moms and dads,
sons and daughters, brothers and sis-
ters who are serving our country in
uniform are well equipped with the
best resources money can buy. But
they also expect their elected rep-
resentatives to make sure their hard-
earned dollars that are withheld from
every paycheck—their tax dollars—
aren’t being ripped off by greedy cor-
porations, like TransDigm Group, Inc.,
which I will speak about in a moment.
That is why I conduct robust over-
sight of defense spending. As a tax-
payer watchdog—and all of us are sup-
posed to be watchdogs, and all of us
would claim to be watchdogs—it is our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.000 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2846 May 15, 2019
responsibility and my responsibility to
make sure every defense dollar is spent
as effectively and as efficiently as pos-
sible. Every dollar lost to waste, fraud,
and abuse harms military readiness,
and it also lines the pockets of some-
body else at taxpayers’ expense.
Trimming the fat in a bloated bu-
reaucracy won’t happen in the shad-
ows. There is no magic wand to wave
either. If there is one thing I have
learned in my years of oversight, trans-
parency matters. Transparency brings
accountability.
Every time I come to the floor to
talk about the fiscal mess at the Pen-
tagon, I get a bit of deja vu. Earlier, I
said my fraud-fighting efforts in the
1980s could be compared to David v. Go-
liath. Now let’s fast-forward to this
year, 2019. I am still here working as
hard as ever to do away with wrong-
doing and extract fiscal accountability
at the Pentagon. Today, some might
say that job is like the one performed
by the famous character in Greek my-
thology who was destined to roll that
heavy stone up the hill and to do it
from then until eternity.
Congressional oversight can be ex-
tremely tedious, and it can be time-
consuming, but, as I like to remind
each of the other 534 Members of Con-
gress, it is essential to our country
that we exercise this system of checks
and balances. Without it, the dark fis-
cal cloud looming over the Pentagon
would swell bigger and bigger and big-
ger.
Oversight work may feel like an up-
hill climb, but oversight is not futile in
the end. That is why I keep my shoul-
der to the wheel—to hold people at the
Pentagon accountable, to protect tax-
payers, and most importantly, when it
comes to a defense dollar, to make sure
we have our military readiness.
Right now, I am here today to share
some new details about the broken
record of fiscal mismanagement at the
Department of Defense.
No matter how high I turn up the
volume, the overdogs at the Pentagon
remain tone deaf to fiscal integrity.
Consider the recent report by the De-
partment of Defense Office of Inspector
General. It is called ‘‘Review of Parts
Purchased From TransDigm Group
Inc.’’
First, I want to compliment Senator
WARREN and two Representatives, RO
KHANNA and TIM RYAN, for getting the
ball rolling with their request asking
the inspector general to look into the
contract—this contractor’s pricing
structure. We need all hands on deck in
Congress to conduct oversight, so I
thank these other Members of Congress
just named.
After digging into the details, I can
only conclude that the Pentagon is
still, after all these years, stuck on
autopilot. No one on board in the Pen-
tagon’s mother ship seems to bother to
steer its ‘‘fiscal ship’’ into shape. Fis-
cal integrity somehow got lost in the
spare parts horror story I am about to
tell. In fact, I was more than dismayed
with the response from the internal
watchdogs at the DOD IG office. Their
team wrote the report, and yet the in-
spector general leadership team
seemed to show no urgency whatsoever
to fix the problem they described.
This tells me I also need to keep a
tight leash on the internal watchdogs
leading the Department of Defense in-
spector general’s office. Their February
report exposes a galactic price gouging,
colossal ripple, and out-of-this-world
waste. It reads like a sequel to the
same financial shenanigans that have
turned the Pentagon into a taxpayer
money pit. Change out the name of the
contractor, inflate the charges, submit
the invoice and voila—the American
taxpayer is on the hook for another
fixed-price, sole source contract.
For this report, the inspector general
examined one contractor, TransDigm
Group. In total, the inspector general
analyzed 113 contracts between Janu-
ary 2015 and January 2017. They re-
viewed 47 spare parts the Department
of Defense purchased from this con-
tractor. In just those 2 years, the in-
spector general found TransDigm over-
charged the Pentagon by $16–1/10th mil-
lion out of a total of $29–7/10th million
in contracts.
The reasonable profit threshold is
considered by the Department of De-
fense to be 15 percent or below. The IG
found that TransDigm earned excess
profits on 46 of the 47 parts sold to the
Defense Department.
On 17 of those parts, TransDigm
earned more than a 1,000-percent profit.
Remarkably, the highest profit per-
centage was 4,436 percent.
It is obvious to our taxpayers that
that is a fleecing of the American tax-
payer. Pulling the wool over the eyes
of Congress and the taxpayers will only
stop with transparency—which trans-
parency will bring accountability.
So that is why I am here today. Just
think for a minute about the big pic-
ture. This report is just one snapshot of
a much larger problem. It is kind of a
spit in the ocean when you consider the
enormous $716 billion defense budget.
Just imagine the boatloads of bloat
elsewhere in the bureaucracy. The De-
partment of Defense is obligated under
Federal law and under regulations to
uphold basic measures of fiscal integ-
rity.
So where do we go from here? The in-
spector general made just a few paltry
recommendations. For starters, it di-
rected contracting officers to request
voluntary refunds for excess profits.
Guess the chances of getting voluntary
refunds. Let me suggest that I would
not advise taxpayers to hold their
breath on a voluntary refund. The in-
spector’s general recommendations,
then, have no teeth. Their rec-
ommendations are insufficient. What is
worse, the inspector general leadership
team claims no single Department of
Defense official is responsible for this
price gouging that goes on.
So let me repeat: The inspector gen-
eral leadership team, the internal
watchdog for fiscal integrity and com-
pliance at the Department of Defense,
is effectively saying something like
this: No one person at the Department
of Defense can be held accountable for
waste, fraud, and abuse of taxpayers’
money. Obviously, to the taxpayers lis-
tening or anybody else, this illustrates
a cavalier attitude toward taxpayer
money that former Secretary of De-
fense James Mattis sought to extin-
guish. By the way, I wrote him a note,
complimenting him on some state-
ments he made about taking care of
some of these problems.
The decades-long odyssey of
misspending at the Pentagon keeps
going around and around and around.
That is why—the way I see it—the De-
partment of Defense has a fundamental
responsibility to uphold fiscal integ-
rity. After reviewing the IG report and
meeting with its auditing team and the
Department of Defense pricing czar, I
have reached three conclusions. No. 1,
fiscal control at the Department of De-
fense is AWOL. The Pentagon will
never clean up its books if it cannot
properly track the money trail and
connect the dots.
Consider why the Department of De-
fense contracting officers were unable
to even certify if a profit was ‘‘fair and
reasonable.’’ Do you know why? It was
because they could not obtain critical
cost data at the company TransDigm.
In the most egregious case—that case I
mentioned where there was a 4,436-per-
cent profit margin for just one spare
part—the contracting officer—you will
not believe this—certified that the
price was fair and reasonable. There is
something very, very wrong about that
procedure. A whopping 4,000-percent
profit margin for a spare part doesn’t
square with our midwestern common-
sense standard.
No. 2, the leadership team at the IG
office has exhibited an alarming hands-
off approach toward stopping waste,
fraud, and abuse. The lack of urgency
and the failure to hold anyone account-
able is very revealing. It sends a signal
throughout the chain of command:
Just keep on signing contracts; keep
ordering spare parts; keep up business
as usual. Lastly, it shows that no one
will be held accountable for price
gouging.
No. 3, the pattern of price gouging at
TransDigm and its subsidiaries has
gone unimpeded for decades. It has
amassed exclusive rights to sell these
spare parts to the Pentagon. In fact,
the Defense Department accounted for
34 percent of its sales in 2017.
TransDigm exploited its business
model and took advantage of its sole
source position to leverage higher
prices.
Now, as a former chairman of the
Senate Judiciary Committee—and still
a member of that committee—I have
examined anticompetitive business
practices over a long period of time, in-
cluding those in agriculture and the
pharmaceutical sectors of our econ-
omy. It is very concerning to me when
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.001 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2847
May 15, 2019
contracting arrangements, like those
between TransDigm and its 100 subsidi-
aries, are effectively a monopoly. It is
like an octopus with 100 arms putting
the squeeze on the Pentagon. Effec-
tively, the Pentagon is at the mercy of
TransDigm—which owns the intellec-
tual property—to buy the spare parts it
needs to build the Nation’s critical
weapon systems. That leaves the Amer-
ican taxpayer on the hook for exorbi-
tant price gouging.
The inspector general report found
that TransDigm’s choke hold has added
up to tens of millions of dollars over-
charging to the taxpayer. This is a
good time to refresh people’s memories
about my legislative and oversight
work with anticompetitive business
practices. It is pretty simple. Monopo-
lies invite government regulation. If
that is the road TransDigm wants to
continue following, I am here to de-
liver a message. The jig is up on this
cozy relationship. The buck stops here.
I have written a letter to Acting Sec-
retary Shanahan about these flawed
contracts and failures to identify price
gouging. I have asked him to make
measurable recommendations on how
to restore accountability and end this
price gouging. One thing is crystal
clear. Transparency and competition
are MIA—missing in action—when the
Pentagon buys spare parts from
TransDigm and its subsidiaries. Now,
thank God the other body, the House of
Representatives, its Committee on
Oversight and Reform, called an over-
sight hearing this week to examine
TransDigm and its price-gouging she-
nanigans.
Congress has a constitutional duty of
oversight to keep check on taxpayers’
money and hold government account-
able. As I said earlier, we need all
hands on deck to root out wasteful
spending.
Once again, we are back to square
one. The Pentagon has flunked a funda-
mental benchmark of fiscal responsi-
bility and stewardship. It is one of
Washington’s worst kept secrets. Year
after year, Congress shovels more
money into the Pentagon coffers to en-
sure we maintain the best military in
the world, and I express my support for
the military. I express my support that
a strong department of national de-
fense is also a strong keeper of the
peace because we might not be chal-
lenged, and we are going to be able to
help keep peace around the world, but
year after year, the Pentagon squan-
ders hundreds of millions of taxpayer
dollars. Some people at the Pentagon
seem to think that paying $16 million
in excess profits somehow seems to be
small potatoes.
In my letter to the Acting Defense
Secretary, I made it clear that I am
not one of those people. I have asked
him to answer a direct question. That
question is this: What specific steps is
he going to take to stop the profiteers
from pilfering taxpayer money?
Contracts like I have described today
between TransDigm and the Pentagon
are shortchanging the troops, fleecing
the taxpayers, and tarnishing its rep-
utation.
As Justice Brandeis said, ‘‘sunshine
is said to be the best of disinfectants.’’
So I am here today to pull back the
curtains on the TransDigm audit. The
American people need the sun to shine
in on price gouging at the Pentagon so
we can root out the wasteful spending
here and elsewhere.
Transparency is the best ammunition
that we have to chase away the dark
fiscal crowd looming along the shores
of the Potomac.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I
thank my colleague from Iowa for al-
ways staying on top of things like this.
Mr. President, first, I would like to
talk about Police Week. Today we ob-
serve Peace Officers Memorial Day, the
heart of National Police Week. We all
remember the men and women in law
enforcement who have made the ulti-
mate sacrifice, and we pause to say
thank you to all of our police officers
who work day and night to keep our
communities safe.
I want to share a special thanks to
all of our law enforcement members
visiting from New York, who, in my
view, are the gold standard in police
work.
I grew up in a neighborhood where
police officers lived. I played with their
children at their houses. You would al-
ways know sort of instinctively, even
as a kid, when that phone rang and the
spouse—almost always, in those days,
the wife of a police officer—heard the
phone ring, what went through her
head a little bit is this: I hope that is
not the call I dreaded. This is the job of
police officers and their families—that
is, to risk their safety for our safety—
and they do a great job.
As we recognize their contributions,
we should acknowledge what we could
do in Congress to make their jobs safer
and easier. We can make our streets
safer by passing comprehensive back-
ground check legislation. We can help
law enforcement combat foreign opioid
trafficking by passing the bipartisan
Fentanyl Sanctions Act and the
POWER Act, which provides handheld
scanning devices. When a police officer
is on a drug bust, they can tell if
fentanyl is part of a crime scene there,
and they can take precautions to pro-
tect themselves, because we know how
deadly fentanyl is, even if it gets on
your skin or in your nostrils. We can
also do more to care for the families of
fallen officers.
That is why I have been so proud to
fight alongside my colleague Senator
GILLIBRAND and so many others to
make sure that the September 11th
Victim Compensation Fund has the
necessary funding.
Last Friday, the New York Police
Department, or the NYPD, added the
names of nearly 50 police officers to
the 9/11 memorial wall, all of whom
died in 9/11-related illnesses. It is our
duty to take care of these families, and
the first step is making sure that the
Victims Compensation Fund has
enough funds to compensate them.
I say to our law enforcement officers
two words: Thank you. Thank you for
your service. It is an honor to rep-
resent you in the Senate, and we are
all grateful for the sacrifices you make
every day.
NOMINATIONS
Mr. President, now on judges, during
the same week that we mark the 65th
anniversary of the historic ‘‘Brown v.
Board of Education’’ decision, Leader
MCCONNELL has scheduled votes on
nominees whose views directly con-
tradict the spirit of equality and jus-
tice that Brown represents.
It is appalling. These new people we
are putting on the bench turn the clock
so backward after we have made so
much progress, many of it through the
courts.
Consider the nomination of Michael
Truncale of Texas. He has peddled con-
spiracies of ‘‘widespread voter fraud’’
and once called President Obama an
‘‘un-American imposter’’ who ‘‘bows to
Arab Sheikhs and other world leaders.’’
This is a man who we are putting on
the bench, a man who is supposed to be
judicious, thoughtful, and sees both
sides. What we are putting on the
bench is hard-right ideologues who will
do damage to this country for a genera-
tion. Mr. Truncale was approved by the
Republican Senate yesterday for a seat
on the district court in Texas, and he is
going to sit on that bench for life—a
man who says things like this and who
thinks like this.
I have always tried to put on the
bench people who are moderate. So
many of us have. Bill Clinton did.
Barack Obama did. Here we have a pa-
rade of narrow ideologues, and that is
not who should be on the bench be-
cause they will make law rather than
interpret the law.
Here is another one, Kenneth Lee of
California. His past writings reveal
shocking positions on race and diver-
sity, affirmative action, educational
opportunity, and women’s reproductive
freedom. He once wrote that
multiculturalism is a ‘‘malodorous
sickness’’ and that sexism—sexism,
which we have all seen and heard about
and a little more than half of our popu-
lation experiences—is ‘‘irrelevant pout-
ing.’’ That is a man who should be on
the bench? If confirmed today, Mr. LEE
may preside over cases dealing with
gender discrimination.
Consider Wendy Vitter, nominated to
the Eastern District of Louisiana. She
once promoted the idea that contracep-
tives caused cancer and claimed that
Planned Parenthood kills 150,000
women annually. She also refused to
acknowledge that Brown v. Broad was
correctly decided. On this very anni-
versary, that is who is on the floor to
be voted on in lockstep by all the folks
here on the Republican side. She re-
fused to acknowledge that Brown v.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.003 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2848 May 15, 2019
Board was correctly decided, saying in-
stead that the decision was correct
with the benefit of hindsight—what-
ever that means. In the same district,
where 6-year-old Ruby Bridges became
the first African-American child to at-
tend an all-White elementary school in
the South, the Senate will consider
confirming someone who claims that
hindsight was needed to understand
why the decision that allowed Ruby to
go to the same school as a White child
wasn’t correct. That is who we are put-
ting on the bench.
These are not just conservatives. We
understand that the President and Re-
publicans will put in conservatives, but
hard-right, narrow ideologues who
show no understanding or sympathy for
people who don’t look like them or
pray like them or marry like them—
what is wrong here?
It is not hard. If you need the benefit
of hindsight to understand that Brown
v. Board of Education, which brought
an end to school segregation and led to
the end of American apartheid, was
correctly decided, you shouldn’t be a
Federal judge. I urge my colleagues, in
the spirit of the Brown anniversary and
what it means, to oppose Ms. Vitter’s
nomination this afternoon.
PUERTO RICO
Mr. President, now on Puerto Rico,
briefly, as negotiations on a final pack-
age of disaster aid continue, I want to
stress to everyone that we must re-
main focused on reaching an agreement
as swiftly as possible. Disaster-stricken
Americans in the West, the South, the
Midwest, and 3 million citizens of Puer-
to Rico are waiting on Congress to de-
liver relief, in some cases for disasters
that occurred over a year ago.
Why is this held up?
We know why. Republicans are not
willing to give aid to Puerto Rico.
There was a bill that would never pass
the House and something they didn’t
think originally, when President
Trump said: Don’t do it. And they just
bowed down. They thought they could
roll over the House and the Democratic
minority in the Senate, who wouldn’t
stand up for certain Americans.
Well, we did. Now, thankfully, we are
making progress. Republicans are real-
izing that Puerto Ricans cannot be left
out of the package, but now we must
avoid poison pills at all costs. Presi-
dent Trump, if he sticks his thumb into
this again and asks for something un-
reasonable, will delay disaster aid once
again, just as he did before.
To my Republican colleagues, let’s do
this together. Let’s do it in the right
way. Let’s do it in the way that can
pass the House.
President Trump will sign the bill.
We have to make sure this legislation
gets across the finish line. Every time
the President intervenes and Repub-
lican colleagues go along, it gets held
up even further.
ABORTION
Mr. President, on the Alabama abor-
tion bill, last night the Republican
Alabama Senate passed, perhaps, the
most draconian abortion law in the
country. It bans abortion in every
stage of pregnancy, imposes criminal
penalties—criminal penalties—on any
doctor who performs one, and includes
no exception in the case of rape or in-
cest, even if the victim is a child. If a
child is raped, they have to have the
baby.
The Alabama bill is as extreme as it
gets. It is a clear attack on women’s
freedom. It contravenes a woman’s con-
stitutional right to make private med-
ical decisions. It would deeply harm
women, turn doctors into criminals,
and deny the right of rape victims,
even if they are children, to make per-
sonal medical decisions.
The Alabama abortion bill is plainly
inhumane. It should never have passed.
The Governor should not sign it. If she
does, it ought to be swiftly struck
down by the courts.
IRAN
Mr. President, on Iran, over of the
past few days, it has come to light in
public reporting that the Trump ad-
ministration’s national security team
has reviewed a plan to deploy as many
as 120,000—yes, you heard that right,
120,000—U.S. troops in the Mideast
should tensions with Iran escalate. I
was stunned to read this report in the
New York Times yesterday.
The administration just started a
maximum pressure campaign of sanc-
tions against Iran, but is it simulta-
neously reviewing plans for war? That
would make no sense.
Meanwhile, the President oddly de-
nied the report while also saying he
would ‘‘absolutely’’ send ground troops
to the Middle East. But if he did, it
would be a ‘‘heck’’—and I am para-
phrasing—‘‘of a lot more troops [than
120,000].’’
Did we learn the lessons of the last
decade? Do we know that we have to
spend our time focusing on building up
this country here, not build roads and
bridges in the Middle East but do them
here?
There is an alarming lack of clarity
here. There is a lack of strategy, and
there is a lack of consultation. The
President ought to come up with a
strategy and make it clear to Congress.
An adventure like this—120,000 troops
or a large number of troops—should
have to be approved by Congress. It
certainly should be discussed with Con-
gress ahead of time. There need to be
open hearings and closed briefings with
the committees of jurisdiction imme-
diately.
Any potential increase in our mili-
tary presence in the Middle East
should require consultation with Con-
gress, and anything beyond that would
require this body to act.
President Trump, what is your strat-
egy? Where are you headed? Why aren’t
you talking to Congress about it?
PUBLIC HOUSING
Mr. President, finally, on public
housing, it was reported last week that
the Department of HUD has proposed a
rule that would bar families with
mixed immigration status from receiv-
ing public housing assistance, even if
everyone but one member of the family
is a legal resident. So if it is a family
of six—a mother who is an American
citizen, four children who are Amer-
ican citizens, but a husband who is not
and who is not here legally—they kick
them all out. It risks displacing tens of
thousands of legal residents and of
American citizens, including 55,000
children. The administration has cre-
ated crisis after crisis with the immi-
gration community. Are they going to
create another one and take 55,000
young American children, almost all of
whom are citizens, and just kick them
out on the streets when we know there
is very little affordable housing? What
a cruel and callous policy. It is another
example of the Trump administration’s
desire to separate families and disrupt
communities.
There is nothing to say about this
proposed rule but that it is cruel,
wrong-headed, and would lead to even
more chaos than the administration
has created already.
In an effort to appear even more pu-
nitive toward immigrants, the adminis-
tration has conjured up a rule that
could potentially force tens of thou-
sands of children into homelessness or
away from their families.
My message to President Trump and
Secretary Carson is simple: Scrap this
idea now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri is recognized.
MAIDEN SPEECH
Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, it is an
honor to rise today to speak in this
Chamber on behalf of the people of Mis-
souri. When I think of those who have
served my State here before me, I am
humbled. When I think of the true and
strong Missourians who have sent me
here, I am sobered, because to rep-
resent them will be a great responsi-
bility indeed. I pledge to my fellow
Missourians that I will work at this
task with all the strength that God can
give me, and I will serve without fear
and without favor to any man.
We Missourians are known for our
frankness, and today I will be frank be-
cause this is a moment of great need
for my State and for our Nation. This
Nation was born in a revolution by
‘‘We the People’’ and premised on a
revolutionary faith that it is the peo-
ple—the common man and woman who
make democracy work—and it is the
calling of every generation to renew
that revolution for their day. In our
time, our revolutionary faith is fal-
tering, and in the heartland of this
country, the great challenge of our age
is unfolding.
I come from a town called Lexington,
MO. It is a small place, but a proud
one. It is a place where people wake
early and work late to make a life for
themselves and their children. It is a
place where people value honesty and
gumption and life’s simple pleasures: a
fine morning in a deer stand, reading
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.005 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2849
May 15, 2019
to the kids before bed, and Sunday din-
ner at Mom’s. Although it is humble, it
is a place that reflects the dignity and
quiet greatness of the working men and
women.
These are the people who explored a
continent, who built the railroads, and
who opened the West. These are the
workers whose labor launched the In-
dustrial Revolution and whose inge-
nuity made the American economy the
marvel of the world. These are the fam-
ilies who have rallied to this country’s
flag at every hour of danger and who
bear the burden of defending our Na-
tion even now. These are the patriots
who man the fire department and
coach the Little League. These are the
generous who give $25 a month out of
their gas money to assist people half-
way around the globe whom they will
never meet just because they believe in
helping others. They don’t ask for
much, and they live by a simple creed:
Give the best of yourself to your fam-
ily, your community, and your fellow
man. America is a place of promise, be-
cause in these hearts, honor lives.
These working men and women are
confronting crises today, and, as they
do, so does our democracy. After years
of sacrifice, the great American middle
is being pushed aside by a new arrogant
aristocracy. The new aristocrats seek
to remake society in their own image,
to engineer an economy that works for
the elite but few else, and to fashion a
culture that is dominated by their own
preferences. When they think of help-
ing their fellow citizens, they think of
making everyone else more like them-
selves.
And Washington has just gone along.
This town has embraced the politics of
elite values and elite ambition rather
than building opportunities to thrive
in the great and broad American mid-
dle. This has left middle America—the
great American middle class—under
siege, battling the loss of respect and
work, the decline of home and family,
and an epidemic of loneliness and de-
spair. This is the crisis of our time.
I am afraid you wouldn’t know it to
listen to the talk of this town much of
the time. As the crisis deepens, the po-
litical establishment looks the other
way, rehearsing and rehashing the po-
litical debates of 30 or 40 years ago.
There is no time for that any longer.
The 21st century is upon us, and the
great struggle of this century can no
longer wait. The crisis that we face
goes to the heart of our revolution.
The United States is unique in his-
tory as a republic governed not by a se-
lect elite but by the working man and
woman, because we believe it is
through the working man and woman
that God chooses to change the world.
That change comes not through spec-
tacular feats of daring or glory but
through everyday work and everyday
sacrifice and everyday acts of courage
and love. It has been the proud working
people, our farmers and mechanics, and
teachers and tradesmen who have de-
fined the character of this country.
For too long now, neither our econ-
omy nor our culture has lent them
much support. Instead, our policy-
makers have entrenched the new elites
and undermined the way of life that
once bound this country together. It is
time to face the facts.
Over the last 40 years, our economy
has worked best for those at the top—
the wealthy and the well-educated. If
you have a job in Silicon Valley or an
expensive and prestigious degree, this
economy has worked for you, and
Washington has focused on how to get
more people to join this elite. But if
you want a life built around the place
where you grew up, if your ambition is
not to start a tech business but to join
the family business, to serve in the
PTA or in your local church, well, you
are told that you are not a success, and
you are told that you are on your own.
This is no accident. The people who
make the rules now, who run our large
corporations, and who set the tone for
our popular culture all belong to the
same class. This economy has been
their economy. They made it for them-
selves.
But in places like the one where I
grew up in middle Missouri, good-pay-
ing jobs that you can raise a family on
are going away. The jobs go overseas or
south of the border or to cities on the
coasts. Once vibrant towns decline,
taking with them the network of
schools and neighborhoods and church-
es that make up middle-class life.
Rural America has been particularly
hard hit. Rural Americans’ life expect-
ancy has not just leveled off. It has ac-
tually dropped, and for women without
a high school degree, that drop has
been staggering. In some rural places,
residents struggle with outright depri-
vation. My home State contains some
of the poorest counties in America, all
in rural places that once boasted thriv-
ing small towns. As those communities
struggle, want sets in.
The crisis reaches well beyond eco-
nomics. The message that Washington
has sent our whole society is loud and
clear: Our elites are the people who
matter and those who aspire to join
them. Everyone else is unimportant or
backward.
Millions of Americans are left with a
sense that the people who run this
country view them with nothing but
contempt and value them as nothing
but consumers. These trends tear at
our country’s social fabric, and they
undermine our common ethic of citi-
zenship because being a free person and
being an American isn’t just about
what you can buy. It is about the pride
that comes in supporting a family. It is
about contributing something of worth
to your community. It is about being
able to look a neighbor in the eye and
know that you are his equal. It is about
respect, and too many Americans
haven’t been getting it.
They are certainly not getting it
from our cultural elite. The media,
Hollywood, and academia relentlessly
press their values and their priorities
on the rest of us. They advocate libera-
tion from the duties of family and tra-
dition. They look down on the plain
virtues of patriotism, self-giving, and
faith. They idealize fame and preach
self-realization through consuming
more stuff, and as they do, they assault
the foundations of the great American
middle.
Perhaps we shouldn’t be surprised,
then, at the epidemic of loneliness and
despair that is spreading across work-
ing communities. Fewer young people
are getting married and starting fami-
lies. Drug addiction is surging. The
opioid menace has ravaged every sec-
tor, every age group, and every geog-
raphy of working people.
It is not only pills. It is heroin, co-
caine, fentanyl, meth, and, of course,
marijuana that have flooded our
streets and our homes. Everywhere,
deaths of despair are mounting among
farmers and among the young. Most
shockingly, the young are the hope of
our society, but in America today, they
are taking their lives in numbers we
have never seen in our history.
The well-off frequently note that our
Nation has never been richer, but the
tragedy of youth suicide betrays a pro-
found poverty of hope. And is that real-
ly so surprising? Today’s youth must
make their way in a society increas-
ingly defined not by the genuine and
personal love of family and church but
by the cold and judgmental world of so-
cial media.
A typical young person is bombarded
by video games and violence and the
relentless status-seeking imposed and
modeled by our cultural elite. There is
no more shocking illustration of our
cultural poverty and no more damning
indictment of our cultural leaders than
these lost lives.
The sum of it all is that too many
Americans are losing their standing as
citizens. They are losing their voice in
the life of this Nation, and with that,
they are losing their liberty. To be free
is to have a voice. It is to have a say,
and it is to have the power of self-gov-
ernment.
The chattering class often tells us
that all of this—the jobs, the despair,
and the loss of standing—is a result of
forces beyond anyone’s control, as if
that is an excuse to do nothing, but in
fact, it is not true. Today’s society
benefits those who shaped it, and it has
been shaped not by working men and
women but by the new aristocratic
elite. Big banks, big tech, and big mul-
tinational corporations, along with
their allies in the academy and the
media—these are the aristocrats of our
age. They live in the United States, but
they consider themselves citizens of
the world. They operate businesses or
run universities here, but their pri-
mary loyalty is to their own agenda for
a more unified, progressive, and profit-
able global order.
These modern aristocrats often claim
to be a meritocracy, and many of them
truly believe they are. What they don’t
see or will not acknowledge is that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.007 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2850 May 15, 2019
society they have built works mainly
for themselves. They have effectively
run this country for decades, and their
legacy is national division and national
decline.
It is time to reclaim our revolu-
tionary heritage and reassert the de-
mocracy of ‘‘We the People.’’ To those
who despair at the task ahead, I say
the hour is not too late and the crisis
is not too deep for the determined ef-
fort of a great people, and to those who
feel forgotten and unheard, I say this is
your time. Now we must stand together
to renew the promise of our enduring
revolution. We must put aside the tired
orthodoxies of years past and forge a
new politics of national renewal.
We must begin by acknowledging
that GDP growth alone cannot be the
measure of this Nation’s greatness, and
so it cannot be the only aim of this Na-
tion’s policy because our purpose is not
to make a few people wealthy but to
sustain a great democracy. We need
not just a bigger economy but a better
society. We need a society that offers
rewarding work for every worker who
wants it, wherever she is from, what-
ever degree he might have, whether
their ambition is to start a business or
to start a family. We need a society
that will allow towns and neighbor-
hoods to flourish across the great
heartland of this country and not just
in the megacities of the coasts. We
need a society that puts American
workers first, that prioritizes them
over cheap goods from abroad and of-
fers them the chance to better their
station. All this we must fight for and
more.
We need to repair the torn fabric of
our common life. We need a politics
that prioritizes strong marriages and
encourages strong families, where chil-
dren can know their parents and be
nurtured by their love. We need strong
schools and churches and co-ops be-
cause these are the things that make
liberty possible, for liberty is more
than selling or buying or the right to
be left alone. Liberty is the ability to
master our own fate and, as a free peo-
ple, to set our own course. That is the
promise of the American Revolution,
and we will renew it for our day.
Washington has ignored the need for
this renewal for too long. It has rested
easy with the priorities of an earlier
age. Now it must wake up and face the
facts of this day. Now we must ask new
questions, force new debates, articulate
new priorities, and find new solutions
to make the great American middle
thrive again.
This is not the work of a day or a
season. It is the work of a generation.
We will make it the work of this gen-
eration and so do our part to see the
success of liberty in our time.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
WELCOMING SENATOR HAWLEY OF MISSOURI
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I am glad
to be joined by my good colleague Sen-
ator HAWLEY. He brings incredible
depth to the issues we talked about. He
grew up in Lexington, MO, I under-
stand, in smalltown America. He was
educated in some of the best schools in
our country and had the great good for-
tune to be assigned as a John Roberts
law clerk in the office of another John
Roberts law clerk and the good judg-
ment to convince her to marry him. He
and Erin are a valuable asset to our
State. They have two wonderful little
boys. I have enjoyed the time we have
had together and look forward to more
time with JOSH and his family. He
clearly thinks deeply about the issues
that affect the country. He is focused
on not only the present but the future.
Those are all good things.
We have jointly had the opportunity
to represent a State that is as diverse
as any State in the country. I think a
week, a month, a year in Missouri is
probably the closest thing to that same
period of time if you could somehow
condense the entire United States into
one place, where sometimes St. Louis
is seen as the westernmost eastern city
and Kansas City may be more like Den-
ver than St. Louis. Northern Missouri
is more like Iowa.
I would state to Senator GRASSLEY
that when crossing the border there,
you certainly can’t tell when you cross
from Missouri farmland into Iowa
farmland and the small cities and
small towns. The Bootheel, Delta
South in character where JOSH and I
live in Springfield has that northwest
Arkansas-Oklahoma vitality that is
different from anywhere else in our
State. As we travel actively around our
State, as we both do, I think we have a
great sense of so much of what happens
in the country. It is still the popu-
lation center of America, if not the
exact geographic center. Missouri is
where the country comes together.
JOSH had an opportunity last year to
talk to tens of thousands of Missou-
rians about that and to communicate
in other ways with millions of Missou-
rians about that. I am glad he is here
and glad to welcome him to the work
we will be doing together. We won’t
agree every single day because if we
did, I guess we could have just one Sen-
ator and give him two votes. But it
gives us a chance to talk about the
issues we face and what that means for
our State but also what it means to the
country.
I am delighted he has committed
himself to public service. Missourians
have now elected him to two statewide
offices in less than 3 years, and they
have expressed that confidence in him.
With great frequency, I run into stu-
dents both JOSH and Erin had when
they were both teaching at the Law
School at the University of Missouri,
and they always tell me Erin was the
best teacher they ever had and often
tell me JOSHUA was the best teacher
they ever had. They must not have had
a class with Erin yet. But I am de-
lighted that they are both part of the
discussion that will lead America for-
ward. I look forward to engaging in
that discussion with them and
partnering in the things we can find to
do together and getting a chance to
represent our strong, unique State that
I think is ready to merge into a greater
future, whether that is with all the
healthcare and ag research we see hap-
pening, the GEOINT focus that is com-
ing into our State because of the new
NGA, the National Geospatial Intel-
ligence Agency facility being built
there.
This is a time of great opportunity. I
am glad to have the chance to share
part of that opportunity and look at
that future with my colleague JOSH
HAWLEY and certainly want to join oth-
ers in welcoming him officially to the
Senate today as he makes his maiden
speech to the Senate.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I want to
join with my colleague, the senior Sen-
ator from Missouri, and congratulate
the junior Senator from Missouri on
some wonderful remarks.
I came into the Congress with Sen-
ator BLUNT from the House of Rep-
resentatives over 20 years ago, which I
guess makes us the old guys around
here, but it warms my heart and gives
me great hope for the future to see the
caliber and the quality of people who
are entering public life in the form of
people like Senator HAWLEY.
He is somebody who not only brings
great intellect, great passion, and
great conviction, but he is a principled
leader who is here for the right reasons
and profoundly wants to make a dif-
ference for the future of this country.
In his remarks, he touched upon the
genius of our Founders, and that is
that average Americans—working men
and women in this country—have an
opportunity to make a difference with
their voices and with their votes by en-
tering the public arena and being a
part of our democracy. That is really
what this is all about. That is what our
work should be about every day, is em-
powering them to do a better job in
raising their families and serving their
communities.
I certainly look forward to con-
tinuing our work with the new Senator
from Missouri and with the rest of our
colleagues here as we embark upon
that task. I hope we can be successful
in restoring that vision our Founders
had for what this country should be
and in each day waking up and think-
ing about the fact that it is not about
us; it is about what we do to secure a
better and brighter future consistent
with that brilliant past we have been
so blessed by because of those who have
come before and have been willing to
enter public life and make a difference.
So thank you and congratulations to
Senator HAWLEY. It is a great honor to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.009 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2851
May 15, 2019
serve with you, and we look forward to
working with you in the days and
weeks and months ahead to serve the
very people you talked about in your
remarks.
NATIONAL MILITARY APPRECIATION MONTH
Mr. President, May is National Mili-
tary Appreciation Month, a chance for
us to honor the service of those who
have kept our Nation free for 243 years.
For me, when I reflect on our mili-
tary men and women, there are always
two things in the forefront of my mind:
my dad, Harold Thune, and the men
and women of Ellsworth Air Force Base
in South Dakota and the South Dakota
National Guard.
My father was a fighter pilot who
flew Hellcats off the USS Intrepid in
the Pacific theater during World War
II. I came to know the ‘‘greatest gen-
eration’’ through my dad—their humil-
ity, their quiet service, their patriot-
ism, and their deep dedication to the
cause of freedom.
I have come to know the men and
women of today’s military through
Ellsworth and through South Dakota’s
National Guard and the great work,
the extraordinary work they do day in
and day out, the professionalism, the
skill, the talent, and the dedication
they bring to the work of defending
America and America’s freedoms.
Ellsworth has been on my mind in
particular this week because right now
the Air Force is conducting a large
force exercise involving B–1 bombers,
B–2s, B–52s, F–16s, C–17s, KC–135s,
JSTARS and AWACS, and, for the first
time, F–35s.
My acquaintance with Ellsworth
began during my time as a Member of
the House of Representatives, but I
really got to know the base and what it
meant to the Rapid City area shortly
after I became a Senator.
Just a few months into my first term
in the Senate, Ellsworth found itself
targeted for closure by the Base Re-
alignment and Closure Commission.
That summer of 2005 was a long one as
we mobilized to protect the base. I
don’t think I missed a BRAC hearing in
DC that summer. It didn’t matter
whether Ellsworth was on the agenda; I
wanted to be there in case the chance
to advocate for Ellsworth arose.
Thanks to the efforts of a lot of dedi-
cated people, we were victorious. We
demonstrated to the Commission that
Ellsworth was a vital national security
asset and that moving the B–1 fleet
from Ellsworth would actually cost
money. We also made the case that the
United States shouldn’t put all of its
eggs in one basket, that it shouldn’t
consolidate all of its assets in one loca-
tion.
By August, we had succeeded in hav-
ing Ellsworth removed from the clo-
sure list. Since then, the congressional
delegation, Ellsworth, and community
leaders have worked hard to build up
the base so that we never again find
ourselves in that same position. In
2007, we saw the Air Force Financial
Services Center open at Ellsworth. In
2011, we saw the arrival of the 89th At-
tack Squadron and its command and
control stations for MQ–9 Reapers. In
2015, a decade-long mission paid off
with the expansion of the training air-
space for the base. The Powder River
Training Complex is now the largest
training airspace in the continental
United States. It is undoubtedly partly
thanks to this airspace that Ellsworth
was just chosen not only as the home
for the B–21 training mission, the first
bombers to the fleet, but operational
squadrons as well.
Once on the chopping block, Ells-
worth is going from strength to
strength, and South Dakota is deeply
proud to host this crucial base.
Ellsworth’s airmen have played an
essential role in the armed conflicts of
recent years. Ellsworth’s pilots have
engaged targets in the Middle East
using Predator and Reaper remotely pi-
loted aircraft for vital reconnaissance,
search and rescue, and strike missions.
The Thunderbirds of the 34th Bomb
Squadron and the Tigers of the 37th
Bomb Squadron have flown countless
missions, conducting strikes, providing
deterrence, and delivering critical
close air support.
During Operation Odyssey Dawn, B–
1s from Ellsworth launched from South
Dakota, flew halfway around the world
to Libya, dropped their bombs, and re-
turned home—all in a single mission.
This marked the first time in history
that B–1s launched combat missions
from the United States to strike tar-
gets overseas.
During my time advocating for Ells-
worth, I have had the chance to learn a
lot about aircraft and the incredible
capabilities of the U.S. military, espe-
cially the capabilities of the U.S. Air
Force. But the greatest part of rep-
resenting Ellsworth has been the
chance to meet with and get to know
its airmen, from the wing commanders
and other base leaders to the airmen
who care for the planes.
Ultimately, no matter what tech-
nology we have, the strength of our
fighting force comes down to our mili-
tary men and women. It is because of
the men and women we have that the
United States has the strongest fight-
ing force in the world.
Members of the military are a special
breed. At an age when many are fo-
cused on graduation ceremonies or
summer vacations, they take a dif-
ferent path—a path that challenges
them mentally and physically, that
pushes them to their limits and then
asks them to go further, that asks
them to forget their own needs and to
focus only on what they can do for oth-
ers, and that asks them to forgo com-
fort for sacrifice, up to and including
the sacrifice of their lives. At 18, at 21,
these warriors pledge to lay down their
lives for the rest of us, and they make
that pledge again every day of their
service, every morning when they wake
up and head to work, whether that is
the repair base at Ellsworth or a bat-
tlefield half a world away.
I am profoundly grateful for the
honor of representing some of the men
and women of the U.S. military here in
the Senate. We owe our soldiers, sail-
ors, airmen, marines, and Coast Guard
a debt we can never repay.
As Military Appreciation Month con-
tinues and Armed Forces Day ap-
proaches, we can take the time to re-
member—to remember that we go
about our lives in peace and freedom
every day because of members of the
U.S. military who are standing watch
for us. May God bless the members of
the U.S. military, and may God con-
tinue to bless the United States of
America.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
ABORTION
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, I want
to start today by saying I am really ap-
palled by the extreme, cruel, shameful
abortion ban that was passed yesterday
in Alabama. That legislation is nothing
short of an attack on women, and it is
part of a larger effort we are seeing
today around the country to take away
the constitutional right of women to
safe, legal abortion and allowing politi-
cians to make decisions for women
about their bodies, their health, and
their lives instead of trusting doctors
and women.
I want every woman reading the news
this morning and wondering what this
means for you, your family, and for
your granddaughters to know I am
with you, and I am going to keep fight-
ing for you every step of the way.
NOMINATION OF WENDY VITTER
Mr. President, I want to turn to
speak about my opposition to Wendy
Vitter’s nomination, which is yet an-
other step extreme politicians are tak-
ing to undermine women’s rights and
access to healthcare.
I oppose Wendy Vitter’s nomination
to the U.S. District Court for the East-
ern District of Louisiana.
President Trump and Vice President
PENCE have made it clear that they
want to pack the Judiciary with far-
right judges who will turn back the
clock on reproductive rights, and this
nominee is no exception.
Time and again, Mrs. Vitter has ad-
vocated against women’s reproductive
rights using inflammatory language
and falsehoods. She has demonstrated a
keen sense of partisanship and a poor
sense of judgment, starting with her
initial response to the Senate Judici-
ary Committee’s questionnaire.
Mrs. Vitter left out information
about her past statements in her re-
sponse to the committee—the kinds of
serious submissions Republicans have
objected to with other nominees. I am
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.010 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2852 May 15, 2019
not talking about a small memory
lapse. I am talking about nearly 200 ad-
ditional pages that had to be added to
her response once they were brought to
light. I am not talking about insignifi-
cant statements, things that are hard
to find or easy to forget. I am talking
about campaign ads, panel discussions,
political rallies. I am not talking about
innocent uncontroversial comments. I
am talking about the fearmongering of
an activist who is entirely unfit for the
Federal bench.
Mrs. Vitter initially failed to disclose
her remarks at a political rally oppos-
ing the construction of a Planned Par-
enthood clinic, remarks where she
claimed Planned Parenthood—which,
by the way, provides low-cost
healthcare like cancer screenings and
STI screenings and contraceptive care
to millions of people. She claimed
Planned Parenthood is responsible for
killing 150,000 women a year. That is
careless, it is reckless, and it is wrong.
It is incredibly poor judgment for
somebody who is being considered for a
lifetime judicial appointment.
She also failed to disclose the time
she moderated a deeply dishonest panel
called ‘‘Abortion Hurts Women’s
Health.’’ Mrs. Vitter prompted panel-
ists to peddle misinformation about
women’s health, encouraging a discus-
sion that falsely suggested abortion is
linked to cancer and infertility. One
panel spoke at length about a deeply
inaccurate brochure she had authored
called ‘‘How the Pill Kills.’’ As you can
tell from that title, the brochure was
loaded with glaring falsehoods, like the
false claim that birth control causes
breast cancer or that women on birth
control are more likely to die a violent
death. In response to that speaker’s
long string of very dangerous lies
about women’s healthcare, Mrs. Vitter
encouraged the attendees to download
the brochure, bring it to their doctors,
and ask them to put it in their waiting
rooms.
It is incredibly alarming that a nomi-
nee for the Federal bench would be so
willing to voice her support for such
dangerous propaganda, especially when
that same nominee is unwilling to
voice her support for one of the land-
mark civil rights cases in our country’s
history, Brown v. Board of Education.
During her confirmation hearing,
Mrs. Vitter was asked whether Brown
v. Board was decided correctly. It
wasn’t a trick question. Many past ju-
dicial nominees, including Chief Jus-
tice Roberts, have been able to answer
it. Mrs. Vitter refused.
This week, we are going to celebrate
the 65th anniversary of the Brown v.
Board decision. Do Republicans really
want to mark this occasion by con-
firming a judge who has voiced more
support for outright lies about wom-
en’s health than for the historic deci-
sion that struck down State-sponsored
segregation? This should be simple.
Someone whose statements and record
fail to support the Brown v. Board deci-
sion cannot be trusted with the respon-
sibility of deciding the historic cases of
tomorrow. Someone who has worked to
spread misinformation about contra-
ceptives and undermine the constitu-
tional right to safe, legal abortion that
is enshrined in Roe v. Wade cannot be
trusted to fight for the truth or uphold
women’s reproductive rights. In other
words, someone like Wendy Vitter can-
not be trusted with a lifetime seat on a
Federal bench.
I urge my colleagues to join me in re-
jecting this nomination. While Presi-
dent Trump and Vice President PENCE
may keep sending us these far-right
nominees and Senate Republicans may
keep jamming them through under the
radar, Democrats are not going to
stand by or stand down. They may try
to push our courts to the right. We are
going to keep pushing back. We are
going to keep holding a spotlight on
these nominees and making clear just
how extreme they are, and we are
going to keep fighting for women and
men and families in this country.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MENTAL HEALTH
Ms. SMITH. Mr. President, when I
first came to the Senate, I knew I
wanted to make mental health one of
my top priorities. As a Minnesotan, I
am proud of the way our Senators have
led the way on this important issue,
from Paul Wellstone to Al Franken, to
AMY KLOBUCHAR. I am honored to have
the chance to further our proud legacy
when it comes to improving our mental
health system, but that is not the only
reason I have chosen to make mental
health a focus.
I am glad it has become a more
prominent issue here in Washington,
but I have noticed it usually comes to
the forefront in the context of some
unthinkable tragedy. When a high-pro-
file celebrity takes his or her own life,
we immediately want to reach out to
other people who are suffering in si-
lence. Of course, we do. That is not a
bad thing.
We can’t repeat the number often
enough. If you are having thoughts of
suicide, please, please call the National
Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1–800–
273–8255. Even if you aren’t suffering
from acute mental illness, put that
number in your cell phone so you can,
someday, help someone who is.
On the other hand, when a profoundly
disturbed person commits a horrible
act of violence, we immediately want
to intervene before the next time it
happens. Of course, we do.
When we bring up the need to im-
prove our mental health system as the
answer to the epidemic of mass shoot-
ings in America, though, we are mak-
ing two huge mistakes. First, we are
ignoring our responsibility to address a
much more direct cause of these trage-
dies—guns. Second, we are unfairly and
falsely stigmatizing mental illness.
Here is another thing we can’t say
often enough: It is exceedingly rare
that one’s mental illness leads one to
commit acts of violence. In fact, one is
much more likely to be a victim of vio-
lence than to be a perpetrator, and we
must not make it harder for people to
seek help by falsely tagging them, as
we do, as being potentially dangerous.
Yes, these tragedies are reminders
that we need to spend more time talk-
ing about mental health, but let’s have
the right conversation. For most peo-
ple who struggle with mental illness in
America, the struggle is not about life
or death; it is about the quality of the
lives we lead. Mental health is a con-
tinuum, and many of our fellow citi-
zens fall somewhere along this con-
tinuum. These millions of Americans
deserve our attention, and these mil-
lions of Americans deserve our help.
The other reason I want to focus on
mental health care while I am here in
the Senate is that I am one of them.
When it started for me, I thought I was
just having a bad day or, really, a se-
ries of bad days. While growing up, I
had always been a pretty cheerful kid,
but at some point during my second
year of college, I had started to find it
harder and harder to cope with the
daily challenges of life. Actually, it
had been my roommate who had no-
ticed that I had not been myself and
hadn’t been myself for a long time. She
had suggested that I talk to someone
over at the Student Health Services. It
had been a completely foreign idea to
me, and I had responded in the way a
lot of people would have—‘‘I have
this.’’ Eventually, I had realized that
maybe I had been wrong about that.
It was really hard to make that
phone call, walk over to the coun-
selor’s office, and sit in the waiting
room. I didn’t know what to expect,
and to be honest, I was embarrassed.
The counselor’s name was Charlotte.
She was nice, had common sense, and
wasn’t patronizing or judgmental. She
just asked me some simple questions
about how I was feeling, and I remem-
ber what a relief it was just to talk
about it. Over the course of a few
months, Charlotte gave me some ideas
about how to cope a little bit better
with the challenges I was facing, and I
would always walk out of her office
feeling a little bit more courageous and
a little bit more hopeful.
Did I live happily ever after? Well,
not quite. That is not how mental ill-
ness works. There isn’t a box for when
you are healthy and a box for when you
are not. Like I said, it is a continuum,
and you try to get a little closer to the
healthy end every day.
At one point in my thirties, though,
I found myself sliding back in the
wrong direction. There was nothing un-
usually traumatic going on in my life.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:01 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.012 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2853
May 15, 2019
I had a career, and Archie and I were
raising our two sons. We were busy,
and we were tired, but that is the way
it is when you are a young parent.
Still, something was wrong.
All who have suffered from depres-
sion have their own metaphors to de-
scribe it, but most can identify with
the sensation of the color just sort of
draining out of your world. The things
that used to give you joy don’t give
you joy anymore. The things that you
used to love to do may just make you
exhausted. Basically, you are just try-
ing to slog through the day. Of course,
when you feel this way, just making it
through the day is tough. I found my-
self struggling to be a good mom, a
good wife, a good friend, a good col-
league. I just felt off all the time—
clumsy and slow. I forgot things and
got angry at the drop of a hat.
See, the thing is, depression messes
with your memory. I will never forget
when my young son asked me quietly
and cautiously: ‘‘Mom, are you OK?’’ It
was a spiral. The worse things got, the
more frustrated I became, but I
couldn’t get it together. Down and
down I went until I could no longer see
hope on the horizon. I was never suici-
dal, but I struggled to function. I defi-
nitely wasn’t living my best life. I real-
ly wasn’t living at all.
That is the reality of mental illness
for millions of Americans. I am one of
the lucky ones. I was lucky that my
college had excellent mental health re-
sources and that my roommate cared
enough about me to urge me to take
advantage of those resources. I was
lucky that when my depression came
back with a vengeance, I had health in-
surance that covered treatment. There
was a therapist named Susan with the
skill and the expertise to help me.
Susan asked me a few questions:
How are you sleeping?
Terrible.
Are you forgetting things?
All the time.
She then suggested that I take a di-
agnostic test, which basically consisted
of answering questions like those. Even
then, I was resistant. People often say
that depression lies, and the biggest lie
depression tells is that what is wrong
with you is you. So you resist getting
help because you refuse to accept that
there is anything happening except
that you stupidly forgot it was recy-
cling day again.
I went ahead and I did the diagnostic
test, and Susan came back and said:
Yes, you are clinically depressed, so
let’s talk about what we can do about
it.
One thing I would say to people who
are resisting going in for that appoint-
ment is that even after I got that diag-
nosis, I was still in control. When
Susan brought up the idea of medica-
tion, it was a suggestion and not an
order. I will admit it—it was a sugges-
tion I had a hard time with. I didn’t
want to become a different person. I
didn’t want some pill messing with my
brain. What if it didn’t work and I got
worse? On the other hand, what if it did
work? Would I really be better, or
would it just be an illusion of feeling
better?
Susan convinced me to give it a try,
and I was lucky again when the first
medication we tried worked. I didn’t
feel better right away. There was no
big milestone moment where I woke up
and everything was great again. But I
remember feeling like I was slowly
coming out of a fog. The color started
to seep back into my day a little bit
more every day. I began to reengage
with my family and my friends and my
work, and I could see hope on the hori-
zon again. After a couple of years on
medication, I slowly ramped down, and
I haven’t had to get treatment since.
As I said, there is no happily ever
after when it comes to mental illness,
but happier is possible. If anyone needs
proof, just talk to me.
So that is my story, but really it is
the story of millions of Americans. I
chose to share mine—first in an op-ed
in the Rochester Post-Bulletin and now
here on the floor of the Senate—be-
cause I want to urge anyone who strug-
gles with depression or anxiety or sub-
stance abuse or post-traumatic stress
disorder or any other mental health
issue to reach out and seek help.
Destigmatizing and demystifying
mental illness is just the beginning.
Everyone can be a friend to those in
need by urging them to take advantage
of the resources that are available to
them, but the 100 of us here in the Sen-
ate have a responsibility to make sure
those resources are available to every-
one. We can’t afford to leave holes in
the net we build to catch people when
they fall, especially when one of the
biggest holes is in our schools.
I have spent a lot of time over the
last months having conversations with
teachers and administrators in public
schools across Minnesota. Time and
again, when I ask them ‘‘What keeps
you up at night?’’ they come back to
the mental health of their students.
They talk about the causes—every-
thing from increased social pressure
that comes from social media to the
trauma of losing a parent to opioids—
but they also tell me what the crisis
really looks like at ground level.
A principal in St. Paul told me about
the regular phenomenon of an ambu-
lance pulling up at the school doors,
rushing to the aid of a student who has
suffered a break. It has happened more
than a half a dozen times at his school
alone this year. Meanwhile, the prin-
cipal in Parkers Prairie—a town in
Otter Tail County of just over 1,000,
people—tells me that she sees students
experiencing homelessness and other
trauma, students dealing with PTSD,
and students with eating disorders.
Just this year, she has had three stu-
dents end up in the hospital for self-
harming. They have a heroic social
worker who comes in but only every
other day because they have to share
her with another school in the district.
School psychologists across Min-
nesota tell me they are struggling to
keep up with the number of kids who
need urgent intervention to make sure
that, for example, their behavioral
issues don’t become so significant that
they get them kicked out of school al-
together.
As for kids whose issues are very real
but not so acute—like the ninth grader
whose anxiety makes her sick to her
stomach every day—they wind up
stuck on waiting lists for treatment.
And that is even before psychologists
can do any active outreach to the stu-
dents who haven’t reached out for help.
That is why last month I reintro-
duced my Mental Health Services for
Students Act. This bill would create a
grant program for school districts
looking to expand the mental health
services they are able to offer to stu-
dents by partnering with community
mental health system organizations.
If we are going to get our arms
around this crisis, we need to train
more teachers, administrators, and
members of the school community, in-
cluding parents, to recognize when kids
are struggling and to connect them
with help. If we here in the Senate are
serious about addressing mental health
in our schools, we should pass this bill
without delay.
A comprehensive approach to mental
health means improving the system all
along the age continuum. Over in the
HELP Committee, we will have an op-
portunity this year to reauthorize the
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment
Act, or CAPTA. And I have a bill, spon-
sored in the House by my friend Rep-
resentative DEAN PHILLIPS, that would
improve the delivery of mental health
services within our child welfare sys-
tem. For example, our bill would make
sure that young, at-risk children get
important developmental screenings
when they need it.
We are learning that childhood trau-
ma can be a major factor in future
mental illness. The more we do to ad-
dress the underlying trauma, whether
it is poverty, the death or incarcer-
ation of a loved one or a parent, or sex-
ual abuse, the better we address those
issues, the better chance we will have
of turning the tide on this epidemic.
The mental health crisis isn’t only
affecting our kids; it is affecting our
parents too. According to a study by
the Centers for Disease Control, one in
five adults age 55 or older experiences a
mental health issue, and a third of
them never receive treatment. Men
over the age of 75 have a higher suicide
rate than any other age group. The so-
cial isolation that too often comes
with aging or caring for a loved one
isn’t just unfortunate; it is a public
health risk.
Just as we have learned to reach out
to the veterans in our lives and in our
communities to let them know we are
there for them if they are struggling,
we should do the same for our elders.
As the HELP Committee takes up the
reauthorization of the Older Americans
Act this year, I will be working to do
my part.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.013 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2854 May 15, 2019
Our mental health system should be
there for people at every age, from
nursery to nursing home. It should be
there for people everywhere along the
mental health continuum, offering ev-
erything from preventive care, to ongo-
ing therapy for chronic conditions, to
crisis support for those in acute dis-
tress. It should also be there for people
in every ZIP Code, and unfortunately,
some of the biggest holes in our system
can be found in rural areas.
As a Senator, I am proud to serve on
the Agriculture Committee. I fre-
quently meet with farm groups, and
today mental health is one of the first
topics to come up. Farming is an inher-
ently stressful profession, especially
these days, when the numbers for sui-
cide prevention hotlines regularly ap-
pear in farm publications. But we need
to include the entire rural community,
from bankers and pastors to grocers
and fertilizer sellers. We need to in-
clude them in this conversation, and
we need to make sure that when people
do reach out for help, there is help
there for them.
Unfortunately, rural communities in
general are often underserved by men-
tal health professionals compared to
cities and suburbs. Many still have in-
consistent access to the internet,
meaning that even online resources can
be out of reach for someone who is
struggling. That is why, in the last
farm bill, we set up a rural health liai-
son in the Department of Agriculture—
someone who understands the specific
needs of rural communities and is
charged with paying attention to a cri-
sis that has too often lurked beneath
the surface.
Last year, Senator MURKOWSKI and I
worked together to pass a law that
would provide mental health profes-
sionals in the National Health Service
Corps with greater flexibility in where
they practice and deliver care, increas-
ing the resources available in under-
served rural communities.
I hope my colleagues will join me in
continuing to take action to address
the mental health crisis, and I hope
that sharing my own story will make it
easier for more Americans to add their
voices to this fight.
Still, there is no magic cure for de-
pression. There is no magic bill to
solve this problem. Mental health is a
reality of life for millions of people in
our country, and we can’t legislate it
away. If we work to help more Ameri-
cans bring their struggles out of the
shadows into the sunshine, if we reach
out to people in need and connect them
with people who can help, and if we un-
derstand the factors that make people
vulnerable to these problems and focus
our energies on making sure the net is
there to catch them if they fall—if we
do these things, then we can take steps
in the right direction, one right after
the other and one day at a time.
I still remember what it felt like in
those weeks and months after I began
to treat my depression—the sense of
empowerment that came with finally
taking my mental health into my own
hands, the renewed energy that came
with finally feeling like today is better
than yesterday and maybe tomorrow
will be even better yet, and the joy
that came with finally seeing hope on
the horizon once again. So even in the
midst of this public health crisis, I be-
lieve there is hope on the horizon for
the millions of Americans who struggle
with mental illness, but they are
counting on us to make this hopeful vi-
sion a reality.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Illinois.
f
REMEDY ACT
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, if you
watched ‘‘60 Minutes’’ on Sunday, you
would not have been surprised that
there was a segment relating to pre-
scription drug pricing. Everywhere we
turn, somebody is raising the question
about why we are paying so much for
prescription drugs and why the cost of
these drugs has gone through the roof.
We want to encourage research. We
want to encourage innovation. We un-
derstand that these are profit-making
companies, so we understand we will
pay for that. But what we are seeing in
terms of the pricing of drugs across
America now is inconsistent with any
of the history that we have had. It
seems as if pharma believes that if
they own a drug, they can charge what-
ever they can charge, and no one will
question them.
It makes a difference. Blue Cross
Blue Shield, the largest health insurer
in my State of Illinois, analyzed the
cost of care in our State and nearby
and asked: What is driving the increase
in health insurance premiums? The
cost of prescription drugs, even more
than the cost of inpatient hospital
care.
Look at all of those big hospitals and
all of the important work they are
doing and expensive procedures they
are involved in. All of that cost does
not equal the rising cost of prescrip-
tion drugs. That is why our health in-
surance premiums are going up, so it is
understandable that more and more of
us are talking about this and trying to
find practical ways to approach it that
might make things better.
Can you consider one policy that
might have the support of Democrats
and Republicans, the American Asso-
ciation of Retired Persons, the Amer-
ican Medical Association, the Amer-
ican Hospital Association, 88 percent of
Americans, and the Trump administra-
tion? What in the world could that be?
Here it is: a measure I introduced in
2017 to require pharmaceutical compa-
nies to disclose the prices with new
prescription drug advertising.
Last year, Senator CHUCK GRASSLEY,
Republican of Iowa, and I teamed up to
pass a measure in the Senate to require
pricetags on the television ads. We
were stopped in conference by a single
House Republican.
Think about those television ads.
What do they tell us in those ads? For
60 seconds, as fast as they can talk,
they tell us everything under the sun.
If you are allergic to XARELTO, do not
take XARELTO. Certain negative
things may happen if you take this
drug or the other drug. On they go for
60 seconds without stopping. Yet they
never disclose the price of the drug.
After Senator GRASSLEY and I put
our bill in last year, I got a call from
the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, Alex Azar. He decided he
wanted to pick up on our effort and
join us. Think about that for a
minute—a Republican Senator, a
Democratic Senator, and the Trump
administration agreeing on something.
It turns out, he thinks it is a good idea,
and I do too.
If we had price disclosure on these
ads on television, it might open the
eyes of a lot of people as to what it
costs. What is the most heavily adver-
tised drug on television today?
HUMIRA. Why was HUMIRA invented
or discovered? To treat arthritis, par-
ticularly psoriatic arthritis. Guess
what they discovered. It also had a side
benefit they didn’t anticipate. You
know the little red patch on your
elbow—psoriasis? If you take HUMIRA,
all of a sudden, that little red patch
goes away. So if you are watching the
ads on television, some of them are
about arthritis, but some of them show
ladies sitting by swimming pools with
flawless skin because they are taking
HUMIRA. It is very interesting.
There is one thing they leave out. Do
you know what HUMIRA costs? It costs
$5,500 a month. This red patch on my
elbow may trouble me when it comes
to the swimsuit competition, but I am
not going to spend $5,500 to deal with
it. I think they ought to have to dis-
close the price of the drug. We take
their prices; we do not make up the
price. The price they declare as phar-
maceutical manufacturers—we believe
that is the one that should be adver-
tised.
On Monday, Senator GRASSLEY and I
introduced the bill to codify this rule
that the Trump administration is push-
ing for price disclosure and to ensure
its long-term implementation. We are
happy to have on board with us Sen-
ator LAMAR ALEXANDER, Republican of
Tennessee, and Senator KING, Inde-
pendent Democrat from Maine. Dis-
closing prices in drug ads is a simple
step to give patients a break at the
pharmacy. We have to do a lot more. I
think this is a good starting point,
though.
American patients and taxpayers pay
the highest prices in the world for most
medications. Eli Lilly, out of Indianap-
olis, IN—they make a drug called
Humalog. It is for diabetes. It is an in-
sulin drug that can cost up to $329 per
dose here in the United States.
Humalog, insulin, diabetes—the cost is
$329.
What does the same vial of the same
drug made by the same company cost
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.015 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2855
May 15, 2019
in Canada? It costs $38. It is $329 here
and $38 there.
In 2017, Canadians could purchase
AbbVie’s HUMIRA, which I mentioned
earlier, for $20,000; for Americans,
$40,000. The worst part of this price dis-
parity is that American taxpayers are
the ones paying to develop these drugs
in the first place. Our tax dollars at the
National Institutes of Health provide
the clues and the direction for these
companies to take our federally funded
research and turn it into a valuable
drug, a valuable medical device, and
then charge us more than any other
place in the world.
All 210 drugs approved by the Food
and Drug Administration between the
years 2010 and 2016 received funding
from the National Institutes of Health,
supported by nearly $40 billion by U.S.
taxpayers each year. I am all for that,
incidentally—funding the NIH and
leading to this research. But make no
mistake, these breakthrough drugs
start at the National Institutes of
Health at taxpayers’ expense. So Amer-
ican taxpayers get hit twice. We pay
for the initial research, which leads to
the drug, and then we, of course, pay
for the drugs at the highest levels.
The heart of the problem is that our
system does not function as a free mar-
ket. There are too many forces at work
when it comes to prescription drugs
that limit competition. Often Big
Pharma charges as much as they can
get away with because they manipulate
the patent system to avoid competi-
tion.
The theory used to be that if you dis-
covered the drug, you could sell it ex-
clusively for, say, 20 years, and then
everybody could take your formula,
make generic drugs, and there would be
open competition so that the price
would go down. That is not how it
works.
The core issue is that roughly 10 per-
cent of brand name, patent-protected
drugs account for 80 percent of spend-
ing in America. The overwhelming pre-
scriptions are for generic drugs, which
are affordable drugs, but it turns out
that even though 90 percent of the pre-
scriptions are for generic drugs, they
account for only 20 percent of all the
spending. It is that 10 percent of brand
name drugs that account for 80 percent
of all prescription drug spending be-
cause they are so expensive.
In what other industry does the price
of the consumer product increase year
after year after being introduced on
the market? Maybe a collector of art-
work or baseball cards but certainly
not when it comes to something that is
a life-and-death commodity like a
drug.
The point is, I don’t believe our
Founding Fathers envisioned a scheme
where Sanofi’s Lantus, insulin that
was approved in the year 2000, would
receive 45 additional patents after it
was approved by the FDA, providing a
massive 37-year monopoly by Sanofi on
this insulin product. During that time,
the price of insulin has increased from
$35 to more than $270 because Sanofi
has successfully bought lower cost ge-
neric competitors, and it is not just
Lantus or insulin.
Celgene’s cancer drug, REVLIMID,
has been awarded 96 patents, many of
which were awarded after the initial
FDA approval. As a result, REVLIMID,
effectively, has gone 40 years without
competition.
The same goes for Pfizer’s nerve pain
drug, Lyrica. You have seen that one
advertised on TV. I have. That entered
the market in 2004. Lyrica has received
68 patents, including filing more than 2
dozen after initial FDA approval. They
are gaming the system to avoid com-
petition to keep their prices high.
In fact, the top 12 best-selling drugs
in America each have an average of 71
patents. Why do they get a new patent?
Because they have decided that instead
of a 150-mg tablet, there will be a 75-mg
tablet, and they get a new patent. Or
they put a new coating on the outside
of the pill or they have a new manufac-
turing technique. They get the patent.
They have exclusivity in the market
for another extended period of time.
The top 12 best-selling drugs in
America each have an average of 71
patents, and 74 percent of all new drug
patents are for drugs that are already
on the market. They are gaming the
system.
We can and we should reward innova-
tive research so that companies can
earn a profit for good work and big
ideas. But an abusive manufacturer
should not be allowed to game the gov-
ernment patent system while being
shielded from competition.
This month I am going to give what
I call my Pharma Fleece Award. I made
a special sign here so that pharma
would know what we are talking about.
This month we are going to give this
Pharma Fleece Award to Celgene,
Pfizer, and Sanofi for stacking exces-
sive secondary patents to block generic
competition. The net result, of course,
is that American consumers pay more
for their products.
To address this, I introduced legisla-
tion last month with Senator CASSIDY,
Republican from Louisiana and a med-
ical doctor, called the REMEDY Act.
Our bipartisan bill reduces incentives
for Big Pharma to ‘‘evergreen,’’ which
is a technical term in this application.
It is an effort to amass endless quan-
tities of follow-on patents that shield
blockbuster drugs from competition
from generics. You see, under an act, a
law known as the Hatch-Waxman Act,
when a generic drug manufacturer
seeks approval from the FDA, they are
routinely blocked by a maze of patents
held by the brand name company.
The generic company has the option
to say whether they think the patents
covering the brand name drug are not
valid or relevant. If so, that can trigger
a patent infringement lawsuit. When
this happens, the FDA issues a 30-
month freeze on the generic company’s
application to hash out the issue. The
problem with this 30-month freeze is it
extends the monopoly period for the
drug again, and it incentivizes the fil-
ing of secondary follow-on patents that
may not add to the safety or efficacy of
the drug.
This automatic 30-month freeze on
competition encourages pharma to
amass large numbers of secondary pat-
ents and block generic companies from
putting on the market a drug that
would be in competition with their
brand name drug. No matter how weak
the patent is, how peripheral it may
be—like the coating on a pill that I
mentioned earlier—it works. For 30
months, there is another delay before
there is competition.
The REMEDY Act, which Senator
CASSIDY and I introduced, would re-
strict this 30-month freeze of FDA ap-
proval so that it applies only to pri-
mary substance patents. This removes
an incentive for brand name manufac-
turers to continue to game the system
by filing excessive follow-on patents,
and it makes it easier for low-cost ge-
neric competitors to come to market.
Big Pharma is gaming the system at
the expense of American patients, at
the expense of the American health
system, and at our expense when it
comes to health insurance premiums.
What are we going to do about it? Well,
it turns out, we happen to be working
in a place which makes laws, the U.S.
Senate. We are supposed to take a chal-
lenge like this and do something about
it—not just lament the fact that pre-
scription drug pricing is out of control,
but actually do something.
Lucky me, I serve on the Senate Ju-
diciary Committee, which has author-
ity over many of these issues, particu-
larly when it comes to patent law.
There are things we can do as members
of the committee to bring down pre-
scription drug pricing.
Honestly, if you follow the U.S. Sen-
ate, we can do something other than a
nomination, which is all we have done
around here for a long, long time. I am
sure the American voters are happy to
see us work on nominations, but they
would be much happier if we worked on
the high cost of prescription drugs. We
have done little or nothing on this sub-
ject, other than talk about it for the
last few months.
Senator MCCONNELL, the Republican
leader, has decided not to bring legisla-
tion to the floor of the Senate any-
more. That is just from the days of yes-
teryear when we actually debated a
bill, offered amendments, had votes.
People showed up on the floor because
we were doing something.
Look at it now.
American patients need help from
the high drug prices, not more unquali-
fied, divisive nominees but actual leg-
islation to help American families.
What a break it would be if the U.S.
Senate became the U.S. Senate again.
I hope Senator MCCONNELL will allow
us to put a bill on the floor of the Sen-
ate. It would be a great celebration
here in the Senate. I think Republicans
and Democrats would enjoy the oppor-
tunity to actually come to the floor,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.016 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2856 May 15, 2019
have a debate, and pass a bill that may
become a law that ends up helping
Americans. For many of us, that is the
reason we ran for office, and I hope we
can return to that very soon.
NOMINATIONS
Once again, this week the Republican
Leader has scheduled no legislation for
votes on the Senate floor.
Instead, our Republican colleagues
are spending another week rubber
stamping President Trump’s nominees.
This week, the Republican majority
scheduled votes on three Trump judi-
cial nominees. Each of these nominees
has expressed views that are ideolog-
ical and extreme.
First there was Michael Truncale,
nominated to the District Court for the
Northern District of Texas. Mr.
Truncale gave a speech in 2011 where he
outrageously called President Obama
‘‘an un-American imposter.’’
He described the Supreme Court’s de-
cision in Shelby County that gutted
the Voting Rights Act as ‘‘a victory.’’
He has called for defunding Planned
Parenthood and said that he opposes
the bipartisan DREAM Act.
He has called the Environmental Pro-
tection Agency a ‘‘job killer’’ and
called for eliminating the Departments
of Education and Energy.
Mr. Truncale also gave a radio inter-
view in 2012 thanking the Tea Party
movement ‘‘for what it has meant to
our country and to our Republican
party.’’
Despite all this, only one Republican
Senator, Senator ROMNEY, voted
against Mr. Truncale.
Then there’s Ninth Circuit nominee
Kenneth Lee of California, who has
been advanced by Republicans over the
objection of both home State Senators.
That never happened before until this
year, but this is now the fifth time we
have seen a nominee advance with no
blue slip.
Mr. Lee initially failed to provide
dozens of his controversial writings to
the Senate Judiciary Committee.
I remember when President Obama’s
Ninth Circuit nominee Goodwin Liu
initially failed to fully disclose articles
he had written to the Judiciary Com-
mittee. Republican members of the
Committee said it was ‘‘potentially
disqualifying’’ and said it showed ei-
ther incompetence or an attempt to
hide his writings.
Senate Republicans ended up filibus-
tering Goodwin Liu’s nomination. Yet
every Republican member of the Judi-
ciary Committee voted for Mr. Lee’s
nomination. The double standard is ob-
vious.
When we were finally able to review
Mr. Lee’s writings, we saw he routinely
expressed extreme views. Here are just
a few examples:
He wrote: ‘‘Charges of sexism often
amount to nothing but irrelevant pout-
ing.’’
He said: ‘‘homosexuals generally are
more promiscuous than heterosexuals,
and thus their risk factor [for AIDS]
increases exponentially.’’
He called affirmative action ‘‘lib-
erals’ most sacred shibboleth.’’
And he called multiculturalism a
‘‘malodorous sickness.’’
Then there is Wendy Vitter, nomi-
nated to the District Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana.
Like Mr. Lee, Ms. Vitter also ini-
tially failed to disclose more than 100
speeches and documents to the Judici-
ary Committee.
The matters she failed to disclose in-
cluded a panel she moderated in 2013 at
a Louisiana Right to Life conference.
At this panel, she told the audience to
urge their doctors to put in their wait-
ing rooms a brochure entitled ‘‘The
Pill Kills.’’ This is a brochure about
how birth control pills supposedly kill
women.
Ms. Vitter also claimed in a 2009
speech that we are ‘‘throwing out our
Constitution’’ by counting the full pop-
ulation in the national census.
All three of these judicial nominees
have expressed extreme ideological
views that raise serious questions
about their judgment. Yet Republicans
are rubber stamping all three of them
to lifetime appointments on the federal
bench.
Then there is President Trump’s
nominee for Deputy Attorney General,
Jeffrey Rosen. Mr. Rosen simply does
not have the right qualifications for
this important job.
The Deputy Attorney General runs
the day-to-day operations of the Jus-
tice Department and oversees its law
enforcement components.
At this critical moment, we need a
Deputy Attorney General who is famil-
iar with the Justice Department, who
has experience in overseeing criminal
investigations and prosecutions, and
who is committed to the Department’s
role of enforcing the law independently
without fear or favor.
Mr. Rosen has no experience working
in the Justice Department or handling
criminal cases. When I questioned him
about core DOJ functions and agencies
he will oversee if confirmed, he wasn’t
familiar with them and said he would
have to get up to speed.
For example, when I met with him
and asked him about the landmark
First Step Act, he said he had ‘‘begun
getting informed about it.’’
When I asked him about the Deputy
Attorney General’s role in overseeing
the Federal Bureau of Prisons and ad-
dressing their critical staffing short-
ages, he said he wasn’t familiar and
couldn’t comment.
When I asked him about voting
rights and voter suppression, he said he
hadn’t had occasion to study the issue.
When I asked him about the DEA’s
role in setting opioid production
quotas, which he will oversee, he didn’t
know about it.
When I asked him about DOJ’s role
in immigration matters, including his
priorities for the immigration courts
he will oversee, he said he looked for-
ward to learning more about it.
Mr. Rosen was a longtime colleague
of Attorney General Barr at a law firm,
and he has held positions in other gov-
ernment agencies like the Department
of Transportation. But that does not
make him qualified to be the Deputy
Attorney General.
Because my Republican colleagues
used the nuclear option to change the
Senate rules, there is now less time for
the Senate to debate controversial
nominees like Mr. Truncale, Ms. Vit-
ter, and Mr. Rosen.
But the American people see what is
going on. They see the rush by Presi-
dent Trump and Senate Republicans to
confirm nominees who are ideological
or who lack the right qualifications for
the job.
I oppose these nominees. And I regret
that the Senate’s advice and consent
process has become an exercise in Re-
publican rubber stamping. This institu-
tion can, and should, do better.
I see that my colleague from Texas is
here on the floor, and I don’t want to
take any more time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). The Senator from Texas.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, at 5:30 p.m., all
postcloture time on the Lee nomina-
tion be considered expired; further,
that if confirmed, the motion to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table and the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action.
I ask that following disposition of the
Lee nomination, the Senate vote on
the cloture motions for the Vitter,
Bulatao, and Rosen nominations; fi-
nally, that if cloture is invoked on
those nominations, the confirmation
votes on the Vitter and Bulatao nomi-
nations occur at noon on Thursday and
the Rosen confirmation vote occur at
1:45 p.m. on Thursday, May 16, and that
if confirmed, the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Mr. CORNYN per-
taining to the introduction of S. 1480
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Mr. CORNYN. I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
Mr. LANKFORD. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.018 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2857
May 15, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
MILITARY APPRECIATION MONTH
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I am
going to be on the floor with some of
my colleagues in the next hour.
I thank my colleague from Iowa, Sen-
ator ERNST—Lieutenant Colonel Ernst,
by the way, of the Iowa National
Guard—for organizing the series of dis-
cussions we are going to have in the
next couple of minutes on the Senate
floor that will focus on Military Appre-
ciation Month. I think we are all going
to talk about how wonderful our mili-
tary is, and we will probably do a little
bit of bragging about our different
States and how we support and appre-
ciate our military so much.
I like to come down on the floor and
talk in superlatives about my State,
the great State of Alaska. It is true
that most Senators love to talk about
their States in all of their superlatives,
which is good. We are proud States. We
each think we live in the best State in
the country. We all believe that. I hap-
pen to think my State is the best State
in the country.
In talking about our military and its
support and Military Appreciation
Month, we certainly have a large mili-
tary presence in Alaska. We have about
32 military facilities and 5 major in-
stallations. Roughly, 10 percent of the
population is either in the military or
is a family member of someone who is
in the military.
I like to say that Alaska actually
constitutes three pillars of our Na-
tion’s military might. Whether the at-
tacks be from Kim Jong Un or the Ira-
nians, we are the cornerstone of missile
defense, which are the missiles and the
radar that protect the entire country
from attacks. This all resides in Alas-
ka. We are the hub air combat power
for the Asia-Pacific and the Arctic, and
we will have over 100 fifth-generation
fighters—F–22s, F–35s—by the end of
next year. We are also a vital platform
for some of America’s best trained
troops to be deployed anywhere around
the world because of our strategic loca-
tion. Alaska also boasts the largest
number of veterans per capita of any
State in the country. These are the
facts, and they are all good.
What is so unique about Alaska—and,
I would say, as in most States—is how
proud we are of our military and how
much the communities of Alaska—big
communities, small communities—sup-
port the men and women who serve in
the military. It is almost a part of our
DNA in Alaska. Let me just give you
one example.
I was in a group of community lead-
ers in Delta Junction, which is in Alas-
ka’s interior. It is actually near Fort
Greely, where we have our missile de-
fense fields. It is right on the outskirts
of what is called the JPARC, which is
the biggest air training range in the
entire United States. The airspace is
actually the size of Florida. There is
great training, and we have Red Flag
exercises. Our men and women in the
Air Force, in particular, do some won-
derful training there.
We were in this community meeting,
and some Air Force pilot was flying
low and fast. He probably broke the
sound barrier because there was a giant
sonic boom. It shook the whole build-
ing. It shook the whole meeting room.
Now, I would say, in most States, that
would probably result in having people
complain and call their Congressmen
and Senators in their being mad about
what the military would be doing—
shaking the buildings with sonic booms
because they would be breaking the
speed of sound as they would be train-
ing. Yet the mayor of Delta just looked
at me and said, ‘‘The sound of free-
dom.’’ There were no complaints, just
support.
Let me give another example.
In so many of our smaller Native
communities—Native villages—across
Alaska, one sees what I refer to as spe-
cial patriotism. Alaska Natives and the
lower 48 American Indians serve in the
military at higher rates than any eth-
nic group in the country. That is a spe-
cial patriotism because—let’s face it—
these great American patriots weren’t
always supported by their government
when they came home after fighting in
World War II or in Vietnam.
As a matter of fact, there was a docu-
mentary that was produced about the
community of Hoonah, AK, which is in
Southeast Alaska. The film was called
‘‘Hunting and Wartime.’’ It was about
the fact that almost every single male
high school senior in the late 1960s in
these small communities went off to
fight in Vietnam—almost every one of
them.
That is special patriotism. This sup-
port for the military isn’t a recent phe-
nomenon in Alaska. In 1942, during
World War II, Alaskans oversubscribed
their war bond quota by 300 percent,
which surpassed that of every State in
the Union.
So many Senators—Democratic and
Republican—are going to come down to
the floor and talk about our Military
Appreciation Month, as they should.
There is some talk in the country
about the 1 percent and the less than 1
percent. Well, the 1 percent I really
care about is the less than 1 percent of
young men and women who still,
today, raise their right hands to sup-
port and defend the Constitution and
to defend our liberty, knowing it could
even cost them their lives by their
joining the U.S. military.
We all have wonderful veterans and
wonderful men and women in the mili-
tary whom we support in the U.S. Sen-
ate. I tell my constituents that the one
thing we are focused on doing is mak-
ing sure, when you send your son or
daughter to join the military, that it is
the top military in the world, the most
ready military in the world, and the
most capable military in the world.
One thing we are doing is reversing a
dangerous trend. From 2010 to 2015, de-
fense spending for the U.S. military
was cut by almost 25 percent during
the second term of the Obama adminis-
tration—25 percent—and readiness
plummeted. We are changing that be-
cause no man or woman in this country
who volunteers to support and defend
the Constitution by joining the mili-
tary should be joining a military that
is not at the highest level of readiness
and lethal in terms of its getting the
job done. So I am going to pass this on
to some of my colleagues here. As the
Senator from a State where commu-
nities support our military so much, I
just want to thank all the members, re-
gardless of where you live, for the
great work you do and to let you know
that the Senate supports you with all
its heart and soul.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, while my
friend and colleague from Alaska is
still on the floor, I want to thank him
for his many years of service as a ma-
rine.
I am here to talk about North Caro-
lina and Military Appreciation Month.
We have a special relationship with
members of the military and their fam-
ilies in North Carolina. We have a mil-
lion veterans in the State. Literally
hundreds of thousands of people serve
in the military.
You may have heard of the Global
Response Force. The Global Response
Force is out of Fort Bragg. When there
is a crisis anywhere in the world,
whether it is a military conflict or a
relief effort, it is the 82nd Airborne
that goes out to the green ramp down
in Fort Bragg, NC, and goes wherever
they need to go, sometimes with 48
hours’ notice.
Just down the street from there, we
have the marines at Camp Lejeune.
The marines who are based in Camp
Lejeune and Cherry Point and New
River constitute about 45 percent of all
the marines serving in the Marine
Corps.
We can go up to Seymour Johnson
Air Force Base, and we have a proud
number of men and women in the Air
Force who are part of a base that will
be the home to the new KC–46, a next-
generation tanker.
To say we have a close bond with the
military is an understatement. We love
them, and we love their families.
I chair the Personnel Subcommittee
of the Senate Armed Services Com-
mittee, so I have an opportunity to
have a direct role in showing apprecia-
tion to not only the men and women
who are serving in the military but
also their spouses. It is a tough job.
They are serving too.
As we think about Military Apprecia-
tion Month, let’s make sure we are,
first and foremost, thinking about not
only those brave men and women who
have sworn the oath to defend and pro-
tect our Nation but also their families,
who are an integral part of their being
capable and ready to do the job.
I also want to make sure we don’t
lose sight of the veteran population—a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.021 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2858 May 15, 2019
million of them in my State alone.
One-tenth of our population are vet-
erans.
We should also talk about the Na-
tional Guard and the reservists. If you
take a look at a State like North Caro-
lina, we have had a number of people in
the National Guard who have been de-
ployed multiple times to Iraq and Af-
ghanistan—some of the most dangerous
places you could be. They do it with
courage, and they do it with honor.
During Military Appreciation Month, I
think we should pay special attention
to this special group of people. I hope
that every day of the year, each and
every one of you shows them the appre-
ciation and the respect they deserve.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, like my
colleagues and like people from around
the country, North Dakotans are very
proud of our military heritage. In fact,
North Dakotans sign up at a rate four
times the national average. I think you
will hear that theme throughout the
Midwest especially.
I am grateful to Senator ERNST for
her leadership today as we stand and
do something we ought to do every
day. It is something we ought to do in
church when we are sitting next to
them in the pews and when we are
talking to our neighbors who are serv-
ing or their spouses or family mem-
bers. We are saying: Thank you. For-
give us for not saying it more often.
Frankly, part of why we don’t say
‘‘thank you’’ more often is because we
go about our business in complete com-
fort, unaware of the dangers around
the world because you all do your jobs
so very well. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you.
Mr. President, North Dakota is home
to two Air Force bases. I recently fin-
ished a tour of the military bases in
North Dakota, and I want to speak
briefly about the airmen at those two
bases.
Grand Forks, ND, houses the 319th
Air Base Wing, known as the Warriors
of the North. Just last Saturday, Air
Force Secretary Heather Wilson visited
Grand Forks and redesignated this base
as the 319th Reconnaissance Wing. This
is one of only three of its kind. I am
continually impressed with the mission
of the Global Hawk. The Global Hawk
mission that is headquartered out of
Grand Forks is remarkable. I believe
that Grand Forks is a place that is
well-positioned for the future of
warfighting.
To the west of Grand Forks a couple
hundred miles is the community of
Minot. Minot, ND, is home to the 5th
Bomb Wing and the 91st Missile Wing
at the Minot Air Force Base. This is in-
teresting because, of course, the bomb
wing operates the intercontinental bal-
listic missiles and the B–52 bombers at
the same base. That is two of the three
legs of the nuclear triad we hear so
much about. You are not going to find
a stronger proponent of the nuclear
triad than you will in me because it is
the only base of its kind.
As the base’s motto goes, ‘‘Only the
best come North.’’ Our greatest defense
is in detouring our adversaries, and
certainly the nuclear triad is impor-
tant to that. Every day, the airmen in
Minot wake up with literally the
weight of the world, in many cases, on
their shoulders. So for their service
and their willingness to stand in the
gap in the defense of the world, I am
immensely grateful and always im-
pressed.
Of course, I would be remiss to not
also mention the airspace station in
Cavalier. I think it is the Air Force’s
smallest base, but it is a very impor-
tant installation. As we debate in this
Chamber the need for a modernized
space force, understanding the work
this base does has further compelled
me to stand in support of a modern, ca-
pable military unit able to defend the
emerging domain that space has be-
come. A special thank-you to those 40
or so airmen in Cavalier who do an in-
credible job far from home and in many
cases far from a lot of other people
around them.
On a more personal note, I want to
say ‘‘thank you’’ to the military fami-
lies and spouses of those stationed in
North Dakota, as my colleagues have
done. As we know, in a family, every-
body serves. In a small community, ev-
erybody serves together. They come
from all over the country, and they
bless our local communities and our
State with their work in North Dakota.
They deserve a very special thanks for
that service.
Our military community is not, of
course, defined solely by our Air Force
bases; it is also defined by our incred-
ible Army and Air National Guard in
North Dakota. In Fargo, for example, I
am going to highlight this one unit—
the 119th Wing of North Dakota’s Air
National Guard, known as the Happy
Hooligans. They are frequent recipients
of the Air Force’s Outstanding Unit
Award. In fact, earlier this year, they
received their 20th Outstanding Unit
Award. This is an award that is given
to the units that distinguish them-
selves by exceptional service and out-
standing achievement. No group better
exemplifies that than the Happy Hooli-
gans. In fact, no unit has received more
Outstanding Unit Awards either in the
active Air Force or in the Guard than
the Happy Hooligans. Congratulations.
While we are talking about the
Guard, I want to say a special thanks
not only to the families—because, as I
said, they all serve—but in the Guard,
there are a lot of people who serve, in-
cluding their employers. I don’t think
we say ‘‘thank you’’ to the employers
often enough who accommodate—no,
facilitate—no, encourage the incredible
military personnel who do a great job
for us on the homefront, as well as
when called into action beyond our
borders.
The mission of the National Guard is
to provide ready units, individuals, and
equipment supporting our commu-
nities, our States, our Nation.
If I might elaborate a little bit on
homeland issues, just a few short years
ago, our State called on our National
Guard to meet that mission. We were
abandoned by the Federal Government,
and the North Dakota National Guard
was deployed to help keep the peace. It
is appropriate today, on this Peace Of-
ficers Memorial Day, that we recognize
this relationship. The National Guard
was deployed to keep the peace as out-
of-State activists with no interest,
really, in North Dakota—they flooded
our State to violently protest the le-
gally permitted Dakota Access Pipe-
line. Absent Federal help, our Governor
called on our National Guard as a last
resort.
You would think that would have
some serious ramifications. Well, the
reality is, because of the quality of our
guardsmen, they did what the previous
administration would not—they stood
up for the rule of law, and they stood in
the way of radical protesters even
while their own families were targets
of the radical protests, the harassment
of radical protesters from everywhere
other than North Dakota. They put
their lives at risk and did it without
provocation, without escalation, and
with a calming presence. They didn’t
run from their orders. They didn’t balk
at their commands. They answered the
call to peacefully and professionally
defend our State from the chaos that
descended upon us.
Again, ‘‘thank you’’ is inadequate. It
is all we can do today. I would just
compel people to say ‘‘thank you’’
more often. As you see that neighbor,
as you see that person sitting next to
you, make it a point to say ‘‘thank
you’’ out loud, in front of friends.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Thanks
to the Senator from North Dakota.
The Senator from Iowa.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, during
Military Appreciation Month, we honor
the men and women who wear our Na-
tion’s uniform, those who have worn it
in the past, and those who have sac-
rificed their lives for our freedom.
As a Senator and a combat veteran
with over 23 years of service between
the Army Reserves and the Iowa Army
National Guard, I am grateful to have
the opportunity to get to know so
many patriotic and selfless Americans,
and Iowans are well represented in
those ranks. Nearly 9 percent of our
State’s adult population are veterans.
The national average is just above 61⁄2
percent. From World War II to the
global war on terrorism, Iowans have
served with honor and distinction.
Military Appreciation Month is also
a time to recognize our military fami-
lies who sacrifice so much and faith-
fully support our men and women in
uniform. They keep things running
during long deployments and help dur-
ing the transition back to civilian
life—they help that family member—
and, of course, long, long after. So to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.022 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2859
May 15, 2019
all of our military families in Iowa
and, of course, across the Nation,
thank you for choosing to serve.
This month is also a good oppor-
tunity for those of us in the Senate to
highlight some of the work we are
doing to support our servicemembers,
our military families, and, of course,
our veterans. Next week, the Senate
Armed Services Committee will be
starting our yearly national defense
authorization bill process. In anticipa-
tion of that process, I will be joining
my Democratic colleague from Ari-
zona, Senator SINEMA, to introduce two
new bills to address military sexual as-
sault—one to improve prevention and
the other to streamline prosecution.
I will also be introducing a bill with
Senator WARREN that will explore ways
to better track traumatic brain inju-
ries sustained by our warfighters. Help-
ing our servicemembers with injuries
sustained in battle is a top priority of
mine. We owe it to our wounded war-
riors to seek out game-changing treat-
ments and to help them heal and re-
cover.
As the chairman of the Sub-
committee on Emerging Threats and
Capabilities, I will also use the NDAA
process to ensure that the bill fosters
technological advancements to better
equip our warfighters for success.
Military Appreciation Month is an
important reminder of the daily sac-
rifice made by our servicemembers, our
military families, and our veterans. It
is also a solemn time to remember
those who made the ultimate sacrifice
to keep America free, safe, and pros-
perous. We have many of our own Mem-
bers who have served in the military,
and I want to thank them all very
much. So for those of us who have worn
boots, we take a look at this legisla-
tion and find ways that we can better
support those who serve.
In the Senate, members of our mili-
tary, families, and veterans have our
support and our gratitude, not only
today but every day.
I know the folks back home in Iowa
feel the same.
So from all of us to all of you who
have worn the uniform and those who
have supported those who have worn
the uniform, thank you for your serv-
ice, and God bless you.
God bless our great State of Iowa,
God bless the great United States of
America and those men and women
who make it possible to be free.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Oklahoma.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, first of
all, let me associate myself with the
remarks of the Senator from Iowa.
It is so important for all of us, par-
ticularly those of us who have had oc-
casion to serve, to really pay attention
to what is going on. This is Military
Appreciation Month, and it is very sig-
nificant, what is going on. Every
month should be Military Apprecia-
tion.
As the chairman of the Senate Armed
Services Committee and as a veteran,
it is my great honor and responsibility
to support our warfighters during and
after their service.
Whenever they were needed, they
were there, and so we have to do a bet-
ter job in supporting them. We went
through 8 years of not adequately sup-
porting the military, and it is some-
thing that many of them are suffering
from now.
Now, next week, as it was pointed
out, we are going to do the Defense au-
thorization bill. It is not very often
you can stand here and say we are
going to introduce a bill, and we know
it is going to pass. The reason we know
it is going to pass is because it has
passed for the last 58 years. So this one
is going to pass.
I can remember a few years that we
actually had to go into September to
get the Defense authorization bill
passed. In the event it got to the end of
December, and the same thing would be
true this coming year, then we would
have hazard pay that wouldn’t be paid,
and we would have flight pay that
wouldn’t be paid. There would not be
adequate funding to take care of any of
that.
So we can’t let that happen, and we
are not going to let it happen.
I am a little confused now because a
month from today we will actually
mark up that bill in the U.S. Senate.
Yet the House isn’t going to do it, it is
my understanding, until the middle of
June.
Then I also heard that they may,
over in the House, actually do the ap-
propriations bill first.
Well, if you do the appropriations bill
before you do the bill we will be mark-
ing up, the NDAA, then there is no rea-
son to even do the NDAA from the
House perspective.
So we do know that good things are
going to happen. We are going to im-
plement the national defense strategy.
We have talked about the national de-
fense strategy several times on the
floor and on how we have done, I think,
a very good job in putting this to-
gether. Most importantly, we are sup-
porting our All-Volunteer Force.
I may be the last person on the Sen-
ate Armed Service Committee who still
believes in compulsory service.
I often wonder what would have hap-
pened in my life if I hadn’t been draft-
ed. I always remember coming back at
Christmastime, Eisenhower was Presi-
dent, and I was enrolled at the Univer-
sity of Mexico, and I looked in the
mailbox and there was a card. It was
from the President, and I thought how
nice of the President to remember me
at Christmastime. It was my draft no-
tice. So that changed my plans, and I
often wonder where I would be today if
I hadn’t had that experience.
We are going to provide the Armed
Forces with adequate funding, and I
hope we will find a budget solution. We
can’t do it with a continuing resolu-
tion. We have asked all of our leaders
in the hearings what would happen to
us if we did a continuing resolution,
and it just wouldn’t work. I think we
all realize that.
It puts people who are budget hawks,
like me, and military hawks in a very
awkward situation because we have a
situation where, as a result of the 8
years of Obama, we have a thing called
parity so that for every dollar you put
in the military, there has to be a dollar
that goes to the nondefense programs.
This is something that doesn’t work.
So the continuing resolution, we all
know, is something that should not be
an option.
The responsibility carries a great
weight now. We ask our men and
women in uniform to do more in the
face of danger and more in a dangerous
and unpredictable world than at any
time.
I think the Trump administration is
right. They try to categorize the two
threats that are out there, one being
the threat of the rogue nations that
are out there, and we are talking about
North Korea and some of these other
nations. At the same time, we also
have the major threat of the great
power threat, and this is one we face,
and we know that. Yes, we are used to
dealing with the threats of the rogue
nations, but after the 8 years of the
Obama administration, we watched
Russia and China forge ahead of us in
many areas. Hypersonic weapons are a
good example, and that is something
that is taking place now.
So during that period of time, during
the last 5 years of the Obama adminis-
tration, the amount of money that we
had to run our military with was re-
duced by almost 25 percent. Now, we
have made up a lot of this in fiscal year
2018 and in fiscal year 2019, thanks to
the Trump administration. We have in-
creased that funding back up to $700
billion, then again $716 billion, and this
time I think we are going to be at $750
billion.
There is some dispute as to what the
exact figure will be, but nonetheless we
have started to rebuild. So we will be
modernizing our forces, including our
nuclear arsenal now, in order to main-
tain our military superiority—or to re-
gain is a better word than maintain be-
cause we have actually lost some of our
superiority—well into the future. Our
Armed Forces have long been the best
in the world, but we have problems now
in trying to rebuild, and that is what
this is all about.
So we will support our troops and
their families who sacrifice a great
deal to protect our Nation. This in-
cludes making meaningful reforms to
privatize on-base housing. We went
through this housing trauma just the
other day. We found out a lot of people
are not being treated properly. A lot of
the spouses of our members and our
members are living in housing that is
totally unacceptable, but we came to
that realization and we are correcting
that now and that is going to be cor-
rected even further in the Defense au-
thorization bill that we will mark up a
week from today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.024 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2860 May 15, 2019
So we want to thank every man and
woman who ever put on a uniform and
those who are doing this in defense of
the country, congratulate them and
pay particular attention to them and
support them in every way we can.
The fabric of our Nation is stronger
because of the guys in uniform and
those who have been in uniform, and
we will endure for the years to come
because of their service. God bless all
of the men and women in uniform.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
come to the floor as part of Military
Appreciation Month. It is a time, clear-
ly, to remember our brave service men
and women, to reflect on their faithful
service to this country and to recall
the many sacrifices our troops and
their families have made and continue
to make in defense of this great Na-
tion.
Many of us will be heading overseas
for the 75th anniversary of D-day to
commemorate the efforts of an incred-
ible group of allies on the fateful day
and the weeks and the months that fol-
lowed.
As I stand here today, I think of
those soldiers, and I think of my wife
Bobbi’s dad, Bob Brown—currently 92
years old, living in Thermopolis, WY,
longtime postmaster. He still drives
Meals on Wheels, as he says, ‘‘for the
old folks.’’
He was called to Europe in World War
II, and he is one of those few who was
in World War II in the European the-
ater as well as in Japan as part of that
first occupation and then called back
to Korea as part of the 2–300 who con-
tinued in the fight for our freedoms.
He continues today to serve our
United States. His wife, Jerry, who
went through all of this in
Thermopolis, WY, knows the sacrifices
he and so many have made.
My dad, World War II, Battle of the
Bulge. I still carry his dog tags from
the Battle of the Bulge with me. I have
them with me today on the floor of the
Senate, and I carry them with me when
I go to see our troops overseas.
He is the guy who had to quit school
in ninth grade because of the Depres-
sion. In World War II—and I have gone
through some of his old papers—I found
pictures of him and a number of mem-
bers of the artillery who were part of
the liberation of France.
From the time I was a little boy, he
would say: John, you should thank God
every day because you live in America.
You don’t know how fortunate you are.
We are so blessed to live in this great
country, and it is to the men and
women who continue to protect this
land, who fought for our freedoms—my
dad, his wife, Louise, the sacrifices
they have made on behalf of all of us.
Today we honor all of our Armed
Forces, the Army, the Navy, the Air
Force, the Coast Guard, the Marines,
the National Guard.
In particular, today I want to salute
the members of the Wyoming Army
National Guard because they are now
deploying to the Middle East. Some 300
Wyoming soldiers from six units will
be sent to the Middle East between
January and September—the largest
Wyoming deployment in nearly a dec-
ade.
The deployments began in January
with the G Company of the 2nd Bat-
talion, 211th Aviation, a medical evacu-
ation company—the most deployed
unit in the Wyoming Guard.
The medevac unit that was sent to
Afghanistan includes Wyoming soldiers
from Bear River, from Casper, from
Carpenter, from Guernsey, from Chey-
enne, Laramie, and Wheatland.
This past week, Wyoming Governor
Mark Gordon participated in a sendoff
ceremony in Casper for 130 Wyoming
National Guard troops headed to Texas
ahead of a 9-month deployment to the
Middle East.
The Wyoming troops from the 2nd
Battalion of the 300 Field Artillery, the
‘‘Cowboy Cannoneers,’’ the group my
father-in-law, Bob Brown, was part of—
they are from more than two dozen
communities from Casper to Lovell, to
Cheyenne, to Moorcroft. This Guard
unit will serve under the U.S. Central
Command covering Iraq, Afghanistan,
Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates.
Wyoming and the entire Nation owe
an incredible debt of gratitude to these
fearless fighters for our freedom.
God bless the U.S. Armed Forces,
God bless our troops, our veterans, and
God bless the United States of Amer-
ica.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Florida.
Mr. SCOTT of Florida. Mr. President,
I am proud to speak today in honor of
Military Appreciation Month.
Our men and women in uniform are
true heroes. They risk their lives every
day to protect our freedoms and our
way of life.
I had the opportunity to serve in the
U.S. Navy during the Vietnam war, and
my adopted father was one of the few
who made all four combat jumps in the
82nd Airborne during World War II.
As Governor, I made it my mission to
turn Florida into the most military-
and veteran-friendly State in the Na-
tion, and we succeeded. We championed
important legislation and funding to
support priorities that matter most to
Florida’s military families, and we
took every opportunity to recognize
veterans for their service.
Florida has 20 military bases and 3
unified commands—more than almost
any other State. As Governor, I met
regularly with Florida’s base com-
manders to see how I could help sup-
port their missions and their troops. As
a Senator, I continue to host base com-
mander meetings to make sure our
military has every resource they need.
America is blessed with the protec-
tion of the strongest military in the
world. Our military provides not only
for the safety of our country but also
leads in supporting our allies and pro-
tecting freedom and democracy across
the globe.
For decades, we have invested in
building our military into the most le-
thal fighting force in the history of the
world, but we live in a dangerous
world, and we must avoid complacency.
Our military readiness was dimin-
ished by budget cuts and the sequester
under President Obama, which reduced
defense spending across the board. The
dysfunction in Washington has many
consequences, but a significantly weak-
ened military is the most dangerous.
Our military superiority is never
guaranteed. Russia and China continue
to build up their militaries with a sin-
gle goal in mind: to dominate the world
stage.
To avoid a national security emer-
gency, we must act now. That is why,
as a member of the Armed Services
Committee, I am fighting to match the
President’s request of $750 million in
defense spending, and I am fighting to
secure a pay raise for our men and
women in uniform—our heroes.
I have also sponsored the Pay Our
Coast Guard Act to make sure military
pay is never affected by a government
shutdown.
We must also work together to pass
disaster relief funding immediately,
which will help rebuild Tyndall Air
Force Base following the devastation of
Hurricane Michael.
I will never lose sight of one of the
most important roles I have as a U.S.
Senator: to protect and serve the fami-
lies of our Nation. None of us should
lose sight of that.
I look forward to working closely
with each of you to invest in America’s
greatest asset—the men and women of
our Armed Forces.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, I
would like to echo the sentiments my
colleagues have expressed in apprecia-
tion of the men and women who serve
in our Armed Forces.
While it may seem like the Members
of this Chamber, much like America
itself, are strongly divided on issues of
national policy, I can say, without a
doubt, that we are all united in support
of our troops and their efforts to pro-
tect and defend our Nation and its
ideals. That is why I am appreciative of
the opportunity to join with my col-
leagues today to thank the soldiers,
sailors, airmen, marines, and coast-
guardsmen working tirelessly to pro-
tect the American people from the
multitude of threats that face our Na-
tion.
The men and women who wear our
Nation’s uniform selflessly serve. They
are fully aware of the risks they face.
Despite that, they bravely put them-
selves in harm’s way to defend our
country, ideals, and allies around the
world.
They didn’t choose this life to seek
recognition, awards or honors. Like
those who wore the uniform before
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.025 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2861
May 15, 2019
them, they chose the path of a higher
calling. They chose it as a way to use
their talents for the greater good. The
men and women who serve in our mili-
tary embody what it means to be a
giver.
I know my fellow Arkansans share
my gratitude and appreciation for all
of our military personnel and their
families who sacrifice at home while
their loved ones are abroad.
Arkansas has a storied military her-
itage and a long and proud history of
supporting our Nation’s defense.
Troops stationed in the State served
our country honorably even before it
was admitted to the Union. Today, Ar-
kansans are stationed around the
globe, and our personnel at the Little
Rock Air Force Base, Camp Robinson,
Ebbing Air National Guard Base, Pine
Bluff Arsenal, and Fort Chaffee con-
tinue to make the Natural State proud.
We highlight their service during the
month of May, which includes six mili-
tary-related national observance days,
as a way to express our gratitude. That
gratitude endures in perpetuity.
We simply cannot thank our service-
members enough for the tremendous
sacrifice they made to ensure that we
continue to live in the greatest, freest
country that the world has ever known.
As the son of an Air Force master
sergeant, I learned at a young age
about the sacrifices our men and
women in uniform make. I also learned
very early on that military families
face unique challenges. It truly is a
family affair.
My father joined the National Guard
while he was in high school, and while
still in high school, his unit was
shipped out to prepare for World War
II. He remained in the Air Force long
after the war was over, serving over 20
years in uniform. The example set by
my father’s military career—and the
lessons we learned growing up in a
military family—helped my siblings
and me to prepare for a productive
service-centered life. The experience
taught us one of the most valuable les-
sons which I continue to carry with me
today. Through their service to our
country, the men and women of our
military are part of something much
bigger than themselves.
My father was not only my hero, but
as a World War II veteran, he and his
fellow servicemembers in my home-
town of Fort Smith were embraced in
the same manner by the community as
a whole. The respect and admiration
our community displayed for military
members was not faked or forced. It
was genuine.
It remains just as strong today in
communities across our great Nation.
While those displays may be more pub-
licly visible during National Military
Appreciation Month, the feelings of re-
spect, admiration, and gratitude will
carry on long after the end of this
month. Our Nation is eternally grate-
ful for the sacrifice of every service-
member working to keep America safe,
strong, and free.
It is a real honor to be down here
with my colleague from Arkansas, and
we greatly appreciate your service.
Congratulations on your book, which
tells the story of Arlington and what a
very special place it is—truly hallowed
ground.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arkansas.
Mr. COTTON. Mr. President, we are
here in the middle of National Military
Appreciation Month. So I am pleased
to join my colleagues in showing our
Nation’s gratitude for every single sol-
dier, sailor, airman, marine, and coast-
guardsman who is serving or has served
our Nation with honor.
This month is specially dedicated to
our Armed Forces, but, of course, we
have ample reason to celebrate and ap-
preciate them year-round, because our
troops serve year-round and around the
clock and willingly accepting limita-
tions on their own freedom and com-
forts so their fellow Americans can live
in freedom and security.
Right now, thousands of American
troops serve in dangerous conditions
overseas far from home. Even now, at
this moment, our troops are engaged in
combat, surrounded by the enemy,
fighting courageously.
We are all thankful and proud of
their service and indebted for their sac-
rifice. But it is not only them. Two
weeks ago I had the privilege of attend-
ing a medal ceremony in Arkansas
where seven veterans of the Korean
war were honored for their service and
for actions they took in defense of our
freedom nearly seven decades ago, so
that these long-ago actions were not
forgotten.
One week ago, I had the opportunity
to thank our military spouses—the un-
sung heroes of our Armed Forces—for
their work raising families despite the
hardships of military life.
Those are just a couple of events
from the last couple of weeks. Yet they
are multiplied countless times every
day across our country and around the
world wherever our troops and their
families are present. At airports,
troops returning from overseas are
greeted with hugs and cheers. The re-
mains of our fallen heroes are greeted
with odd silence.
At dinners and restaurants, a uni-
form or even a veteran’s hat will some-
times still earn a veteran or soldier a
free meal from a grateful neighbor and
fellow citizen.
Here in Washington, honor flights for
our veterans still get police escorts
with flashing sirens, and children sa-
lute those veterans, sometimes asking
innocently about their memories at
battle.
Across the river at Arlington Na-
tional Cemetery, sentinels of the Old
Guard stand at attention and walk the
mat around the clock and in all weath-
er—just as they have for the past 82
years—to ensure that those unknown
soldiers and every person whose head-
stone graces those beautiful rolling
fields rest in eternal peace.
I am proud to live in a country that
honors its military in such a fashion,
but, more importantly, I am proud to
live in a country whose military is
worthy of such honor. So to every sol-
dier, sailor, airman, marine, and coast-
guardsman, I extend my gratitude, my
respect, and my thanks to you and
your family for your honorable service,
not just today, not just this month but
every day.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, in the
United States we are known as the
land of the free. There is a reason for
that. It is because we are the home of
the brave. Our military men and
women represent the very best of
America. In fact, the good Word tells
us that ‘‘Greater love hath no man
than this, that a man lay down his life
for his friends.’’
When a young man or a young
woman volunteers to serve, he or she is
writing a blank check made payable to
the United States of America for an
amount up to and including their life.
In Montana, we are very fortunate to
have so many heroes hail from our
great State, including many who now
work on my staff and on behalf of the
people of Montana. Great Montanans
like Christy Hagler, Denny Lenoir,
Robin Baker, and Jim Korth. We are
all so very fortunate to have Dillon
Vaden and Doug Pack on staff here in
DC currently serving in the Marine
Corps.
Thank you for your service to our
country. Thank you for your service to
the people of Montana.
In fact, just last fall, I had the honor
of visiting the men and women of
Kalispell’s 495th CSSB while they were
deployed in Afghanistan. They flew
over to Kabul and to Bagram Air Base.
I had a chance to spend time with these
great Montanans.
Just a few months ago, I had the
privilege of welcoming these same sol-
diers home after they had been de-
ployed for 9 long months. These men
and women had been far away from
their families and from their friends
across the holidays. Many of them were
with us that night on the tarmac as
they were risking their lives to protect
our freedom. Seeing them reunited
with their loved ones was a powerful
experience for both Cindy, my wife, and
me. It is one that I will never, ever for-
get. But the sad reality is that some of
our Montana heroes do not make it
back. SSG Travis Atkins is a Bozeman
native. In fact, Travis and I both went
to the same high school. He was re-
cently awarded the highest military
distinction in this country by Presi-
dent Trump, and that is the Medal of
Honor.
You see, Sergeant Atkins willingly
laid down his life when he tackled a
suicide bomber to shield the blast from
his fellow soldiers in order to save
their lives—a true hero. The sacrifice
he made for his country and his fellow
soldiers will never be forgotten.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.027 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2862 May 15, 2019
Over in Fort Harrison, MT, MSG
Jesse Edinger of the Army National
Guard has been welcoming home the
fallen since 2006. He knows what sac-
rifice looks like. He is no stranger to
combat, having served three deploy-
ments to Iraq and Afghanistan. He
earned his national instructor certifi-
cation and has taught over the years
hundreds of soldiers within his region
to be honor guard trained. He has also
performed more than 1,100 military fu-
nerals for Montana veterans, which in-
cluded the service for SSG Travis At-
kins.
While we all appreciate our brave
men or brave women who serve in the
military every day, this month is Mili-
tary Appreciation Month. This month
is about giving these men and women
the added appreciation they richly de-
serve.
I will continue to advocate for poli-
cies that strengthen our military and
give our men and our women who serve
the strategic advantages they need to
win.
Thank you to all who serve and to all
who have served. On behalf of a very
grateful Nation, we honor you, and we
appreciate you.
I yield back.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, the
month of May is Military Appreciation
Month. It is a time when we as a coun-
try can come together, pause, and rec-
ognize the sacrifices of those who have
raised their right hands, worn the cloth
of our country, and continue to serve
the world’s greatest military day in
and day out.
They have exceptionally long days
and difficult tasks. Sometimes they
fight the fight of boredom while hang-
ing out and guarding a spot. Some-
times they are in exceptionally stress-
ful full-on combat mode. They are pre-
pared for both.
Throughout the month of May, there
are actually six different days of obser-
vation to honor our Nation’s military
and their families, who have sacrificed
so much: Loyalty Day, Public Service
Recognition Week, Victory in Europe
Day, or V-E Day, Military Spouse Ap-
preciation Day, Armed Forces Day,
and, of course, at the end of the month
of May, a pause for Memorial Day. All
of these observances within 1 month, in
May. It is a clear sign that our mili-
tary is one of the most important cor-
nerstones of our country and that their
sacrifice is unmatched. So we should
honor and celebrate it.
In addition to our servicemembers
and veterans, I hope all Americans also
recognize the service of their family
members while their husband, wife,
son, daughter, mom, and dad are wear-
ing the uniform. They could be gone for
months at a time on multiple deploy-
ments.
I had the opportunity to meet with
many family members in Oklahoma.
Their spouse, mom, dad, son, or daugh-
ter has been deployed multiple times
into several different theaters. While
they are fully deployed, their family
waits, and it is a long and difficult
wait. It is tough for the family.
For those who serve in our National
Guard, it is tough on employers. It is
tough on their personal finances. It is a
stressful environment. For those folks
who have done it and continue to
serve—that 1 percent of our Nation
that defends the other 99 percent of our
Nation—we could not be more grateful
for them and for their family members.
To our Gold Star families, those who
are left behind to continue the legacy
of those who have made the ultimate
sacrifice, we thank you for your service
and for your love of country.
As a nation, it is our duty to con-
tinue to support our Gold Star fami-
lies, to encourage them, to check on
them, and to live life with them.
Just last week, I introduced legisla-
tion with Senator CARPER to expand
certain educational benefits to the sur-
vivors of guardsmen and reservists who
have died as a result of their service.
This is the least we could do as a na-
tion to walk alongside those Gold Star
families.
Over 33,000 Active-Duty Guard, Re-
serve, and Active-Duty personnel are
currently assigned in Oklahoma. We
have Oklahomans serving our country
and protecting our interests, literally,
all over the world right now. We are
home to Altus Air Force Base, Tinker
Air Force Base, Vance Air Force Base,
Fort Sill Fires Center of Excellence in
the McAlester Army Ammunition
Plant, as well as countless different
National Guard locations all around
the State. We train and equip our sol-
diers, airmen, sailors, and marines, and
I am proud of the Oklahomans who
wear the uniform.
As we continue this Military Appre-
ciation Month, I hope all Americans
take the time to remember that 24
hours a day, 7 days a week, whether
you are awake or asleep, someone is on
guard watching our Nation right now,
and someone is defending our freedoms
right now. Whether you are hearing
about Military Appreciation Month
while you are at work, while you are at
play, or while you are at rest, someone
is not resting right now. They are de-
fending your freedoms, and we are
grateful.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado is recognized.
REMEMBERING KENDRICK CASTILLO
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President,
Kendrick Castillo was an 18-year-old
senior set to graduate high school at
the end of the week when his life was
tragically cut short. On Tuesday, May
7, Kendrick Castillo sat in his British
literature class, just like any other day
in school, when two schoolmates burst
into a classroom at the STEM school in
Highlands Ranch and opened fire.
When faced with the unthinkable,
Kendrick acted out of pure heroism as
he put his classmates’ lives before his
own and charged the shooters. A class-
mate of Kendrick’s described his her-
oism by telling NBC News about his ac-
tions, ‘‘giving all of us enough time to
get underneath our desks, to get our-
selves safe, and to run across the room
to escape.’’
Brendan Bialy, a classmate who
charged the assailants with Kendrick,
told ABC News:
Kendrick Castillo died a legend. He died a
trooper. I know he will be with me for the
rest of my life.
John Castillo reflected on his son’s
actions by saying:
He did what he had to do, and I knew that
was my son’s nature. That was who he was.
Kendrick Castillo displayed courage
well beyond his years. He was a mem-
ber of the robotics club and wanted to
study electrical engineering in college
and loved spending his free time fishing
and camping.
Today, Colorado mourns the loss of a
hero as we say good-bye to Kendrick
Castillo. As his friends, family, and
community all gather at Highlands
Ranch for a final farewell, we must
pledge to never forget this young man.
Kendrick Castillo lost his life saving
his fellow classmates. The students of
the STEM school in Highlands Ranch
experienced an absolute tragedy and
showed fearlessness well beyond their
years as they took charge in the face of
danger.
Now is the time to come together in
tragedy to rise above it and remind
every single student at that school
that we love them, we are with them,
and we will never forget them.
I also want to take a moment to
honor the first responders who, once
again, displayed true bravery in their
response to this tragedy. The deputies
of the Douglas County Police Depart-
ment, South Metro Fire Rescue, and all
of the neighboring first responders on
the scene acted quickly to help sta-
bilize the situation and lead the stu-
dents and faculty to safety.
This week is National Police Week, a
fitting time to reflect on those who
protect our sons and daughters every
day.
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mr. President, in Washington, DC,
this week, we are celebrating National
Police Week, a time we take each year
to thank law enforcement for pro-
tecting our communities and to re-
member the cost of providing this com-
fort.
Today, thousands of officers and
their families will gather on the west
front lawn of the Capitol to participate
in the 38th Annual Peace Officers’ Me-
morial Service, an event to honor all of
those we have lost in the line of duty.
I hope the camaraderie and support
they have experienced during the cere-
mony and throughout the week will
bring a bit of comfort to law enforce-
ment and our law enforcement commu-
nity. I also hope it demonstrates the
tremendous gratitude that we all have
for these sacrifices.
Police Week also serves to show the
law enforcement community that the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.028 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2863
May 15, 2019
lawmakers in Washington have their
back. We will continue to help depart-
ments all over the country afford life-
saving equipment, like bulletproof
vests to help as many officers as pos-
sible return home safely every day. In
fact, just this week, the Senate is
working on legislation to make sure we
are providing lifesaving equipment
through the Bulletproof Vest Grant
Program. We are also working on legis-
lation this week that will help address
mental health needs, not just for law
enforcement officers themselves but
for their families, as well, because we
know the pressure and strain that this
duty can create and put upon the fam-
ily.
I know my colleagues in the Senate
will join me in thanking the many offi-
cers who have joined us in Washington
this week. Their bravery and courage
allow all of us to enjoy the safety and
security we so often take for granted.
It should not take a tragedy for any of
us to reach out to a police officer,
EMS, or a firefighter, to thank them
for their work, and to let them know
their bravery does not go unnoticed.
Yesterday I had the honor of joining
the Colorado memorial ceremony at
the fallen officers’ memorial. There
have been 320 Coloradans over the
years who have been added to the fall-
en officers’ memorial. That is 320 too
many. Four were added this week:
Adams County deputy Heath Gumm, El
Paso County deputy Micah Flick, Las
Animas County sergeant Matthew
Moreno, and Littleton police officer
Kevin Denner.
One of the most poignant moments
at the ceremony yesterday was the
comment made by a police officer who
spoke to a widow of a fallen officer,
who said: Support for the law enforce-
ment community is needed long after
the bagpipes have played. I think that
is what we have to do as colleagues to-
gether. While the pomp and ceremony
memorials end, it is after the bagpipes
have finished that we must continue to
stand with the men and women on that
blue line of service to our commu-
nities.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). The Senator from Wyoming.
HEALTHCARE
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to address again
today the Democrats’ one-size-fits-all
healthcare scheme. It is a radical plan
to take over all of healthcare in Amer-
ica and to take away health insurance
from millions of Americans.
Still, nearly every Senate Democrat
running for President and 109 Members
of the House of Representatives, Demo-
crats all, have backed one-size-fits-all
healthcare. Last week, former Senator
Heidi Heitkamp of North Dakota had
words of wisdom for her fellow Demo-
crats. She writes in the Washington
Post: ‘‘Most Americans are satisfied
with the healthcare they receive and
do not want their coverage options
taken away and replaced,’’ as she said,
‘‘with a one-size-fits-all government
program.’’
I agree. The fact is, according to the
Census Bureau, 90 percent of Ameri-
cans have healthcare coverage. Of
those, 200 million are covered by pri-
vate health plans, and 180 million have
employer-provided healthcare cov-
erage. Most say that their current plan
works well for them.
The 180 million Americans covered
through their jobs work hard. These
people go out every morning and sup-
port their families. According to a sur-
vey released last year, the vast major-
ity of people with employer-provided
coverage—71 percent of them, to be
precise—like their current healthcare
plans.
So who exactly are those workers on
employer-sponsored plans? Well, many
are union members. They negotiate
their health coverage through their
union representatives. Many are public
employees, Federal and State employ-
ees, people who serve this country. So
why do Democrats who support one-
size-fits-all healthcare want to outlaw
proven, popular, and predictable health
coverage for millions of these working
families?
Democrats certainly seem to be put-
ting politics above principle. What is
more, they clearly believe that Wash-
ington knows best. But shouldn’t we be
asking what these hard-working Amer-
icans who have good private health in-
surance want? Well, shouldn’t we ask
them what is best for them and what is
best for their families?
Let’s take the Teamsters Union, for
example. In an article published in
2017, the Teamsters said:
The availability of high-quality health
care has been a top selling point for those
who belong to unions. It is a benefit these
workers have bargained for, and oftentimes
they have sacrificed higher pay for these ex-
cellent insurance benefits.
Let me underscore this point: The
Teamsters Union believes their health
benefits are excellent, and maybe
Democrats should ask the United
Steelworkers about their insurance
coverage. If you go to the steelworkers’
website, you will find their answer:
‘‘The Steelworkers Benefit Plan . . .
provide[s] high-quality, affordable
health and welfare benefits to USW
[United Steelworkers] members and
their families.’’
Basically, if you are a union worker
watching this debate right now, you
need to know that Democrats in Wash-
ington are coming for your hard-earned
healthcare benefits. Make no mistake.
Under the one-size-fits-all healthcare
legislation offered by Senator BERNIE
SANDERS and so many Democrats run-
ning for President, this high-quality
health insurance program and their in-
surance will cease to exist.
It is no wonder that last year some
high-profile public sector unions start-
ed sounding the alarm about losing
their health benefits. When New York
State debated a Sanders-like proposal
to take over healthcare, who raised the
loudest objections? Well, it was the
public sector unions, of course.
So again, we have millions of union
workers, Federal and State employees,
and their families, all with excellent
healthcare benefits that are on the
Democrats’ chopping block. Instead of
helping fix the Nation’s healthcare
problems, Democrats are looking to de-
stroy what is actually working.
Remember, it is more than union
workers and public sector employees
who are threatened. Democrats’ one-
size-fits-all healthcare plan is gunning
for retired military members’ health
insurance as well. We are talking about
the TRICARE health insurance pro-
gram for military families. There are
more than 9 million military families
enrolled in TRICARE. Our servicemem-
bers have earned their TRICARE cov-
erage through years of faithful service
defending this Nation. I believe one of
our greatest responsibilities is to pro-
vide for those who protect this Nation,
both those who currently serve and our
retired servicemembers.
Back home in Wyoming I talk with
servicemembers, with veterans, nearly
every weekend. These proud Americans
want me to make sure that TRICARE
works for them and to protect and
strengthen benefits that work and that
they have earned through their service.
Still, far-left Democrats don’t want to
listen to reason. They are hell-bent on
a one-size-fits-all approach to
healthcare.
It is especially ironic that Democrats
even want to ban ObamaCare plans—
the plans they voted for and put in
place. It has been less than a decade
since Democrats passed ObamaCare,
and now they want to repeal it and re-
place it, basically saying that
ObamaCare has failed.
For years I have come to the floor to
discuss the shortcomings of
ObamaCare. Every time Republicans
have offered to improve healthcare, we
have heard from the Democrats that
ObamaCare is off-limits and they can’t
possibly make any changes to that law.
Now that the Democrats are running
for President, suddenly they are sing-
ing a different tune. They are done de-
fending ObamaCare. In fact, Democrats
are happy to repeal ObamaCare so they
can replace it with a one-size-fits-all
healthcare plan for America.
Senator Heitkamp is actually warn-
ing them not to cast aside ObamaCare
and start all over again with a one-
size-fits-all plan.
Well, let me just say as a doctor, as
a physician who has taken care of pa-
tients for decades, my focus continues
to be on improving healthcare for
American patients and their families.
Americans want to focus on real
healthcare reforms that make a dif-
ference for them and their families in
terms of the cost and in terms of the
quality of their care. These are the
issues that Republicans are working on
right now: protecting patients with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.034 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2864 May 15, 2019
preexisting conditions, lowering pre-
scription drug costs, and ending sur-
prise medical bills.
Surprise medical bills are bills pa-
tients receive that come out of no-
where. These bills are an unfair finan-
cial burden on many families, com-
pletely unexpected medical costs that
they can’t afford and aren’t expecting.
Just last week I was at the White
House with President Trump announc-
ing a plan to help patients by ending
these surprise bills.
Republicans also remain committed
to protecting patients with preexisting
conditions and to lowering the cost of
prescription drugs.
Democrats have a choice to make.
They can follow the far-left Democrats
pushing their radical one-size-fits-all
approach to healthcare. Again, this ex-
treme scheme will mean the loss of
health insurance coverage for millions
and millions and millions of hard-
working people, union workers and
their families, our veterans, people who
helped protect and save this country,
Federal and State employees and their
families, and all of the Americans who
are currently enrolled in ObamaCare
plans.
The better option for Democrats is to
work with Republicans on common-
sense, bipartisan solutions, real re-
forms that improve healthcare for all
Americans. Let’s reject one-size-fits-all
healthcare that will make Americans
pay more to wait longer for worse care.
That is the key. One-size-fits-all
healthcare, I will tell people listening
in today, means that you will pay more
to wait longer for worse care. It is time
to reject one-size-fits-all care for
Americans. Let us work together to
give all patients the care they need
from a doctor they choose at a lower
cost.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
came to the floor to speak about rising
tensions and potential challenges with
Iran, but after my distinguished col-
league’s remarks and as a Member of
the Senate Finance Committee who
helped write the Affordable Care Act, I
wouldn’t want to have my silence be an
acceptance of his views.
For nearly a decade Republicans have
sought to tear down the Affordable
Care Act, which some derisively call
ObamaCare, with no substitute, with
no plan. This administration is actu-
ally in a Federal court, arguing that
the law is unconstitutional—the very
law that gives protections to everyone
in this country who has a preexisting
condition, such as a child born at birth
with some heart disease, a husband
who had a heart attack, a woman sim-
ply because she is a woman and before
was discriminated against because she
was a woman. Somehow that was a pre-
existing condition and allowed insur-
ance companies to charge twice as
much as their male counterparts in the
same age group and same geography. It
was the Affordable Care Act that ended
that discrimination and created the
protections.
It was the Affordable Care Act that
ended lifetime caps so that if you had
a major illness such as cancer, before
you hit the ceiling on your insurance
and you were one illness away from
bankruptcy—the Affordable Care Act
ended lifetime caps so that if you had
a serious illness you were still covered.
The Affordable Care Act created the
possibility for our children to be able
to stay on our insurance until the age
of 26. That was not the law before.
The list goes on and on. So it is that
which Democrats have been about and,
expanding upon that, the opportunity
to create a universal system for every-
one—something we all desire.
IRAN
Mr. President, as important as that
issue is, I have come to the floor in
alarm to demand answers by this ad-
ministration about Iran, about its pol-
icy, about what intelligence the admin-
istration has. For more than a week we
have seen press reports and heard ru-
mors about the ‘‘threats’’ to U.S. inter-
ests and possibly American citizens by
Iran.
For more than a week I have been de-
manding, along with others, that the
administration provide senior level of-
ficials to brief Members of the U.S.
Senate.
For more than a week, the adminis-
tration has ignored these requests. For
all intents and purposes, it has refused
to provide Members of Congress with
information critical to our national se-
curity—information it says indicates
that American citizens and American
assets may be in harm’s way.
After specifically requesting infor-
mation on security posture at our dip-
lomatic facilities in Iraq on Monday,
this morning, I read from press reports
that the administration is ordering the
departure of staff from our Embassy in
Baghdad and our consulate in Erbil. As
the ranking member—the senior Demo-
crat—of the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee, it is outrageous to be
learning about the evacuation of an
Embassy from media reports. There are
only two reasons to make such an
order: We have credible intelligence
that our people are at risk, or there is
some type of preparation for military
action against Iran.
This behavior is unacceptable. By re-
fusing to provide Members of Congress
with critical information, this admin-
istration is blatantly disregarding the
fundamental governing structures of
the United States as outlined in our
Constitution.
The Senate Foreign Relations Com-
mittee is charged with writing the laws
that authorize the use of military force
and of oversight of the State Depart-
ment and the safety of those who work
there. The administration must pro-
vide this committee with the informa-
tion we need to judiciously and appro-
priately make policies.
While I hear there is a briefing for all
Senators rumored for next week, that
is not confirmed, nor is it an accept-
able timeline. Next week may be too
late. We do not need another Iraq
weapons of mass destruction moment
that led us to one of the worst, most
disastrous military engagements when
there were no weapons of mass destruc-
tion to be found. We need clarity. We
need answers, and we need them now.
We cannot make foreign policy and na-
tional security decisions while flying
in the blind.
Make no mistake—I have no doubts
that Iran continues to be a bad actor in
the region and throughout the world.
Iranian leaders continue to support
dangerous proxy actors throughout the
region. Iran continues to violate arms
embargoes. Iran continues to oppress
its own people. Indeed, I have spent the
better part of two decades developing
legislation and policies to stop Iran’s
quest for a nuclear weapon and attacks
against our allies, including Israel.
Working across the aisle, often cajol-
ing and prodding the executive branch
and our allies, Congress led the effort
to build an extensive economic and po-
litical pressure campaign to force Iran
to the negotiating table. Our allies in
Europe, Asia, and across the world,
most of whom share our concern about
Iran’s ability to develop a nuclear
weapon and its broader maligned ac-
tivities, have been critical to this ef-
fort.
When building a policy to effectively
confront an adversary, you must have
an end goal, you must have clear objec-
tives, and you must take actions in
pursuit of those objectives. With Iran,
our objective was to ensure that Iran
never develops a pathway toward a nu-
clear weapon. So I am all for putting
on as much pressure as we can, but
that requires also having a clear way of
showing how it can be alleviated. There
must be a viable, tenable, diplomatic
track. If I were to put you in a room,
lock the door, throw away the key, and
tell you there is no way out and no way
to survive, you would sure as hell start
looking for ways to fight and break
down that door.
For a campaign of maximum pres-
sure, when the moment of maximum
leverage is reached, it must be seized.
That requires working with our allies
to offer a real, diplomatic path to nego-
tiations.
British Major General Chris Ghika,
the deputy commander of the Amer-
ican-led coalition to fight the Islamic
State, has called into question some of
the credibility of the intelligence our
officials say we have regarding Iranian-
backed forces in Iraq.
Yesterday, Spain pulled a frigate
from a U.S.-led naval group that had
been scheduled for a joint training mis-
sion 2 years ago, saying the original
mission had changed.
Our allies are critical not just in con-
fronting Iranian malign activity but in
securing our interests across the world.
Let me conclude with two points.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.036 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2865
May 15, 2019
Now is the moment to invest in a dip-
lomatic surge to meaningfully engage
our allies and Iran in serious negotia-
tions to end its pathway toward nu-
clear weapons and its malign activi-
ties.
Second, Congress has not authorized
war with Iran. The administration, if it
is contemplating military action with
Iran, must come to Congress to seek
approval.
I call on every Member of this body
on both sides of the aisle to assert our
institutional and constitutional pre-
rogatives and demand information
from this administration, demand clas-
sified briefings. When matters this se-
rious are at stake, we have to demand
more. We cannot and we will not be led
into dangerous military adventures.
The administration must provide this
critical information to Congress, and it
must do so immediately.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
think many of our colleagues here in
the Chamber know that Senator ALEX-
ANDER and I host a breakfast on Tues-
day Mornings called Tennessee Tues-
day. This week at the breakfast, one of
our Tennesseans said: I have seen so
many men and women in law enforce-
ment uniforms in DC. What is going
on? Is this normal?
It gave me the opportunity to say:
Actually, this is National Police Week,
and this is a week we set aside to honor
those men and women who are in law
enforcement.
There are tens of thousands of police
officers and sheriffs and highway pa-
trolmen across our country. My hope is
that each of us will stop this week
when we see them and say ‘‘thank you’’
to them for the service they provide
our communities, because when it
comes to fighting so many of the issues
that affect our communities on a day-
to-day basis—the issues we face be-
cause of drugs and drug trafficking,
human trafficking, gangs—it is our
local law enforcement that is on those
frontlines, and we say ‘‘thank you’’ to
them.
This year in Tennessee, three officers
have lost their lives. During this week,
we remember them and express our
gratitude to their families for their
service and their sacrifice. We lost
Trooper Matthew Elias Gatti from the
Tennessee Highway Patrol, who died on
Monday, May 6, 2019; Sergeant Steve
Hinkle from the Sullivan County Sher-
iff’s Office, who died on Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 26, 2019; and Police Officer Nich-
olas Scott Galinger from the Chat-
tanooga Police Department, who died
on Sunday, February 24, 2019. As I talk
to our sheriffs and police chiefs and pa-
trol captains, I know there are many
more who have been injured, and we re-
member them.
We also say ‘‘thank you so much’’ to
the families of these men and women
who have chosen—you know, they real-
ly are called. This is their calling to
public service, and we thank them for
answering that call and that they
choose to serve in our communities to
keep us safe so that we know our com-
munities are a place where we can rear
our families, where we can enjoy cama-
raderie with family members, with
friends, with our churches.
I will tell you, as I was thinking
about this week, I thought, there are so
many moms and grandmoms who I
think are pretty much like me. Many
times I will say I am a ‘‘security
mom.’’ I want to make certain that my
children and my grandchildren are
safe, that our children are safe when
they go to sporting events and when
they go to school. We say a prayer
when they get behind the wheel of a
car. We are so grateful that there are
law enforcement officers who are there
at public events to keep them safe, who
watch out if they are going to be speed-
ing on the road and provide the secu-
rity that is so essential to our way of
life.
I have the opportunity as one of
these security moms, if you will, to
serve on our Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee. Just last week, Chairman GRA-
HAM brought forward three bills that
we approved. These are things that are
going to help law enforcement officers
and their families—providing mental
health support for law enforcement and
their families, which is vitally impor-
tant, and, of course, lifesaving bullet-
proof vests, which are now essential,
and ensuring that our first responders
get the benefits they have earned by
standing for that duty. When they get
ready to retire, those benefits are
going to be there.
This week, I have joined Senator
CORNYN on his Back the Blue Act, and
I thank him for his leadership. I think
many of us who stand in this Chamber
know that we stand to back that ‘‘thin
blue line’’—that line is the difference
between order and chaos in our com-
munities. This bill is going to create
new penalties for killing or assaulting
law enforcement officers and will pro-
tect officers from lawsuits when they
intervene to stop a violent crime. It is
a commonsense provision, and I am
pleased to be in support of this bill.
As we talk about law enforcement
and security and having safe commu-
nities, we also need to remember our
Customs and Border Patrol agents and
officers who are on the southern bor-
der. When you talk about being a secu-
rity mom, of course you are going to
talk about economic security,
healthcare security, job security, and
national security, but border security
is a part of that. It is a way that we
work to keep our communities safe.
We all know there is a humanitarian
crisis on the southern border. Much of
it is fueled by cartels that are big busi-
ness. They deal in drug trafficking and
human trafficking. It is our first re-
sponders who address this in our com-
munities and on our city streets. The
issues and the lack of security at that
border have created an environment
where now, at this point, every State is
a border State and every town is a bor-
der town because those problems that
come across the southern border with
the human trafficking, with the drug
trafficking, with the gangs—all of this
ends up on the streets in your commu-
nity.
We are working on legislation that
we hope is going to help with this situ-
ation. It will target traffickers of unac-
companied minors in the care of Health
and Human Services. One of the things
that has not happened and needs to
happen is that Health and Human Serv-
ices and Homeland Security need to be
able to share all of the information
they have on individuals who are bring-
ing these unaccompanied children, in-
dividuals who say ‘‘I am a next of kin,’’
individuals who say ‘‘I am here, and
this child is coming to me.’’ We want
to make certain they are in the coun-
try legally. We want to make certain
they have a relationship with these
children so that we are protecting and
looking out for the security of these
children and making certain they are
not being trafficked.
As we talk about our children, some
of the trafficking—of course, much of
the trafficking takes place in the vir-
tual space. It takes place online. It
seems impossible, but that is what hap-
pens with the human trafficking and
the sex trafficking. The adverse impact
that this has on young girls and women
is horrifying.
Because of my work to prohibit these
traffickers from working online, we are
pushing forward with privacy legisla-
tion. You and I do not want our chil-
dren to be followed online. That is
what is happening, and it is why we
need to make certain that moms have
the tools they need—that parents have
the tools they need—to guard the pri-
vacy of their families online.
I recently introduced the BROWSER
Act. This is legislation I introduced
while I was in the House of Representa-
tives. It is one of the first bipartisan
privacy bills we have had. The BROWS-
ER Act will require you to give your
consent if you are going to opt in and
allow someone to share your informa-
tion, to have access to your sensitive
information.
In this Nation, we have a history of
respecting informed consent, and that
is what we are saying—that individuals
need to give their consent to a com-
pany before that company looks at
their private information or, worse yet,
data mines or, worse yet, shares that
information about those individuals
with third parties—people they do not
know, people they have never seen,
people they never will see. Then that
tech company—guess what—sells ads.
It is paid with your information.
The BROWSER Act also prohibits
companies from denying their services
to users who refuse to waive their pri-
vacy rights. You have a right to pri-
vacy, and these companies should not
deny you their services because you
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.037 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2866 May 15, 2019
say: You cannot share my information.
You cannot share my sensitive infor-
mation. I am not going to opt-in to
allow you to do that, big tech com-
pany. I am also going to opt-out on
non-sensitive data. I am not going to
allow you to do that. I do not want my
children followed, and I do not want
you to be following me. I do not want
you to sell my information. I do not
want my spam to run crazy with ads
and information I do not want.
Individuals deserve their privacy.
Americans deserve to know they are
protected and have that privacy in the
online universe. They deserve to know
they are not going to be followed and
they are not going to be tracked.
While we are talking about tech-
nology, I’d like to bring attention to
the global race for 5G, or fifth-genera-
tion wireless technology. You are hear-
ing a good bit about this. It doesn’t
matter if it is in our commercial sector
or in our military sector; we are at the
forefront of this debate to make cer-
tain that we win this race on 5G—that
China does not get a foothold, that
Huawei does not penetrate our delivery
systems—and to make certain that we
win this race just like we did the race
to 4G, which brought forward a lot of
the technologies we all use and take
for granted, like those devices we hold
in our hands on which we receive our
emails, make our phone calls, send text
messages, pull up maps, get to a favor-
ite site on which we want to make a
purchase, and log on to social media
accounts. This is all from a handheld
device, and it is what 4G brought us.
Well, 5G is going to be as revolutionary
as going from analog to digital, and we
are going to stay on top of this to
make certain we win this race.
Because of this, we have a couple
more pieces of legislation that I am
going to discuss on the floor at a later
date. We have the SECURE 5G and BE-
YOND Act. Senator CORNYN has the
lead on that. I have the SUPPLY
CHAIN Act, which will be focused on
security in the virtual space and make
certain that we will be rooting out
these threats that may come to our
supply chain and affect our private sec-
tor or our governmental sector.
We know it is imperative that, yes,
we win the race in 5G but that we pro-
tect our networks and that we secure
them so the American public knows
that its information is not being ex-
ploited.
As a mom who values and puts a pri-
ority on keeping children and grand-
children safe, it is an honor for me to
come to this floor to salute the men
and women of law enforcement and to
talk about what we need to do every
single day from this Chamber to pro-
tect our Nation’s security and to pro-
tect our citizens.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
REMEMBERING RICHARD LUGAR
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I honor the
life and legacy of the late Senator
Richard Lugar.
My colleagues and I in the Senate
were deeply saddened to hear of the
passing of our dear colleague and
friend. His selfless service and tireless
dedication to the State of Indiana and
to this Nation inspired many to follow
in his footsteps and govern using his
principled commitment to the rule of
law and desire for constructive com-
promise.
From an early age, Senator Lugar
understood the value of hard work and
dedication to what was important. He
became an Eagle Scout and was the
valedictorian of his classes in both
high school and college. He was later a
Rhodes Scholar at the prestigious Uni-
versity of Oxford in England. Senator
Lugar’s commitment to his education
served him very well later in his career
as a distinguished statesman.
As a fellow Eagle Scout, Senator
Lugar knew that the knowledge and
skills gained in Scouting always had a
use and were a central part of the Boy
Scout motto ‘‘Be prepared.’’ He learned
early on the importance of core Scout-
ing values, such as trust, loyalty, cour-
tesy, reverence, and the rest. He dis-
played these values not only in his
nearly four decades-long career in the
Senate but also as a loving husband
and father to Charlene, his wife, and
their four sons.
These critical skills also served him
well as the mayor of Indianapolis. As a
former mayor myself, I know the need
for every citizen to play an active role
in the day-to-day lives of their towns
and cities. Senator Lugar understood
this, too, and the value in working to-
gether to make our cities, States, and
Nation better places. As mayor, he en-
visioned the unification of the city of
Indianapolis with the surrounding Mar-
ion County, and he did it. He ushered
in steady, uninterrupted economic
growth for that region.
In a nearly four decades-long career
in the Senate, it is difficult to pinpoint
Senator Lugar’s greatest achieve-
ments. However, I think it is safe to
say that some of his most important
work came as chairman or ranking
member of the Senate Foreign Rela-
tions Committee. Under his steady
leadership and acute attention to de-
tail, the committee considered critical
issues at a milestone in the future of
world diplomacy and democracy.
Senator Lugar’s contributions were
instrumental in, as its name suggests,
the formation of the Nunn-Lugar Coop-
erative Threat Reduction Program in
1991, which was intended to dismantle
nuclear warheads at the close of the
Cold War. This program was enacted at
a critical moment in the Soviet
Union’s dissolvent. If action had not
been taken by Congress at this impor-
tant juncture, dangerous nuclear weap-
ons from the former Soviet Union
could have been at risk of falling into
the wrong hands.
These efforts laid the groundwork for
the implementation of future programs
that have been responsible for disman-
tling hundreds of nuclear warheads, bi-
ological weapons, and dangerous mis-
siles. Quite simply, Senator Lugar’s
work changed the course of history—
toward a safer world for the genera-
tions that followed.
I had the honor of working with Sen-
ator Lugar when I was on the Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions Com-
mittee. He was instrumental in the
origination and legislation of President
Bush’s program, named the President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or
PEPFAR for short. PEPFAR was life-
changing legislation for those stricken
with potentially fatal diseases like HIV
and AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria.
Unlike many foreign assistance pro-
grams that do not impact those di-
rectly on the ground, PEPFAR taught
people how to avoid contracting the
HIV/AIDS disease and provided coun-
tries with the ability to care for their
citizens who were already infected.
Senator Lugar was also a committed
man of faith. As a member of the
United Methodist Church, his moral
compass was guided strongly by his
faith. He was always one to do what he
thought was right rather than what
was the easiest.
The United States is a better place
because of Senator Lugar’s tireless
service and commitment to what is
right. I and Diana, my wife, send our
deepest condolences to his loved ones
and know he will find eternal peace and
happiness in knowing he had a pro-
found effect on all who knew him as a
colleague, as a father, and as a friend.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
AMERICAN MINERS ACT
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
rise today to call for immediate action
on the American Miners Act.
We have an obligation to the miners
across America who served our Nation
by providing us with the energy
throughout our greatest advancements.
They deserve to know that their pen-
sions, which they rightfully worked
for, will be funded fully, and they de-
serve to have accessible healthcare,
which was guaranteed to them as well.
As the Senate fails to act, we con-
tinue to put our retired miners’
healthcare and pension benefits in
jeopardy yet again.
I have been working with everyone
and from every angle in order to pre-
vent our miners from losing their
healthcare and retirement benefits,
but, once again, they are facing a dead-
line that puts their whole livelihood at
risk.
This has been a long fight, and it is
far from over. Everyone who has joined
me on this journey understands that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.039 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2867
May 15, 2019
fighting for working people is what we
were sent here to do.
These retired miners are walking the
halls and fighting for what is rightfully
theirs. I am doing this for them and
their families. I promised them that
this body would not abandon them, and
I refuse to let them down.
The 1974 Pension Plan will be insol-
vent by 2022 if we do not act now. Min-
ers who receive their healthcare
through companies who went bankrupt
in 2018 are at risk of losing coverage in
the coming months if we fail to act
soon. Unlike many other public and
private pension plans, the 1974 Pension
Plan was well managed and 94 percent
funded prior to the crash of 2008. How-
ever, the 2008 financial crisis hit at a
time when this plan had its highest
payment obligations due to retire-
ments.
If the plan becomes insolvent, these
beneficiaries face benefit cuts, and the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
will assume billions of dollars in liabil-
ities.
To address this, we have to shore up
the 1974 Pension Plan, which is heading
for insolvency due to the coal company
bankruptcies and the 2008 financial cri-
sis; ensure that the miners who are at
risk due to 2018 coal company bank-
ruptcies will not lose their healthcare;
and extend the Black Lung Disability
Trust Fund tax at $1.10 per ton of un-
derground-mined coal and 55 cents per
ton of surface-mined coal for 10 years.
West Virginia has more retired union
miners than any other State. More
than 27,000 retirees live in West Vir-
ginia alone.
I have two letters that I would like
to read into the RECORD that explain
what we are dealing with in all parts of
our State.
This is Roy from West Virginia, and
he says:
I am a 63 year old, 3rd generation coal
miner. I started in the mine 3 days prior to
graduating from high school. Unfortunately,
I had to find other employment in 1999 after
27 years of mining because my mine shut
down. Although the job that I was hired at
paid a lot less (75% less), I felt that we would
survive because of the promise of lifetime
healthcare.
When I went into mining, I felt that if I
put in my time, I would be taken care of in
my older years. Now that I am approaching
that stage of my life and am faced with the
fact of healthcare concerns of people my age
group, I am fearful of losing the security
that my pension and health benefits will pro-
vide to me and my wife of 43 years.
Fourteen years ago, my wife was diagnosed
with severe rheumatoid arthritis. The cost of
her medications alone would total more than
my pension income, making retirement an
impossibility. The idea of her not being able
to receive the proper treatment for her con-
dition is not an option. If necessary, I will
continue to work to provide the medical care
that she needs and deserves.
Senator Manchin, for the concerns that
have been mentioned in this letter, I deeply
appreciate the support that you have lent to
the passage of the Miner’s Protection Act
and hope that your fellow legislators will
consider the same.
This is Lisa from Fraziers Bottom,
WV:
My husband was employed by a UMWA rep-
resented mine for the 34 years he worked in
the mining industry. He worked a 6 day
workweek. He turned down some very prom-
ising job offers because we were always led
to believe that after 20 years of UMWA serv-
ice, we would have family insurance for life.
A large part of the reason he stayed loyal to
the mining industry was because of the re-
tirement pension and family health insur-
ance we would have upon his retirement.
He was injured on the job in 2013 and was
unable to return to work. We had the com-
fort of knowing that he would be able to re-
ceive his pension and that the two of us
would have no worries about health insur-
ance.
In April 2015, I was diagnosed with breast
cancer that spread to my lymph nodes. I had
chemotherapy from May 2015 to November
2015, followed by radiation that lasted until
February 2016. I was hospitalized three times
during treatment, had to undergo a lot of di-
agnostic testing, and a blood transfusion.
Unfortunately, I was unable to finish my
treatment due to this rigorous and intense
treatment damaging my heart. I have to fol-
low up with regular treatment by a cardiolo-
gist and now have frequent testing to make
sure the cancer hasn’t come back.
Another side effect I have from having had
chemotherapy is chemo-induced peripheral
neuropathy that effects both my hands and
feet. My medications cost several hundred
dollars a month. I am 53 years old and unable
to work due to all the side effects from my
having cancer. My medical bills and medica-
tions have cost many thousands of dollars
and I don’t have to worry about anything
other than getting well, thanks to the
UMWA insurance we have.
Since my husband can no longer work and
I too am unable to work, our income has
taken a downward turn. The security of hav-
ing this insurance means the world to us. We
[are] neither asking nor expecting nothing
other than what we were promised. Please,
please pass this Senate Bill, not only for the
two of us, but for the many other UMWA re-
tirees and spouses that are also in the same
situation.
We have countless letters that come
in on a weekly basis, and it is basically
stories. The thing I would want to
make sure that all my colleagues know
and all of America knows is that the
miners provided the energy that built
the industrial might that we have—an
industrial revolution. They built the
factories. They mined the coal and
made the steel to build the factories,
and they built the guns and ships that
defended this country. They have given
everything they have had, and this was
a promise by the U.S. Government in
1946.
Because of the bankruptcy laws that
erupted and basically evolved over the
1980s, they were left with nothing, and
that is what they have. They didn’t
take home in the paycheck extra
money. They didn’t take home any-
thing else except the promise and guar-
antee that they would have their
healthcare and the benefits of a pen-
sion.
The average pension for a miner re-
tired is less than $600, and most of
those are for widows. This is something
that we promised. This is something we
worked for, we are fighting for, and I
am not going to give up until this
promise is fulfilled.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Madam President,
I rise today to join my colleagues in
calling for necessary and long-overdue
changes in how our country addresses
the cost and affordability of prescrip-
tion drugs.
You are going to hear today from, in
addition to myself, Senator
BLUMENTHAL, Senator SMITH, and Sen-
ator KAINE, as well as Senator DURBIN,
who spoke on these issues earlier, to
highlight this egregious public health
issue facing our country.
It is unacceptable that lifesaving
treatments and cures are increasingly
out of reach for the people who need
them the most. That is why the Senate
must act now to pass legislation that
would lower the cost of prescription
drugs. Healthcare represents one-sixth
of our economy, and out-of-pocket
costs account for over 10 percent of our
Nation’s healthcare spending, from
consumers to hospitals and nursing
homes.
One report found that between 2012
and 2016, the price of branded prescrip-
tion drugs increased 110 percent. That
is not 11 percent; that is 110 percent.
Even drugs that have been available for
decades, like insulin, are no longer af-
fordable. It is outrageous, it is dan-
gerous, and it has real consequences for
real people.
For most Americans, this is deeply
personal. I know it is for me. I will
never forget the frightening day when
we learned my daughter had a nut al-
lergy. She was a toddler, and we were
actually in a cabin. We were out in the
middle of nowhere, and she ate a cash-
ew for the first time. Her throat start-
ed to close up, although we didn’t real-
ly know that was what was happening.
I still remember us driving as fast as
we could through the woods for about
45 minutes to the closest emergency
room, where finally they were able to
help her. That was when we discovered
that she had a nut allergy.
She now keeps an EpiPen with her at
all times. So when the price of an
EpiPen increased by three times the
original amount, I knew just how dan-
gerous that cost increase would be to
the people who rely on the medication,
and I spoke out.
It wasn’t just me. It was moms and
dads across the country who spoke out.
They spoke out by writing letters.
They spoke out on email. They spoke
out on their Facebook pages. They
spoke out on social media. It was lit-
erally a nationwide effort to take this
on. We successfully worked to bring
that cost down, but companies
shouldn’t just respond when there is
outrage over social media.
By the way, not every drug has a con-
stituency like that of parents who have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.041 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2868 May 15, 2019
kids that have nut allergies. There are
a lot of rare drugs for which maybe
only hundreds of families understand
what a price increase means. There are
drugs that have constituencies who are
disabled or people who aren’t going to
be able to basically mob the halls of
Congress to make a change.
Besides that, I don’t think that is
how we want to make change, anyway.
Wouldn’t it be better if we responded in
a policy way, in a bipartisan way, and
simply made some changes to the poli-
cies of our government and of our
country to bring down the price of pre-
scription drugs—not just the drugs
that are most famous but for all drugs.
There are many examples of why pre-
scription drug pricing is now out of
control and why we have to take ac-
tion. For instance, a Wall Street Jour-
nal article reported that the price for a
multiple sclerosis drug went up 21
times in a decade—21 times. No one
could explain that except that it allows
the company that makes that drug to
profit big time.
A Stat News story reported that the
price for a leukemia drug was raised
four times over the course of a single
year, and it now costs nearly $199,000 a
year.
We know that the price of certain in-
sulin products rose 700 percent, ac-
counting for inflation, in two decades.
When the State of the Union happened
this year, I invited a guest, and that
guest was a woman named Nicole
Smith Holt, and it was her son, a
young man named Alec, who was a 26-
year-old restaurant manager. He
worked in my State. He worked hard.
He was a good guy, and he was on his
parents’ health insurance until he was
26. When that health insurance ended,
when he could not get that health in-
surance, he then had to pay for the in-
sulin himself since he was a diabetic. It
was $1,200 a month. He was unable to
afford his insulin. So what did he do?
Sadly, he did what too many people are
doing in America right now. He started
rationing that insulin. He rationed
that insulin, and he died waiting for
his next paycheck. He was a restaurant
manager in the suburbs of the Twin
Cities.
His mother sat at the State of the
Union, looking down at the President,
looking down at the Congress, to make
the point that she needed action, and
in the memory of her son Alec, she was
going to make sure that action hap-
pens.
Congress has a duty to act, and the
President should support these efforts.
Committees in the House of Represent-
atives, for the first time, have already
advanced proposals to reduce the cost
of prescription drugs, and we should be
moving similar legislation here in the
Senate.
Yes, it is true that there are two
pharma lobbyists for every Member of
Congress. That is a fact, and for years
they have felt that they owned Con-
gress. That has to change. They do not
own me, and they do not own the peo-
ple who are speaking up today.
STOP STALLING ACT AND
CREATES ACT
Madam President, two of the bills the
House Judiciary Committee have al-
ready advanced with bipartisan support
are companions to bipartisan legisla-
tion that I am leading in the Senate
with Senator GRASSLEY: the Stop
STALLING Act, which addresses the
abuse of the FDA petition process by
pharma companies, and my bill to
crack down on anti-competitive pay-
for-delay agreements.
In addition to these commonsense
measures, the House Judiciary Com-
mittee also passed a version of the bi-
partisan CREATES Act, which Senator
LEAHY and Senator LEE and others
have led and which I have been a co-
sponsor of for years, to deter branded
drug companies from withholding test-
ing samples to develop new generics.
Recently, on ‘‘60 Minutes,’’ there was
a story of the work that is being done
in Connecticut in response to what is
going on between the generic compa-
nies and the pharmaceutical compa-
nies. That is what these bills get at—to
get products out on the market, to stop
the pay-for-delay, in which Big Pharma
pays off generics to keep their products
off the market.
Yes, we should take up these bills. It
is very important, but we must do
more. We must also make sure that
Medicare negotiates for prices. Right
now there is literally a ban on negotia-
tion, so 43 million seniors cannot get
the benefit of less expensive drug
prices. That doesn’t help just 43 million
seniors if we lift that ban; it also helps
everyone in America because they are
such big purchasers of prescription
drugs that it will bring down the cost
for everyone.
The other bill I noted was the one
about the petitioning process that was
designed to allow interested parties to
raise legitimate health and safety
issues related to generic drug applica-
tions, but for years branded
drugmakers have filed sham petitions
to delay the FDA’s approval of the
competing generic drugs.
Studies show that the FDA denies
more than 90 percent of petitions relat-
ing to generics and that more than 10
percent of generics between 2011 and
2015 were filed by branded pharma-
ceutical companies. Our legislation
would help to deter those who engage
in sham petitioning. According to the
CBO—the Congressional Budget Of-
fice—that would save U.S. taxpayers
$117 million over the next 10 years.
These are ideas that have been out
there for a long time. These are things
that we believe would make a major
difference.
SAFE AND AFFORDABLE DRUGS FROM CANADA
ACT
Madam President, another one I
would like to mention is a bill that I
first introduced with the late Senator
John McCain to allow Americans to
bring in certain safe, less expensive
drugs from Canada. I have continued
this bipartisan effort by introducing
the Safe and Affordable Drugs from
Canada Act. Senator GRASSLEY has
now taken the place of Senator
McCain, and we have introduced that
bill.
LIFEBOAT ACT
Madam President, finally, we should
act to hold drugmakers accountable for
the opioid crisis they helped to create
by passing the LifeBOAT Act, led by
our colleague Senator MANCHIN, who
was just in this Chamber, which would
establish a permanent funding stream
to provide and expand access to treat-
ment for addiction. It is only fair that
the companies made wealthy from ad-
diction be held responsible to fund a
pathway for recovery. There are many
options, and, alone, none of these will
fix this problem. But, together, along
with other legislation that has been
proposed by my colleagues, we can
make a difference. We can no longer
pretend this is happening. It is time for
us to make a dent, to bring down the
cost of prescription drugs, and to stop
coddling the pharmaceutical compa-
nies.
This is about, as I mentioned, Nicole
and her son, whom she no longer can
share time with. He has left us, but she
will not let it go.
This is about Jessica, a mother
whose specialty drug costs to treat her
arthritis are $50,000 a year.
This is about a woman from Crystal,
MN, who told me ‘‘I am practically
going without food’’ to pay for her pre-
scriptions. This is happening in Amer-
ica.
Madam President, I note that my col-
league Senator BLUMENTHAL is here,
and I know that he has remarks as
well.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Thank you,
Madam President. I will be speaking in
just a moment, but I understand the
minority leader, Senator SCHUMER, is
on his way to speak before me, so he
should be here within moments.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. While we await for
Senator SCHUMER, I want to mention
just a few examples of what we are
talking about here with drug prices—a
woman named Paula. Paula has been
prescribed a treatment for her multiple
sclerosis. It costs over $5,000 a month.
She has been getting copay assistance
from a grant but does not know how
she is going to afford it and whether
she is going to be able to afford her
lifesaving medication.
Julie, another example, is covered
under her husband’s employer plan.
She currently has to pay a $500 copay
for a drug that she needs—the same
drug that was once offered in a generic
form for $50, a fraction of the new cost.
The generic drug has been discon-
tinued, creating an impossible choice
between paying $500 or not filling her
prescription. Because of the high cost,
she goes without this drug.
Diane—Diane has an EpiPen for bee
stings and is unhappy with the high
cost. She says:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.042 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2869
May 15, 2019
Now that I am retired, it is horrific how I
have to buy them in a pack of two, and they
cost more than before. The prices have just
skyrocketed. Every year I throw away some-
thing that is so expensive that I cannot use.
It is way overpriced.
Angie, from Savage, MN, is a mother,
a wife, and a teacher. In May of 2018,
she was admitted to a hospital, where
MRI scans showed brain lesions. She
was eventually discharged from the
hospital and was instructed to follow
up with a neurologist. She received a
multiple sclerosis diagnosis. She was
prescribed a new medication that is
also one of the most effective drugs
available today for treating MS. Pay-
ment for the expensive drug was de-
nied.
These are just examples of the people
we see every day.
I yield the floor.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
first, I want to thank the Senator from
Minnesota—the senior Senator—for all
of the great work she has done in work-
ing to reduce the high cost of drugs for
the American people.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Madam President, on a much dif-
ferent subject but a very important
one—Iran and the Middle East—I have
returned to the floor this afternoon
amid several concerned reports about
the Trump administration’s position
on Iran.
Earlier this week, it was reported
that the administration’s national se-
curity team discussed a plan that
would deploy at least 120,000 U.S.
troops in the Middle East. Today we
learned that personnel were removed
from the U.S. Embassy in Iraq. The
President himself initially denied there
was a plan and then seemed to confirm
the reports by saying that he would
‘‘absolutely’’ send troops, and, if he
did, ‘‘it would be a hell of a lot more
than 120,000.’’
The news comes as quite a surprise to
the American people, who have grown
quite tired of wars in the Middle East,
of the loss of life and fortune when
there is so much that has to be done in
America.
The American people deserve to
know what is going on here. We are
talking about not only putting 120,000
troops in harm’s way in this possible
deployment but also about the safety
and the actions of the thousands of
troops we have stationed in the Middle
East right now.
So I am calling on Acting Defense
Secretary Shanahan and the Chairman
of the Joint Chiefs, General Dunford,
to come testify before the Senate
Armed Services Committee in an open
setting before the end of the week. The
hearings that are done in secret do not
inform the American people of what is
going on, and they are entitled to know
because the lessons of history teach us
that when things are done in secret, be-
hind closed doors, mistakes can be
made and momentum built for a course
of action that the Nation ultimately
regrets.
So I repeat: The American people de-
serve to know what is going on. If the
President and Republicans in Congress
are planning to take the United States
into a conflict, even a war in the Mid-
dle East, the American people deserve
to know that, and they deserve to
know why.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Madam Presi-
dent, I want to begin by thanking the
minority leader for bringing this issue
as straightforwardly and as clearly as
he has. As a member of the Armed
Services Committee, I demand to know
from the Acting Secretary of Defense
and other relevant officials why we
have deployed these American military
assets, including an aircraft carrier
group, a number of bombers and Pa-
triot missile units to one of the most
dangerous parts of the world, where
they may unexpectedly provoke act of
war.
We are on a dangerous path without
a strategy. We are embarked on a
course of potential war without in-
forming the Congress or the American
people. We have demanded repeatedly
that we be briefed, and it must be in
public.
This situation has reached a point of
potential conflagration. The tinderbox
of the Middle East is no place to oper-
ate on impulse or whim. That is the ap-
pearance this administration has cre-
ated by lacking a clearly articulated
strategy for the American people to
know and assess. On the Armed Serv-
ices Committee, we have asked repeat-
edly for this kind of information, and
so far the administration has refused
to provide it. So this kind of open hear-
ing is necessary to be open information
for the American people, and they de-
serve and need no less.
PRESCRIPTION DRUG COSTS
Madam President, I turn now to a
topic that is of great consequence to
the American people for their health
and their economic well-being.
As we all know and as the senior Sen-
ator from Minnesota, my great friend
AMY KLOBUCHAR, has very eloquently
and powerfully described, the high cost
of essential medicines in this country
is a national disgrace. It is immoral.
For the greatest country in the world
to compel ordinary Americans to
choose between covering the cost of
their rent and putting food on the table
or paying for their medicine needed to
stay alive is absolutely abhorrent and
unacceptable.
The only people who benefit under
the current system are the high-paid
executives, whose pay is increased even
more by this unjust and intolerable
system. It yields them greater profit
without any greater help to the Amer-
ican people.
It has to stop, and the good news is,
we have bipartisan agreement that it
must stop. After years of disagreement,
we are starting to see Republicans and
Democrats coming together and con-
fronting the skyrocketing cost of pre-
scription drugs. Drug companies’ price-
gouging, their manipulation of their
monopolistic power to raise those
prices and make the industry’s prac-
tices noncompetitive and to exclude
even new products from coming to
market—all of these abuses have be-
come so extreme and so outrageous
that there is now bipartisan consensus
that we need to stop it.
I am proud today to support the Af-
fordable Prescriptions for Patients Act.
It is a bipartisan piece of legislation,
and it will finally put a stop to some of
the most egregious monopolistic and
predatory tactics within the drug in-
dustry. These tactics would make even
the robber barons of the Gilded Age
blush with guilt and embarrassment
for the obvious anti-consumer effects
that impact the average American.
These patent abuses go by colorful
names like ‘‘patent thicketing’’ and
‘‘product hopping,’’ but these names
obscure their very pernicious purpose.
Patent thicketing and product hopping
are only the tip of this monopolistic
iceberg. While these terms may be un-
familiar to many Americans, almost
everyone is familiar with the harmful
effects these predatory practices
produce.
The fault here is with the people who
take advantage of shortages and mar-
ket power. They exploit them in the
same way that anti-trust abuses have
been done over the decade, and they
are the reason we have anti-trust laws.
Now, to confront this even more egre-
gious example of abuses of market
power, we need these new laws.
According to one study in 2017, across
the top 12 grossing drugs in America,
drugs companies filed an average of 127
patent applications per drug. By cre-
ating a thicket, a genuine thicket of
patents around their drugs, drug com-
panies are able to double the number of
years of market exclusivity that they
have before a competitor can enter the
market.
During this time, these drug compa-
nies are able to charge consumers ex-
traordinarily high prices for drugs they
desperately need. If you use HUMIRA
or have rheumatoid arthritis, you
should be deeply concerned about pat-
ent thicketing. According to one study,
the manufacturer of HUMIRA has filed
247 patents so it can exclude competi-
tors from the market. It keeps those
competitive adversaries from pro-
ducing drugs and can do so for a total
of 39 years. During those 39 years, the
cost of HUMIRA in the future—they
will do it for 39 years—is just going to
keep climbing. According to reports,
between 2012 and 2015 alone, the aver-
age amount that Medicare and Med-
icaid spent on each patient using
HUMIRA more than doubled—from
$16,000 to $33,000. Things will only get
worse in the years to come.
Rheumatoid arthritis patients are
hardly the only ones who should be
concerned about patent thicketing. A
large number of patents have been filed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:57 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.044 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2870 May 15, 2019
to protect the market exclusivity of
drugs that treat conditions like cancer,
stroke, blood clots, diabetes, multiple
myeloma, and macular degeneration.
Patent thickets will keep competi-
tors off the market. It will cost con-
sumers thousands, perhaps hundreds of
thousands of dollars, each year. It isn’t
only the patients who use the drugs
who suffer these effects; we all pay the
cost of higher insurance when those in-
surers have to pay higher costs for
drugs. It hits all of us, not just the pa-
tients who suffer from these medical
conditions.
Unfortunately, this obviously anti-
competitive practice is not the only
way drug companies abuse the patent
system to keep drug prices high. Just
before the protections for their first
drug expire, brand-name drug compa-
nies pull a bait-and-switch, pushing
consumers onto a new, slightly dif-
ferent drug. That means any generic
competition coming to market will
struggle to penetrate the market, and
consumers will be stuck with the
brand-name drug for even longer, like-
ly at a significantly higher cost. In this
way, the brand-name company suc-
ceeds in gouging customers and keep-
ing their profits growing. That is their
objective—not better product, not bet-
ter health, not better patient experi-
ences, only higher profits.
One of the most famous examples of
product hopping—the practice I have
just described—concerns Namenda, a
drug to treat Alzheimer’s. This drug
was produced by a company called
Actavis. When Actavis originally re-
leased Namenda, it was usually taken
by patients twice a day, but a number
of years before Namenda’s market ex-
clusivity was going to expire, Actavis
went to the FDA to approve a new
version of Namenda, this one taken
just once a day. A new drug? No. A dif-
ferent way of taking it? Maybe. To im-
prove patient health? No. To increase
profits? Yes.
Although the FDA had approved this
drug in 2010, Actavis strategically
waited 3 years to introduce this, with
the apparent goal of extending its ex-
clusivity in the U.S. market. Once the
new drug was introduced, Actavis
pushed all of its customers onto it,
while pulling the old drug from the
market. As a result, Actavis was able
to continue charging monopoly prices
on essentially the same drug long after
Namenda’s first patent was expected to
expire.
We have reached the time to stop
patent thicketing and product hopping
once and for all. We have reached the
time to bring sanity and fairness to the
drug market so consumers can see
lower prices.
I am proud to be joining with Sen-
ator CORNYN of Texas to introduce the
Affordable Prescriptions for Patients
Act. It will fight these abusive prac-
tices and give consumers some much
needed relief from higher drug costs. I
thank Senator CORNYN for his leader-
ship. We joined in this partnership, and
it has taken many months to draft and
introduce this measure. I thank his
staff, as well as my own, for all of their
hard work on this bill reaching this bi-
partisan consensus.
This legislation will embolden and
encourage our anti-trust forces to pur-
sue pharma companies that are getting
away with anti-competitive practices.
It will also give clear guidance to our
courts to allow them to quickly and
easily distinguish between product
hopping and patent thicketing from
truly innovative, truly inventive con-
duct that benefits patients.
This legislation makes sure that any
company caught redhanded engaging in
these harmful practices will have to
pay and be held accountable.
This legislation will also lower
healthcare costs for millions of Ameri-
cans by increasing competition in the
market. If we pass this legislation, mil-
lions of Americans may no longer have
to choose between food on the table,
their rent payment, and the medicine
they need and deserve. That is a choice
no one should ever have to make in the
greatest country in the history of the
world.
We cannot allow drug companies to
continue their monopolistic practices
and predatory abuses that only in-
crease the profit of those companies.
We cannot allow those drug companies
to reap massive personal benefits for
their executives, while Americans are
struggling to make ends meet. I urge
the Senate to immediately take up this
legislation to protect American pa-
tients today.
I happily yield the floor to my col-
league from Minnesota.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. SMITH. Madam President, I rise
today to join Senator KLOBUCHAR and
my colleagues on behalf of all Minneso-
tans and Americans who struggle to af-
ford their prescription drugs.
The increasing price of prescription
drugs is a top concern for Americans
and Minnesotans. Every day, compa-
nies are launching new treatments at
astronomical prices, and they are spik-
ing the price of older drugs, like insu-
lin. Americans are taking notice of this
greedy behavior that puts patients
last.
The No. 1 issue I hear about from
Minnesotans is the cost of healthcare
and specifically the cost of prescription
drugs. Every day, Minnesotans inspire
me to fight to lower the price of pre-
scription drugs, Minnesotans like
Rachael Malmberg, a military veteran
with cancer.
Before Rachel battled cancer, she
battled teams on the ice, playing hock-
ey for the University of Minnesota and
the U.S. Olympic Team. Rachael’s
daily medicine is stabilizing her can-
cer, but it comes at a great cost. Even
with health insurance, she still pays
$9,000 a month. For Rachael, affording
her prescription drugs is a matter of
life or death.
I have also talked with Minnesotans
like Nikki Foster, a mom living with
multiple sclerosis in Brooklyn Park,
MN. Nikki received her MS diagnosis
only 3 months after running her first
half-marathon. The diagnosis was
frightening, and Nikki wondered if she
would ever be able to run again. I am
happy to say that 4 years later, Nikki
is walking and running just fine. Her
progress is due largely to the treat-
ment regimen her doctors prescribed.
However, with the rising price of her
primary medication, Nikki wonders
how long she is going to be able to af-
ford it. When her medication was first
introduced to the market in 2004, the
price was around $16,000 a year. Today,
it is more than $80,000.
Without significant changes in the
formulation of her medicine, the price
has skyrocketed 440 percent. Those
higher prices translated to higher
monthly costs and a constant source of
worry for Nikki.
Finally, I am inspired by the memory
of Alec Smith. Here is Alec’s story.
Alec transitioned off his mom’s health
insurance at age 26. He was a type 1 di-
abetic, so he depended on insulin to
survive. Without insurance, Alec faced
a $1,300-a-month cost for managing his
diabetes. Most of that was driven by
the high price of the insulin. Alec had
a good job, but his diabetes treatment
was eating up nearly 45 percent of his
monthly salary, and that is on top of
regular expenses for food and rent and
other basic necessities. So Alec did
what he had to do. He rationed his in-
sulin to make ends meet. Unfortu-
nately, less than a month after his 26th
birthday and less than 1 month after he
transitioned off his mom’s insurance,
Alec passed away. He was the victim of
insulin rationing.
Colleagues, we are at a crisis point.
Thousands of people like Alec are ra-
tioning their prescriptions so they can
afford them, and sometimes they are
literally paying with their lives. Pa-
tients with health insurance, like
Nikki and Rachael, are facing higher
and higher out-of-pocket costs, and
seniors are being forced to choose be-
tween paying for groceries and paying
for their medicine.
In the wealthiest country in the
world, this is unacceptable. It is mor-
ally wrong that the pharmaceutical
companies are raking profits off of sky-
rocketing prices while Americans
struggle to pay for their prescription
drugs. That is simple to understand,
but the industry would have you be-
lieve otherwise.
Their first argument. Well, drug pric-
ing is so complex; it is impossible to
understand; and Congress should study
the problem. I would argue this com-
plexity serves a function. Complexity
obscures all the ways the drug compa-
nies are gaming the system to drive up
profits. Colleagues, we can’t be para-
lyzed by complexity. We need to create
more transparency in drug pricing.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.046 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2871
May 15, 2019
So then the pharmaceutical compa-
nies come back with their second argu-
ment. They say high prices are the re-
sult of altruistic purposes, like invest-
ing in research, development, and inno-
vation, but, colleagues, remember, it is
taxpayers, not drug companies, who
are subsidizing the basic research that
leads to innovation and new cures
through the National Institutes of
Health. Innovation can’t help people if
it is too expensive to afford.
So then comes their closing argu-
ment. We aren’t the problem, say the
drug companies. It is the PBMs. It is
the insurers. It is everybody else but
us. I would argue that everyone has a
role to play. Lots of companies profit
from high drug prices all along the sup-
ply chain. That needs to be fixed, and
all of these players need to be held ac-
countable. Pointing fingers and shift-
ing blame will not bring down high
drug prices. Comprehensive solutions
will.
In the coming weeks, I will be re-
introducing the Affordable Medications
Act, which is a comprehensive solution
that targets the multiple causes of the
skyrocketing price of prescription
drugs, and a number of my Democratic
colleagues are working with me on this
bill. It would increase transparency
and hold pharmaceutical companies ac-
countable for their role in setting high
prices. My bill would make prescrip-
tion drugs more affordable by allowing
Medicare to use its buying power to ne-
gotiate lower prices, just like we al-
ready do with the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs.
My bill goes further by penalizing
drug companies that spike prices and
allowing for the safe importation of
lower cost drugs from other countries
like Canada. My bill would spur inno-
vation by creating a fund for new anti-
biotics and funding for clinical drug
trials, and it would protect competi-
tion by blocking unfair, anticompeti-
tive drug monopoly practices. This bill
would eliminate the blame game and
put patients at the center of the solu-
tion.
Now, I recently introduced bipartisan
legislation with Senator CASSIDY to
help bring low-cost biosimilars, like in-
sulin, to the market. I am working to
reintroduce legislation that would
limit the ability of the big brand name
drug companies to keep lower cost ge-
neric drugs off the market.
Many of these proposals have bipar-
tisan support. Many more should, but
we haven’t brought any of these bills
up for a vote in the Senate. I urge my
colleagues to take up these proposals
and the drug pricing bills making their
way through the House right now as we
speak. Alec, Nikki, Rachael, and all of
our constituents don’t have the luxury
of waiting for Congress to break
through legislative gridlock until they
can afford what they need to live.
Thank you, Senator KLOBUCHAR, for
drawing attention to this issue and for
inviting me to join with you today.
I yield to my colleague from Vir-
ginia, Senator KAINE.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia is recognized.
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I rise
with my colleagues to just tell stories
I am hearing from Virginians. Having
completed a campaign last November, I
was out doing a lot of listening and
have continued to do a lot of listening
since then. In your own mind, you kind
of categorize the stories, and, first,
above all else, are stories about
healthcare. I hear stories about a lot of
things, but I hear stories about
healthcare probably as much as all
other areas combined. In the area of
healthcare, the issue of the price of
prescription drugs is No. 1.
Hundreds of Virginians have reached
out to me to let me know about the
high cost of prescription drugs and how
that affects not only their health but
even their ability to put food on their
table or a roof over their heads. Today
I want to share some stories from Vir-
ginians and then talk about some com-
monsense legislation and a present op-
portunity to bring drug prices down.
Andrew from Great Falls shared this
story with me. His father was being
treated for CML, which is a leukemia
that is effectively curable, and he was
prescribed the drug Gleevec. Now, this
story goes back a little bit, and here is
what Andrew said:
In the United States, Gleevec costs ap-
proximately $159 to manufacture for a year’s
dose.
That is the manufactured cost.
In India, a generic version of this drug
costs about $400 a year to purchase for use.
In Canada, the price is around $8,800 a year
for a generic of the drug, and $38,000 a year
for the branded drug. In the United States,
there is no available generic, and the brand
name drug’s marketing cost is $146,000 a
year. This is not a drug that consumers can
simply choose to take or not take—to be
blunt, they will . . . literally die of cancer if
they don’t take it.
Now, since Andrew wrote me the let-
ter, a generic has been approved in the
United States that has provided him
and other families relief, but for a long
period of time, $146,000 in the United
States for a drug that costs $159 to
manufacture, and the price to patients
in other countries is dramatically less.
Daniel from Martinsville in Southern
Virginia wrote to me about the high
price of insulin, which is a common
theme, I know, for all of us here with
constituents.
He writes:
I paid $505.00 for 3 bottles of Humalog Insu-
lin . . . at Walgreens. This is a three month
supply, but another Eli Lilly insulin is re-
quired by my wife in order for her to avoid
death [and that is hundreds of dollars more].
Laurie from Norfolk wrote to me to
share her story. Laurie has rheumatoid
arthritis, and she lives on Social Secu-
rity. She writes:
The drug company wants $65,000 for the
drug. With my Medicare part D, they only
want $8,000—[that is good, but that is] over 1/
3 of my annual income [as a senior on Social
Security for one drug]. I have applied for the
drug companies patient assistance program
[because] the pain is too great. I can’t use
my hand without the drug. The drug compa-
nies are getting away with robbery. We need
Medicare to have the authority to negotiate
drug prices.
Ron from Arlington, just across the
Potomac, wrote me after he went to
renew a prescription he had been tak-
ing for more than a year.
That is an outrageous increase of 100 per-
cent or $100 more out of my pocket for ex-
actly the same thing [every time I buy it]. I
am a retired federal employee on a limited
income and I am locked into this insurance
plan for the rest of the year. So I have to
take $100 more out of my pocket to obtain
the exact same thing.
Every time he buys it, 100 percent in-
crease in the price.
Marie from Virginia Beach wrote me
about a drug that costs $375,000 a year.
She writes:
Without the drug I most likely will be bed-
ridden. I cannot afford the exorbitant price.
. . . I recognize the recovery cost of research
is the main expense, since manufacturing
cost is extremely cheap, but when the suf-
ferers cannot afford your drug, then what
have you gained?
Medicare is prohibited from negoti-
ating the price of prescription drugs.
Medicare Part D enrolls over 43 million
seniors nationwide, giving the program
incredible bargaining power if it could
only be used for their benefit.
Many seniors are on fixed incomes.
The average senior gets Social Secu-
rity. Their median income is $28,000, so
an $8,000 drug cost is one-third to a
quarter of their income. In the wealthi-
est Nation in the world, seniors should
not have to choose between paying for
their medication and putting food on
the table or heating their home. So
many of these seniors tell me about
getting medication and then thinking:
If I cut the pill in half and just take
half a dose, maybe I can save some
money—but that then comes at an in-
credible reduction in the efficacy of the
prescription you are taking to control
your healthcare condition.
This is why I joined with Senator
KLOBUCHAR, and I appreciate her orga-
nizing this group of us on the floor
today, to introduce the Empowering
Medicare Seniors to Negotiate Drug
Prices Act, which allows Medicare to
negotiate drug prices. This is simple,
basic, best business practice. Every-
body will negotiate prices. Why should
we bar the Medicare Part D Program
that provides a prescription drug ben-
efit to 43 million people—why should
we bar them from negotiating for drug
prices?
According to a recent analysis, Medi-
care would have saved $14.4 billion.
That is billion with a ‘‘b.’’ Medicare
would have saved $14.4 billion on just 50
drugs in 2016 if the program had paid
the same prices as the Department of
Veterans Affairs, which is allowed to
negotiate. That is a whole separate
level of absurdity. Why would we, as
Congress, allow the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, as they buy these same
drugs from the same manufacturers, to
negotiate and get a volume discount
but tell the Medicare Program they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.048 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2872 May 15, 2019
can’t? We actually know how much
money we would save because of allow-
ing the Veterans Affairs Department to
negotiate, which they should be able
to, but why would we then handcuff
Medicare Part D and not allow them?
If Medicare would have saved $14.4
billion just in those 50 drugs in 1 year,
that is $14.4 billion that could be used
for better healthcare, the deficit reduc-
tion, tax relief, Pell grants, education
expenses. There is also a savings not
just to Medicare but to patients that
would also be in the billions.
Every corner pharmacy negotiates
the price of prescription drugs. Every
Walmart does. When they are buying
prescription drugs to sell in their phar-
macy, they negotiate based on volume.
It makes no sense that the Federal
Government is not allowed to do the
same thing.
Another area is biologic medicines.
They represent a new and very prom-
ising area of treatment. I do want to
stop here and say I am not one of these
people who use a big broad brush and
say pharmaceutical companies are bad.
Why are we living longer? Why is the
average age going up and up and up? It
is going up and up and up because of
better medical care, and much of that
medical care and improvement is inno-
vation in the pharmaceutical industry,
so I am not on a campaign to say phar-
maceutical companies are bad. They
are producing lifesaving prescriptions
that are easing suffering and pro-
longing life. It is just that the price
Americans pay for those drugs is so far
out of whack with what other nations
do, and one of the things that is inno-
vative, that is great is biologic medi-
cines.
When competing products—they are
called biosimilars—attempt to enter
the market, they often find it impos-
sible to navigate the thicket of patent
laws that protect the branded product
because they lack access to readily ac-
cessible information. So when bio-
similar manufacturers are able to un-
cover the web of patents, expensive
litigation too often results in patents
being found to be invalid or unenforce-
able.
That is why I joined with Senator
COLLINS from Maine on a second bill to
introduce the Biologic Patent Trans-
parency Act. Our bill promotes patent
transparency by requiring manufactur-
ers of approved products to disclose
and list patents covering their prod-
ucts with the FDA in what we call the
FDA Purple Book. The legislation en-
courages manufacturers to apply for
patents sooner, allow prospective bio-
similar manufacturers to challenge
weaker or invalid patents earlier in the
product development process to elimi-
nate waste, and the legislation will
help us bring needed biosimilar treat-
ments to patients faster and ulti-
mately help lower drug prices.
Finally, a word about insulin. Over 30
million people—that is like the com-
bined population of about 19 or 20
States—live with diabetics in the
United States, and insulin is a critical
and life-sustaining daily treatment for
71⁄2 million of those people. Yet, be-
tween 2012 and 2016, spending on insulin
nearly doubled, even while there was
little change in the actual use of insu-
lin. So what explains that?
The price hikes we have experienced
have caused Virginians who need these
drugs, whose stories I have indicated,
to endure severe financial hardship, ra-
tion their supplies, or even skip the
needed medication.
In February, I joined all my Demo-
cratic colleagues on the Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions Com-
mittee, where I sit with Senator SMITH,
who preceded me, and we sent a letter
to three insulin manufacturers request-
ing information about recent price in-
creases, how the revenue contributes to
research and development, and what
companies are doing to help patients
access affordable insulin.
In closing, I said there are not only
good ideas in Senator KLOBUCHAR’s bill
and in others, but there is also a good
time. In the Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions Committee, our Chair,
Senator ALEXANDER, and our ranking
member, Senator MURRAY, have indi-
cated that one of the bills we want to
work on this year is a bill of single-
shot strategies to reduce medical costs.
It is not going to be the rewrite of the
healthcare system. Senator ALEXANDER
and Senator MURRAY were heard to de-
scribe that if we can do a bill with a se-
ries of singles, that would be a very
good thing. So we will work together
as colleagues to come up with a series
of strategies that could bring
healthcare costs down, and we have an
opportunity in this bill to have some of
those provisions deal with provisions
just like those I have described that
can reduce the cost of prescription
drugs.
I am proud to join my colleagues to
share stories of Virginians. It is prob-
ably the single-most frequent com-
plaint I hear, and it is a complaint we
can do something about.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The Senator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. I thank the Sen-
ator from Virginia for his thoughtful
remarks and the Senator from Con-
necticut, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, as well as
Senator SMITH, my colleague.
The time for action is now. We have
all cited numerous examples of people
who, literally, are taking drugs that, in
the case of insulin, was $17 a vial and is
now $1,213 a month. That is simply out-
rageous. We have people who can’t af-
ford drugs that they used to just take
as commonplace, and there were no
changes made.
So for me, a lot of this is what hap-
pens when you have monopolies, what
happens when you don’t have competi-
tion. So the answer is to look at all of
the measures we could take to ensure
that there is better price negotiation
and more competition. One of them, as
Senator KAINE mentioned, is Medicare
negotiation, unleashing the power of 43
million Americans. That is a lot of peo-
ple. Seniors are good at getting deals.
That is 43 million people. Yet they are
banned from negotiating with Medicare
to get better deals for themselves. That
should change.
We need less expensive drugs from
other countries—safe drugs. That
would certainly create more competi-
tion. We had bipartisan support for a
proposal like that. Senator GRASSLEY
and I have the bill that would take one
country, Canada. In Minnesota and in
the Presiding Officer’s State of North
Dakota we can see Canada from our
porch. The point is that we see those
less expensive drugs right across the
border. We should be able to have that
competition.
Then, look at the CREATES Act and
some of the other ways of stopping
pay-for-delay and stopping, as Senator
BLUMENTHAL was describing, these pat-
ent abuses to try to make sure we have
more competition. I think there is
starting to be general agreement on
this issue that we have to take on
these pharmaceutical prices. The time
for describing the problem is still here
because it seems like some of our col-
leagues don’t get it, but the time for
action is certainly now.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Kansas.
NATIONAL POLICE WEEK
Mr. MORAN. Mr. President, this
week, as we know, our Nation observes
National Police Week, a time when we
pay tribute to our law enforcement of-
ficers, especially those who died in the
line of duty. Today I rise to honor their
dedication and their significant and
tremendous sacrifice.
On Monday evening, thousands of
people gathered on the National Mall
to pay tribute to the 371 officers who
gave their lives in the line of duty.
Four officers from Kansas were among
those memorialized on Monday.
Last June, Wyandotte County sher-
iff’s deputies Theresa King and Patrick
Rohrer were shot and killed while pre-
paring to transport a prisoner. Theresa
King joined the Wyandotte County
Sheriff’s Office in 2005. A working
mother of three children, Theresa, or
‘‘TK,’’ was known for coming to work
every day with a smile and a willing-
ness to help out in any way that she
could. She is a founding member of the
Kansas City-based Lancaster-Melton
Peacekeepers Civitan Club, a group of
law enforcement officers and their fam-
ilies dedicated to honoring slain offi-
cers.
Patrick Rohrer, a husband and father
of two children, joined the Wyandotte
County Sheriff’s Office in 2011. Patrick
was known as a dedicated deputy that
never lost his sense of humor and often
peppered his colleagues with his favor-
ite ‘‘Star Wars’’ quotes. He was also
known for his competitive spirit.
Patrick had been a varsity letterman
on the swim team at Shawnee Mission
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.050 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2873
May 15, 2019
Northwest High School. His family’s
motto became ‘‘Keep on Swimming.’’
I will echo Wyandotte County’s Sher-
iff Don Ash’s words in memorializing
the deputies: ‘‘Theresa and Patrick
were heroes in every sense of the word’’
when they put ‘‘their lives between a
cold-blooded killer and the citizens
they swore an oath to protect.’’
In September, Deputy Sheriff Robert
Kunze of the Sedgwick County Sheriff’s
Office was fatally shot during an en-
counter with a suspect in a stolen vehi-
cle. He, too, was a husband and father
who had served with the Sedgwick
County Sheriff’s Office for 12 years and
had previously served with the Shaw-
nee County Sheriff’s Office for 6 years.
Robert Kunze’s impact on the depart-
ment was made apparent when Sedg-
wick County’s Sheriff Jeff Easter re-
ferred to his death as the loss of a
‘‘family member.’’ Robert was known
as an exceptional law enforcement offi-
cer and has been remembered by his
colleagues as having a contagious
laugh that always made others feel
welcome.
This year we also memorialized Jef-
ferson County undersheriff George
Burnau, who died in the line of duty on
April 29, 1920. His dedication set an ex-
ample for generations of law enforce-
ment officers in Kansas and around the
country, those that followed him.
I would like to honor one additional
law enforcement officer who is serving
on my staff as a Department of Justice
fellow. ATF Special Agent Matt Beccio
has become an integral part of our
team over the past year, giving sound
advice on issues relating to Justice and
traveling to Kansas to meet with local
law enforcement officials. His firsthand
enforcement experience and passion for
bettering the lives of law enforcement
officers across the country have been
tremendous assets to our office. This
week Matt led members of my staff in
participating in Police Week’s 5K me-
morial run alongside Kansas law en-
forcement and their colleagues from
across the country.
Thank you, Matt, for your dedication
and for using your role in our office to
better support your colleagues in law
enforcement.
During National Police Week and
throughout the year, we are reminded
that law enforcement needs our sup-
port. We must provide them with the
resources they need to do their jobs. As
chairman of the Appropriations Sub-
committee that funds the Department
of Justice and, particularly, those law
enforcement grants, I am committed to
doing so.
We know we must provide the tools
that law enforcement needs to build
and strengthen the bonds of trust with
those they serve and provide our best
efforts to address the underlying chal-
lenges and the challenges of our soci-
ety and of our country that face each
and every community.
We honor the service and sacrifice of
our Nation’s fallen law enforcement of-
ficers, not only for the sake of those
who have departed but as a reminder to
all of us that remain.
May God bless our law enforcement
officers and protect them from harm as
they faithfully perform their duties
each and every day.
65TH ANNIVERSARY OF BROWN V. BOARD OF
EDUCATION
Mr. President, on the of 65th anniver-
sary of the Supreme Court decision on
Brown v. Board of Education, I rise to
pay tribute to the Topeka, KS, fami-
lies, led by the Browns and all Kansans
who took part in challenging the injus-
tice of racial segregation.
For 60 years, leading up to Brown,
much of America adhered to the Su-
preme Court ruling in Plessy v. Fer-
guson that established the doctrine of
‘‘separate but equal.’’ However, when
applied to school buildings and the edu-
cation of our children, nothing about it
was equal.
In 1951, Linda Carol Brown was in the
third grade and would walk six blocks
to a bus stop that would take her to
Monroe Elementary, more than a mile
away from her home, despite the fact
that Sumner Elementary was seven
blocks from her home. Even after re-
peated applications for attendance at
the neighborhood school, the Browns
and other families were rejected. They
were rejected because of the color of
their skin.
In that year, 13 parents, led by
Linda’s father Oliver, filed suit against
the Topeka Board of Education on be-
half of their 20 children. Combining
other cases throughout the country,
Thurgood Marshall argued on their be-
half before the U.S. Supreme Court—
the Court that he would later join as a
Justice.
On May 17, 1954, the Supreme Court
unanimously issued its landmark deci-
sion announcing that Plessy’s ‘‘sepa-
rate but equal’’ doctrine violated the
Fourteenth Amendment. While full in-
tegration would take years to accom-
plish, the events set in motion by these
determined parents were irreversible,
and they are worthy of our respect and
honor today.
Nowhere was this truer than in the
city where it all started. Before the
case had even reached the Supreme
Court, the Topeka Board of Education
began integrating its primary schools.
Kansas had its pre-Civil War blood-
shed to determine whether the Terri-
tory would enter the Union as a free
State or slave State, and Wichita was
home to one of the first sit-ins to inte-
grate drugstore lunch counters. But it
is Brown v. Board of Education that is
our State’s greatest connection to the
Nation’s pursuit of racial justice.
That these events happened in Kan-
sas reflect the imperfect history of our
State and of our Nation, but also the
resolve of individual Kansans and na-
tional organizations like the NAACP to
right wrongs and to make ‘‘a more per-
fect union,’’ as our Constitution con-
templates.
On this anniversary of Brown v.
Board of Education, we remember the
legacy left behind by Linda Brown and
her parents. Linda Brown just passed
away last year, and we honor her, her
family, and all those involved in the
civil rights movement.
This legacy is one that requires all
Americans—each of us—to uphold the
self-evident truth that all men and
women are created equal. Let us re-
member the legacy of Brown v. Topeka
Board of Education, and in doing so, I
ask every American to commit to ra-
cial justice and equal opportunity.
DISASTER RELIEF
Mr. President, I rise to speak about
the devastation I have seen as I toured
flooded areas of Kansas, as well as
parts of Missouri, Nebraska, and Iowa,
and the need for Congress to pass a dis-
aster bill to provide assistance to im-
pacted agricultural producers.
Kansas farmers and ranchers have
endured several challenging years.
Since 2013, net farm income has been
cut in half due to low commodity
prices. The flooding across Kansas and
the Midwest has been one more setback
in the long list of challenges facing our
farmers and ranchers.
In the days following the worst flood-
ing, I visited areas of Kansas that were
underwater. I saw farm ground that
cannot be planted or put into use until
significant time, effort, and resources
are invested in restoring that land.
Continued rainfall across the State and
region has threatened to cause addi-
tional flooding in many areas as well
as delayed planning for many farmers.
It is important and it is necessary
that Congress meet the challenge of
providing assistance to those pro-
ducers, many of whom lost everything.
As negotiations continue on a disaster
bill, I would like to highlight the im-
portance of providing funds for the
Emergency Conservation Program and
amending the current disaster program
to help cover the cost of lost stored
grain.
The Emergency Conservation Pro-
gram was authorized to help producers
restore land damaged from natural dis-
asters, including floods. Kansans are,
unfortunately, familiar with ECP as a
result of assistance our State received
to help rebuild fences following the
devastating wildfires of 2017 and 2018.
However, this program does not cur-
rently have sufficient funds to cover
producers impacted by this year’s
floods.
I asked Secretary Perdue about the
ECP budget shortfall at a recent Ag
Appropriations Subcommittee hearing,
and as expected, he gave his full en-
dorsement and support for Congress to
provide funds for ECP in this disaster
bill. Secretary Perdue recognizes that
funds must be provided to ECP and
other ag disaster programs to help pro-
ducers restore damaged land and re-
move flood debris. Congress must also
provide assistance to producers who
lost stored grain due to floods.
Oftentimes, the farmer’s income or
revenue is not money in the bank but
instead grain stored in a bin waiting to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.052 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2874 May 15, 2019
be sold. With market uncertainty due
to trade disputes, farmers have more
grain in storage than usual, waiting for
prices to increase. When that grain is
wiped out by floods, it is similar to the
family’s savings account being drained
of its cash.
Currently, disaster programs are not
equipped to help these producers who
lost a year’s worth of work and income
when their stored grain was damaged
or destroyed. Congress has the oppor-
tunity in the disaster bill to give
USDA the authority to cover the loss
of stored grain and to help these pro-
ducers get back on their feet.
While faced with these great chal-
lenges, farmers and ranchers continue
to provide the food, fuel, and fiber to
our Nation and the world. Agriculture
is one of the most demanding ways of
life. It is full of uncertainty, but it is
also a very noble calling.
It is imperative that Congress pass a
disaster bill to help producers who lost
goods to floods and other disasters and
to make certain farmers and ranchers
across the Nation know that we appre-
ciate what they do to provide for our
Nation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I would
ask unanimous consent that Senator
PORTMAN and I be recognized for up to
25 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RETIREMENT SECURITY
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, shortly,
I am going to be joined by Senator
PORTMAN. The two of us have been
working for well over a decade on re-
tirement savings issues. When both of
us were Members of the House of Rep-
resentatives, we worked on pension leg-
islation together. It was unusual at
that time to have a Democrat and a
Republican working together.
There was a great deal of discussion
about tax reform at that time, and it
seemed like neither the Democratic
nor Republican leadership was inter-
ested in dealing with retirement sav-
ings at that point. Yet Congressman
Portman and I joined forces, recog-
nizing the need to strengthen retire-
ment savings in this country. We au-
thored a bill known as the Portman-
Cardin bill. It was more of a process
than it was legislation. We brought all
stakeholders together, and we sat
around, listened to each other, and
came to a consensus bill that was en-
acted into law and made permanent. It
provides greater portability among the
different pension plans in this country,
recognizing that employees were shift-
ing jobs, and therefore it was necessary
for them to be able to protect their re-
tirement savings.
We looked at increasing the amount
of money that individuals could put
away for retirement. One of the provi-
sions provided for catchup for people
over 50 years of age because we recog-
nized that people—particularly
women—who entered the workforce at
a later time didn’t have as many years
to put money away for retirement sav-
ings.
We simplified the retirement plans so
that small companies could establish a
pension plan and have safe harbor, so it
was not as complicated to set up pen-
sion plans.
We established a saver’s credit. We
did that because we recognized that the
Tax Code itself wasn’t necessarily a
great enough incentive to get younger
and lower wage workers interested in
participating in a retirement plan. We
found that if an employer put money
on the table, most employees would opt
to join that pension plan. Witness the
Thrift Savings we have here as Federal
employees.
We recognized that a lot of the small-
er companies didn’t offer those types of
plans. So we developed the saver’s cred-
it, which allowed lower wage workers
to be able to get government help with
putting money away for their retire-
ment.
Quite frankly, the law that was
passed back then did dramatically help
the number of people who participated
in retirement savings. We also included
an automatic enrollment feature, and
that also helped dramatically increase
the number of people participating in
retirement savings.
I give that as background because
Senator PORTMAN and I have joined up
again in the Senate in an effort to
build on the success we had over a dec-
ade ago.
We had a hearing this past week, and
in that hearing, we brought up the fact
that several provisions that Senator
PORTMAN and I had been working on
are included in the recent legislation,
which is legislation that had passed the
House of Representatives and passed
the Senate Finance Committee in the
last Congress and the chairman and
ranking member of the Senate Finance
Committee have filed in this Congress.
That includes many important provi-
sions to improve retirement savings.
We hope that bill will be considered
on the floor very shortly. We want to
get that done. Yet we recognize that
we need to go further than that. For
that reason, Senator PORTMAN and I
have introduced the Retirement Secu-
rity and Savings Act this year, and it
includes many important provisions. It
deals with the fact that we have yet to
fully accomplish what we need to for
retirement savings.
According to a 2019 GAO estimate, 48
percent of those who are near retire-
ment age—those over 55 years of age—
have no retirement nest egg, and 29
percent have no savings or pensions.
Since the great recession, personal
savings rates in this country have been
flat.
Access to employer-sponsored plans
and participation are still at way too
low of a rate. For private sector work-
ers, 68 percent have access to plans, but
barely over 50 percent actually partici-
pate in plans. For part-time workers,
the numbers are much lower—only 39
percent have an opportunity and only
22 percent actually participate in
plans. For small businesses, only about
50 percent provide retirement access to
their employees, and 34 percent partici-
pate. In the lowest quintile—those at
the lowest incomes—44 percent have
access to retirement savings through
their employment; yet only half that
number actually participate.
The urgency of this is really under-
scored by the fact that we have now
gone from a landscape that included
mostly defined-benefit plans where the
employer had a plan for you, that em-
ployer took the risks, and you had a
guaranteed benefit when you retired—
you didn’t have to think about how
much money you put away because
your company was protecting you on
retirement with a defined benefit. We
have gone from a defined-benefit world
to a defined-contribution world.
I am going to yield at this point to
Senator PORTMAN to go over the provi-
sions we are including in the Portman-
Cardin bill. I believe we will have time,
and I will come back and comment on
some of the particular provisions.
I want to compliment Senator
PORTMAN for his longstanding commit-
ment to dealing with this national
need. America’s economy is strong, but
it is not strong on personal savings and
retirement savings, and we need to do
better. It has been a pleasure to work
with Senator PORTMAN in regard to
these issues.
Mr. PORTMAN. Thanks to my col-
league from Maryland for yielding to
me. It is great to be back on the floor
with him talking about retirement sav-
ings.
Back in 1996 and again in 2001 and
2006, we passed legislation while we
were in the House of Representatives
together to encourage people to save
more for their retirement by providing
more incentives, such as increasing, as
an example, the amount you could put
aside in a 401(k) or an IRA and catchup
contributions and simplifying the rules
for small businesses, and we made some
progress.
Those legislative initiatives resulted
in about a doubling of 401(k) assets and
about a tripling of IRA assets but still
way too little in savings. Senator
CARDIN talked a little about that. Our
national savings rate is a problem. Our
personal savings rate is a problem. Our
economy would be stronger if we had
more savings.
The real problem is that people just
aren’t saving enough for their retire-
ment. Social Security is an absolutely
essential safety net. Everybody wants
to be sure it will be there into the fu-
ture. But it is tough to live on your So-
cial Security benefit alone. People
need that private retirement savings.
We want to encourage people to save
more for their own retirement. What is
more important than peace of mind in
retirement, knowing that you have the
ability to take care of your needs—
maybe long-term care needs, maybe
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.053 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2875
May 15, 2019
healthcare needs, or maybe just being
able to have a comfortable retirement.
This is something we are focusing on
again.
The Senate did recently pass legisla-
tion that helps. It is called the RESA
legislation. We both support that
strongly, but our legislation builds on
that and expands it pretty substan-
tially. Senator CARDIN just talked a
little about it. It is legislation that we
spent 18 months developing.
We heard from stakeholders all over
the country. There is a reason that a
lot of people are supporting this legis-
lation, including the AARP, the cham-
ber of commerce, and a lot of people
who are in the retirement business—
the American Benefits Council and oth-
ers—because we took our time and
went to them and said: Hey, what do
people really need right now to expand
their choices in retirement to be able
to save more?
We came up with four or five dif-
ferent challenges in our current retire-
ment system and then specific pro-
posals to address those.
One is, we have an aging baby boom-
er population—I am among them, and I
think all three of us are, Mr. Presi-
dent—that is not saving enough. That
is a concern.
Second is a lack of access to em-
ployer-sponsored plans. We want every-
body who is in the workplace to have
access to a 401(k). Yet, when we look at
this, particularly with smaller busi-
nesses, a lot of people don’t have access
or a chance to save.
A 401(k) is great because the em-
ployer typically puts in a match for
you. So it is not just your money that
is at a tax advantage, but, unlike an
IRA, the employer puts in a match, and
usually they help you with your deci-
sions in terms of what kinds of invest-
ments to make with that 401(k).
Third, we found that typically with
lower income Americans, there was a
real issue with the amount of savings.
Who needs money more in retirement
than lower income Americans, because
that is when they don’t have other sav-
ings to help them through retirement.
Again, all of this is predicated upon
the reality that we are living longer as
Americans, longer and healthier lives,
so we need more of those assets in re-
tirement.
The final one is inadequate lifetime
savings. A lot of people have a 401(k) or
an IRA, and when they stop working,
they think, this is great. They take the
lump sum and maybe spend some of
that—maybe buy the boat, maybe go
on a nice vacation—and suddenly find,
oh my gosh, I am living longer and
longer. I hadn’t expected to be in my
nineties and still here. Yet the trend
right now is that people are living
longer. We have to ensure that there is
longer lifetime savings as people are
living longer and healthier lives.
After 18 months working with all
these troops on the outside, we came
up with 57 different provisions to ad-
dress these four areas. How do we do it?
First, it allows those who saved too
little to set more aside for their retire-
ment.
For seniors—people who are over 60
years old—we have a special catchup
contribution. If you are over 60 years
old, under our legislation, you have the
opportunity to put more aside in your
retirement plan. That is important.
Contribution limits go from $6,000 to
$10,000 for workers over age 60 with a
401(k).
Senator CARDIN talked a little about
this, but among these baby boomers,
based on a 2019 GAO report this year,
nearly half—48 percent of all retirees
over the age of 55 have no retirement
nest egg saved. Some may have a pub-
lic pension, for instance, but still,
when you add that in, 30 percent have
neither private retirement savings nor
any kind of pension benefits that they
are going to get in the future. You
have a lot of people out there with
nothing. This will help with regard to
those individuals.
We also say that with regard to this
first issue, it is not just being able to
make a catchup contribution, but we
tell employers: If you set up a plan
that allows you to match 6 percent of
pay rather than 3 percent of pay, we
will give you a break from some of the
onerous retirement rules in a safe har-
bor.
That will encourage more of those
employers to do that. That provides a
tax credit to those employers who offer
these safe harbor plans. So it gives
more generous benefits to employees.
We think that is appropriate to help
save for retirement. It also helps em-
ployees who are struggling to save for
retirement and pay off student loan
debt, people who are saying: I would
love to save for retirement, but how
can I do that when I have this student
loan debt to pay off?
In Ohio, by the way, the average debt
for someone coming out of a college or
university is $27,000. A lot of people
don’t have enough disposable income to
say: I am going to save for retirement
and pay off college debt.
What we do here is we say that em-
ployers will now be able to make a
matching contribution to the employ-
ee’s retirement account in the amount
of his or her student loan payment. So
employers can do this. It is a good way
to help people pay off their debt, to
help the individual pay off their debt.
The employer putting a match in for
the same amount is also a good way to
attract employees. If you are a busi-
ness owner out there, you will like this
because it will give you an advantage
in the marketplace by saying: Hey,
come work for me. We will help you on
your student debt.
The second issue we talked about
today is with regard to small busi-
nesses. This is important because we
know that this is where most people
work who don’t have access to retire-
ment plans. They work for smaller
businesses. Bigger businesses tend to
offer retirement plans, very generous
ones. The smaller businesses tend not
to.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics sur-
vey that Senator CARDIN talked about
earlier shows that 68 percent of private
sector workers have access to em-
ployer-sponsored plans, but it drops to
only 49 percent for small businesses.
So, if you work for a small business, it
is less than half. By the way, it is only
39 percent if you are a part-time work-
er, which we also address.
The bill takes a number of important
steps to help small businesses offer
401(k)s and other retirement plans for
the workers. It increases the current
law tax credit that is already out
there, but it improves it and increases
it from $500 to as much as $5,000 for
small businesses that are starting new
retirement plans. It simplifies top-
heavy rules for small business plans to
reduce the cost of enrolling new em-
ployees. It also establishes a new 3-
year, $500-per-year tax credit for small
businesses that automatically reenroll
all of the participants in the plans at
least once every 3 years. This is one of
the issues out there. If you don’t do
auto enrollment—in other words, opt
in—and you opt out, you are not going
to get the participation rate you want.
By the way, this is legislation that
Senator CARDIN and I promoted back in
the 2006 legislation that said to em-
ployers: Hey, you can do an auto en-
rollment. The participation then went
from 75 percent to about 95 percent be-
cause there was auto enrollment. It is
good for younger people. If you are just
told ‘‘Hey, unless you do something,
you are going to automatically be en-
rolled in this 401(k),’’ that really en-
courages them to get into retirement
savings. All of that is to help these
small businesses, and we think it is
going to make a big difference.
Third, one of the big problems we
face is that plan participation rates for
low-income workers are well below
what they are for others. So this bill
expands access to retirement savings
plans for hard-working, lower income
Americans. The way we do that—and
Senator CARDIN is the expert on this—
is to ensure that those people who are
of low income have the ability to get
into retirement plans with matches.
That will incentivize them to get in.
Only 22 percent of low-income workers
participate in retirement plans today.
Again, these are people who need sav-
ings the most.
The bill expands what is called the
saver’s credit. It expands the income
thresholds to give more Americans ac-
cess to increased credit amounts. It in-
creases the government match for low-
income savers with a saver’s credit. By
the way, the saver’s credit goes di-
rectly into the retirement accounts. I
think it is important because you don’t
want this money wasted, and you don’t
want it used for other purposes—so-
called leakage in retirement accounts.
This goes right into retirement ac-
counts. We mentioned that only 39 per-
cent have plans but, again, that only 22
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.055 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2876 May 15, 2019
percent participate. So this is impor-
tant.
It also expands the eligibility of
401(k)s to include part-time workers.
This is very important to the AARP
and others out there who are looking
at these part-time numbers and saying:
Oh my gosh. There are only 22 percent
who participate. That is it. So we have
to do more there. It allows part-time
workers who complete between 500 and
1,000 hours of service for 2 consecutive
years to be able to join in with a 401(k).
These provisions are all designed to
help particularly low-income Ameri-
cans start to build nest eggs for retire-
ment.
A significant challenge we face—
again, as I said earlier—is this lack of
lifetime savings. Our bill provides more
certainty and flexibility during Ameri-
cans’ retirement years.
Last year, a study by Northwestern
Mutual found that 66 percent of Ameri-
cans believe they will outlive their re-
tirement savings. So two-thirds of
Americans are saying: I am going to
live longer than my retirement sav-
ings. By the way, they are probably
right. People are living longer and
healthier lives and are running out of
their retirement savings. It is a major
concern.
We have a number of initiatives to
try to provide more certainty and flexi-
bility to seniors in their retirement
years. Specifically, the bill increases
the age for the required minimum dis-
tribution from age 701⁄2, which it is
now, to 72 and to 75. So it takes it up
to 75 years old. Why is that important?
For those of you who are not in retire-
ment, you may not know there is a rule
that says you have to start taking your
money out of retirement at 701⁄2. Now,
if you are like my father, who was
working full time at 701⁄2, it was a head
scratcher. Why should I take my
money out of my 401(k) when I am still
working? I ran into a guy like that last
weekend in Ohio who said the same
thing—that this makes no sense.
What we have said is, OK, we are
going to kick it up to 75 years old but
that if you have less than $100,000 in
your retirement account, you will not
be subject to the minimum required
distribution rules at all. This is a great
relief to a lot of seniors who are trying
to save that money for retirement and
don’t want to pull it out because, al-
though they may work until 75, they
still know they are going to have an-
other, maybe, 20 years to live, and they
want to be sure they have that retire-
ment savings in there.
I am really excited about all of these
provisions.
I am hearing a lot about this last
one. Here is Tom Kermode, from
Geauga County, OH, who wrote:
Relief from required minimum distribu-
tions would be very helpful in that it affords
me and other senior taxpayers the freedom
to save to help fund my retirement years.
Why should I be forced to deplete my retire-
ment account at age 701⁄2 instead of remain-
ing financially independent?
You are darned right, Tom. Thanks
for your letter.
The bill also provides help in other
ways. It reduces the current penalty
for one’s failing to take the required
distribution from 50 percent of the
shortfall amount to 25 percent in most
cases and to as low as 10 percent in
some cases if one self-corrects the
error.
Finally, in order to help those who
are in retirement, the legislation en-
courages the use of qualifying lon-
gevity annuity contracts, QLACs. What
are they? They are retirement plans
that provide annual payments to indi-
viduals who outlive their life
expectancies. Basically, think of an an-
nuity or a periodic payment. When you
retire, instead of taking a lump sum,
you have one of these contracts in
which you are able to ensure that you
are not going to outlive your retire-
ment savings.
There are affordable options for a lot
of Americans who are trying to hedge
the risk of outlasting their savings. We
should encourage those more, and that
is what we do in our legislation.
These are all commonsense reforms.
They deal with all four of these chal-
lenges that we have seen, as we have
looked at the retirement system, that
have been based on a lot of input from
a lot of people. My hope is that we will
be able to get this done.
Our coalition includes the American
Benefits Council, the AARP, the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the Insured Re-
tirement Institute, Fidelity, Nation-
wide, T. Rowe Price, Vanguard, the
Women’s Institute for a Secure Retire-
ment, the International Association of
Fire Fighters, the American Council of
Life Insurers, and The ERISA Industry
Committee, to name a few. There are a
lot more too.
We have had the opportunity to work
together for a couple of decades now on
these issues. I am glad that we are tak-
ing this next step to provide additional
options for people to build and save for
their retirements and to have more
peace of mind in retirement.
I yield to Senator CARDIN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, let me
again thank my colleague Senator
PORTMAN.
He has explained what is included in
the Retirement Security and Savings
Act that we filed this week. It builds
on what has worked, and it takes on
new opportunities to increase savings
and retirement security.
He mentioned the automatic enroll-
ment, which is the safe harbor here, be-
cause Americans make decisions by in-
action. Now, with automatic enroll-
ment, they will be in retirement plans
and will have the opportunity to opt
out.
It increases the saver’s credit’s eligi-
bility, but, importantly, it makes it re-
fundable, and it deposits it directly
into a savings account so that low-
wage workers will, indeed, have savings
opportunities.
It increases the tax credits for small
business so that the burden of setting
up a plan for your employees will be
matched with this credit so that more
workers will have opportunities for
savings retirement.
It expands part-time workers—a
group that, today, is underrepresented
in retirement savings.
It deals with the student debt issue. I
really thank Senator PORTMAN and
also Senator WYDEN for their help in
recognizing that a lot of young workers
would love to put money into retire-
ment, but they have to pay off their
student loan debt. So that, at least,
can be used as a match by an employer
for a savings account.
It also deals with lifetime income.
How many people have we run into, as
Senator PORTMAN has pointed out, who
have outlived their retirements? They
didn’t expect to live to be 95 and still
have active lifestyles. So we signifi-
cantly increase the opportunities for
lifetime income options, as well as
what Senator PORTMAN said in dealing
with required minimum distributions.
There are a lot of other issues. I
think there are 50 issues in the bill.
There are a lot of other issues that are
important. There are issues that we
want to work on, including relating to
the recoupment of benefit payments.
The bottom line is that we want to
improve the retirement security for
Americans. As Senator PORTMAN point-
ed out, Social Security is very impor-
tant. It is a three-legged stool. Let’s
work together to increase private sav-
ings in retirement, which is exactly
what this bill does.
I think we have 1 minute left, so I
yield to Senator PORTMAN.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I
thank my colleague from Maryland for
his partnership on this over the years.
Let me just make the obvious point
for those who are watching today. I am
a Republican, and he is a Democrat. We
are actually talking about doing legis-
lation together. It is bipartisan. I
would say, in the retirement space, we
have tried to keep it nonpartisan be-
cause this is so important to the people
we represent.
The committee also happens to be
represented by a Republican and a
Democrat who believe in this. Senator
GRASSLEY was the chairman of the
committee back in 2001 when we first
passed this major legislation to in-
crease what people could save for their
retirement. He is the chairman again,
and he believes in this. Senator WYDEN
is the ranking Democrat, the top Dem-
ocrat. He also was a former Gray Pan-
thers executive director and also has a
provision in our bill that is very impor-
tant, as Senator CARDIN talked about,
with regard to student loan debt.
The constellations are kind of prop-
erly aligned. I think the ability for us
to get this done might be counter to a
lot of the partisanship and the gridlock
we see here in this town. This is bipar-
tisan stuff. It always has been. We have
spent our time, have done it right, and
have used input from all sorts of out-
side stakeholders. We have the oppor-
tunity here to improve our national
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.056 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2877
May 15, 2019
savings, which everyone says is impor-
tant, including the Congressional
Budget Office, and to help people have
peace of mind in retirement. What
could be more important?
Again, I thank my colleague from
Maryland for allowing me to join him
on the floor to talk about the impor-
tance of this legislation.
I urge my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to take a look at this. I hope
they will sign it and be cosponsors on
this legislation. Let’s get this passed.
Let’s do it this year.
I yield the floor.
NOMINATION OF KENNETH KIYUL LEE
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise today in opposition to the nomina-
tion of Kenneth Lee to the United
States Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit.
Mr. Lee has been nominated to a
California seat on the Ninth Circuit
over the objections of Senator HARRIS
and myself. Neither Senator HARRIS
nor I returned blue slips for Mr. Lee;
yet the majority moved forward with
his nomination, disregarding our con-
cerns.
In doing so, the majority is violating
Senate norms and traditions by—for
the first time ever—ignoring the lack
of a blue slip from the Judiciary Com-
mittee’s ranking member. Let me re-
peat: This has never been done before.
There was no need to proceed with
Mr. Lee’s nomination over our objec-
tions.
As has been true of many of my
Democratic colleagues, Senator HARRIS
and I made it clear to the Trump ad-
ministration that we were ready to
work with the White House to find a
consensus pick for this and two other
Ninth Circuit California seats.
Sadly, our willingness to work with
the administration has not been recip-
rocated. Once again, the majority is in-
sisting on moving ahead with a nomi-
nation, despite the strong objections of
both home-State Senators.
Senator HARRIS and I refused to re-
turn blue slips for Mr. Lee for two key
reasons.
First, Mr. Lee has a long record of
controversial writings and statements
on race and diversity, immigration, af-
firmative action, women’s rights, and
other issues.
Second, Mr. Lee failed to disclose
dozens of problematic writings to our
in-state judicial commissions and to
the Judiciary Committee itself.
That failure raises significant doubts
about Mr. Lee’s candor and judgment,
and it should be concerning to all
Members of this body. In fact, when an-
other nominee for the Ninth Circuit,
Ryan Bounds, also failed to turn over
his writings, his nomination was re-
jected by the Senate.
Mr. Bounds had failed to identify to
Oregon’s in-state judicial screening
commission at least five articles that
took controversial positions on issues
including campus sexual assault and
diversity at institutions of higher edu-
cation, whereas Mr. Lee failed to dis-
close either to my and Senator HAR-
RIS’s screening commissions or to the
Judiciary Committee itself more than
75 articles.
Importantly, several of Mr. Lee’s ar-
ticles demonstrate a continuity be-
tween what he wrote and the positions
he has continued to advocate well into
his legal career.
For example, Mr. Lee was a vocal
critic of affirmative action, writing:
‘‘Our stance on affirmative action has
always been that it ultimately hurts
the recipients instead of helping them.
. . . Black students will unfortunately
be treated as inferiors because people
will always assume that they were ac-
cepted solely because of their race.’’
In a 2003 piece, written while he was
a practicing attorney, Mr. Lee criti-
cized the Supreme Court’s opinion in
the Bakke case, which upheld the use
of race as one of several criteria to be
considered in college admissions.
Mr. Lee wrote that ‘‘[t]he Supreme
Court can no longer hide behind the
wishful thinking of Bakke,’’ which he
said ‘‘was based on the naive assump-
tion that universities would consider
race merely as a tie-breaker.’’
Mr. Lee has not backed away from
his opposition to affirmative action
and so the Congressional Black Caucus
wrote a letter stating: ‘‘While many of
[Mr. Lee’s] most disturbing writings
have come from when he was in college
and law school, there is every indica-
tion that these views were well-settled
and carried through his career.’’
In a 2005 article, written years after
he graduated from law school, Mr. Lee
criticized President George W. Bush’s
plan to allow undocumented immi-
grants to work legally within the
United States.
Mr. Lee wrote: ‘‘By describing illegal
immigrants as ‘hard-working men and
women’ who are pursuing ‘better lives,’
[President Bush] blurs the distinction
between illegals and those who came to
America following the rules.’’
Mr. Lee’s portrayal of undocumented
immigrants is both inaccurate and
troubling.
Mr. Lee has also taken extreme posi-
tions on women’s rights. He argued
that feminism ‘‘is not about extending
equal rights and opportunities to
women . . . [but] is about adhering to a
stifling orthodoxy.’’ He attacked femi-
nists for ‘‘support[ing] unfettered abor-
tion-on-demand.’’
As NARAL put it in a letter sub-
mitted to the committee, Lee’s
writings ‘‘suggest a disdain for women
that is concerning in any context, but
especially so for someone up for a life-
time seat on the federal bench.’’
In conclusion, I believe Mr. Lee’s
record shows that he is far outside the
legal mainstream.
Given the positions he has taken in
dozens of articles and given his failure
to disclose writings to my commission
and to the Judiciary Committee I can-
not support Mr. Lee’s nomination to
the Ninth Circuit.
I will vote against Mr. Lee and I urge
my colleagues to do the same.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
f
LEGISLATION SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and be in
a period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—H.R. 986 and H.R. 2157
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I un-
derstand there are two bills at the desk
due for a second reading en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the titles of the bills for
the second time.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
A bill (H.R. 986) to provide that certain
guidance related to waivers for State innova-
tion under the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act shall have no force or ef-
fect.
A bill (H.R. 2157) making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
Mr. PORTMAN. In order to place the
bills on the calendar under the provi-
sions of rule XIV, I would object to fur-
ther proceeding en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
placed on the calendar.
f
RECOGNIZING AND SUPPORTING
THE GOALS AND IDEALS OF NA-
TIONAL SEXUAL ASSAULT
AWARENESS AND PREVENTION
MONTH
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Judiciary
Committee be discharged from further
consideration of S. Res. 178 and that
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The senior assistant bill clerk read as
follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 178) recognizing and
supporting the goals and ideals of National
Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention
Month.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. PORTMAN. I further ask unani-
mous consent that the resolution be
agreed to, the preamble be agreed to,
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 178) was
agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:09 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.058 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2878 May 15, 2019
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of April 30, 2019,
under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR—Continued
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate re-
sume executive session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Under the previous order, all
postcloture time has expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Lee nomina-
tion?
Mr. ROUNDS. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER)
and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 45, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 110 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—45
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—3
Booker Cruz Hirono
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the motion to re-
consider is considered made and laid
upon the table, and the President will
be immediately notified of the Senate’s
action.
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the re-
maining votes be 10 minutes in length.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Wendy Vitter, of Louisiana, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Louisiana.
Mitch McConnell, James E. Risch, Roy
Blunt, Mike Rounds, Thom Tillis,
David Perdue, John Cornyn, Mike
Crapo, John Thune, John Hoeven,
Johnny Isakson, John Boozman, Roger
F. Wicker, Pat Roberts, Steve Daines,
John Kennedy.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Wendy Vitter, of Louisiana, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO),
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 51,
nays 45, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 111 Ex.]
YEAS—51
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—45
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Booker
Cruz
Hirono
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 51, the nays are 45.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Brian J. Bulatao, of Texas, to be an
Under Secretary of State (Management).
Mitch McConnell, Roger F. Wicker,
Steve Daines, James E. Risch, Roy
Blunt, Tim Scott, Mike Rounds, David
Perdue, Mike Crapo, John Thune, John
Hoeven, Johnny Isakson, John Booz-
man, Pat Roberts, John Kennedy,
Thom Tillis, John Cornyn.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Brian J. Bulatao, of Texas, to be an
Under Secretary of State (Manage-
ment), shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
This is a 10-minute vote.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ).
Mr. DURBIN. I annnounce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO),
the Senator from Minnesota (Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR), and the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) are necessarily
absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 90,
nays 5, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 112 Ex.]
YEAS—90
Alexander
Baldwin
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.059 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2879
May 15, 2019
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
Markey
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—5
Gillibrand
Harris
Sanders
Schatz
Udall
NOT VOTING—5
Booker
Cruz
Hirono
Klobuchar
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 90, the nays are 5.
The motion is agreed to.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Jeffrey A. Rosen, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Attorney General.
Mitch McConnell, John Hoeven, Roger F.
Wicker, Chuck Grassley, James E.
Risch, Johnny Isakson, John Barrasso,
Steve Daines, David Perdue, Jerry
Moran, John Cornyn, John Thune,
Richard Burr, Mike Crapo, Pat Rob-
erts, Lindsey Graham, Shelley Moore
Capito.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Jeffrey A. Rosen, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Attorney General, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO),
and the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber
wishing to vote or to change their
vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 52,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 113 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Booker
Cruz
Hirono
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 52, the nays are 44.
The motion is agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Jeffrey A. Rosen, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Attorney General.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to legislative session and shall
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
GHOST ARMY CONGRESSIONAL
GOLD MEDAL ACT
Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, due to
a regrettable clerical error, the senior
Senator from Maine, Ms. COLLINS, was
not added as an original cosponsor and
co-lead of S. 1421, the Ghost Army Con-
gressional Gold Medal Act, when we in-
troduced the bill together on May 9,
2019. I wish to clarify that Senator COL-
LINS is in fact the lead cosponsor of
this important legislation and has been
an indispensable partner in this en-
deavor. I thank her for her leadership
in ensuring that the heroic Americans
of the 23d Headquarters Special Troops
and the 3133d Signal Service Company
are appropriately honored for their
service as a ‘‘Ghost Army’’ during
World War II with a Congressional Gold
Medal.
SYRIA
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President,
today I wish to bring attention to the
Assad regime and its Russian and Ira-
nian backers’ latest assault on inno-
cent civilians under a rain of airstrikes
and barrel bombs, which has sparked
the worst violence in a year and a half
in the Idlib and Hama provinces. The
regime and its enablers would yet
again have us believe that they are
striking ‘‘terrorists.’’ However, facts
simply bely that worn-out ruse; their
airstrikes have hit 18 hospitals in the
past 2 weeks alone, denying lifesaving
facilities to more than 100,000 people
and destroying at least 10 schools, ac-
cording to NGOs monitoring the situa-
tion. Relief workers on the ground as-
sess that Assad’s forces are responsible
for scores of civilian deaths over the
past 2 weeks, as well as displacing
150,000 desperate and terrified people.
Assad’s barrel bombs and starvation
campaign, along with violence from
terrorist organizations, has already
sent 5 million Syrians fleeing to neigh-
boring Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey, and
Iraq. Despite already fragile economic
and political systems, these countries
have shown an extraordinary openness
in hosting those fleeing. It is abso-
lutely critical that those refugees be
allowed to return in a manner that is
safe, voluntary, and dignified and that
they not be forced to return to situa-
tions in Syria where they face con-
scription, retaliation, detention, tor-
ture, or murder at the hands of the
Assad regime.
In the face of such wanton cruelty
and profound suffering, the United
States can and must show renewed
leadership in Syria, but instead, Presi-
dent Trump froze and then terminated
stabilization assistance in Syria. The
Trump administration must restart
stabilization funding in Syria. Further-
more, Congress can show leadership by
passing the Caesar Syria Civilian Pro-
tection Act, which would impose new
sanctions on the Assad regime and its
Russian and Iranian supporters.
f
54TH ANNIVERSARY OF HEAD
START
Mr. MURPHY. Mr. President, I would
like to take a moment to celebrate the
54th anniversary of Head Start and the
25th birthday of Early Head Start.
Head Start and Early Head Start pro-
vide essential early childhood edu-
cation services to almost 6,000 low-in-
come children and families in Con-
necticut. In addition, across the 38
Connecticut centers, over 7,000 children
have been able to access healthcare
services, 2,000 families have gotten help
through crisis intervention programs,
and over 800 parents advanced their
own education. For these families and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:13 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.008 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2880 May 15, 2019
thousands of others across the country,
Head Start is a lifeline for struggling
families and a stepping stone out of
poverty.
Fifty-four years since its founding,
the work of Head Start and Early Head
Start remains paramount. Children in
poverty are more than twice as likely
to suffer traumatic childhood experi-
ences such as abuse, neglect, homeless-
ness, and parental substance abuse. Ex-
posure to these kinds of trauma results
in greater likelihood of chronic dis-
ease, mental illness, and substance use
disorders, as well as decreased likeli-
hood of high school graduation and in-
creased likelihood of involvement with
the juvenile justice system. We know
that children having access to safe and
stable environments mitigates these
effects and that Head Start is on the
frontline of providing children with
nurturing relationships.
This Saturday, not only do we cele-
brate the Head Start program reaching
another milestone, but we celebrate
the hundreds of thousands of dedicated
Head Start staff and educators who
work hard every day to support and
teach the next generation.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
300TH ANNIVERSARY OF
LITCHFIELD, CONNECTICUT
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
today I wish to recognize the town of
Litchfield, CT, as it celebrates 300
years of local government.
Incorporated in 1719 by an act of the
Colonial Assembly of Connecticut,
Litchfield was first settled the fol-
lowing year and consisted of a mere
home lots. Before long, the town grew
thanks to a breadth of small indus-
tries, its significant position as part of
two stagecoach lines, and its 1751 des-
ignation as the county seat.
A beautiful, welcoming place to live
and flourish, Litchfield is located in
the bucolic hills of western Con-
necticut and is home to a multitude of
historic places of interest.
One of the most notable parts of the
town are its historical houses. These
remarkable structures are not only fas-
cinating because of their fine, antique
architecture and design, but also for
their many famous residents. Some
held temporary visitors, such as Shel-
don’s Tavern, where George Wash-
ington slept during the American Rev-
olution. Others were the homes of im-
portant Connecticut luminaries includ-
ing Revolutionary War patriot Ethan
Allen, Governor and signer of the Dec-
laration of Independence Oliver Wol-
cott, cofounder of the Litchfield China
Trading Company Alexander Catlin,
and Continental Army Colonel Ben-
jamin Tallmadge.
Litchfield has a number of other
wonderful historical attractions, in-
cluding the Tapping Reeve Law School.
Started in 1775, Tapping Reeve began
with Aaron Burr as its first student.
Throughout its 58 years as a func-
tioning law school, it educated over
1,200 students from throughout the Na-
tion. Tapping Reeve counts Con-
necticut Governor Samuel A. Foot,
U.S. Senator John C. Calhoun, Con-
necticut Governor Roger Sherman
Baldwin, and Levi Woodbury, the first
U.S. Supreme Court justice to attend
law school, among its alumni. Now the
restored law school building and Tap-
ping Reeve House are available for pub-
lic tours, thanks to the Litchfield His-
torical Society.
The Connecticut General Assembly
recognized Litchfield’s rich past and
important role throughout our State’s
history by designating the borough of
Litchfield a historic district in 1959.
Litchfield remains a constantly grow-
ing yet still peaceful part of our State,
which is highly regarded by residents
and visitors alike. I have greatly en-
joyed visiting Litchfield on numerous
occasions and appreciating its quin-
tessential New England characteris-
tics.
A town with a commendable dedica-
tion to its impressive past and a posi-
tive, thoughtful look toward the fu-
ture, Litchfield is an extraordinary
Connecticut town. I hope my col-
leagues will join me in congratulating
Litchfield on three centuries of distinc-
tion, and I send my best wishes for the
town’s future success.∑
f
REMEMBERING TYRONE
THOMPSON
∑ Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, today, it
is with both great pride and tremen-
dous sadness that I honor the legacy of
an incredible Nevadan, Assemblyman
Tyrone Thompson, who was taken from
us far too soon, earlier this month. A
proud native of Las Vegas, Assembly-
man Thompson, a product of Nevada’s
public education system, graduated
from Valley High School in 1985. He
then went on to earn his bachelor’s de-
gree in criminal justice with a minor in
sociology from Northern Arizona Uni-
versity, and he earned his masters of
arts degree in organizational manage-
ment from the University of Phoenix in
2000.
Thompson was first appointed to the
Nevada State Legislature by the Clark
County Commission on April 16, 2013 as
the representative for District 17. Dur-
ing the 79th and 80th legislative ses-
sions, he fought for improvements to
our States’ public education system as
chairman of the education committee.
Then, during the 80th session, Assem-
blyman Thompson’s leadership skills
were recognized by his peers in the
Statehouse when he was appointed ma-
jority whip for the Nevada Assembly.
In October 2017, Thompson was in-
ducted into the College of Social and
Behavioral Sciences Hall of Fame at
Northern Arizona University, his alma
matter.
Assemblyman Tyrone Thompson had
a heart that was bigger than life.
Whether it was tackling homelessness
in our State, increasing access to qual-
ity education, mentoring, or fighting
to expand social services, Assembly-
man Thompson always followed
through on his word. Our community
lost a champion on May 4, 2019, but Ty-
rone Thompson lives on through a leg-
acy unmatched in Nevada. He touched
countless lives, inspired so many, and
planted seeds of selfless acts through-
out Nevada.
We honor him and his family as we
carry his heart, passion, selflessness,
and community-minded spirit with us
every day.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message from the President of the
United States was communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE
ISSUANCE OF AN EXECUTIVE
ORDER DECLARING A NATIONAL
EMERGENCY TO DEAL WITH THE
THREAT POSED BY THE UNRE-
STRICTED ACQUISITION OR USE
IN THE UNITED STATES OF IN-
FORMATION AND COMMUNICA-
TIONS TECHNOLOGY OR SERV-
ICES DESIGNED, DEVELOPED,
MANUFACTURED, OR SUPPLIED
BY PERSONS OWNED BY, CON-
TROLLED BY, OR SUBJECT TO
THE JURISDICTION OR DIREC-
TION OF FOREIGN ADVER-
SARIES—PM 17
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.),
and section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, I hereby report that I have issued
an Executive Order declaring a na-
tional emergency to deal with the
threat posed by the unrestricted acqui-
sition or use in the United States of in-
formation and communications tech-
nology or services designed, developed,
manufactured, or supplied by persons
owned by, controlled by, or subject to
the jurisdiction or direction of foreign
adversaries.
Foreign adversaries are increasingly
creating and exploiting vulnerabilities
in information and communications
technology and services, which store
and communicate vast amounts of sen-
sitive information, facilitate the dig-
ital economy, and support critical in-
frastructure and vital emergency serv-
ices, in order to commit malicious
cyber-enabled actions, including eco-
nomic and industrial espionage against
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.009 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2881
May 15, 2019
the United States and its people. Al-
though maintaining an open invest-
ment climate in information and com-
munications technology, and in the
United States economy more generally,
is important for the overall growth and
prosperity of the United States, such
openness must be balanced by the need
to protect our country against critical
national security threats. To deal with
this threat, additional steps are re-
quired to protect the security, integ-
rity, and reliability of information and
communications technology and serv-
ices provided and used in the United
States.
The Executive Order prohibits cer-
tain transactions involving informa-
tion and communications technology
or services where the Secretary of
Commerce (Secretary), in consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Defense, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, the
United States Trade Representative,
the Director of National Intelligence,
the Administrator of General Services,
the Chairman of the Federal Commu-
nications Commission, and, as appro-
priate, the heads of other executive de-
partments and agencies (agencies), has
determined that:
(i) the transaction involves informa-
tion and communications technology
or services designed, developed, manu-
factured, or supplied, by persons owned
by, controlled by, or subject to the ju-
risdiction or direction of a foreign ad-
versary; and
(ii) the transaction:
(A) poses an undue risk of sabotage
to or subversion of the design, integ-
rity, manufacturing, production, dis-
tribution, installation, operation, or
maintenance of information and com-
munications technology or services in
the United States;
(B) poses an undue risk of cata-
strophic effects on the security or re-
siliency of United States critical infra-
structure or the digital economy of the
United States; or
(C) otherwise poses an unacceptable
risk to the national security of the
United States or the security and safe-
ty of United States persons.
I have delegated to the Secretary the
authority to, in consultation with, or
upon referral of a particular trans-
action from, the heads of other agen-
cies as appropriate, take such actions,
including directing the timing and
manner of the cessation of transactions
prohibited pursuant to the Executive
Order, adopting appropriate rules and
regulations, and employing all other
powers granted to the President by
IEEPA, as may be necessary to imple-
ment the Executive Order. All agencies
of the United States Government are
directed to take all appropriate meas-
ures within their authority to carry
out the provisions of the Executive
Order.
I am enclosing a copy of the Execu-
tive Order I have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, May 15, 2019.
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:02 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bill, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 2379. An act to reauthorize the Bullet-
proof Vest Partnership Grant Program.
At 12:01 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the House has passed the
following bills, in which it requests the
concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 299. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to clarify presumptions relating
to the exposure of certain veterans who
served in the vicinity of the Republic of
Vietnam, and for other purposes.
H.R. 389. An act to authorize the Secretary
of the Treasury to pay rewards under an
asset recovery rewards program to help iden-
tify and recover stolen assets linked to for-
eign government corruption and the proceeds
of such corruption hidden behind complex fi-
nancial structures in the United States and
abroad.
H.R. 1037. An act to increase transparency
with respect to financial services benefitting
state sponsors of terrorism, human rights
abusers, and corrupt officials, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 1060. An act to provide regulatory re-
lief to charitable organizations that provide
housing assistance, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1313. An act to amend the Imple-
menting Recommendations of the 9/11 Com-
mission Act of 2007 to clarify certain allow-
able uses of funds for public transportation
security assistance grants and establish peri-
ods of performance for such grants, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 1437. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to require the Under
Secretary for Management of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security to achieve secu-
rity of sensitive assets among the compo-
nents of the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, and for other purposes.
H.R. 1594. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a process to
review applications for certain grants to pur-
chase equipment or systems that do not
meet or exceed any applicable national vol-
untary consensus standards, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 1912. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to provide for require-
ments relating to documentation for major
acquisition programs, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 2066. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish the Intel-
ligence Rotational Assignment Program in
the Department of Homeland Security, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2578. An act to reauthorize the Na-
tional Flood Insurance Program, and for
other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 389. An act to authorize the Secretary
of the Treasury to pay rewards under an
asset recovery rewards program to help iden-
tify and recover stolen assets linked to for-
eign government corruption and the proceeds
of such corruption hidden behind complex fi-
nancial structures in the United States and
abroad; to the Committee on Banking, Hous-
ing, and Urban Affairs.
H.R. 1037. An act to increase transparency
with respect to financial services benefitting
state sponsors of terrorism, human rights
abusers, and corrupt officials, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
H.R. 1060. An act to provide regulatory re-
lief to charitable organizations that provide
housing assistance, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
H.R. 1313. An act to amend the Imple-
menting Recommendations of the 911 Com-
mission Act of 2007 to clarify certain allow-
able uses of funds for public transportation
security assistance grants and establish peri-
ods of performance for such grants, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 1437. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to require the Under
Secretary for Management of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security to achieve secu-
rity of sensitive assets among the compo-
nents of the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
H.R. 1594. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a process to
review applications for certain grants to pur-
chase equipment or systems that do not
meet or exceed any applicable national vol-
untary consensus standards, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 1912. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to provide for require-
ments relating to documentation for major
acquisition programs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 2066. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish the Intel-
ligence Rotational Assignment Program in
the Department of Homeland Security, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bills were read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 986. An act to provide that certain
guidance related to waivers for State innova-
tion under the Patient Protection and Af-
fordable Care Act shall have no force or ef-
fect.
H.R. 2157. An act making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–1284. A communication from the Senior
Official performing the duties of the Under
Secretary of Defense (Personnel and Readi-
ness), transmitting the report of nine (9) offi-
cers authorized to wear the insignia of the
grade of major general in accordance with
title 10, United States Code, section 777, this
will not cause the Department to exceed the
number of frocked officers authorized; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–1285. A communication from the Chair-
woman of the Nuclear Weapons Council,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.020 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2882 May 15, 2019
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to the President’s budget request for
the National Nuclear Security Administra-
tion for fiscal year 2020; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1286. A communication from the Assist-
ant Director, Senior Executive Management
Office, Department of Defense, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy in the position of Assistant Secretary
of Defense (Nuclear, Chemical & Biological
Defense Program), Department of Defense,
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on May 14, 2019; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–1287. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report on the ongoing bilateral secu-
rity relationship between the United States
and the Republic of Cyprus; to the Commit-
tees on Foreign Relations; Armed Services;
and Appropriations.
EC–1288. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
Commission’s fiscal year 2017 FAIR Act Com-
mercial and Inherently Governmental Ac-
tivities Inventory; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, without amendment:
S. 347. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
40 Fulton Street in Middletown, New York,
as the ‘‘Benjamin A. Gilman Post Office
Building’’.
H.R. 540. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
770 Ayrault Road in Fairport, New York, as
the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaughter Post Office’’.
H.R. 828. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
25 Route 111 in Smithtown, New York, as the
‘‘Congressman Bill Carney Post Office’’.
H.R. 829. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1450 Montauk Highway in Mastic, New York,
as the ‘‘Army Specialist Thomas J. Wilwerth
Post Office Building’’.
S. 1196. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
1715 Linnerud Drive in Sun Prairie, Wis-
consin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory Barr Post
Office Building’’.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Mr. TILLIS for Mr. INHOFE for the
Committee on Armed Services.
Army nomination of Col. Edward S. Smith,
to be Brigadier General.
Marine Corps nominations beginning with
Col. Marcus B. Annibale and ending with Col.
Brian N. Wolford, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on January 15, 2019.
(minus 1 nominee: Col. Daniel Q. Greenwood)
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Duane A.
Gamble, to be Lieutenant General.
Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Scott D.
Conn, to be Vice Admiral.
*Army nomination of Gen. James C.
McConville, to be General.
*Marine Corps nomination of Lt. Gen.
David H. Berger, to be General.
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Marc H.
Sasseville, to be Lieutenant General.
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. Eric T.
Fick, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Lt. Gen. Joseph M.
Martin, to be General.
Army nomination of Lt. Gen. Laura J.
Richardson, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Robert P.
White, to be Lieutenant General.
Navy nomination of Vice Adm. William R.
Merz, to be Vice Admiral.
Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Ross A.
Myers, to be Vice Admiral.
Marine Corps nomination of Lt. Gen. Eric
M. Smith, to be Lieutenant General.
Air Force nomination of Lt. Gen. Arnold
W. Bunch, Jr., to be General.
Air Force nomination of Col. David A. Har-
ris, Jr., to be Brigadier General.
*Navy nomination of Adm. William F.
Moran, to be Admiral.
Navy nomination of Vice Adm. Robert P.
Burke, to be Admiral.
Marine Corps nomination of Lt. Gen. Her-
man S. Clardy III, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nominations beginning with Brig.
Gen. Peter B. Andrysiak, Jr. and ending with
Brig. Gen. David Wilson, which nominations
were received by the Senate and appeared in
the Congressional Record on April 11, 2019.
(minus 1 nominee: Brig. Gen. David M. Ham-
ilton)
Air Force nomination of Col. Tracy D.
Smith, to be Brigadier General.
Air Force nomination of Col. Frank W.
Roy, to be Brigadier General.
Army nomination of Maj. Gen. Leopoldo A.
Quintas, Jr., to be Lieutenant General.
Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Kenneth A.
Nava, to be Major General.
Army nominations beginning with Brig.
Gen. Francis J. Evon, Jr. and ending with
Brig. Gen. David J. Mikolaities, which nomi-
nations were received by the Senate and ap-
peared in the Congressional Record on April
29, 2019.
Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Mark J.
Schindler, to be Major General.
Army nominations beginning with Brig.
Gen. John F. Hussey and ending with Col.
Michael K. Pyle, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on April 29, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Col. Ni-
cole M. Balliet and ending with Col. James
A. Zollar, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 29, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Col.
Bradley J. Cox and ending with Col. Adam C.
Volant, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 29, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Col. An-
drew C. Diefenthaler and ending with Col.
James M. Jones, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on April 29, 2019.
Navy nomination of Rear Adm. Sean S.
Buck, to be Vice Admiral.
Marine Corps nomination of Lt. Gen. John
J. Broadmeadow, to be Lieutenant General.
Marine Corps nomination of Lt. Gen. Brian
D. Beaudreault, to be Lieutenant General.
Marine Corps nomination of Lt. Gen.
George W. Smith, Jr., to be Lieutenant Gen-
eral.
Marine Corps nomination of Lt. Gen. Rob-
ert F. Hedelund, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nominations beginning with Brig.
Gen. Rodney L. Faulk and ending with Col.
Wanda N. Williams, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on April 30, 2019.
(minus 1 nominee: Col. Jed J. Schaertl)
Air Force nomination of Maj. Gen. David
S. Nahom, to be Lieutenant General.
Air Force nomination of Lt. Gen. Marshall
B. Webb, to be Lieutenant General.
Army nominations beginning with Col.
Jack M. Davis and ending with Col. Mark W.
Thompson, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on May 2, 2019.
Army nomination of Brig. Gen. Jeffery D.
Broadwater, to be Major General.
Mr. TILLIS for Mr. INHOFE. Mr.
President, for the Committee on Armed
Services I report favorably the fol-
lowing nomination lists which were
printed in the RECORDs on the dates in-
dicated, and ask unanimous consent, to
save the expense of reprinting on the
Executive Calendar that these nomina-
tions lie at the Secretary’s desk for the
information of Senators.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Air Force nomination of Christopher B.
Athearn, to be Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Erika O. Bernardo and ending with Carole M.
Y. Villamaria, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on April 11, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Corey T. Beals and ending with Christopher
R. Williams, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on April 11, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Daniel W.
Schlieder, to be Major.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Deborah J. Angeles and ending with Keri L.
Young, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 11, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Douglas P.
Wickert, to be Colonel.
Air Force nomination of Richard T.
Cooney, Jr., to be Colonel.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Tammie A. Canada and ending with Douglas
N. Schneekloth, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on April 29, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with
Alexander A. Adeleye and ending with
Desbah R. Yazzie, which nominations were
received by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on April 29, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with Leo
J. Burkardt and ending with David M.
Maurer, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 29, 2019.
Air Force nominations beginning with Mi-
chael R. Cabral and ending with Ray A.
Zuniga, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 29, 2019.
Air Force nomination of Tann S. Jones, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Theodore W. Kleisner,
to be Colonel.
Army nomination of Robert W. Hughes, to
be Colonel.
Army nomination of Larry R. Jordan, Jr.,
to be Colonel.
Army nomination of Kontrina S. Park, to
be Major.
Army nomination of Marcus L. Jordan, to
be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with Robert
M. Hudson and ending with James D.
Sizemore, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 4, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with John E.
Callihan II and ending with Jeffrey F. Ryan,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 4, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:52 May 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\MAY\S15MY9.REC S15MY9
abonner
on
DSKBCJ7HB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2883
May 15, 2019
Army nomination of Boguslaw A.
Augustyn, to be Colonel.
Army nominations beginning with James
R. Achenbach and ending with Keith B.
Weber, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 4, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Keith
A. Archibald and ending with Frank L.
Witsberger, which nominations were re-
ceived by the Senate and appeared in the
Congressional Record on April 4, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Tim-
othy B. Alexander and ending with Wing Y.
Yu, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 4, 2019.
Army nomination of Christopher L.
Metzger, to be Major.
Army nomination of Jonathan W. Ander-
son, to be Major.
Army nomination of Brian J. Reed, to be
Colonel.
Army nomination of Thomas J. Wargo, to
be Colonel.
Army nomination of Terrence Sommers, to
be Colonel.
Army nomination of David M. Rozelle, to
be Colonel.
Army nomination of Tony L. Dedmond,
Jr., to be Colonel.
Army nomination of Ray G. McCulloch II,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Cory J. Cousins, to be
Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Damon L. Augustine,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Paul J. Stambaugh,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Brenton D. Griffith,
to be Lieutenant Colonel.
Army nomination of Andrew E. Radbill, to
be Major.
Army nominations beginning with Richard
Elias and ending with William A. Watts,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 29, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Marlon
G. Burns and ending with Michael F. Wood,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 29, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Paul R.
Barbo and ending with Mark A. Wurth,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 29, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Fred-
erick W. Alf III and ending with Michael D.
Lewis, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 29, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Tim-
othy S. Adams and ending with Dennis R.
Turner, which nominations were received by
the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 30, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Carol A.
Anderson and ending with Abdul R. Willis,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 30, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Thomas
A. Bryant and ending with Arthur F. Yeager,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 30, 2019.
Army nominations beginning with Jeremy
J. Bearss and ending with Michelle Thomp-
son, which nominations were received by the
Senate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 30, 2019.
Army nomination of Rebecca A. Brawner,
to be Major.
Marine Corps nominations beginning with
Leslie S. Albers and ending with Sean E.
Zukowsky, which nominations were received
by the Senate and appeared in the Congres-
sional Record on April 11, 2019.
Navy nomination of Steven J. Debich, to
be Commander.
Navy nomination of Neil Partain, to be
Commander.
Navy nomination of Robert G. Graham, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Laura C. Gilstrap, to
be Commander.
Navy nomination of Micheal K. Wagner, to
be Captain.
Navy nomination of Jason T. Stepp, to be
Captain.
Navy nomination of Stephen C. Plew, to be
Captain.
Navy nomination of Michael D. Krisman,
to be Captain.
Navy nomination of Michael J. Cirivello,
to be Commander.
Navy nomination of Zachary J. Conley, to
be Commander.
Navy nomination of Brentone E. Helbig, to
be Commander.
Navy nomination of Patrick H.
O’Mahoney, to be Captain.
Navy nominations beginning with Guy W.
Jensen and ending with Venita M. Simpson,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 4, 2019.
Navy nomination of Marissa A. Mayor, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Adam C. Hancock, to
be Captain.
Navy nomination of John J. Eastman, to
be Commander.
Navy nomination of Terence B. McAdoo, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Donald A. Sinitiere, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nominations beginning with Robert
H. Battle and ending with Keith E. Wilber,
which nominations were received by the Sen-
ate and appeared in the Congressional
Record on April 11, 2019.
Navy nomination of Riley A. Walls, to be
Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Benjamin D. Adams,
to be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Jessica M. Miller, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of Frank R. Bittner, to
be Lieutenant Commander.
Navy nomination of David M. Groves, to be
Lieutenant Commander.
By Mr. JOHNSON for the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
*Ron A. Bloom, of New York, to be a Gov-
ernor of the United States Postal Service for
a term expiring December 8, 2020.
*Roman Martinez IV, of Florida, to be a
Governor of the United States Postal Service
for a term expiring December 8, 2024.
*James A. Crowell IV, of the District of Co-
lumbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Su-
perior Court of the District of Columbia for
the term of fifteen years.
*Jason Park, of the District of Columbia,
to be an Associate Judge of the Superior
Court of the District of Columbia for the
term of fifteen years.
*Michael Eric Wooten, of Virginia, to be
Administrator for Federal Procurement Pol-
icy.
*Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be Director
of the Office of Personnel Management for a
term of four years.
* Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. HEINRICH (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. 1471. A bill to require digital engineering
as a core competency of the Armed Forces,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. WARREN, Mr. BOOKER,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
SANDERS, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. CANTWELL,
Mr. BROWN, and Mr. BENNET):
S. 1472. A bill to amend the Help America
Vote Act of 2002 to require paper ballots and
risk limiting audits in all Federal elections,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 1473. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking
Water Act to require the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency to set
maximum contaminant levels for certain
chemicals, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. WICKER, Mr. GARDNER,
Mr. REED, Mr. KAINE, and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1474. A bill to amend the Afghan Allies
Protection Act of 2009 to make 4,000 visas
available for the Afghan Special Immigrant
Visa program, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr. CASEY,
Mr. WYDEN, and Mr. ROBERTS):
S. 1475. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code to extend and modify certain
charitable tax provisions; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mrs. GILLIBRAND (for herself and
Mr. CASSIDY):
S. 1476. A bill to waive the 24-month wait-
ing period for Medicare eligibility for indi-
viduals disabled by Huntington’s disease; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. WAR-
NER, Ms. WARREN, Mr. SANDERS, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 1477. A bill to amend the Federal Power
Act to establish an Office of Public Partici-
pation and Consumer Advocacy; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. COTTON,
and Mr. TILLIS):
S. 1478. A bill to repeal the Office of Finan-
cial Research, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO):
S. 1479. A bill to further development of
Next Generation 9–1–1 to enhance and up-
grade the 9–1–1 systems of the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
PERDUE, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mrs.
FISCHER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. PORTMAN,
Mr. CASSIDY, Mr. BLUNT, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, and Mr. DAINES):
S. 1480. A bill to protect law enforcement
officers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.022 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2884 May 15, 2019
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms.
SMITH, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. TESTER, Ms.
HASSAN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. CASEY, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. KING, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. LEAHY, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
JONES, and Mr. KAINE):
S. 1481. A bill to amend title XXVII of the
Public Health Service Act to provide for a
special enrollment period for pregnant
women, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. HARRIS,
Mr. CARPER, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1482. A bill to establish an integrated
national approach to respond to ongoing and
expected effects of extreme weather and cli-
mate change by protecting, managing, and
conserving the fish, wildlife, and plants of
the United States, and to maximize Govern-
ment efficiency and reduce costs, in coopera-
tion with State, local, and Tribal govern-
ments and other entities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and Ms.
HIRONO):
S. 1483. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to require institutions of
higher education to have an independent ad-
vocate for campus sexual assault prevention
and response; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. MURPHY):
S. 1484. A bill to provide disaster relief as-
sistance to individuals for the purpose of
clearing fallen debris, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself and Mr.
GARDNER):
S. 1485. A bill to improve the collection and
aggregation of fixed and mobile broadband
internet access coverage data, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 1486. A bill to amend title 11, United
States Code, to include certain pension as
administrative expenses in bankruptcy, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Ms.
HARRIS, Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 1487. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act
to create a national zero-emission vehicle
standard, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 1488. A bill to improve the integrity and
safety of interstate horseracing, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, and Mr. CORNYN):
S. 1489. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to authorize borrowers to
separate joint consolidation loans; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself and Mr.
ISAKSON):
S. 1490. A bill to amend the General Edu-
cation Provisions Act to allow the release of
education records to facilitate the award of a
recognized postsecondary credential; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. BROWN, Mr. CASEY, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. KING,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
MERKLEY, Mr. REED, Mr. SANDERS,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Ms. WARREN):
S. 1491. A bill to prohibit forced arbitration
in work disputes, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. CASEY, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN,
Ms. HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
MERKLEY, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. SANDERS,
Mr. SCHATZ, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms.
SMITH, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1492. A bill to prevent harassment at in-
stitutions of higher education, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JONES:
S. 1493. A bill to direct the Secretary of De-
fense to develop workforce development in-
vestment incentives and to consider a quali-
fied training program of an offeror as part of
the past performance rating of such offeror,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. GRAHAM:
S. 1494. A bill to amend the William Wil-
berforce Trafficking Victims Protection Re-
authorization Act of 2008 to protect alien mi-
nors and to amend the Immigration and Na-
tionality Act to end abuse of the asylum sys-
tem and establish refugee application and
processing centers outside the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. MCSALLY (for herself, Mr.
TILLIS, Mr. BLUNT, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
SCOTT of Florida, and Mr. ROUNDS):
S. 1495. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to enhance the prevention of
sexual assault and related offenses in the
Armed Forces, to enhance protections of vic-
tims of such offenses, to improve the inves-
tigation and prosecution of such offenses,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. WARNER (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, Mr. KAINE, and Mr. SCOTT
of South Carolina):
S. 1496. A bill to amend the loan counseling
requirements under the Higher Education
Act of 1965, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. WYDEN:
S. 1497. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to improve cost and
quality transparency under the Medicare
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
SCHATZ, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE):
S. 1498. A bill to require the Secretary of
Defense to enhance the readiness of the De-
partment of Defense to challenges relating
to climate change and to improve the energy
and resource efficiency of the Department,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
COTTON):
S. Res. 211. A resolution recognizing the
Aviation Cadet Museum in Eureka Springs,
Arkansas, as ‘‘America’s National Aviation
Cadet Museum’’; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. MARKEY, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BROWN,
Ms. COLLINS, Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. SMITH, and Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN):
S. Con. Res. 16. A concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that the Trea-
ty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weap-
ons (NPT) continues to make an invaluable
contribution to United States and inter-
national security, and noting former Senator
Richard G. Lugar’s indispensable contribu-
tions to international security and reducing
nuclear weapons-related risks; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 116
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 116, a bill to address maternal
mortality and morbidity.
S. 133
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 133, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal, collectively, to the
United States merchant mariners of
World War II, in recognition of their
dedicated and vital service during
World War II.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from
California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 151, a bill to deter
criminal robocall violations and im-
prove enforcement of section 227(b) of
the Communications Act of 1934, and
for other purposes.
S. 178
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 178, a bill to condemn gross
human rights violations of ethnic
Turkic Muslims in Xinjiang, and call-
ing for an end to arbitrary detention,
torture, and harassment of these com-
munities inside and outside China.
S. 286
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 286, a bill to amend title XVIII of
the Social Security Act to provide for
the coverage of marriage and family
therapist services and mental health
counselor services under part B of the
Medicare program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 362
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
362, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to reform taxation of
alcoholic beverages.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.029 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2885
May 15, 2019
S. 371
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. TILLIS) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 371, a bill to provide regu-
latory relief to charitable organiza-
tions that provide housing assistance,
and for other purposes.
S. 373
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from New Jer-
sey (Mr. MENENDEZ) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 373, a bill to provide for
the retention and service of
transgender individuals in the Armed
Forces.
S. 382
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mrs. BLACKBURN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 382, a bill to authorize a
special resource study on the spread
vectors of chronic wasting disease in
Cervidae, and for other purposes.
S. 457
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
SCOTT) was added as a cosponsor of S.
457, a bill to require that $1 coins
issued during 2019 honor President
George H.W. Bush and to direct the
Secretary of the Treasury to issue bul-
lion coins during 2019 in honor of Bar-
bara Bush.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) and the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) were added as cosponsors
of S. 460, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the ex-
clusion for employer-provided edu-
cation assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 466
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
names of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) and the Senator
from Illinois (Mr. DURBIN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 466, a bill to provide
that certain guidance related to waiv-
ers for State innovation under the Pa-
tient Protection and Affordable Care
Act shall have no force or effect.
S. 500
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 500, a bill to amend title
54, United States Code, to establish,
fund, and provide for the use of
amounts in a National Park Service
Legacy Restoration Fund to address
the maintenance backlog of the Na-
tional Park Service, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 504
At the request of Ms. SINEMA, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
504, a bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to authorize The Amer-
ican Legion to determine the require-
ments for membership in The Amer-
ican Legion, and for other purposes.
S. 511
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) and the Senator
from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 511, a bill to promote
and protect from discrimination living
organ donors.
S. 569
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Kentucky
(Mr. PAUL) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 569, a bill to direct the Secretary of
Transportation to issue regulations re-
lating to commercial motor vehicle
drivers under the age of 21, and for
other purposes.
S. 589
At the request of Mr. LANKFORD, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 589, a bill to provide for a
period of continuing appropriations in
the event of a lapse in appropriations
under the normal appropriations proc-
ess, and establish procedures and con-
sequences in the event of a failure to
complete regular appropriations.
S. 622
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CORNYN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
622, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to repeal the requirement
for reduction of survivor annuities
under the Survivor Benefit Plan by
veterans’ dependency and indemnity
compensation, and for other purposes.
S. 636
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) and the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 636, a bill to des-
ignate Venezuela under section 244 of
the Immigration and Nationality Act
to permit nationals of Venezuela to be
eligible for temporary protected status
under such section.
S. 651
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
names of the Senator from Rhode Is-
land (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) and the Senator
from New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN)
were added as cosponsors of S. 651, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to increase the age re-
quirement with respect to eligibility
for qualified ABLE programs.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY) and the Senator from West
Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were added as
cosponsors of S. 684, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal
the excise tax on high-cost employer-
sponsored health coverage.
S. 703
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 703, a bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to address health,
safety, and environmental hazards at
private military housing units, to pro-
hibit the payment by members of the
Armed Forces of deposits or other fees
relating to such housing units, and for
other purposes.
S. 754
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 754, a bill to encourage
partnerships among public agencies
and other interested parties to promote
fish conservation, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 756
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 756, a bill to modify the prohi-
bition on recognition by United States
courts of certain rights relating to cer-
tain marks, trade names, or commer-
cial names.
S. 758
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 758, a bill to ensure af-
fordable abortion coverage and care for
every woman, and for other purposes.
S. 802
At the request of Mr. DAINES, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) was added as a cosponsor of S.
802, a bill to amend part A of title IV of
the Social Security Act, and for other
purposes.
S. 820
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 820, a bill to strengthen pro-
grams authorized under the Debbie
Smith Act of 2004.
S. 839
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 839, a bill to extend Federal Pell
Grant eligibility of certain short-term
programs.
S. 846
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from South Da-
kota (Mr. THUNE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 846, a bill to amend title
49, United States Code, to limit certain
rolling stock procurements, and for
other purposes.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN), the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator
from Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) were
added as cosponsors of S. 880, a bill to
provide outreach and reporting on com-
prehensive Alzheimer’s disease care
planning services furnished under the
Medicare program.
S. 901
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO), the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) and the Senator from
Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as
cosponsors of S. 901, a bill to amend the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.024 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2886 May 15, 2019
Older Americans Act of 1965 to support
individuals with younger onset Alz-
heimer’s disease.
S. 944
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 944, a bill to enhance the security
operations of the Transportation Secu-
rity Administration and the stability
of the transportation security work-
force by applying a unified personnel
system under title 5, United States
Code, to employees of the Transpor-
tation Security Administration who
are responsible for screening pas-
sengers and property, and for other
purposes.
S. 998
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 998, a bill to amend the
Omnibus Crime Control and Safe
Streets Act of 1968 to expand support
for police officer family services, stress
reduction, and suicide prevention, and
for other purposes.
S. 1012
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1012, a bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to protect the con-
fidentiality of substance use disorder
patient records.
S. 1039
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1039, a bill to
limit the use of funds for kinetic mili-
tary operations in or against Iran.
S. 1060
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER) and the Senator from
Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1060, a bill to deter for-
eign interference in United States elec-
tions, and for other purposes.
S. 1148
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1148, a bill to amend title
49, United States Code, to require the
Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration to give preferential
consideration to individuals who have
successfully completed air traffic con-
troller training and veterans when hir-
ing air traffic control specialists.
S. 1162
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Oklahoma (Mr.
INHOFE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1162, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent
the individual tax provisions of the tax
reform law, and for other purposes.
S. 1168
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY), the Senator from Mis-
souri (Mr. HAWLEY), the Senator from
Iowa (Ms. ERNST), the Senator from
Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN), the Sen-
ator from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER),
the Senator from Mississippi (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH), the Senator from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. WICKER), the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. TILLIS) and the
Senator from Oklahoma (Mr. INHOFE)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1168, a
bill to amend the Higher Education Act
of 1965 to ensure campus access at pub-
lic institutions of higher education for
religious groups.
S. 1195
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the names of the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. KAINE), the Senator
from Virginia (Mr. WARNER), the Sen-
ator from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT), the
Senator from Indiana (Mr. YOUNG), the
Senator from Idaho (Mr. CRAPO) and
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS) were added as cosponsors of S. 1195,
a bill to amend title 38, United States
Code, to clarify presumption relating
to the exposure of certain veterans who
served in the vicinity of the Republic
of Vietnam, and for other purposes.
S. 1203
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1203, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 in order
to improve the public service loan for-
giveness program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1209
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1209, a bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act with re-
spect to approval of abbreviated new
drug applications.
S. 1210
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1210, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to in-
crease and make permanent the exclu-
sion for benefits provided to volunteer
firefighters and emergency medical re-
sponders.
S. 1218
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Okla-
homa (Mr. LANKFORD) and the Senator
from Michigan (Mr. PETERS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1218, a bill to
require the review of the service of cer-
tain members of the Armed Forces dur-
ing World War I to determine if such
members should be awarded the Medal
of Honor, to authorize the award of the
Medal of Honor based on the results of
the review, and for other purposes.
S. 1235
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the names of the Senator from New
York (Mr. SCHUMER), the Senator from
Alabama (Mr. JONES), the Senator from
Maine (Mr. KING) and the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1235, a bill to
require the Secretary of the Treasury
to mint coins in commemoration of
ratification of the 19th Amendment to
the Constitution of the United States,
giving women in the United States the
right to vote.
S. 1263
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
the name of the Senator from West
Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 1263, a bill to require
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to es-
tablish an interagency task force on
the use of public lands to provide med-
ical treatment and therapy to veterans
through outdoor recreation.
S. 1370
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
names of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN), the Senator from Ari-
zona (Ms. MCSALLY), the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. GARDNER), the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY) and the
Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. FISCHER)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1370, a
bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to treat certain military
survivor benefits as earned income for
purposes of the kiddie tax.
S. 1374
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
names of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) and the Senator
from South Dakota (Mr. ROUNDS) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1374, a bill to
amend title II of the Social Security
Act to eliminate the waiting periods
for disability insurance benefits and
Medicare coverage for individuals with
metastatic breast cancer, and for other
purposes.
S. 1388
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1388, a bill to manage sup-
ply chain risk through counterintel-
ligence training, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1394
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1394, a bill to provide collective bar-
gaining rights for public safety officers
employed by States or their political
subdivisions.
S. 1416
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1416, a bill to amend the
Federal Trade Commission Act to pro-
hibit anticompetitive behaviors by
drug product manufacturers, and for
other purposes.
S. 1421
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1421, a bill to award a Congressional
Gold Medal to the 23d Headquarters
Special Troops and the 3133d Signal
Service Company in recognition of
their unique and distinguished service
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.026 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2887
May 15, 2019
as a ‘‘Ghost Army’’ that conducted de-
ception operations in Europe during
World War II.
S. 1422
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1422, a bill to transfer revenues
from the net investment income tax to
the Federal Hospital Insurance Trust
Fund.
S. 1438
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1438, a bill to amend title
39, United States Code, to extend the
authority of the United States Postal
Service to issue a semipostal to raise
funds for breast cancer research.
S. 1448
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1448, a bill to require cer-
tain practitioners authorized to pre-
scribe controlled substances to com-
plete continuing education.
S. 1459
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1459, a bill to control the export to the
People’s Republic of China of certain
technology and intellectual property
important to the national interest of
the United States, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1462
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN), the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Senator from
New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) and the
Senator from California (Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN) were added as cosponsors of S.
1462, a bill to prevent a person who has
been convicted of a misdemeanor hate
crime, or received an enhanced sen-
tence for a misdemeanor because of
hate or bias in the commission, from
obtaining a firearm.
S.J. RES. 11
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of
S.J. Res. 11, a joint resolution to pro-
hibit the unauthorized use of United
States Armed Forces in hostilities with
respect to Venezuela.
S. CON. RES. 10
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Con. Res. 10, a concurrent resolution
recognizing that Chinese telecommuni-
cations companies such as Huawei and
ZTE pose serious threats to the na-
tional security of the United States
and its allies.
S. RES. 188
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
WYDEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 188, a resolution encouraging a
swift transfer of power by the military
to a civilian-led political authority in
the Republic of the Sudan, and for
other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. THUNE (for himself, Mr.
CASEY, Mr. WYDEN, and Mr.
ROBERTS):
S. 1475. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code to extend and modify
certain charitable tax provisions; to
the Committee on Finance.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1475
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Charities
Helping Americans Regularly Throughout
the Year Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DETERMINATION OF STANDARD MILEAGE
RATE FOR CHARITABLE CONTRIBU-
TIONS DEDUCTION.
(a) DETERMINATION OF STANDARD MILEAGE
RATE FOR CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS DEDUC-
TION.—Subsection (i) of section 170 of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to
read as follows:
‘‘(i) STANDARD MILEAGE RATE FOR USE OF
PASSENGER AUTOMOBILE.—For purposes of
computing the deduction under this section
for use of a passenger automobile, the stand-
ard mileage rate shall be the rate deter-
mined by the Secretary, which rate shall not
be less than the standard mileage rate used
for purposes of section 213.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall apply to miles
traveled after the date of the enactment of
this Act.
SEC. 3. MANDATORY E-FILING BY EXEMPT ORGA-
NIZATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 6033 of the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by re-
designating subsection (n) as subsection (o)
and by inserting after subsection (m) the fol-
lowing new subsection:
‘‘(n) MANDATORY ELECTRONIC FILING.—Any
organization required to file a return under
this section shall file such return in elec-
tronic form.’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Paragraph
(7) of section 527(j) of such Code is amended
by striking ‘‘if the organization has’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘such calendar year’’.
(c) INSPECTION OF ELECTRONICALLY FILED
ANNUAL RETURNS.—Subsection (b) of section
6104 of such Code is amended by adding at
the end the following: ‘‘Any annual return
required to be filed electronically under sec-
tion 6033(n) shall be made available by the
Secretary to the public as soon as prac-
ticable in a machine readable format.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the amendments made by this
section shall apply to taxable years begin-
ning after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
(2) TRANSITIONAL RELIEF.—
(A) SMALL ORGANIZATIONS.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—In the case of any small
organizations, or any other organizations for
which the Secretary of the Treasury or the
Secretary’s delegate (hereafter referred to in
this paragraph as the ‘‘Secretary’’) deter-
mines the application of the amendments
made by this section would cause undue bur-
den without a delay, the Secretary may
delay the application of such amendments,
but such delay shall not apply to any taxable
year beginning on or after the date 2 years
after of the enactment of this Act.
(ii) SMALL ORGANIZATION.—For purposes of
clause (i), the term ‘‘small organization’’
means any organization—
(I) the gross receipts of which for the tax-
able year are less than $200,000; and
(II) the aggregate gross assets of which at
the end of the taxable year are less than
$500,000.
(B) ORGANIZATIONS FILING FORM 990–T.—In
the case of any organization described in sec-
tion 511(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 which is subject to the tax imposed by
section 511(a)(1) of such Code on its unrelated
business taxable income, or any organization
required to file a return under section 6033 of
such Code and include information under
subsection (e) thereof, the Secretary may
delay the application of the amendments
made by this section, but such delay shall
not apply to any taxable year beginning on
or after the date 2 years after of the enact-
ment of this Act.
SEC. 4. MODIFICATION OF RULES RELATING TO
DONOR ADVISED FUNDS.
(a) ALLOWANCE OF TAX-FREE CHARITABLE
DISTRIBUTIONS FROM INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT
ACCOUNTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Clause (i) of section
408(d)(8)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 is amended by striking ‘‘or any fund or
account described in section 4966(d)(2)’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this subsection shall apply to dis-
tributions made in taxable years beginning
after December 31, 2018.
(b) RETURN DISCLOSURES.—
(1) DISTRIBUTIONS.—Subsection (k) of sec-
tion 6033 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
is amended—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period
at the end and inserting a comma; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(4) list the total number of such funds
which were in existence for the 36-month pe-
riod ending at the close of such taxable year,
‘‘(5) list the total number of funds de-
scribed in paragraph (4) which made at least
1 grant during the period described in such
paragraph, and
‘‘(6) set forth—
‘‘(A) whether such organization has a pub-
licly available policy with respect to funds
which are inactive, dormant, or do not make
distributions during the period described in
paragraph (4),
‘‘(B) a description of the organization’s
policy for responding to funds described in
subparagraph (A) or a statement that no
such policy is in effect, and
‘‘(C) whether such organization regularly
and consistently monitors and enforces com-
pliance with the policy described in subpara-
graph (A) with respect to such funds.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this subsection shall apply to re-
turns for taxable years beginning after De-
cember 31, 2019.
SEC. 5. MODIFICATION OF THE TAX RATE FOR
THE EXCISE TAX ON INVESTMENT
INCOME OF PRIVATE FOUNDATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 4940(a) of the In-
ternal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by
striking ‘‘2 percent’’ and inserting ‘‘1 per-
cent’’.
(b) ELIMINATION OF REDUCED TAX WHERE
FOUNDATION MEETS CERTAIN DISTRIBUTION
REQUIREMENTS.—Section 4940 of such Code is
amended by striking subsection (e).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.028 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2888 May 15, 2019
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply to taxable
years beginning after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. TILLIS, Mr. RUBIO,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. BARRASSO,
Mr. PERDUE, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
PORTMAN, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr.
BLUNT, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, and
Mr. DAINES):
S. 1480. A bill to protect law enforce-
ment officers, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I come
to the floor to talk about Police Week
and some legislation we have intro-
duced to honor and support our men
and women in blue called, not surpris-
ingly, the Back the Blue Act. With re-
gard to the comments of my friend
from Illinois, who was bemoaning the
fact that there didn’t seem to be bipar-
tisan legislation that could come to
the floor of the Senate, be debated,
voted on, and passed with concurrence
of the House of Representatives and
the President’s signature, I note that,
actually, there is a lot we could be
doing together.
I have been on the floor a number of
times describing the humanitarian and
security crisis at our southern border.
That is something we could work to-
gether to address. I have introduced bi-
partisan and bicameral legislation with
my friend and colleague HENRY
CUELLAR at the House of Representa-
tives that would address that humani-
tarian crisis and, I believe, take big
steps toward stopping it. That is some-
thing we could do together.
I know the Democratic whip from Il-
linois doesn’t particularly like the idea
that President Trump is nominating
highly qualified people for the judici-
ary and for executive branch nomina-
tions—the types of people we are vot-
ing on today and will vote on tomor-
row. Obviously, that is not high on his
agenda, but I submit that there are a
lot of other things we could do besides
fixing this humanitarian crisis.
We could work on roads and bridges
together. I know that Chairman BAR-
RASSO of the Environment and Public
Works Committee is soliciting the
views of a number of Senators and is
going to come to the floor, hopefully,
in the next couple of months with some
ideas on what that infrastructure pack-
age should look like. I actually think
that is the best way to handle that.
Again, these are nonpartisan issues.
Infrastructure is not a partisan issue,
but figuring out how to pay for it is the
biggest challenge.
I note that Ms. PELOSI, Senator
SCHUMER, the Democratic leader, and
the President met and talked about a
$2 trillion pricetag. Well, it seems to
me that is backward. We ought to be
talking about what sort of plan makes
sense and where we can get the votes
to build consensus on that plan rather
than saying that we want to spend this
much money on a plan to come.
That is why I think the committee
work that is being done in the Senate,
in the Environment and Public Works
Committee, and, hopefully, in the
House is so important. Once the Envi-
ronment and Public Works Committee
makes a proposal and votes that out of
the committee on a bipartisan basis,
then, the Senate Finance Committee
will be asked to come up with a way to
pay for it. That is always the part that
people want to talk about the least,
but it is important.
It is important we not continue to
spend money we don’t have and in-
crease our deficits and debt. Rather, we
need to come up with a user-fee model,
which is what the gas tax is designed
to do, and find a way not to pay for
that infrastructure and deal with the
congestion and traffic by just bor-
rowing from Peter to pay Paul, lit-
erally just increasing the money we
borrow and giving that tab to our chil-
dren and grandchildren to pay back.
There are a lot of really good ideas out
there and ones on which I think we
ought to work together.
I don’t share the dystopian views of
the Senator from Illinois in terms of
the Senate. The Senate is not broken.
It is just a matter of political will to
try to work together to get beyond the
petty disagreements that seem to come
up every day and to just do our work.
Sometimes you don’t necessarily ap-
pear on TV or have your name appear
in lights when you are doing that sort
of hard work, but it is essential to get
the Senate’s work done and, indeed, to
get the work of the American people
done. Those are some things we could
work on together if there is a political
will to do so.
Mr. President, this week, tens of
thousands of Americans will make
their way to Washington for National
Police Week, our annual opportunity
to honor the brave men and women in
blue who have lost their lives while
protecting our communities.
Of course, this includes many officers
from Texas. I am particularly proud of
the Fort Worth Police Pipes and Drums
Band and the Texas Department of
Public Safety Pipes and Drums Corps
that performed on the National Mall
yesterday.
Law enforcement is a calling an-
swered by a select few. These brave
men and women have chosen a difficult
and sometimes dangerous life, dedi-
cated to upholding the law, defending
or civil liberties, and protecting our
cities and our neighborhoods. They
wake up each morning and put on a
uniform, never knowing what the day
may hold. It requires a lot of courage
and sacrifice—both from the officers
and their families—and I am grateful
for those who selflessly serve our com-
munities each day.
Each year for Police Week, we honor
the law enforcement community to re-
member those who have made the ulti-
mate sacrifice. One of the most em-
blematic reminders of that sacrifice is
the National Law Enforcement Officers
Memorial, which is here in Wash-
ington, DC. It is a beautiful tribute to
the Federal, State, and local law en-
forcement officials who have died in
the line of duty and features marble
walls filled with more than 21,000
names. Each of those names represents
an American hero. Sadly, this year, we
add the names of 13 Texans to that me-
morial. These officers gave their lives
in service to their communities and to
our country, and we thank them and
their families for their sacrifices, and
we remember and honor their names.
Each year for Police Week, we pay
tribute to those who go to work and
never come home. We honor the lives of
those we have lost. We share in the
grief of their families, and we promise
never to forget the stories of heroism
they left behind.
While we remember the fallen this
week, I hope we will also take time to
consider how we can do more to sup-
port and serve those who have taken
the oath to defend us.
Throughout my career in public of-
fice, I have had the pleasure of inter-
acting with law enforcement officials
from across my State and, certainly,
here at the Federal level, including our
incredible Capitol Police officers. I am
continually impressed and inspired by
their professionalism, their conviction,
and their unwavering commitment to
enforcing the law, and I want to ensure
that they have what they need when
they put on that uniform with con-
fidence every morning.
Last Congress we made a lot of
progress, and two bills that I intro-
duced then are now law. The first is the
Justice Served Act, which I introduced
with my colleague Senator KLOBUCHAR,
another example of bipartisan legisla-
tion. This bill provides grants to State
and local governments to prosecute
cold cases by making sure the newly
tested DNA evidence is used to inves-
tigate and prosecute unsolved cases.
The Justice Served Act helps to ensure
that violent criminals are taken off the
streets and brought to justice.
We also passed legislation I intro-
duced with Senator PETERS from
Michigan to authorize the Project Safe
Neighborhoods program at the Depart-
ment of Justice. This is a nationwide
partnership among Federal, State, and
local law enforcement and prosecutors
who use data-driven, evidence-based,
and trauma-informed practices to re-
duce violent crime. It is inspired by a
successful program that was initiated
at the State level in Texas, when I was
attorney general, but the truth is it
started in the Eastern District. I be-
lieve it was in Virginia. Of course, it
was designed to focus on reducing gun
crime and gun violence by targeting
those who repetitively used firearms in
the commission of violent crimes.
We were glad to use the examples in
Virginia and in Texas to bring the
model to the Nation and to promote
this proactive and collaborative ap-
proach to prevent violence in our
neighborhoods.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.033 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2889
May 15, 2019
I am appreciative of the fact that our
colleagues have seen fit to work to-
gether to pass both of these bills and of
President Trump for signing those, but
I know there is a lot more that we can
and should do.
Today I am introducing another
piece of legislation called the Back the
Blue Act, which I am introducing along
with our colleagues Senator CRUZ from
Texas and Senator TILLIS from North
Carolina. This legislation sends a
strong message to the more than
900,000 law enforcement officers serving
in our country that we support them
and that we will not tolerate any act of
violence against them, period.
In recent years, we have seen brutal
and inexcusable attacks on law en-
forcement officers across the United
States, including one in Texas that
rocked our entire State.
In 2016, a man killed five police offi-
cers and injured nine others in Dallas.
It was a sobering reminder of the dan-
ger these officers face every day and a
call for us to take action to do more to
support them.
This bill makes clear our support for
these public servants who dedicate
their lives to protecting and serving us.
The Back the Blue Act would add stiff
mandatory penalties and make it a
Federal crime to kill or attempt to kill
a law enforcement officer, a Federal
judge, or a federally funded public safe-
ty officer. It would also make it a Fed-
eral crime to assault a law enforce-
ment officer.
There is zero justification for attack-
ing a police officer—none. We need to
show that we value their lives, and we
need to make it absolutely clear that
we will hold those who carry out
crimes against them accountable. The
Back the Blue Act sends that message
loud and clear.
I think it is important to point out
that this legislation would also help
make our communities stronger by al-
lowing grant funds to be used for ef-
forts that help foster more trust be-
tween the police and the communities
they protect. This bill would better
serve the men and women who work
tirelessly in our communities each day.
There is no doubt in my mind that
our Nation is better and safer because
of the hard work and dedication of our
law enforcement officials. Here in the
Senate we should do all we can to help
them do their job as effectively and as
safely as possible. The Back the Blue
Act would be a great start.
I hope my colleagues will consider
this legislation and decide to support it
and, more importantly, show our law
enforcement across the country that
we stand shoulder to shoulder with
them.
By Mr. KAINE (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, and
Ms. HIRONO):
S. 1483. A bill to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to require insti-
tutions of higher education to have an
independent advocate for campus sex-
ual assault prevention and response; to
the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President. Sexual as-
sault is a major issue on our Nation’s
college campuses. In 2016, the Depart-
ment of Justice found that one in four
college women are sexually assaulted
while in school. Alarmingly, the major-
ity of these crimes will go unreported.
The consequences of these crimes are
often damaging to a student’s mental,
physical, and emotional well-being and
the aftermath can drive many sur-
vivors to drop out of school.
Sexual assault survivors deserve ac-
cess to a safe and supportive edu-
cational environment. I have met with
students in Virginia, most recently at
the University of Virginia and Virginia
Tech, who have expressed the need for
someone on campus to turn to for unbi-
ased advice, guidance, and support fol-
lowing an assault. Given the preva-
lence of this issue, it is clear that our
federal higher education policy must
do more to prevent sexual assaults and
ensure that survivors have access to
and can navigate through a plethora of
resources.
This is why I am pleased to reintro-
duce today the Survivor Outreach and
Support Campus Act of 2019 or SOS
Campus Act. The SOS Campus Act re-
quires every institution of higher edu-
cation that receives federal funding to
designate an independent advocate for
campus sexual assault prevention and
response. The advocate will help stu-
dents access all of the resources avail-
able to them, both on and off campus,
in the wake of a sexual assault and will
guide them through the process of re-
porting their assault if they choose to
do so, acting always in the interests of
the victim, not the university.
The SOS Campus Act requires that
the confidential advocate is responsible
for ensuring that survivors, regardless
of whether they decide to report the
crime, have access to emergency and
follow-up medical care, guidance on re-
porting assaults to law enforcement,
medical forensic or evidentiary exams,
crisis intervention, and information on
their legal rights. The advocate will
also conduct a public information cam-
paign on campus to inform students of
their services, and train other univer-
sity staff to provide information to
students about the advocate.
I am proud to reintroduce this legis-
lation with Senators BALDWIN, HIRONO
and FEINSTEIN, which would ensure all
college students across our country
have access to a supportive advocate
for sexual assault survivors. It is our
responsibility as public servants to ad-
vocate relentlessly for reforms to pre-
vent sexual assault and protections for
survivors. I strongly encourage my col-
leagues in the Senate to consider this
legislation when we consider reauthor-
ization of the Higher Education Act.
By Mr. MANCHIN:
S. 1486. A bill to amend title 11,
United States Code, to include certain
pension as administrative expenses in
bankruptcy, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, today
I am introducing the Prioritizing Our
Workers Act, which will make changes
to the current bankruptcy code, requir-
ing companies going through bank-
ruptcy proceedings to pay unpaid vest-
ed benefits, like workers’ pensions, be-
fore they pay out other claims against
them.
I firmly believe that no one should be
denied their pension because their em-
ployer goes bankrupt. Hard-working
men and women across the country go
to work every day for years, paying
into these pension plans each paycheck
with the expectation that one day they
can retire and provide for their fami-
lies.
Companies offering pension plans
made promises to their workers and
need to live up to those promises, no
matter what else happens to that com-
pany financially.
In West Virginia, we are far too fa-
miliar with coal and steel companies
leaving their workers out to dry in this
way. This is absolutely unacceptable.
That is why I am introducing this bill,
and I look forward to my fellow Sen-
ators joining me to support and protect
pensions across this country.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself and
Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1488. A bill to improve the integ-
rity and safety of interstate horse-
racing, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1488
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Racehorse
Doping Ban Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) INTERSTATE OFF-TRACK WAGER; HORSE-
MEN’S GROUP; HOST RACING ASSOCIATION; OFF-
TRACK BETTING SYSTEM.—The terms ‘‘inter-
state off-track wager’’, ‘‘horsemen’s group’’,
‘‘host racing association’’, and ‘‘off-track
betting system’’ have the meanings given
those terms in section 3 of the Interstate
Horseracing Act of 1978 (15 U.S.C. 3002).
(2) VETERINARIAN-CLIENT-PATIENT RELA-
TIONSHIP.—The term ‘‘veterinarian-client-pa-
tient relationship’’ has the meaning of that
term as used in the Principles of Veterinary
Medical Ethics of the American Veterinary
Medical Association (as in effect on the date
of the enactment of this Act).
SEC. 3. INDEPENDENT ANTI-DOPING ORGANIZA-
TION FOR INTERSTATE HORSE-
RACING.
(a) IN GENERAL.—There shall be an inde-
pendent anti-doping organization with re-
sponsibility for ensuring the integrity and
safety of horseraces that are the subject of
interstate off-track wagers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15MY6.031 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2890 May 15, 2019
(b) DUTIES.—The duties of the independent
anti-doping organization referred to in sub-
section (a) with respect to horseraces de-
scribed in that subsection are the following:
(1) Developing, publishing, and maintain-
ing rules with respect to—
(A) substances, methods, and treatments
that may not be administered to a horse par-
ticipating in such a horserace;
(B) substances, methods, and treatments
that may be administered to a horse partici-
pating in such a horserace in the context of
a veterinarian-client-patient relationship;
and
(C) the use of substances, methods, and
treatments permitted under subparagraph
(B), including rules with respect to the pe-
riod before a horserace (which may not be
less than 24 hours before a horserace) during
which a horse may no longer receive such
substances, methods, and treatments.
(2) Implementing programs relating to
anti-doping education, research, testing, and
adjudication to prevent any horse partici-
pating in a horserace described in subsection
(a) from racing under the effect of any sub-
stance, method, or treatment that could af-
fect the performance of the horse (other than
a substance, method, or treatment described
in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (1) adminis-
tered during a time period that is permitted
under subparagraph (C) of that paragraph).
(3) Excluding from participating in any
horserace described in subsection (a) any
person that the independent anti-doping or-
ganization or a State racing commission de-
termines—
(A) has violated a rule with respect to a
substance, method, or treatment that may
not be administered to a horse participating
in such a horserace under subparagraph (A)
of paragraph (1);
(B) has violated 3 or more times a rule
with respect to a substance, method, or
treatment permitted under subparagraphs
(B) and (C) of that paragraph that has the
ability to affect the performance of a horse;
or
(C) is subject to a suspension from horse-
racing activities by any State racing com-
mission.
(c) DEADLINE.—The independent anti-
doping organization referred to in subsection
(a) shall publish the rules required by sub-
section (b) not later than one year after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
(d) SUSPENSION OF EXCLUSION PERIOD.—The
independent anti-doping organization re-
ferred to in subsection (a) may—
(1) suspend a period of exclusion from par-
ticipating in a horserace imposed on a person
pursuant to subsection (b)(3) if the person
provides substantial assistance to the orga-
nization or other persons that results in the
discovery of—
(A) a violation of a rule published under
subsection (b) by another person; or
(B) a violation of Federal or State law by
another person; and
(2) reinstate all or part of a period of exclu-
sion imposed on a person and suspended
under paragraph (1) if the person fails to pro-
vide substantial assistance described in that
paragraph.
(e) CONSULTATIONS.—In developing, pub-
lishing, and maintaining rules under sub-
section (b)(1), the independent anti-doping
organization referred to in subsection (a)
may consult with State racing commissions,
host racing associations, horsemen’s groups,
and other interested persons.
(f) TRANSITION RULE WITH RESPECT TO
FUROSEMIDE.—During the 2-year period be-
ginning on the date of the enactment of this
Act, the independent anti-doping organiza-
tion referred to in subsection (a) shall permit
the use of furosemide in a horse partici-
pating in a horserace described in subsection
(a) if—
(1) the horse is 3 years old or older; and
(2) the use of furosemide—
(A) complies with the requirements of the
document entitled ‘‘ARCI-011-020 Medica-
tions and Prohibited Substances’’ published
by the Association of Racing Commissioners
International, Inc.; and
(B) is within the context of a veterinarian-
client-patient relationship.
(g) DESIGNATION OF ORGANIZATION.—The
independent anti-doping organization des-
ignated pursuant to section 701 of the Office
of National Drug Control Policy Reauthor-
ization Act of 2006 (21 U.S.C. 2001) shall serve
as the independent anti-doping organization
referred to in subsection (a).
SEC. 4. CONSENT REQUIRED FOR ACCEPTANCE
OF INTERSTATE OFF-TRACK WA-
GERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—On and after the date of
the enactment of this Act, a host racing as-
sociation may conduct a horserace that is
the subject of an interstate off-track wager,
and an interstate off-track wager may be ac-
cepted by an off-track betting system, only
if consent is obtained from the independent
anti-doping organization referred to in sec-
tion 3(a).
(b) REQUIREMENT FOR AGREEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—A host racing association
shall obtain the consent required by sub-
section (a) of the independent anti-doping or-
ganization referred to in section 3(a) pursu-
ant to an agreement entered into between
the association and the organization that
specifies the terms and conditions relating
to such consent, including—
(A) compliance with the rules published
under section 3(b); and
(B) payments to the organization to defray
the costs of carrying out the duties of the or-
ganization under this Act.
(2) DEFRAYAL OF COSTS.—The independent
anti-doping organization referred to in sec-
tion 3(a) shall ensure that all of the costs in-
curred by the organization in carrying out
the duties of the organization under this Act
are defrayed pursuant to agreements entered
into under paragraph (1).
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 211—RECOG-
NIZING THE AVIATION CADET
MUSEUM IN EUREKA SPRINGS,
ARKANSAS, AS ‘‘AMERICA’S NA-
TIONAL AVIATION CADET MU-
SEUM’’
Mr. BOOZMAN (for himself and Mr.
COTTON) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources:
S. RES. 211
Whereas, in 1994, former Aviation Cadet
and United States Air Force First Lieuten-
ant Errol Severe founded the Aviation Cadet
Museum;
Whereas the flying cadet and succeeding
aviation cadet programs served as the pri-
mary production source of nearly 500,000
United States Air Force pilots, navigators,
and bombardiers from 1917 to 1961;
Whereas the bravery, courage, dedication,
and heroism of United States aviators from
across the Air Corps and Army Air Forces
were critical factors in defeating the en-
emies of the United States during World War
I and World War II;
Whereas the Aviation Cadet Museum in
Eureka Springs, Arkansas, exists to exclu-
sively preserve and promote an under-
standing of the role of aviation cadets in the
20th century; and
Whereas the Aviation Cadet Museum is
dedicated to celebrating the spirit of the
United States and recognizing the team-
work, collaboration, patriotism, and courage
of the individuals who trained and fought
and the individuals on the homefront who
mobilized and supported the national avia-
tion effort: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate recognizes the
Aviation Cadet Museum in Eureka Springs,
Arkansas, as ‘‘America’s National Aviation
Cadet Museum’’.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 16—EXPRESSING THE
SENSE OF CONGRESS THAT THE
TREATY ON THE NON-PRO-
LIFERATION OF NUCLEAR WEAP-
ONS (NPT) CONTINUES TO MAKE
AN INVALUABLE CONTRIBUTION
TO UNITED STATES AND INTER-
NATIONAL SECURITY, AND NOT-
ING FORMER SENATOR RICHARD
G. LUGAR’S INDISPENSABLE
CONTRIBUTIONS TO INTER-
NATIONAL SECURITY AND RE-
DUCING NUCLEAR WEAPONS-RE-
LATED RISKS
Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BROWN, Ms.
COLLINS, Mr. CARDIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Ms. SMITH, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN) sub-
mitted the following concurrent resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. CON. RES. 16
Whereas the Treaty on the Non-Prolifera-
tion of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) opened for
signature 50 years ago on July 1, 1968;
Whereas the United States and the former
Soviet Union averted a catastrophic nuclear
exchange during the October 1962 Cuban Mis-
sile Crisis, which led to a series of bilateral
and multilateral agreements to lessen the
chance of nuclear war, including the NPT;
Whereas President John F. Kennedy pre-
dicted in 1963 that as many as 25 countries
would acquire nuclear weapons by 1970 ab-
sent a treaty to control nuclear weapons;
Whereas the United States Senate provided
its advice and consent to the NPT on March
13, 1969, with a vote on ratification of 83 to
15;
Whereas the NPT has grown to include 191
State Parties, making an irreplaceable con-
tribution to international security by pre-
venting the spread of nuclear weapons;
Whereas former Senator Richard G. Lugar
made indispensable contributions to reduc-
ing nuclear weapon risks, most notably
through his leadership in standing up the Co-
operative Threat Reduction Program (com-
monly referred to as the ‘‘Nunn-Lugar Pro-
gram’’), which eliminated 7,600 nuclear weap-
ons in the former Soviet Union;
Whereas Senator Lugar successfully se-
cured the advice and consent of the Senate
to the Treaty between the United States of
America and the Russian Federation on
Measures for the Further Reduction and
Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms,
signed at Prague April 8, 2010, and entered
into force February 5, 2011 (commonly known
as the ‘‘New START Treaty’’);
Whereas Article III of the NPT obligates
each nonnuclear weapon state to the NPT to
conclude a Safeguards Agreement with the
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
to verify treaty compliance, 174 of which are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.040 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2891
May 15, 2019
Comprehensive Safeguards Agreements
crafted to detect the diversion of nuclear
materials from peaceful to non-peaceful
uses;
Whereas the 2018 Department of Defense
Nuclear Posture Review affirms, ‘‘The Nu-
clear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT) is a
cornerstone of the nuclear nonproliferation
regime. It plays a positive role in building
consensus for non-proliferation and enhances
international efforts to impose costs on
those that would pursue nuclear weapons
outside the Treaty.’’;
Whereas the success of the NPT has and
will continue to depend upon the full imple-
mentation by all State Parties of the Trea-
ty’s three mutually reinforcing pillars: non-
proliferation, access to peaceful uses of nu-
clear energy, and disarmament;
Whereas, over the past half century, the
United States has exhibited leadership in
strengthening each of the NPT’s three pillars
for the global good, including—
(1) reducing its nuclear weapons stockpile
by more than 85 percent from its Cold War
heights of 31,225 in parallel with equally
massive reductions of the Russian Federa-
tion’s stockpile through bilateral coordina-
tion;
(2) cooperating with Kazakhstan, Ukraine,
and Belarus to facilitate the surrender of nu-
clear weapons on their soil after the fall of
the Soviet Union—leading to each country’s
accession to the NPT as nonnuclear weapons
states;
(3) providing voluntary contributions to
the IAEA to promote peaceful nuclear activi-
ties exceeding $378,000,000 since 2010, includ-
ing activities that help in the treatment of
cancer and other life-saving applications;
and
(4) extending deterrence to United States
allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organiza-
tion (NATO), Japan, and the Republic of
Korea—which is an unmistakable demonstra-
tion of the United States commitment to
collective security;
Whereas heightened geopolitical tensions
in recent years have made cooperation on
nonproliferation and arms control issues
with the Russian Federation more chal-
lenging;
Whereas a range of actions by the Govern-
ment of the Russian Federation has led to a
deterioration in bilateral relations with the
United States, including Russia’s brazen in-
terference in the 2016 United States presi-
dential elections, its violation of the Treaty
between the United States of America and
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on
the Elimination of Their Intermediate-
Range and Shorter-Range Missiles (com-
monly known as the ‘‘INF Treaty’’), signed
at Washington, D.C., December 8, 1987, and
entered into force June 1, 1988, its use of a
chemical nerve agent in an assassination at-
tempt against Sergei Skripal and his daugh-
ter Yulia in the United Kingdom in March
2018, its illegal annexation of Crimea, its in-
vasion of Eastern Ukraine, and its desta-
bilizing actions in Syria;
Whereas, within a difficult environment,
preserving agreements that continue to con-
tribute to United States and global security,
particularly the New START Treaty, is im-
portant, and that to that end, the Depart-
ment of State confirmed in February 2018
that Russia had met New START’s Central
Treaty Limits and stated that ‘‘implementa-
tion of the New START Treaty enhances the
safety and security of the United States’’;
Whereas United States efforts to reduce
dangers associated with nuclear arsenals
through ambitious arms control agreements
with both the Russian Federation and the
People’s Republic of China would advance
United States and global security, adding to
the benefits of stability and transparency
provided by existing agreements.
Whereas, in a March 2018 speech, President
Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation
unveiled details of new kinds of strategic nu-
clear weapons under development, including
hypersonic nuclear weapons, nuclear-pow-
ered cruise missiles, and multi-megaton nu-
clear torpedoes shot from drone submarines
that may be accountable under the New
START Treaty;
Whereas the Russian Federation erro-
neously claimed that the United States may
have not reached New START Treaty central
limits by February 5, 2018, as is mandated by
the Treaty;
Whereas the Bilateral Consultative Com-
mission (BCC) is the appropriate forum for
the Parties to engage constructively on any
New START Treaty implementation issues
that arise; and
Whereas the collapse of the INF Treaty
and expiration of the New START Treaty
would lead to the absence of any binding, bi-
lateral treaty or agreement governing
United States and Russian nuclear forces,
which account for 90 percent of those cur-
rently in existence globally, for the first
time since 1972: Now, therefore be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That it is the sense
of Congress that—
(1) the United States should continue to
encourage all States Party to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
(NPT) to comply fully with the Treaty;
(2) the United States should maintain sup-
port for the IAEA through its assessed and
voluntary contributions and promote the
universal adoption of the IAEA Additional
Protocol;
(3) the United States should—
(A) consider extending the New START
Treaty, within the context of wider enhance-
ment of strategic stability between the
United States and the Russian Federation
and provided the Treaty continues to ad-
vance United States national security;
(B) assess whether Russia’s recently an-
nounced nuclear capabilities should be ac-
countable under the New START Treaty, and
raise the issue directly with the Russian
Federation;
(C) conclude an interagency process to con-
sider an extension of the New START Treaty
and to engage with the Russian Federation
on the full range of strategic stability issues
and other arms control and nonproliferation
issues;
(D) begin negotiations with the Russian
Federation on an agreement to address the
massive disparity between the nonstrategic
nuclear weapons stockpiles of the Russian
Federation and of the United States and to
secure and reduce nonstrategic nuclear
weapons in a verifiable manner; and
(E) consider the consequences of the New
START Treaty’s expiration in 2021 in rela-
tion to the insights it provides into the loca-
tion, movement, and disposition of current
and future Russian strategic systems;
(4) the United States strongly condemns
the Russian Federation’s violations of the
INF Treaty and its noncompliance with its
other arms control commitments and treaty
obligations, and urges the Russian Federa-
tion to come back into full compliance;
(5) in responding to the Russian Federa-
tion’s deployment of INF-range systems, ad-
vocate for those defense and deterrence steps
which preserve NATO alliance cohesion and
are aimed at averting an arms race on the
European continent;
(6) pursuit of a verifiable and comprehen-
sive arms control agreement with the Rus-
sian Federation and the People’s Republic of
China, which may capture strategic and non-
strategic nuclear weapons capabilities,
would enhance United States and global se-
curity by building upon other treaties,
agreements, and transparency measures that
reduce nuclear risk; and
(7) the United States should continue to
encourage opportunities for cooperation with
other nuclear weapon possessing states to re-
duce the salience, number, and role of nu-
clear weapons in their national military
strategies.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have
10 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON BANKING, HOUSING, AND URBAN
AFFAIRS
The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, May 15, 2019, at 9:30
a.m., to conduct a hearing entitled
‘‘Oversight of financial regulators.’’
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, May 15, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, May
15, 2019, at 10:15 a.m., to conduct a
hearing.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Wednesday, May 15, 2019,
at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing on
pending legislation and the following
nominations: James A. Crowell IV, and
Jason Park, both to be an Associate
Judge of the Superior Court of the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Ron A. Bloom, of
New York, and Roman Martinez IV, of
Florida, both to be a Governor of the
United States Postal Service, Dale
Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be Director of
the Office of Personnel Management,
and Michael Eric Wooten, of Virginia,
to be Administrator for Federal Pro-
curement Policy.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, May 15,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a business
meeting.
COMMITTEE ON INDIAN AFFAIRS
The Committee on Indian Affairs is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, May 15,
2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a hearing
on pending legislation.
COMMITTEE ON RULES AND ADMINISTRATION
The Committee on Rules and Admin-
istration is authorized to meet during
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.038 S15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2892 May 15, 2019
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, May 15, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to con-
duct a hearing entitled, ‘‘Oversight of
the U.S. Election Assistance Commis-
sion.’’
COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS AND
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship is authorized to
meet during the session of the Senate
on Wednesday, May 15, 2019, at 2:30
p.m., to conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SCIENCE, OCEANS,
FISHERIES, AND WEATHER
The Subcommittee on Science,
Oceans, Fisheries, and Weather of the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, May 15, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON WATER AND POWER
The Subcommittee on Water and
Power of the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources is to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, May 15, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct
a hearing.
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I have
a request for one committee to meet
during today’s session of the Senate. It
has the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, May 15,
2019, at 6 p.m., to conduct a hearing on
pending military nominations.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Christian
Braunlich, an Air Force defense fellow
in Senator SULLIVAN’s office, be grant-
ed floor privileges for the remainder of
the Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that my legis-
lative fellow, Adam Bradlow, be grant-
ed floor privileges until the end of July
of 2019.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
APPOINTMENT
The PRESIDING OFFICER. For the
information of the Senate, the Chair
makes the following announcement:
The President pro tempore of the
Senate and the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 201(a)(2) of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974, have ap-
pointed Dr. Phillip Swagel as Director
of the Congressional Budget Office, ef-
fective June 3, 2019, for the term expir-
ing January 3, 2023.
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, MAY 16,
2019
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m., Thursday, May 16;
further, that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, morning business be closed,
and the Senate proceed to executive
session and resume consideration of
the Vitter nomination.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. GARDNER. If there is no busi-
ness to come before the Senate, I ask
that it stand adjourned under the pre-
vious order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 7:30 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
May 16, 2019, at 10 a.m.
f
CONFIRMATION
Executive nomination confirmed by
the Senate May 15, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
KENNETH KIYUL LEE, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A15MY6.039 S15MYPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E595
May 15, 2019
HONORING JAMES BOGART
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Mr. James Bogart for his dec-
ades of service to the central coast of Cali-
fornia with the Grower-Shipper Association of
Central California. Through his decades of
serving agricultural producers on the Central
Coast, Mr. Bogart leaves an indelible legacy in
our community.
Mr. Bogart joined the Grower-Shipper Vege-
table Association on November 3, 1980 as a
Staff Attorney. In 1998, began his leadership
role by serving as President and General
Counsel for what would later be re-named the
Grower-Shipper Association of Central Cali-
fornia, where he has helped lead the Associa-
tion and its members on many issues in the
Monterey, Santa Cruz, San Benito and Santa
Clara Counties. He is the longest serving
president of the Grower-Shipper Association
and is a highly respected advocate for agri-
culture.
Mr. Bogart has been a prominent leader in
agriculture and his community all of his profes-
sional life. His community activities include
service on several boards of directors, includ-
ing but not limited to the Community Founda-
tion of Monterey County, Salinas Valley
Chamber of Commerce (Chairman of the
Board), California Bar Association (Agri-
business Committee), Monterey County Bar
Association (Labor Committee), Ag Against
Hunger (Founding Director), Monterey County
Agricultural Education (Founding Director),
Grower-Shipper Association Foundation (Co-
Founder and Incorporator), ‘‘AgKnowledge’’
Executive Leadership and Education Program
(Past President and Founding Director),
Hartnell College Ag Steering Committee
(Founder and Past Chairman), Spreckels
Union School District Board of Trustees, Mon-
terey County Legal Services (Founding Direc-
tor), Community Homeless Solutions (Past
Chairman and Member of the Board of Direc-
tors), and the Salinas Valley Chapter of the
American Cancer Society (Past President).
Mr. Bogart takes pride in the growth of the
Grower-Shipper Association in both member-
ship and in their leadership. Through the
AgKnowledge program, he has focused efforts
to educating community stakeholders in the
importance of the produce industry. Mr. Bogart
has been tenacious in working on issues that
impact the produce industry, including labor
relations, water, food safety, and crop protec-
tion tools. He has led by example and worked
to build relationships with individuals on all
sides of an issue by emphasizing work to
identify common ground. He is well known for
entertaining all with his good sense of humor.
Mr. James Bogart exemplifies what it means
to be a conscientious and engaged citizen of
the Central Coast. In retirement, Mr. Bogart
will be cheering on his beloved alma mater,
the University of Southern California, and en-
joying life with his wife, Janis; two stepsons,
David and Aaron; and his grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, the agricultural community
on the Central Coast will miss Mr. Bogart, and
I ask my colleagues to join me in wishing him
a long and fulfilling retirement.
f
HONORING DAVID BARTLETT
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize David Bartlett.
David is a very special young man who has
exemplified the finest qualities of citizenship
and leadership by taking an active part in the
Boy Scouts of America, Troop 606, and earn-
ing the most prestigious award of Eagle Scout.
David has been very active with his troop,
participating in many scout activities. Over the
many years David has been involved with
scouting, he has not only earned numerous
merit badges, but also the respect of his fam-
ily, peers, and community. Most notably, David
has received the Paul Bunyon Award, and is
a member of the Order of the Arrow. David
has also contributed to his community through
his Eagle Scout project. David built a wooden
dumpster enclosure at his church to aid in
aesthetics and security.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in commending David Bartlett for his ac-
complishments with the Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica and for his efforts put forth in achieving the
highest distinction of Eagle Scout.
f
RECOGNIZING KYLER REESE
HON. BRYAN STEIL
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize one of our hardworking D.C. office
interns, Kyler Reese. Kyler was born and
raised in Virginia and is working towards a
concentration in Sports Management from
George Mason University.
Our office was fortunate to have Kyler as
part of the Gregg and Livingston Harper Con-
gressional Internship Program for Individuals
with Intellectual Disabilities. Kyler lit up the of-
fice with his smile and energy, and enjoyed
learning from staff and helping with our mail
program.
We’ll miss having Kyler in the office and
wish him all the best in the future. On behalf
of Wisconsin’s First Congressional District, we
thank Kyler for his help.
CONGRATULATING MARK K. COLIP,
OD ON HIS APPOINTMENT AS
THE SIXTH PRESIDENT OF THE
ILLINOIS COLLEGE OF OPTOM-
ETRY
HON. BOBBY L. RUSH
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, I wish to ac-
knowledge Mark K. Colip, OD on his appoint-
ment as the sixth president of the Illinois Col-
lege of Optometry, the oldest and largest col-
lege of optometry in the country and the larg-
est provider of eye and vision care in Illinois.
Dr. Colip has dedicated his career to im-
proving optometric education and the profes-
sion of optometry and has served in increas-
ing positions of responsibility at the Illinois
College of Optometry for the past twenty
years. He has led multiple projects and cam-
paigns that have garnered unprecedented
alumni and community support and devoted
his life’s work to studying, understanding, and
influencing the national optometry applicant
pool.
Because of his leadership, Madam Speaker,
the Illinois College of Optometry had a 250
percent increase in fundraising revenues over
the past nine years, demonstrating significant
successes compared to any prior period in the
college’s history. Dr. Colip is dedicated to the
sound financial management of the College,
utilizing his business acumen and service
prioritization to enhance essential fiscal strate-
gies, and has served in volunteer positions
within the American Optometric Association,
the Association of Schools and Colleges of
Optometry, and the Accreditation Council on
Optometric Education throughout his stellar
career.
He has earned the recognition of Distin-
guished Scholar and Fellow by the National
Academies of Practice for his extensive in-
volvement and dedication to furthering prac-
tice, scholarship, and policy in support of inter-
professional care and his dedication to helping
the underserved, participating in six inter-
national medical mission trips.
Needless to say, Dr. Colip has a deep-seat-
ed passion and commitment to the success of
the College and its students, alumni, patients,
employees, and community. So, Madam
Speaker, I applaud Dr. Colip for his years of
hard work and congratulate him on his ap-
pointment as president of the Illinois College
of Optometry and wish him nothing but contin-
ued success.
f
RECOGNIZING TANJA FRANSEN OF
GLASGOW
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Tanja Fransen of Glasgow, an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K15MY8.001 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E596 May 15, 2019
award-winning meteorologist who is recog-
nized nationally for her innovation and leader-
ship.
Tanja is the Meteorologist in Charge at the
Glasgow Weather Forecast Office in Montana.
Starting as a meteorologist in Glasgow in
2001, she has been a supervisor since 2015.
In fact, Tanja is one of only 8 percent of fe-
male supervisors for National Weather Service
(NWS) field offices.
Tanja’s research benefits Montana’s ag pro-
ducers. Tanja and colleague Bill Martin helped
develop an innovative cold weather advisory
tool that helps livestock producers take pre-
cautions during calving season, saving hun-
dreds of thousands of dollars annually. Their
work earned them the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration’s Administrator’s
Award in 2011.
In 2014, the American Meteorological Soci-
ety (AMS) presented Tanja with the Kenneth
C. Spengler Award for her collaborative ap-
proach to ensure weather forecasts result in
timely and appropriate public responses. The
NWS recognized her with the Isaac Cline
Award for Outreach in 2011 and the Isaac
Cline Award for Leadership in 2002.
Throughout her 25-year career, Tanja has
served in many public and professional advi-
sory positions, and she has a passion for
mentoring others. She mentors junior col-
leagues through the AMS and the NWS. She
often encourages young people to embrace
STEM courses and enhance their education
with communication, business, and leadership
training.
Madam Speaker, for her accomplishments
in the sciences, dedication to the public, and
18 years of service to Montanans, I recognize
Tanja Fransen for her spirit of Montana.
f
HONORING AUSTYN SMELLEY
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize Austyn Smelley.
Austyn is a very special young man who has
exemplified the finest qualities of citizenship
and leadership by taking an active part in the
Boy Scouts of America, Troop 606, and earn-
ing the most prestigious award of Eagle Scout.
Austyn has been very active with his troop,
participating in many scout activities. Over the
many years Austyn has been involved with
scouting, he has not only earned numerous
merit badges, but also the respect of his fam-
ily, peers, and community. Most notably,
Austyn has received the World Conservation
Award, Paul Bunyon Award, and Ironman
Award. Austyn has also contributed to his
community through his Eagle Scout project.
Austyn built a series of games for the 6th
Grade Center of the North Kansas City School
District.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in commending Austyn Smelley for his ac-
complishments with the Boy Scouts of Amer-
ica and for his efforts put forth in achieving the
highest distinction of Eagle Scout.
PURDUE MARCHING BAND’S 100TH
PERFORMANCE AT THE INDY 500
HON. JAMES R. BAIRD
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. BAIRD. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the 100th performance of Purdue
University’s ‘‘All-American’’ Marching Band at
the Indy 500, along with Director of Bands Jay
Gephart becoming president of the prestigious
American Bandmasters Association.
This year marks the 100th anniversary of
the band performing pop tunes, patriotic
songs, and Indy 500 ceremonial music like
‘‘God Bless America’’ and ‘‘Back Home Again
in Indiana.’’ The band builds the sound, color
and emotion leading to the start of the race,
thrilling fans for the past century.
The All-American band has become part of
the fabric of the ‘‘Greatest Spectacle in Rac-
ing.’’ Nearly 300 members pay their own way
each year to return to the Indy 500 from
around the United States to perform on the
track and under the Pagoda.
They also invite high school bands from
across the Midwest to participate in the Pa-
rade of Bands that has marched around the
course before the start of the race since 1922
and have appeared in every nationally tele-
vised IPL 500 Festival Parade since its debut
in 1957.
Thanks to Director of Bands Jay Gephart,
Purdue’s participation in one of Indiana’s most
storied traditions has held strong at the ‘‘Rac-
ing Capitol of the World.’’ I congratulate every
band member—former and current—and Di-
rector Gephart on their remarkable achieve-
ments.
f
HONORING BOB DINGEMAN
HON. SCOTT H. PETERS
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. PETERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the late Colonel Robert ‘‘Bob’’
Dingeman, a decorated veteran and beloved
community leader, who dedicated his entire
life to service.
Bob’s commitment to service began when
he was just a teenager. Bob was living with
his family in Hawaii and serving in the Re-
serve Officer Training Corps when the attack
on Pearl Harbor occurred.
Bob helped to get the women and children
to safety before joining the defense of the
base. The events of that day led Bob to a life
of military service.
He graduated from West Point in 1945 and
went on to serve in World War II, the Korean
War, and the Vietnam War. During his dec-
ades of service, Bob earned a Silver Star, Sol-
dier’s Medal, Bronze Star, and a Purple Heart.
After retiring from the Army, Bob earned
multiple master’s degrees and worked as a
college professor at San Diego Miramar Col-
lege, teaching math, history, and political
science.
Bob also became a pillar of San Diego’s
Scripps Ranch community, where he, his wife
Gaye, and their children made their home.
Bob helped create the town’s council, the
Scripps Ranch Civic Association; organized
many annual traditions, including the 4th of
July Parade; and established the community
newsletter.
The Robert E. Dingeman Elementary School
opened in 1995, so named by the San Diego
Unified School District to recognize Bob
Dingeman’s accomplishments in the commu-
nity. The school celebrates Bob Dingeman
Day every year on June 12, Bob’s birthday.
Scripps Ranch and San Diego are better off
for Bob’s leadership and community involve-
ment. His legacy of military and volunteer
service will continue to be an example for us
all.
Please join me in honoring Bob Dingeman
for his dedication to Scripps Ranch and his
service to our country.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RETIREMENT
OF RICK JOHNSON
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to congratulate Rick Johnson upon his retire-
ment as Executive Director of the Idaho Con-
servation League. His leadership will be great-
ly missed by myself and many others.
For the past three decades, Rick has been
the seminal leader in Idaho protecting Idaho’s
outdoors and environment. Whenever I am
asked who in the conservation community to
speak to in Idaho, the answer is always Rick
Johnson.
When I first met Rick in the 1990s, I would
describe the environmental community as hav-
ing a single mission of fighting and objecting
to almost anything proposed by the resource
industry.
Through the years, I am pleased to say that
both Rick and I have evolved and recognized
that there are other ways to accomplish con-
servation. Rick’s willingness to recognize the
needs and concerns of others and his willing-
ness to look for options where all parties can
win, have made him a leader in the nation in
finding ways to reach consensus on difficult
conservation issues.
Rick and I have been through many battles
together. We started with a not so harmonious
discussion of nuclear power at my first wild
Idaho and one day we ended up in the Oval
Office with the President signing the Boulder-
White Clouds and Jerry Peak Wilderness bills.
You learn a lot about an individual when
you work for 15 years together on a wilder-
ness bill and go camping in the mountains you
are both trying to protect.
They also learn a lot about you. Rick was
able to recognize my sincerity and concern for
Idaho’s special areas and more importantly
convey that to others.
Rick wasn’t a partner in crime, he was a
partner in conservation. We were both able to
maximize ‘‘wins’’ for our respective sides that
they could take to the bank. He conserved
hundreds of thousands of acres of wilderness
and I was able to create security and certainty
for counties, ranchers and motorized users.
Working together we were able to find the
proverbial ‘‘win-win’’ that everybody is looking
for but always seems elusive. We found it,
and Idaho is better off for it.
As future generations of Idahoans gaze over
the beautiful vistas of the Cecil Andrus-White
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K15MY8.008 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E597
May 15, 2019
Clouds, the Hemingway-Boulders, the
McClure-Jerry Peaks, and the Owyhees, they
should be thanking Rick Johnson for his work,
his effort, and most importantly his ability to
compromise with others.
I will miss Rick greatly as a leader and as
my partner in conservation, but I know he is
not leaving us forever. I will always have my
friend I can call on.
I am wishing Rick and his wonderful wife
Roberta, the best of luck in their future en-
deavors and retirement. I thank them for all
that both of them have done for Idaho.
f
VERTAFORE, INC.
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Vertafore, Inc.
for celebrating their 50th anniversary.
For more than fifty years, Vertafore has pro-
vided software services to the insurance in-
dustry worldwide. Founded in 1969, Vertafore
was previously known as AMS Holding Group,
Inc. In 2017, they relocated their headquarters
to Denver, Colorado where they have created
hundreds of jobs in the city and partnered with
the thousands of agents across the state. The
mission at Vertafore is to transform the way
the industry operates by putting people at the
heart of insurance technology. By focusing on
their customers and delivering results you can
see, they offer a level of trust and security
that’s at the heart of the insurance industry. It
is that service and level of trust that has al-
lowed the company to be successful for over
fifty years.
To all the employees of Vertafore, congratu-
lations on this remarkable accomplishment,
and I thank them for their continued commit-
ment to the insurance community and con-
tribution to the state of Colorado.
f
HONORING THE MONCOVICH FAM-
ILY AND THE ORIGINAL SPRING
LAMB BARBECUE
HON. JIMMY PANETTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Moncovich family for their
commitment to philanthropy to empowering
their community and bettering the lives of oth-
ers through the Original Spring Lamb Bar-
becue. Mr. John Moncovich founded the Origi-
nal Spring Lamb Barbecue in Watsonville,
California 60 years ago, and his son, Mr. Bill
Moncovich, has chaired the event since his fa-
ther’s passing in 1972. Since its inception, the
Original Spring Lamb Barbecue has been a
celebration of family, friends, and the fight
against cancer on the central coast of Cali-
fornia.
In May of 1959, John Moncovich held the
very first Original Spring Lamb Barbecue. The
Original Spring Lamb Barbecue started as a
simple gathering among friends to collect do-
nations for charity. Held annually, it has
evolved into a beloved community event bene-
fiting the American Cancer Society. Volunteers
from a local produce company, California
Giant Berry Farms, and agriculture industry
members from the Pajaro Valley commit their
time and energy each year to make the event
a memorable one. Live music, family friendly
activities, and a horseshoe tournament make
this a community event for culture and fun, all
while benefitting families who have been af-
fected by cancer.
The Original Spring Lamb Barbecue is the
oldest consecutively held fundraiser for the
American Cancer Society in the United States
and has been recognized as such by the char-
ity. Ten years ago, the organization congratu-
lated the Original Spring Lamb Barbecue for
raising over $1 million worth of cumulative pro-
ceeds. This year, the event will celebrate its
diamond anniversary for 60 years of out-
standing community leadership and fund-
raising efforts for cancer research.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to recognize
the dedication and commitment to cancer pre-
vention and community service that John and
Bill Moncovich and the Original Spring Lamb
Barbecue have provided to the Central Coast.
We are fortunate to have such a longstanding
tradition of community fundraising organized
every year by the Moncovich family and Cali-
fornia Giant Berry Farms. I ask my colleagues
to join me in celebrating the Moncovich family
and the Original Spring Lamb Barbecue.
f
U.S. TERRITORIES MID-DECADE
CENSUS ACT
HON. GREGORIO KILILI CAMACHO
SABLAN
OF THE NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Speaker, today I am
introducing a bill that would require the United
States Census Bureau to conduct a census
every five years in the U.S. insular areas of
the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Amer-
ican Samoa, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. This
legislation is necessary because the priority,
availability, timeliness, and types of data col-
lected by federal agencies in the insular areas
remains deficient compared to data collection
in the states. Without accurate and timely in-
formation on changes in the economy, em-
ployment, income levels, and other key indica-
tors, insular governments are hindered in the
establishment of appropriate policy. And with-
out these data, governments and the public
are less able to assess the effectiveness of
policies that have been established.
Every decade, the Census Bureau conducts
a census throughout the country to determine
the number of people living in the country. In
the insular areas, detailed demographic, hous-
ing, and socioeconomic data is also collected
in the decennial census using a ‘‘long-form’’
questionnaire consisting of about 75 ques-
tions. The decennial census conducted in the
states, the District of Columbia, and Puerto
Rico only asks 10 questions because the vital
information gathered in the decennial census
is now acquired annually in the American
Community Survey.
The American Community Survey does not
include data from the insular areas. The Cen-
sus Bureau has claimed that a lack of funding
to collect the data and the absence of a prov-
en methodology tested in the territories leaves
the Bureau unable to include our districts and
the hundreds of thousands of Americans living
there. As a result, the insular areas have to
wait every 10 years for critical, up-to date in-
formation on education, income, housing, jobs,
and insurance that surveys like the American
Community Survey provide. This data is vital
to sustain economic development and for pru-
dent government and business decisions. The
decennial census is inadequate to this need.
The allocation of federal funding for numerous
programs is also largely based on the most re-
cent census data available. With no alter-
native, most current funding allocations to the
insular areas are based on data from the pre-
vious decennial census. 2010 Census data will
continue to be used for many federal program
funding allocations until 2023—the earliest key
2020 Census demographic data for the insular
areas will likely be available.
As an alternative to annual surveys, my bill
would require the Census Bureau to conduct
a mid-decade census in the insular areas. The
bill starts the first mid-decade census in 2025
and in addition to the decennial census, a
census will be conducted every five years.
This will provide more current data in the insu-
lar areas, similar to that provided by five-year
estimates produced by the American Commu-
nity Survey. Having a mid-decade census will
also enable insular governments and the Cen-
sus Bureau to plan and conduct data collec-
tion efforts that are often logistically chal-
lenging in these diverse, remote regions. My
bill also authorizes appropriations for the mid-
decade census, based on costs estimates pro-
vided by the Census Bureau to conduct the
2020 decennial census in U.S. insular areas.
I ask my colleagues for their support.
f
RECOGNIZING COLTON SCRUDDER
HON. BRYAN STEIL
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize one of our hardworking D.C. office
interns, Colton Scrudder. Colton is a native of
Coppell, Texas and studies finance at George-
town University. He has been with our office
since January. Colton was a great help getting
our office up and running.
From drafting letters and memos, to giving
Capitol tours, Colton was always eager to as-
sist. Colton is an intelligent, diligent young
man who aspires to continue serving his com-
munity.
We’ll miss having Colton in the office and
wish him all the best in the future. On behalf
of Wisconsin’s First Congressional District, we
thank Colton for his help.
f
HONORING GARRETT WINHEIM
HON. SAM GRAVES
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri. Madam Speaker,
I proudly pause to recognize Garrett Winheim.
Garrett is a very special young man who has
exemplified the finest qualities of citizenship
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K15MY8.011 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E598 May 15, 2019
and leadership by taking an active part in the
Boy Scouts of America, Troop 247, and earn-
ing the most prestigious award of Eagle Scout.
Garrett has been very active with his troop,
participating in many scout activities. Over the
many years Garrett has been involved with
scouting, he has not only earned numerous
merit badges, but also the respect of his fam-
ily, peers, and community. Most notably, Gar-
rett is a member of the Order of the Arrow and
has received the Boy Scout World Conserva-
tion Award. Garrett has also contributed to his
community through his Eagle Scout project.
Garrett built mobile shelving units to be used
as storage space and visual barriers at the
Kansas City Pet Project.
Madam Speaker, I proudly ask you to join
me in commending Garrett Winheim for his
accomplishments with the Boy Scouts of
America and for his efforts put forth in achiev-
ing the highest distinction of Eagle Scout.
f
HONORING A GIANT OF PUTNAM
COUNTY
HON. ALEXANDER X. MOONEY
OF WEST VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I include in the RECORD, the fol-
lowing obituary for Mr. Bill O’Dell of Putnam
County:
WILLIAM DOUGLAS O’DELL
William ‘‘Bill’’ Douglas O’Dell, 68, of Poca
went to be with his Lord on Monday, May 6,
2019.
Bill was a graduate of South Charleston
High School and Marshall University. He
worked at Regional Family Resource Net-
work and was the Director of Putnam
Wellness Coalition. He dedicated his life to
drug and alcohol prevention. He was a men-
tor to many. His impact on the youth and
the community cannot be measured. He
touched many lives at Teen Institute, a lead-
ership program that helps young people be-
come leaders around prevention of alcohol,
tobacco, drugs and other critical daily deci-
sions.
He was a man of Christian faith, integrity,
great humor, positive thinking, a role model
to many, a devoted husband, father, grand-
father and brother. He will be greatly
missed. The family would like to thank his
Church, friends, co-workers, the community,
our extended family and the Putnam
Wellness Coalition for their support, love
and prayers.
Bill is preceded in death by his parents Dr.
Richard Nolan O’Dell and Vera Waldorf
O’Dell and father-in-law, Louis ‘‘Gene’’
Barnett. He is survived by his wife Judith
O’Dell of Poca, daughter Tina (Mike) Shoe-
maker and his pride and joy, his grandson,
Caden of Ona, WV, son Joshua (Kristina) of
Charleston, SC; mother-in-law Lorene
Barnett, brother Larry (Beverly) O’Dell of
Chesapeake, OH; sister Verajane (William)
Fish of Savannah, GA, brother-in-law and
sister-in-law Adrain and Cindy Jones of Win-
field, WV; nieces Wendy (Stephen) Mann,
Laura (David) Moir; nephews Keith (Jen-
nifer) O’Dell, Joseph (Marie) Fish, David
(Heather) Fish and Logan Jones.
A tribute to the life of William ‘‘Bill’’
O’Dell will be 2:00 PM Saturday, May 11, 2019
at Gatens-Harding chapel with Pastor Fred
Elliott and Pastor Wayne Hooper officiating.
Entombment will follow at Haven of Rest
Memory Gardens, Red House, WV. Friends
may visit at the funeral home 3 hours prior
to the service 11:00 AM–2:00 PM on Saturday.
In lieu of flowers, please make donations
to Wilkinson United Methodist Church, PO
Box 236, Hometown, WV 25109 or donate to
the Bill O’Dell Teen Institute Fund, PO Box
3041, Charleston, WV 25331.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILL HUIZENGA
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today regarding missed votes. Had I been
present for roll call vote number 201, on Mo-
tion to Recommit with Instructions of H.R.
2157, Making supplemental appropriations for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes, I would have voted
‘‘yea.’’ Had I been present for roll call vote
number 202, on Passage of H.R. 2157, Mak-
ing supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes, I would have voted ‘‘nay.’’
f
IN HONOR OF ANDRIS ‘‘ANDY’’ JON
SILINS OF WEST BARNSTABLE, MA
HON. STEPHEN F. LYNCH
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
honor of Andris ‘‘Andy’’ Jon Silins, in recogni-
tion of his outstanding contributions to working
carpenters, their families and the Common-
wealth of Massachusetts and to commend him
for over fifty years of dedicated service to his
community.
The son of Olga Silins and Rudolfs Silins,
immigrants from Riga, Latvia, Andy was born
on January 12, 1947, and immigrated with his
parents and older sister to the United States
and lived in Jamaica Plain.
Andy attended Roslindale High School and
graduated in 1965. Subsequent to his gradua-
tion, Andy enlisted in the United States Marine
Corps and served his country honorably in the
Vietnam War. Ultimately, Andy graduated from
the University of Massachusetts, Boston.
Upon completion of his distinguished service
to our country, Andy joined Carpenters Local
67 in 1968. In 1979, he was elected General
Agent and Executive Secretary of the Boston
District Council of Carpenters, and President
in 1989. In 1995, Andy was elected to the po-
sition of General Secretary—Treasurer of the
United Brotherhood of Carpenters (UBC) and
served in that position until his retirement on
April 1, 2019. He continues to serve the Com-
monwealth of Massachusetts as a board
member of the Massachusetts Housing Au-
thority. He is also one of the founders of First
Trade Union Savings Bank, in Boston, where
he later served as Chairman of the Board.
Andy has had the good fortune to be mar-
ried to his wife, Diane for 37 years. He is the
proud father of his son, Jake, and the master
of his beloved German Shepherd, Sami.
Madam Speaker, it is my distinct honor to
thank Andris ‘‘Andy’’ Jon Silins for his remark-
able service and dedication to the working car-
penters and their families and all workers in
the Commonwealth and across the United
States of America.
f
IN HONOR OF HARLEY LIPPMAN
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I rise to recognize Harley
Lippman, who is being recognized today as
part of Jewish American Heritage Month. Har-
ley has been a generous philanthropist and
humanitarian who has been dedicated to un-
covering mass graves of Jews murdered by
the Nazis in Poland. His persistence and dedi-
cation have meant that the Nazis’ victims will
never be forgotten.
Deeply concerned about the possibility that
Jews murdered during the Holocaust would
simply disappear from memory, Harley has
made a unique contribution to the remem-
brance of the Jewish community that was de-
stroyed by the Nazis. With singular purpose
and dedication, Harley has searched for un-
known gravesites and has paid for the restora-
tion of historic Jewish graveyards.
At my urging, Harley was appointed by
President Bill Clinton to the Commission for
the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad
which is involved in restoring desecrated
cemeteries in Eastern Europe. Created in
1993, the Commission is tasked with identi-
fying and reporting on cemeteries, monu-
ments, and historic buildings in Eastern and
Central Europe that are associated with the
heritage of U.S. citizens, particularly endan-
gered properties. Congress recognized that,
as a nation of immigrants, the United States
has an interest in preserving sites related to
the heritage of Americans, particularly Jewish
gravesites since the Holocaust wiped out the
communities that would ordinarily have cared
for them. It is a credit to him, his enthusiasm
and dedication, that he was reappointed by
both Republican and Democratic Administra-
tions.
Harley has been the sole funder of an effort
to find mass graves in Poland—sites where
Jews were slaughtered by the Nazis and then
buried. So far, his team has found 52 sites.
When he finds a site, he ensures that a me-
morial plaque is erected to honor the victims.
He also arranges for a service with the Chief
Rabbi of Poland, a Catholic priest and a
Protestant minister and invites school children
to help memorialize the dead. These cere-
monies provide a meaningful opportunity to re-
mind people of the Jews who perished, the
tremendous loss in culture and humanity for
Poland, the brutality of the Nazis and the suc-
cess of the Jewish community that survived.
Harley has been a leader of a host of orga-
nizations from the Institute for the Study of
Global Anti-Semitism and Policy, an organiza-
tion founded by Eli Wiesel, which he currently
serves as President, to the American-Israel
Friendship League and American Jewish Con-
gress.
With great generosity and compassion, Har-
ley has also helped orphans in Cambodia. He
is the sole funder of an orphanage, enabling
children to find stability, get an education and
go on to college. It truly has been life-chang-
ing for many of these kids.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K15MY8.004 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E599
May 15, 2019
Harley Lippman created Genesis 10, a com-
pany that currently employs over 2,000 people
across the country. Genesis 10 helps compa-
nies solve technology problems and find talent
to address their needs. Unquestionably, Gen-
esis 10 succeeds because it has a great lead-
er at the helm. USA Today ranked Harley
among the top 30 CEOs in America of all
large companies including the Fortune 500.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in celebrating Harley Lippman for his ex-
traordinary contributions to America and the
Jewish community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF RUTH BROWN
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Ruth Brown’s life and
her many accomplishments. We deeply thank
her for all of her support and dedication to our
military.
Ruth was born in Harryhogan, VA on Feb-
ruary 28, 1925. She married George W.
Brown Jr., Former Town Sergeant and Mayor
of Warsaw, VA in 1946. Ruth went on to have
three children, six grandchildren, and five
great-grandchildren. She held her family at the
center of her life.
Ruth was a charter member and secretary
of the United Methodist Women and served on
many committees within the Warsaw Meth-
odist Church. She was a charter member of
the Telephone Pioneers and retired from the
Tidewater Telephone Company after 28 years
of service. Ruth was also a charter member of
the Veteran of Foreign Wars Ladies Auxiliary
Post 7167 in Warsaw, VA. Finally, Ruth’s
heart belonged to our veterans. She spent her
time fighting for them and taking care of them.
She served our nation well during her long life.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the accomplishments, tenacity,
and dedication of Ruth Brown. Words alone
cannot express our gratitude. May God bless
Ruth Brown and her family.
f
CONGRATULATING THE JAIL HILL
INN FOR WINNING THE TRAV-
ELERS’ CHOICE AWARDS FOR
TRIPADVISOR
HON. CHERI BUSTOS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mrs. BUSTOS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the Jail Hill Inn for winning first
place in the Travelers’ Choice Award for
TripAdvisor in the United States and for being
named second place globally for the bed-and-
breakfast/inn category.
The brick building where Jail Hill Inn oper-
ates today has been around for 140 years and
originally served as a jail until 1977. The Jail
Hill Inn was lovingly restored and revitalized
by its owner, Matthew Carroll, and has been
a hotel for the last 17 years. The hotel has six
luxurious rooms complete with a fireplace, wet
bar, king-size bed, high-end linens and a
Bluetooth-connected sound system. Those
who stay in all six of the rooms are dubbed
‘‘repeat offenders’’ for their frequent visits to
the inn. Galena’s historic Main Street and
downtown area are only a short walk away
and provides guests with easy access to all
Galena has to offer. I commend Matthew Car-
roll for creating an excellent stop for visitors
hoping to catch a glimpse of some of the
beauty our region has to offer and look for-
ward to hearing about the Jail Hill Inn’s future
successes.
It is because of creative entrepreneurs like
Matthew Carroll that I am especially proud to
serve Illinois’ 17th Congressional District.
Madam Speaker, I would like to again formally
congratulate the Jail Hill Inn for its rise to the
top of TripAdvisor’s Travelers’ Choice Awards.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA COURTS HOME
RULE ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the District of Columbia Courts Home
Rule Act. This bill would give the Council of
the District of Columbia authority over the ju-
risdiction and organization of the local D.C.
courts. The 1973 Home Rule Act (HRA) ex-
pressly prohibits D.C. from enacting any law
with respect to any provision of the D.C. Code
title that relates to the local D.C. courts. Con-
gress can correct this injustice to the District’s
tax paying residents by amending the HRA,
even before the District becomes the 51st
state.
Forty-six years after passage of the HRA,
matters involving the D.C. courts almost never
come to Congress, so Congress knows vir-
tually nothing about the District’s courts—and
could not care less. Notwithstanding the im-
portance of D.C.’s courts to District residents,
the D.C. Council, which is the repository of
knowledge and experience for the District’s
criminal and civil justice systems and the body
accountable to our residents, is irresponsibly
left on the sidelines while Congress remains
the sole entity to correct flaws in the District’s
courts.
Under the HRA, the D.C. Council has no
authority to ‘‘enact any act, resolution, or rule
with respect to any provision of title 11 of the
District of Columbia Code (relating to organi-
zation and jurisdiction of the District of Colum-
bia courts).’’ Matters in title 11 are limited pri-
marily to rules of criminal and civil procedure,
court administration, the number of authorized
judges, the branches of the courts, the rules of
jury service and admission to the bar. Our bill
would strike this limitation on the D.C. Coun-
cil’s authority.
The District has never had authority over its
local courts, even when it was responsible for
paying for their operations. Under the National
Capital Revitalization and Self-Government
Improvement Act of 1997, the federal govern-
ment assumed the costs for several state-level
functions, including the courts because it
alone has jurisdiction over these courts. This
bill, an important first step, would not change
the courts’ funding. This bill also would not af-
fect the authority of the President to nominate,
or the Senate to confirm, local D.C. judges,
which has been within their purview since the
creation of the modern local court system in
1970.
This bill is an important step to increase
democratic self-government for the District. I
urge my colleagues to support this bill.
f
RECOGNIZING THE OFFICERS AT
THE HAVERHILL, MASSACHU-
SETTS POLICE DEPARTMENT
HON. LORI TRAHAN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I rise dur-
ing National Law Enforcement Week 2019 to
honor the valiant men and women who protect
and serve the town of Haverhill, Massachu-
setts. The Haverhill Police Department con-
sists of outstanding public servants who de-
vote their lives to keeping the citizens of the
city safe, while improving the lives of count-
less individuals.
Like most Americans each day, they get up,
say goodbye to their loved ones, and head to
work. But their work, and the work of police of-
ficers around the country, is like no other.
From the moment they put on their uniform
they have answered a call that at any moment
may put their lives in harm’s way.
I thank the Haverhill Police Department for
their continued and unwavering service and
wish them well in their careers and future en-
deavors to come.
Madam Speaker, it is with great honor that
I recognize the Officers of the Haverhill, Mas-
sachusetts Police Department.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. GARRET GRAVES
OF LOUISIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam Speaker,
President Trump visited our home state and I
missed two important votes.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 203; and YEA on Roll
Call No. 204.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 2018 ALA-
BAMA OUTSTANDING YOUNG
FARM FAMILY
HON. MIKE ROGERS
OF ALABAMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. ROGERS of Alabama. Madam Speaker,
I ask for the House’s attention to recognize
2018 Alabama Outstanding Young Farm Fam-
ily, the Upchurch family.
The Upchurch family are multi-generation
farmers and received the honor at the Ala-
bama Farmer’s Federation’s 46th Commodity
Producers Conference in Montgomery. They
also placed in the Top 10 at the American
Farm Bureau Federation national contest in
New Orleans.
The Upchurches—Chris, Jordyn and son
Charlie—owns Rockin U farm in Clay County.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15MY8.004 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E600 May 15, 2019
Their farm encompasses over 300 acres, 130
cows and three poultry houses. They’re hard-
working, forward-thinking stewards of the land
whose recent diversification allows them to
produce over 3,500 bales of haylage annually.
They also partner on C&J Farm, a trucking
and poultry house clean-out business.
Off the farm, they promote agriculture and
rural living through Clay County Young Farm-
ers, the county cattlemen’s association and
Lineville Baptist Church. Chris also serves as
State Poultry Committee first vice chairman.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing the 2018 Outstanding Young Farm
Family: Chris and Jordyn Upchurch.
f
HONORING JOHN P. LARUE
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize John LaRue, a resi-
dent of Corpus Christi, for his commitment to
his community and to the Port of Corpus
Christi.
Originally from Reading, Pennsylvania, John
LaRue spent the first half of his career assist-
ing the City of Philadelphia and its Port Au-
thority. In 1994, Mr. LaRue relocated to Cor-
pus Christi to became the Executive Director
of the Port of Corpus Christi Authority. His re-
sponsibilities included organizing, planning,
and administering the Port Authority’s activi-
ties.
Thanks to Mr. LaRue’s 25 years of leader-
ship, the Port of Corpus Christi transformed
from a Regional Port Authority to the ‘‘Energy
Port of the Americas’’ and the fourth-largest
port in the United States. The Port is a key
contributor to America’s global energy domi-
nance and is continuing to expand. Mr.
LaRue’s widespread expertise on port policy is
lauded both domestically and internationally.
In addition to providing leadership and guid-
ance for the POCCA, Mr. LaRue also serves
on multiple advisory boards and panels. He is
Chairman of the State of Texas Department of
Transportation Port Advisory Committee and
serves as a member of the Port Industries of
Corpus Christi, as well as on the Board of Di-
rectors of the American Association of Port
Authorities.
On the occasion of his upcoming retirement,
I would like to extend to John LaRue my
thanks and appreciation for his valuable work
at the Port of Corpus Christi Authority, and on
the next exciting chapter of his life.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, regrettably, I
was unable to attend the votes series for May
14, 2019. Had I been present, I would have
voted YEA to Roll Call No. 203, H.R. 29 Blue
Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act of 2019,
and YEA to Roll Call No. 204, H.R. 2379 To
reauthorize the Bulletproof Vest Partnership
Grant Program.
TRIBUTE TO RON WELLMAN
HON. VIRGINIA FOXX
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize Ron Wellman,
Athletics Director at Wake Forest University,
who is retiring in May 2019. He leaves as the
longest-tenured athletics director in the coun-
try at the NCAA Division I level, having been
named to the position at Wake Forest in 1992.
He has overseen the most successful period
in athletics history at Wake Forest, which
ranks first in the Directors Cup in the Atlantic
Coast Conference (ACC), while achieving a
student-athlete graduation rate of 94 percent.
Under Mr. Wellman, Wake Forest has
thrived and has become a national power-
house in men’s tennis, men’s soccer, and
women’s field hockey. The football program
has seen the most successful stretch in school
history recently as well.
Wake Forest’s accomplishments under
Wellman’s leadership include five team and
seven individual national titles, 22 ACC cham-
pionships, 171 first team All-Americans and
the renaissance of athletics facilities. During
his tenure, Wake Forest has raised over $400
million in philanthropic support for athletics.
Wellman has also played a significant role
in shaping intercollegiate athletics on a re-
gional and national level. He served on mul-
tiple committees, including the NCAA Division
I Management Council and was chairman of
the NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Cham-
pionship Committee. Additionally, as former
president of the Division I–A Athletic Directors’
Association, Wellman served on the NCAA Di-
versity Leadership Strategic Planning Com-
mittee.
Wellman’s efforts leading Wake Forest have
not gone unnoticed. In 2007–08, he was hon-
ored by two organizations: Street & Smith’s
Sports Business Journal named him College
Athletic Director of the Year and the National
Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics
(NACDA) selected him as its AstroTurf AD of
the Year for the Southeast Region—the sec-
ond time in his career he received that honor.
Off the playing fields, Wellman helped en-
hance the overall development of the student-
athlete. He stressed academics and instituted
programs to assist and develop student-ath-
letes in ways outside of competition. Most re-
cently, Wake Forest athletics launched its
Deacon Leader program, a comprehensive
leadership development system designed to
identify and develop student-athlete leaders
from their arrival on campus through their sen-
ior year and beyond graduation.
Wellman earned his undergraduate degree
from Bowling Green State University, where
he was a pitcher on the baseball team. After
receiving a master’s from Bowling Green, he
joined the faculty and coaching staff at Elm-
hurst (IL) College in 1971, serving as head
baseball coach, assistant basketball and foot-
ball coach and associate professor of health
and physical education. Wellman was the ath-
letics director during his last five years at Elm-
hurst.
I ask the House to join me in recognizing
Mr. Ron Wellman, a leader of extraordinary
conscience and character.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I missed votes on Tuesday, May 7,
Thursday, May 9, and Friday, May 10. Had I
been present, I would have voted as follows:
Roll Call Vote Number 185 (Passage of H.
Res. 273): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 186 (Passage of
H.R. 1704, the Championing American Busi-
ness Through Diplomacy Act): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 189 (Ordering the
Previous Question): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 190 (Passage of H.
Res. 357): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 191 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 199 to H.R. 986 offered by Rep. AN-
THONY BROWN): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 192 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 203 to H.R. 986 offered by Rep.
GEORGE HOLDING): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 193 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 207 to H.R. 986 offered by Rep. TOM
MALINOWSKI): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 194 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 208 to H.R. 986 offered by Rep.
SUSAN WILD): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 195 (Adoption of Mo-
tion to Recommit to H.R. 986): NO;
Roll Call Vote Number 196 (Passage of
H.R. 986, the Protecting Americans with Pre-
existing Conditions Act): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 197 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 209 to H.R. 2157 offered by Rep. ED
PERLMUTTER): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 198 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 210 to H.R. 2157 offered by Rep.
GREGORIO KILILI CAMACHO SABLAN): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 199 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 214 to H.R. 2157 offered by Rep.
JARED HUFFMAN): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 200 (Passage of H.
AMDT. 216 to H.R. 2157 offered by Rep.
LIZZIE FLETCHER): YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 201 (Adoption of Mo-
tion to Recommit to H.R. 2157): NO; and
Roll Call Vote Number 202 (Passage of
H.R. 2157, the Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 2019): YES.
f
COMMENDING THE ROANOKE VAL-
LEY CHRISTIAN SCHOOL BOYS
BASKETBALL TEAM
HON. H. MORGAN GRIFFITH
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. GRIFFITH. Madam Speaker, it is my
pleasure to commend the Roanoke Valley
Christian School boys basketball team, which
captured the Virginia Association of Christian
Athletics state title on February 23, 2019. The
Eagles put on a commanding performance,
handily defeating an exceptional team from
Timberlake Christian School by a score of 66
to 42.
This victory carries particular meaning, as it
is Roanoke Valley Christian’s first boys bas-
ketball state championship in its history. Their
championship caps a 27–4 season. I applaud
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15MY8.010 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E601
May 15, 2019
the hard work and dedication of all members
of this year’s Roanoke Valley Christian boys
basketball team, and congratulate the adminis-
trators, teachers, coaches, parents, students,
and fans. In particular, I would like to recog-
nize the contributions of the team’s seniors,
and their head coach Todd Mann. Congratula-
tions on a great end to the season.
f
IN HONOR OF ZORICA PANTIĆ,
OUTGOING PRESIDENT OF ONE
OF BOSTON’S TOP UNIVER-
SITIES—WENTWORTH INSTITUTE
OF TECHNOLOGY
HON. STEPHEN F. LYNCH
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. LYNCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
honor of Zorica Pantić, the first woman presi-
dent of Wentworth Institute of Technology in
Boston and first woman engineer to lead an
institution of technology in higher education in
the United States.
President Pantić is leaving her position at
Wentworth at the end of May, following a 14-
year-tenure that can only be described as
transformative and historic in scope. Dr.
Pantić’s contributions to this 115-year-old insti-
tution have earned her respect far and wide.
Just recently, while saluting Dr. Pantić during
his keynote remarks at Wentworth’s gradua-
tion on April 28, 2019, Charlie Baker, the es-
teemed Governor of Massachusetts, charac-
terized President Pantić as, ‘‘a gift to Went-
worth and blessing to Massachusetts.’’
Born in Serbia, Dr. Pantić first became inter-
ested in electrical engineering as a young girl,
while watching her father work on repairing a
radio. She went on to earn her B.S., M.S., and
Ph.D. degrees in electrical engineering from
the University of Niš, Serbia, and became the
founding dean of the College of Engineering at
the University of Texas at San Antonio; direc-
tor of the School of Engineering at San Fran-
cisco State University; a Fulbright fellow at the
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign;
and an associate professor at the University of
Niš.
As Wentworth’s President, she has a been
an important role model and tireless advocate
for traditionally underrepresented students,
particularly young women wishing to pursue a
college education and career in the STEM
arenas. Under her leadership, Wentworth has
introduced its first seven graduate programs,
becoming a master’s degree-granting institu-
tion and achieving ‘‘university’’ status in 2017.
Dr. Pantić has overseen the introduction of 10
new undergraduate programs (seven in engi-
neering), a $300 million investment in state-of-
the-art facilities, and a 20 percent enrollment
increase on the school’s campus.
During her presidency, Wentworth has en-
hanced its experiential-learning educational
model by implementing EPIC Learning (Exter-
nally-collaborative, Project-based, Interdiscipli-
nary Culture for Learning), and is focusing on
innovation and entrepreneurship. The Institute
continues to earn annual recognition in the top
national and regional college rankings.
Applauding her ‘‘energetic, entrepreneurial,
and ambitious leadership style,’’ the Council
for the Advancement and Support of Edu-
cation, District 1, in 2017 honored Dr. Pantić
with its Chief Executive Leadership Award.
That same year, Dr. Pantić was inducted into
the National Academy of Construction. In Jan-
uary 2018, Governor Baker appointed her to
serve on the Massachusetts Cybersecurity
Strategy Council. And more recently, the
Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce hon-
ored her as one of its Pinnacle Award winners
for 2019.
President Pantić has served on various
boards and professional organizations, includ-
ing the board of directors for the World Asso-
ciation for Cooperative Education, the Amer-
ican Association for Presidents of Independent
Universities and Colleges, the New England
Association for Schools and Colleges, the
Massachusetts Workforce Investment Board,
and the Presidents Council for the NCAA Divi-
sion III.
Madam Speaker, Zorica is known for her
love of students and for helping to guide and
serve thousands of young women and men
who have attended Wentworth since she be-
came president in 2005. She is the proud
mother of one son, Daniel Tanner, who grad-
uated from Wentworth and is busy building his
own career.
Madam Speaker, it is my distinct honor to
thank Zorica Pantić for her incredible leader-
ship over these past 14 years at one of Bos-
ton’s oldest and most venerable educational
institutions, and to salute her for her many
contributions to higher education in the United
States.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 100TH
BIRTHDAY OF WORLD WAR II
VETERAN RAYMOND BURRELL
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of the 100th birthday of
World War II Veteran, Mr. Raymond Burrell.
In the winter of 1944–45, Raymond Burrell
was a member of the famous 761st Tank Bat-
talion, the Black Panthers. The 761st Tank
Battalion was the first to consist of African-
Americans and saw extensive action at the
Battle of the Bulge. Raymond Burrell dem-
onstrated bravery and a cunning military mind
on multiple occasions. Despite experiencing
seemingly hopeless situations, Raymond per-
severed along with the other members of the
761st Tank Battalion and held their vital posi-
tions on the battlefield. Our nation is lucky to
have had someone like him risk his life to pro-
tect us all.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
recognizing the accomplishments, bravery,
and dedication of Raymond Burrell. Words
alone cannot express our gratitude. May God
bless Raymond Burrell, and I look forward to
seeing his excellence in the future.
IN RECOGNITION OF THE SERVICE
OF THE HONORABLE SERGIO
AMARAL, AMBASSADOR OF
BRAZIL TO THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA
HON. GREGORY W. MEEKS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. MEEKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor the Brazilian Ambassador to the
United States, Sergio Silva do Amaral, whose
invaluable commitment to the bonds of friend-
ship between Brazil and the American people
has left an indelible mark on our bilateral and
hemisperic relations. As Co-Chair of the Con-
gressional Caucus on Brazil, I have worked on
numerous occasions with Ambassador Amaral
to deepen our bilateral relations, and build
upon the great history of partnership between
Brazil and America.
In September 2016, Sergio Amaral was ap-
pointed Ambassador of Brazil to the United
States in Washington, D.C. Since then, Am-
bassador Amaral has worked tirelessly to pro-
mote a closer U.S.-Brazil friendship, as well as
to promote the expansion of our economic,
political, defense, and cultural relations, bring-
ing a message of friendliness and cooperation
during his travels through our country in fur-
therance of his mission to spread Brazil’s
message of peace and prosperity for all peo-
ple. On June 1, when he retires from his Am-
bassadorial role in the U.S., he will conclude
nearly 45 years of service to Brazil. His time
as Brazil’s Ambassador is thus an appropriate
capstone to his long and distinguished career.
Born in São Paulo, Brazil, and as a grad-
uate of the University of São Paulo and the
University of Paris, France, Ambassador
Amaral has served in a number of senior offi-
cial posts in the Brazilian public service over
five decades. Prior to his appointment as Am-
bassador to the U.S., he served as Ambas-
sador to London and Ambassador to Paris, as
well as Minister of Development, Trade and
Industry, and Chief-Minister for Social Com-
munication of Brazil’s Presidency. His other
notable positions include Vice Minister of Envi-
ronment and the Amazon, Secretary for Inter-
national Affairs of the Ministry of Economy,
President of the Council of Brazil’s Chamber
of Foreign Trade, and President of the Brazil-
China Business Council.
Ambassador Sergio Amaral has continu-
ously reminded us of the great potential that
lies ahead of Brazil and the United States as
two of the largest democracies and economies
in the Western Hemisphere. We must build
upon the common beliefs that have historically
connected the peoples of Brazil and America:
our commitment to democracy, our commit-
ment to the rule of law, and our commitment
to the dignity of all people in our own coun-
tries and around the world. Today, I thank Am-
bassador Sergio Amaral for his service to
these ideals, and wish him a long and happy
retirement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY8.015 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E602 May 15, 2019
RECOGNITION OF SHEIDA
SAHANDY
HON. DENNY HECK
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. HECK. Madam Speaker, today I recog-
nize Sheida Sahandy for her extraordinary and
unwavering dedication to the people of Wash-
ington state and efforts to restore Puget
Sound. For over five years, Sheida served as
the Executive Director of the Puget Sound
Partnership, the state agency leading the co-
ordination of Puget Sound recovery.
Sheida received her bachelor’s degree from
the University of California, Berkeley, and then
went on to study law at Columbia University.
After working as an attorney for several years,
Sheida returned to the classroom and earned
her master’s degree in Climate, Energy, and
Environmental Policy from Harvard Univer-
sity’s Kennedy School of Government. Back in
Washington state, Sheida used her notable
background and legal expertise to spearhead
programs and initiatives as Assistant to the
City Manager for the City of Bellevue, where
she created the City’s first citywide environ-
mental stewardship initiative.
In January 2014, Governor Jay Inslee ap-
pointed Sheida to serve as Executive Director
of the Puget Sound Partnership, where for
years she demonstrated her commitment to
sustainability and conservancy issues in
Washington state. The Puget Sound Partner-
ship works with hundreds of partners and
stakeholders to coalesce around a common
goal: accelerating the collective effort to re-
cover and sustain the Puget Sound. On fed-
eral-level issues, Sheida worked with the Con-
gressional Puget Sound Recovery Caucus—
which I co-chair along with my friend and col-
league, DEREK KILMER—to convene key deci-
sion-makers here at the Capitol for the annual
Puget Sound Day on the Hill. This event
brings people from across the political spec-
trum to Washington, D.C. to advocate for in-
creased federal attention to Puget Sound.
Sheida also worked tirelessly with the Con-
gressional Puget Sound Recovery Caucus to
successfully craft and garner support for the
PUGET SOS Act, which would increase fed-
eral and state coordination on recovery efforts.
Whether it’s leading efforts at the state level
to revitalize the salmon and orca populations,
or working with legislators in Washington, D.C.
to enact critical legislation, Sheida has always
been an effective leader and the driving force
behind the Puget Sound Partnership’s suc-
cess.
Madam Speaker, it is my honor to recognize
the selfless service of Sheida Sahandy, and I
wish her and her family happiness as Sheida
proceeds to the next chapter in her remark-
able career.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 213TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE CANEY FORK
BAPTIST CHURCH
HON. JOHN W. ROSE
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the Caney
Fork Baptist Church in honor of their 213th an-
niversary.
A longstanding pillar in the Cookeville com-
munity, the Caney Fork Baptist Church, origi-
nally referred to as ‘‘Brown’s Mill Church,’’ is
Putnam County’s oldest Baptist Church. Josh-
ua Bartlett and his wife, Winnie Williams Bart-
lett, founded the church after relocating to
Tennessee from Boonesborough, Kentucky, in
1806. They constructed a fort, and within it
was the cabin first used to host worship gath-
erings for the Caney Fork Baptist Church. The
congregation relocated in 1931 to Highway 70
East in Cookeville, which is where they remain
today.
In the early days of Tennessee’s statehood,
churches far outnumbered preachers. As was
common then, the Caney Fork Baptist Church
hosted traveling ‘‘revival preachers’’ for their
services.
Throughout its history, the congregation af-
filiated with the general tenets of the Baptist
denomination. From 1865 to 1897, the con-
gregation embraced the Independent Baptist
Christian denominational beliefs; they affiliated
with the Free Will Baptist congregation from
1897 to 1918; and in 1918, the congregation
joined with the larger Baptist denomination.
Today, the Caney Fork Baptist Church is affili-
ated with the Stone Baptist Association, the
Tennessee Baptist Mission Board, and the
Southern Baptist Convention.
I hope my House colleagues will join me in
recognizing the Caney Fork Baptist Church for
their longstanding service to the community,
commitment to strengthening family values,
and unwavering faith.
f
RECOGNIZING TOM MORRISON
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize the life’s work of
Thomas Roger Morrison, who served as a
trusted local reporter and staple on televisions
in my district since 1982.
Tom was born in Oakland, California on
January 7, 1936 to proud parents, Lozetta and
John Morrison. Shortly after his graduation
from Oakland High School in 1954, Tom
joined the Army and deployed to Korea. He
patrolled the newly established Korean Demili-
tarized Zone in 1956 and 1957.
Tom took on the role of a volunteer reporter
for local Channel TV 30 in 1982. After report-
ing on local stories for a time, Tom joined the
TV 30 staff and became the anchor of the
580/680 News. He served in this role for 10
years and received two prestigious Bay Area
Television Association awards for his work
during that time.
After budgets no longer allowed the 580/680
News program to continue, Tom kept our com-
munity informed on local news and develop-
ments through his bi-weekly ‘‘Mayor’s Report.’’
With this platform, he would meet with local
mayors and county supervisors to ensure that
local residents had access to information
about upcoming events and what was hap-
pening in their local government.
Tom’s connection to the community was
deep. His voice became synonymous with the
annual Saint Patrick’s Day parade in my
hometown of Dublin, as he served as the an-
nouncer for so many years. Whether he was
reporting from the tarmac at the Livermore Air-
show, hosting an election special, or a seg-
ment of the Slice of Life show, Tom was a
trusted and revered source of news in my dis-
trict.
Tom’s work on behalf of our community
continued until just two months ago, very
shortly before his passing. His passion and
commitment were recently memorialized when
the studio at TV 30 adopted the honorary title,
‘‘Tom Morrison Studio.’’
After a long and valiant battle with cancer,
Tom Morrison passed away peacefully on
April 18, 2019. He is survived by a large and
loving family, including Kathy, his wife of 23
years, his two sons, Kevin and Michael, his
step-children, Stacey, Kristin, Amy, and Brad-
ley, his sister Jenean, and the eight grand-
children he absolutely adored.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF JOHN
K. VADAS
HON. TIM RYAN
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. RYAN. Madam Speaker, I was sad-
dened to learn of the passing of Mr. John K.
Vadas, age 69, who passed away peacefully
on Tuesday, May 7, 2019.
John’s son Matt is one of my longest serv-
ing staff members. I very much depend on him
to help me fulfill my duties and I am very
proud of his service.
John was born on January 19, 1950, in
Warren, Ohio to John and Margaret. He was
a 1968 graduate of John F. Kennedy High
School in Warren. I too am a graduate of JFK.
He proudly served his country in the U.S.
Navy from 1969 to 1972, where he was the
radar operator on the USS Wasp. Upon his
honorable discharge, John took a position
working for Packard Electric. He retired from
Delphi in 2001.
On April 11, 1970, John married the former
Sandra Allen.
John loved the outdoors and found peace in
the woods by carving out time to go hunting
and camping. He was an avid fan of the
Cleveland Indians and NASCAR, cheering on
driver Kevin Harvick. He stayed in touch with
his shipmates as a member of the USS Wasp
Association. Most importantly, John was a pa-
triot who loved his family and was a devoted
husband and father.
After 49 years of marriage, John is survived
by his wife Sandra, and also survived by his
sons, (Jon) Kristopher, Jason and Matthew
Vadas; his brother, Michael (Judy) Vadas; as
well as many other relatives and friends.
He was preceded in death by his son, Kevin
Vadas; his parents; and his brother, William
Poppal.
I extend my deepest sympathies to Matt and
all the family and friends whose lives were
blessed by John Vadas.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY8.019 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E603
May 15, 2019
HONORING CHIEF JEFFREY
WALCOTT, SCHUYLKILL HAVEN
POLICE DEPARTMENT
HON. DANIEL MEUSER
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, it is with
great respect and admiration that I rise today
to honor Schuylkill Haven Police Chief Jeffrey
Walcott for his 25 years of service. Chief
Walcott has been a remarkable leader of the
Schuylkill Haven Police Department. Through
promoting public safety and community he has
become a fixture of Schuylkill Haven Elemen-
tary Center’s ‘‘Salute to Blue Program.’’
A veteran of the United States Air Force,
Chief Walcott has been a model officer and
public servant for citizens of all ages. He is a
skilled officer, certified in firearms instruction,
active shooter response, and teaches
G.R.A.P.L.E for Law Enforcement and Military
Personnel. He has certainly earned the re-
spect of the community he protects and the of-
ficers he serves alongside.
After 25 years leading the ‘‘Salute to Blue’’
Program, I invite my colleagues to join me in
saluting Chief Jeffrey Walcott for his dedicated
service and dedication to the Greater Schuyl-
kill Haven Community. On behalf of the United
States House of Representatives and the citi-
zens of Pennsylvania’s Ninth Congressional
District, I extend my sincerest appreciation
and respect for Chief Walcott’s lifetime of
service.
f
COMMEMORATING NATIONAL
POLICE WEEK
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as a
member of the Law Enforcement Caucus and
a senior member of the Committees on Judici-
ary and Homeland Security, I rise to com-
memorate National Police Week, which runs
from May 12 through May 18, 2019.
It is altogether fitting and proper that we do
this.
The National Law Enforcement Officers Me-
morial is the nation’s monument to law en-
forcement officers who have died in the line of
duty.
Dedicated on October 15, 1991, the Memo-
rial honors federal, state and local law en-
forcement officers who have made the ulti-
mate sacrifice for the safety and protection of
our nation and its people.
Carved on its walls are the names of 21,910
officers who have been killed in the line of
duty throughout U.S. history, dating back to
the first known death in 1791.
Added to the Wall this year will be the
names of the 158 police officers killed in the
line of duty in 2018.
Madam Speaker, enshrined on the Memorial
Wall of Honor also are the names of 1,751
fallen peace officers from the state of Texas,
the most of any state, including 115 members
of the Houston Police Department who gave
their lives to keep their city safe.
Madam Speaker, today there are more than
900,000 law enforcement personnel serving
the people of our country, the highest amount
ever.
About 12 percent of them are female.
These brave men and women risk their lives
to keep the peace and keep us safe, but they
are too often taken by the violence they are
working to prevent.
Every year, a law enforcement officer is
killed somewhere in the United States every
55 hours, and there are also 60,211 assaults
against our law officers each year, resulting in
17,476 injuries.
Madam Speaker, I am proud to represent
the people of the 18th Congressional District
of Texas in paying tribute to the 158 fallen he-
roes who will be joining the 21,910 gallant
men and women who gave the last full meas-
ure of devotion to the communities they took
an oath to protect and serve.
Madam Speaker, I ask for a moment of si-
lence in memory of the 158 officers who died
in the line of duty in 2018 and an additional
213 officers who died in previous years but
whose story had been lost to history, the
names of all of whom will be added to the Na-
tional Peace Officers Memorial Wall of Honor.
HOUSTON LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
MEMORIALIZED ON THE WALL OF HONOR
1. Timothy Scott Abernethy; End of
Watch: December 7, 2008; Houston, Texas,
P.D.
2. Charles H. Baker; End of Watch: August
16, 1979; Houston, Texas, P.D.
3. Johnny Terrell Bamsch; End of Watch:
January 30, 1975; Houston, Texas, P.D.
4. Claude R. Beck; End of Watch: December
10, 1971; Houston, Texas, P.D.
5. Jack B. Beets; End of Watch: March 30,
1955; Houston, Texas, P.D.
6. TROY A. BLANDO; End of Watch: May
19, 1999; Houston, Texas, P.D.
7. James Charles Boswell; End of Watch:
December 9, 1989; Houston, Texas, P.D.
8. C.E. Branon; End of Watch: March 20,
1959; Houston, Texas, P.D.
9. John M. Cain; End of Watch: August 3,
1911; Houston, Texas, P.D.
10. Richard H. Calhoun; End of Watch: Oc-
tober 10, 1975; Houston Texas Police Depart-
ment.
11. Dionicio M. Camacho; End of Watch:
October 23, 2009; Harris County, Texas, S.O.
12. Henry Canales; End of Watch: June 23,
2009; Houston, Texas, P.D.
13. Frank Manuel Cantu, Jr.; End of Watch:
March 25, 2004; Houston, Texas, P.D.
14. E.C. Chavez; End of Watch: September
17, 1925; Houston, Texas, P.D.
15. Charles Roy Clark; End of Watch: April
3, 2003; Houston, Texas, P.D.
16. Charles Robert Coates II; End of Watch:
February 23, 1983; Houston, Texas, P.D.
17. Pete Corrales; End of Watch: January
25, 1925; Houston, Texas, P.D.
18. Rufus E. Daniels; End of Watch: August
23, 1917; Houston, Texas, P.D.
19. Johnnie Davidson; End of Watch: Feb-
ruary 19, 1921; Houston, Texas, P.D.
20. Worth Davis; End of Watch: June 17,
1928; Houston, Texas, P.D.
21. Keith Alan Dees; End of Watch: March
7, 2002; Houston, Texas, P.D.
22. Reuben Becerra Deleon; End of Watch:
October 26, 2005; Houston, Texas, P.D.
23. William Edwin DeLeon; End of Watch:
March 29, 1982; Houston, Texas, P.D.
24. Floyd T. Deloach, Jr.; End of Watch:
June 30, 1965; Houston, Texas, P.D.
25. George D. Edwards; End of Watch: June
30, 1939; Houston, Texas, P.D.
26. Dawn Suzanne Erickson; End of Watch:
December 24, 1995; Houston, Texas, P.D.
27. J.C. Etheridge; End of Watch: August
23, 1924; Houston, Texas, P.D.
28. James E. Fenn; End of Watch: March 14,
1891; Houston, Texas, P.D.
29. E.D. Fitzgerald; End of Watch: Sep-
tember 30, 1930; Houston, Texas, P.D.
30. C. Edward Foley; End of Watch: March
10, 1860; Houston, Texas, P.D.
31. Joseph Robert Free; End of Watch: Oc-
tober 18, 1912; Houston, Texas, P.D.
32. Guy P. Gaddis; End of Watch: January
31, 1994; Houston, Texas, P.D.
33. James T. Gambill; End of Watch: De-
cember 1, 1936; Houston, Texas, P.D.
34. Florentino M. Garcia, Jr.; End of
Watch: November 10, 1989; Houston, Texas,
P.D.
35. Ben Eddie Gerhart; End of Watch: June
26, 1968; Houston, Texas, P.D.
36. G.Q. Gonzalez; End of Watch: February
28, 1960; Houston, Texas, P.D.
37. Charles R. Gougenheim; End of Watch:
April 30, 1955; Houston, Texas, P.D.
38. Carl Greene; End of Watch: March 14,
1928; Houston, Texas, P.D.
39. Leon Griggs; End of Watch: January 31,
1970; Houston, Texas, P.D.
40. Maria Michelle Groves; End of Watch:
April 10, 1987; Houston, Texas, P.D.
41. Gary Allen Gryder; End of Watch: June
29, 2008; Houston, Texas, P.D.
42. Antonio Guzman, Jr.; End of Watch:
January 9, 1973; Houston, Texas, P.D.
43. Howard B. Hammond; End of Watch:
August 18, 1946; Houston, Texas, P.D.
44. James Donald Harris; End of Watch:
July 13, 1982; Houston, Texas, P.D.
45. David Michael Healy; End of Watch: No-
vember 12, 1994; Houston, Texas, P.D.
46. Timothy A. Hearn; End of Watch: June
8, 1978; Houston, Texas, P.D.
47. Oscar Hope; End of Watch: June 22, 1929;
Houston, Texas, P.D.
48. Elston M. Howard; End of Watch: July
20, 1988; Houston, Texas, P.D.
49. David Huerta; End of Watch: September
19, 1973; Houston, Texas, P.D.
50. James Bruce Irby; End of Watch: June
27, 1990; Houston, Texas, P.D.
51. Bobby L. James; End of Watch: June 26,
1968; Houston, Texas, P.D.
52. John C. James; End of Watch: December
12, 1901; Houston, Texas, P.D.
53. Rodney Joseph Johnson; End of Watch:
September 21, 2006; Houston, Texas, P.D.
54. Ed Jones; End of Watch: September 13,
1929; Houston, Texas, P.D.
55. P.P. Jones; End of Watch: January 30,
1927; Houston, Texas, P.D.
56. Frank L. Kellogg; End of Watch: No-
vember 30, 1955; Houston, Texas, P.D.
57. S.A. Buster Kent; End of Watch: Janu-
ary 12, 1954; Houston, Texas, P.D.
58. James F. Kilty; End of Watch: April 8,
1976; Houston, Texas, P.D.
59. Kent Dean Kincaid; End of Watch: May
23, 1998; Houston, Texas, P.D.
60. Louis R. Kuba; End of Watch: May 17,
1967; Houston, Texas, P.D.
61. J.D. Landry; End of Watch: December 3,
1930; Houston, Texas, P.D.
62. Robert Wayne Lee; End of Watch: Janu-
ary 31, 1971; Houston, Texas, P.D.
63. Fred Maddox, Jr.; End of Watch: Feb-
ruary 24, 1954; Houston, Texas, P.D.
64. Eydelmen Mani; End of Watch: May 19,
2010; Houston, Texas, P.D.
65. A.P. Marshall; End of Watch: November
8, 1937; Houston, Texas, P.D.
66. Charles R. McDaniel; End of Watch: Au-
gust 4, 1963; Houston, Texas, P.D.
67. E.G. Meinke; End of Watch: August 23,
1917; Houston, Texas, P.D.
68. Harry Mereness; End of Watch: October
18, 1933; Houston, Texas, P.D.
69. Noel R. Miller; End of Watch: June 6,
1958; Houston, Texas, P.D.
70. Kenneth L. Moody; End of Watch: No-
vember 26, 1969; Houston, Texas, P.D.
71. Horace Moody; End of Watch: August
23, 1917; Houston, Texas, P.D.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY8.023 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E604 May 15, 2019
72. William Moss; End of Watch: September
12, 1983; Houston Airport Police, Texas
73. Dave Murdock; End of Watch: June 27,
1921; Houston, Texas, P.D.
74. William E. Murphy; End of Watch: April
1, 1910; Houston, Texas, P.D.
75. David Franklin Noel; End of Watch:
June 17, 1972; Houston, Texas, P.D.
76. M.E. Palmer; End of Watch: March 24,
1938; Houston, Texas, P.D.
77. Isaac Parson; End of Watch: May 24,
1914; Houston, Texas, P.D.
78. Ross Patton; End of Watch: August 23,
1917; Houston, Texas, P.D.
79. Stephen Albert Perez; End of Watch:
August 27, 2017; Houston, Texas, P.D.
80. W.B. Phares; End of Watch: September
30, 1930; Houston, Texas, P.D.
81. Herbert N,Planer; End of Watch: Feb-
ruary 18, 1965. Houston, Texas, P.D.
82. Ira Raney; End of Watch: August 23,
1917; Houston, Texas, P.D.
83. Winston J. Rawlings; End of Watch:
March 29, 1982; Houston, Texas, P.D.
84. Jerry Lawrence Riley; End of Watch:
June 18, 1974; Houston, Texas, P.D.
85. John Charles Risley; End of Watch: Oc-
tober 23, 2000; Harris County, Texas, S.O.
86. Sandra Ann Robbins; End of Watch:
March 17, 1991; South Houston, Texas, P.D.
87. George G. Rojas; End of Watch: January
28, 1976; Houston, Texas, P.D.
88. Michael P. Roman; End of Watch: Janu-
ary 6, 1994; Houston, Texas, P.D.
89. John Anthony Salvaggio; End of Watch:
November 25, 1990; Houston, Texas, P.D.
90. Louis L. Sander; End of Watch: January
21, 1967; Houston, Texas, P.D.
91. Jeffery Scott Sanford; End of Watch:
September 14, 1991; Harris County, Texas,
S.O.
92. Kathleen C. Schaefer; End of Watch:
August 18, 1982; Houston, Texas, P.D.
93. Robert Schultea; End of Watch: August
25, 1956; Houston, Texas, P.D.
94. Daryl Wayne Shirley; End of Watch:
April 28, 1982; Houston, Texas, P.D.
95. Richard Snow; End of Watch: March 17,
1882; Houston, Texas, P.D.
96. Bruno David Soboleski; End of Watch:
April 12, 1991; Houston, Texas, P.D.
97. Jerry Leon Spruill; End of Watch: Octo-
ber 27, 1972; Houston, Texas, P.D.
98. R.H. Sullivan; End of Watch: March 9,
1935; Houston, Texas, P.D.
99. John W, Suttle; End of Watch: August 3,
1959; Houston, Texas, P.D.
100. Cuong Huy Trinh; End of Watch: April
6, 1997; Houston, Texas, P.D.
101. Alberto Vasquez; End of Watch: May
22, 2001; Houston, Texas, P.D.
102. James T. Walker; End of Watch: March
8, 1963. Houston, Texas, P.D.
103. Victor R. Wells III; End of Watch: Oc-
tober 2, 1980; Houston, Texas, P.D.
104. R.O. Wells; End of Watch: July 30, 1927;
Houston, Texas, P.D.
105. Albert Charles Wilkins; End of Watch:
January 6, 1978; Harris County, Texas, C.O.
106. Kevin Scott Will; End of Watch: May
29, 2011; Houston, Texas, P.D.
107. Henry Williams; End of Watch: Feb-
ruary 8, 1886; Houston, Texas, P.D.
108. William C. Williams Jr; End of Watch:
April 16, 1930; Harris County, Texas, S.O.
109. Edd Williams; End of Watch: January
12, 1974; Harris County, Texas, S.O.
110. James Franklin Willis; End of Watch:
July 1, 1964; Houston, Texas, P.D.
111. Marvin Alton Winter; End of Watch:
December 4, 1937; Harris County, Texas, C.O.,
Pct. 4
112. Andrew Winzer; End of Watch: Feb-
ruary 18, 1988; Houston, Texas, P.D.
113. Jeter Young; End of Watch: June 19,
1921; Houston, Texas, P.D.
114. Herman Youngst; End of Watch: De-
cember 12, 1901; Houston, Texas, P.D.
115. Joe A. Zamarron; End of Watch: April
18, 1981; Houston, Texas, P.D.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
May 16, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
MAY 20
4 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Readiness and Manage-
ment Support
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
5 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Airland
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
Committee on Foreign Relations
To receive a closed briefing on the pros-
pects for Afghan peace.
SVC–217
5:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
MAY 21
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry
To hold hearings to examine climate
change and the agriculture sector.
SR–328A
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
10 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
To hold hearings to examine combating
illicit financing by anonymous shell
companies through the collection of
beneficial ownership information.
SD–538
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine opportuni-
ties to advance renewable energy and
energy efficiency efforts in the United
States.
SD–366
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine the digital
advertising ecosystem and the impact
of data privacy and competition policy.
SD–226
11 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on SeaPower
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
Business meeting to markup those provi-
sions which fall under the subcommit-
tee’s jurisdiction of the proposed Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act for
fiscal year 2020.
SD–G50
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Subcommittee on Communications, Tech-
nology, Innovation, and the Internet
To hold hearings to examine the use of
persuasive technology on internet plat-
forms, focusing on optimizing for en-
gagement.
SD–106
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Subcommittee on Federal Spending Over-
sight and Emergency Management
To hold hearings to examine the Govern-
ment Accountability Office’s annual
duplication report.
SD–342
3:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Emerging Threats and
Capabilities
Closed business meeting to markup those
provisions which fall under the sub-
committee’s jurisdiction of the pro-
posed National Defense Authorization
Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–232A
MAY 22
9 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Closed business meeting to markup the
proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–222
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of the Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agen-
cies
To hold hearings to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for
fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
the Interior.
SD–124
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15MY8.026 E15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E605
May 15, 2019
Special Committee on Aging
To hold hearings to examine aging and
disability in the 21st century, focusing
on how technology can help maintain
health and quality of life.
SD–562
10 a.m.
Committee on Appropriations
Subcommittee on Department of Defense
To hold closed hearings to examine pro-
posed budget estimates and justifica-
tion for fiscal year 2020 for the Missile
Defense Agency.
SVC–217
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine legislation
to address the risks associated with
per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances
(PFAS).
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Committee on Small Business and Entre-
preneurship
To hold hearings to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administra-
tion Office of Advocacy.
SD–106
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
To hold hearings to examine S. 123, to re-
quire the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to enter into a contract or other agree-
ment with a third party to review ap-
pointees in the Veterans Health Ad-
ministration who had a license termi-
nated for cause by a State licensing
board for care or services rendered at a
non-Veterans Health Administration
facility and to provide individuals
treated by such an appointee with no-
tice if it is determined that an episode
of care or services to which they re-
ceived was below the standard of care,
S. 221, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to require the Under Secretary of
Health to report major adverse per-
sonnel actions involving certain health
care employees to the National Practi-
tioner Data Bank and to applicable
State licensing boards, S. 318, to au-
thorize the Secretary of Veterans Af-
fairs to furnish medically necessary
transportation for newborn children of
certain women veterans, S. 450, to re-
quire the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to carry out a pilot program to expe-
dite the onboarding process for new
medical providers of the Department of
Veterans Affairs, to reduce the dura-
tion of the hiring process for such med-
ical providers, S. 514, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
benefits and services provided by the
Department of Veterans Affairs to
women veterans, S. 524, to establish the
Department of Veterans Affairs Advi-
sory Committee on Tribal and Indian
Affairs, S. 711, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to expand eligibility for
mental health services from the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs to include
members of the reserve components of
the Armed Forces, S. 746, to require the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs to con-
duct a study on the accessibility of
websites of the Department of Veterans
Affairs to individuals with disabilities,
S. 785, to improve mental health care
provided by the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs, S. 805, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
processing of veterans benefits by the
Department of Veterans Affairs, to
limit the authority of the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to recover overpay-
ments made by the Department and
other amounts owed by veterans to the
United States, to improve the due proc-
ess accorded veterans with respect to
such recovery, S. 850, to extend the au-
thorization of appropriations to the
Department of Veterans Affairs for
purposes of awarding grants to vet-
erans service organizations for the
transportation of highly rural vet-
erans, S. 857, to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase the amount of
special pension for Medal of Honor re-
cipients, S. 980, to amend title 38,
United States Code, to improve the
provision of services for homeless vet-
erans, S. 1101, to ensure that only li-
censed health care providers furnish
disability examinations under a certain
Department of Veterans Affairs pilot
program for use of contract physicians
for disability examinations, S. 1154, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to
establish an advisory committee on the
implementation by the Department of
Veterans Affairs of an electronic
health record, an original bill entitled,
‘‘Janey Ensminger Act of 2019’’, and an
original bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend the authority of
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
continue to pay educational assistance
or subsistence allowances to eligible
persons when educational institutions
are temporarily closed.
SR–418
MAY 23
9 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Closed business meeting to markup the
proposed National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for fiscal year 2020.
SR–222
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine resources
needed to protect and secure the home-
land.
SD–342
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M15MY8.000 E15MYPT1
D538
Wednesday, May 15, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2845–2892
Measures Introduced: Twenty-eight bills and two
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1471–1498, S. Res. 211, and S. Con. Res. 16.
Pages S2883–84
Measures Reported:
H.R. 540, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 770 Ayrault Road in
Fairport, New York, as the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaugh-
ter Post Office’’.
H.R. 828, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 25 Route 111 in
Smithtown, New York, as the ‘‘Congressman Bill
Carney Post Office’’.
H.R. 829, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1450 Montauk High-
way in Mastic, New York, as the ‘‘Army Specialist
Thomas J. Wilwerth Post Office Building’’.
S. 347, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 40 Fulton Street in
Middletown, New York, as the ‘‘Benjamin A. Gil-
man Post Office Building’’.
S. 1196, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1715 Linnerud Drive
in Sun Prairie, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory
Barr Post Office Building’’. Page S2882
Measures Passed:
National Sexual Assault Awareness and Preven-
tion Month: Committee on the Judiciary was dis-
charged from further consideration of S. Res. 178,
recognizing and supporting the goals and ideals of
National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention
Month, and the resolution was then agreed to.
Pages S2877–78
Appointments:
Congressional Budget Office: The Chair made the
following announcement: The President Pro Tem-
pore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, pursuant to the provisions of Section
201(a)(2) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974,
have appointed Dr. Phillip Swagel as Director of the
Congressional Budget Office, effective June 3, 2019,
for the term expiring January 3, 2023. Page S2892
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the issuance of an Executive Order declaring a na-
tional emergency to deal with the threat posed by
the unrestricted acquisition or use in the United
States of information and communications tech-
nology or services designed, developed, manufac-
tured, or supplied by persons owned by, controlled
by, or subject to the jurisdiction or direction of for-
eign adversaries; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
(PM–17) Pages S2880–81
Vitter Nomination—Agreement: By 51 yeas to 45
nays (Vote No. EX. 111), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Wendy Vitter, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Louisiana. Page S2878
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that Senate resume consideration of the nomi-
nation, post-cloture, at approximately 10 a.m., on
Thursday, May 16, 2019. Page S2892
Bulatao Nomination—Cloture: By 90 yeas to 5
nays (Vote No. EX. 112), Senate agreed to the mo-
tion to close further debate on the nomination of
Brian J. Bulatao, of Texas, to be an Under Secretary
of State (Management). Pages S2878–79
Rosen Nomination—Cloture: Senate resumed con-
sideration of the nomination of Jeffrey A. Rosen, of
Virginia, to be Deputy Attorney General, Depart-
ment of Justice. Page S2879
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 52 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. EX. 113), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S2879
Vitter, Bulatao, and Rosen Nominations—Agree-
ment: A unanimous-consent agreement was reached
providing that notwithstanding Rule XXII, the
votes on confirmation of the nominations of Wendy
Vitter, to be United States District Judge for the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D539
May 15, 2019
Eastern District of Louisiana, and Brian J. Bulatao,
of Texas, to be an Under Secretary of State (Manage-
ment), occur at 12 noon, on Thursday, May 16,
2019, and the vote on confirmation of the nomina-
tion of Jeffrey A. Rosen, of Virginia, to be Deputy
Attorney General, Department of Justice, occur at
1:45 p.m., on Thursday, May 16, 2019. Page S2856
Nomination Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nomination:
By 52 yeas to 45 nays (Vote No. EX. 110), Ken-
neth Kiyul Lee, of California, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Pages S2845–77, S2878, S2892
Messages from the House: Page S2881
Measures Referred: Page S2881
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S2877, S2881
Executive Communications: Pages S2881–82
Executive Reports of Committees: Pages S2882–83
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2884–87
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2887–91
Additional Statements: Page S2880
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S2891–82
Privileges of the Floor: Page S2892
Record Votes: Four record votes were taken today.
(Total—113) Pages S2878–79
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:30 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
May 16, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S2892.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
APPROPRIATIONS: FOREST SERVICE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of the Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies concluded a hearing to examine proposed
budget estimates and justification for fiscal year
2020 for the Department of Agriculture Forest Serv-
ice, after receiving testimony from Vicki
Christiansen, Chief, and John Rapp, Director for
Strategic Planning, Budget and Accountability, both
of the Forest Service, Department of Agriculture.
INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM UPDATE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Defense concluded a closed hearing to exam-
ine an intelligence program update and global threat
assessment, after receiving testimony from Susan M.
Gordon, Principal Deputy Director of National In-
telligence; Gina C. Haspel, Director, Central Intel-
ligence Agency; and General Paul M. Nakasone, Di-
rector, National Security Agency and Commander,
Cyber Command, Department of Defense.
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF THE
TREASURY
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Services and General Government concluded a
hearing to examine proposed budget estimates and
justification for fiscal year 2020 for the Department
of the Treasury, after receiving testimony from Ste-
ven T. Mnuchin, Secretary, and Charles P. Rettig,
Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service, both of the
Department of the Treasury.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Armed Services: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported 920 nominations in the Army, Navy,
Air Force, and Marine Corps.
FINANCIAL REGULATORS OVERSIGHT
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs:
Committee concluded an oversight hearing to exam-
ine financial regulators, after receiving testimony
from Joseph M. Otting, Comptroller of the Cur-
rency; Randal K. Quarles, Vice Chair for Super-
vision, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System; Jelena McWilliams, Chairman, Federal De-
posit Insurance Corporation; and Rodney E. Hood,
Chairman, National Credit Union Administration.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee ordered favorably reported the following
business items:
S. 737, to direct the National Science Foundation
to support STEM education research focused on early
childhood;
S. 1228, to amend the Communications Act of
1934 to provide for enhanced penalties for pirate
radio;
S. 1289, to require the Secretary of Commerce to
conduct an assessment and analysis of the effects of
broadband deployment and adoption on the economy
of the United States;
S. 1294, to require Federal agencies with jurisdic-
tion over broadband deployment to enter into an
interagency agreement related to certain types of
funding for broadband deployment, with an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute; and
S. 1439, to reauthorize activities of the Maritime
Administration, with amendments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D540 May 15, 2019
NOMINATION
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the
nomination of Stephen M. Dickson, of Georgia, to
be Administrator of the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration, Department of Transportation, after the
nominee testified and answered questions in his own
behalf.
POWER MARKETING ADMINISTRATIONS
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Sub-
committee on Water and Power concluded a hearing
to examine issues and challenges at the Power Mar-
keting Administrations, after receiving testimony
from Mark A. Gabriel, Administrator, Western Area
Power Administration, Daniel M. James, Deputy
Administrator, Bonneville Power Administration,
Kenneth E. Legg, Administrator, Southeastern Power
Administration, and Mike Wech, Administrator,
Southwestern Power Administration, all of the De-
partment of Energy; and Nicki Fuller, Southwestern
Power Resources Association, Tulsa, Oklahoma.
COUNCIL ON ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
OVERSIGHT
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded an oversight hearing to examine
the Council on Environmental Quality, after receiv-
ing testimony from Mary B. Neumayr, Chairman,
Council on Environmental Quality.
THE FUTURE OF ARMS CONTROL POST-INF
TREATY
Committee on Foreign Relations: Committee concluded
a hearing to examine the future of arms control post-
Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, after re-
ceiving testimony from Andrea L. Thompson, Under
Secretary of State for Arms Control and International
Security; and David J. Trachtenberg, Deputy Under
Secretary of Defense for Policy.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee ordered favorably reported the fol-
lowing business items:
S. 1378, to repeal the multi-State plan program,
with an amendment in the nature of a substitute;
S. 1388, to manage supply chain risk through
counterintelligence training;
S. 1434, to prohibit the use of reverse auctions for
design and construction services procurements;
S. 1430, to amend title 5, United States Code, to
prevent fraud by representative payees, with an
amendment;
S. 1333, to amend the Improper Payments Elimi-
nation and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012, in-
cluding making changes to the Do Not Pay Initia-
tive, for improved detection, prevention, and recov-
ery of improper payments to deceased individuals;
S. 411, to establish a Counterterrorism Advisory
Board, with an amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute;
S. 1275, to require the collection of voluntary
feedback on services provided by agencies;
S. 1420, to amend title 5, United States Code, to
improve the effectiveness of major rules in accom-
plishing their regulatory objectives by promoting
retrospective review;
S. 580, to amend the Act of August 25, 1958,
commonly known as the ‘‘Former Presidents Act of
1958’’, with respect to the monetary allowance pay-
able to a former President, with an amendment in
the nature of a substitute;
S. Con. Res. 15, expressing support for the des-
ignation of October 28, 2019, as ‘‘Honoring the Na-
tion’s First Responders Day’’;
H.R. 1079, to require the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget to issue guidance on
electronic consent forms;
H.R. 1654, to amend title 44, United States
Code, to modernize the Federal Register;
H.R. 1590, to require an exercise related to ter-
rorist and foreign fighter travel;
S. 347, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 40 Fulton Street in
Middletown, New York, as the ‘‘Benjamin A. Gil-
man Post Office Building’’;
S. 1196, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1715 Linnerud Drive
in Sun Prairie, Wisconsin, as the ‘‘Fire Captain Cory
Barr Post Office Building’’;
H.R. 540, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 770 Ayrault Road in
Fairport, New York, as the ‘‘Louise and Bob Slaugh-
ter Post Office’’;
H.R. 828, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 25 Route 111 in
Smithtown, New York, as the ‘‘Congressman Bill
Carney Post Office’’;
H.R. 829, to designate the facility of the United
States Postal Service located at 1450 Montauk High-
way in Mastic, New York, as the ‘‘Army Specialist
Thomas J. Wilwerth Post Office Building’’; and
The nominations of James A. Crowell IV, and
Jason Park, both to be an Associate Judge of the Su-
perior Court of the District of Columbia, Ron A.
Bloom, of New York, and Roman Martinez IV, of
Florida, both to be a Governor of the United States
Postal Service, Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be Di-
rector of the Office of Personnel Management, and
Michael Eric Wooten, of Virginia, to be Adminis-
trator for Federal Procurement Policy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D541
May 15, 2019
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the following business items:
S. 279, to allow tribal grant schools to participate
in the Federal Employee Health Benefits Program;
S. 832, to nullify the Supplemental Treaty Be-
tween the United States of America and the Confed-
erated Tribes and Bands of Indians of Middle Or-
egon, concluded on November 15, 1865; and
S. 1207, to approve the settlement of the water
rights claims of the Navajo Nation in Utah.
INDIAN PROGRAMS BUDGET OVERSIGHT
Committee on Indian Affairs: Committee concluded an
oversight hearing to examine the President’s fiscal
year 2020 budget request for Indian Programs, and
S. 1211, to provide for improvements to Tribal
transportation facilities and Tribal transportation
safety, after receiving testimony from Matt M.
Dummermuth, Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney
General, Office of Justice Programs, Department of
Justice; John Tahsuda, Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary—Indian Affairs, Department of the Inte-
rior; and Jamie Azure, Turtle Mountain Band of
Chippewa Indians, Belcourt, North Dakota.
ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
Committee on Rules and Administration: Committee
concluded a hearing to examine the Election Assist-
ance Commission, after receiving testimony from
Christy McCormick, Chairwoman, Ben Hovland,
Vice Chair, and Thomas Hicks, and Donald Palmer,
both a Commissioner, all of the Election Assistance
Commission.
SBA INNOVATION PROGRAMS
Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine reauthoriza-
tion of the Small Business Administration’s innova-
tion programs, including S. 118, to require the Di-
rector of the National Science Foundation to develop
an I–Corps course to support commercialization-
ready innovation companies, after receiving testi-
mony from Joseph Shepard, Associate Administrator,
Office of Investment and Innovation, and John Wil-
liams, Director of Innovation and Technology, both
of the Small Business Administration; Stephen J.
Ezell, Information Technology and Innovation Foun-
dation, Washington, D.C.; Jere W. Glover, Small
Business Technology Council, Annapolis, Maryland;
Sridhar Kota, FlexSys Inc., Ann Arbor, Michigan;
and Stephen L. Hoffman, Sanaria Inc., Rockville,
Maryland.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 38 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2739, 2741–2744, 2746–2778; and 4
resolutions, H.J. Res. 58; H. Con. Res. 39; and H.
Res. 383–384 were introduced. Pages H3840–42
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H3843–44
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 2740, making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Labor, Health, and Human Services, and
Education, and related agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for other purposes
(H. Rept. 116–62); and
H.R. 2745, making appropriations for military
construction, the Department of Veterans Affairs,
and related agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes (H. Rept.
116–63). Page H3840
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Shalala to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H3795
Recess: The House recessed at 10:31 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H3798
Guest Chaplain: The prayer was offered by the
Guest Chaplain, Dr. Benny Tate, Rock Springs
Church, Milner, Georgia. Pages H3798–99
Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe Reservation Reaffir-
mation Act: The House passed H.R. 312, to reaf-
firm the Mashpee Wampanoag Tribe reservation, by
a yea-and-nay vote of 275 yeas to 146 nays, Roll
No. 207. Pages H3816–24
Pursuant to the Rule, the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by the Committee
on Natural Resources now printed in the bill shall
be considered as adopted. Pages H3816–17
H. Res. 377, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 5), (H.R. 312), and (H.R. 987)
was agreed to by a yea-and-nay vote of 229 yeas to
188 nays, Roll No. 206, after the previous question
was ordered by a yea-and-nay vote of 228 yeas to
189 nays with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
205. Pages H3801–13
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D542 May 15, 2019
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measure:
Amending the Act of June 18, 1934, to reaffirm
the authority of the Secretary of the Interior to
take land into trust for Indian Tribes: H.R. 375,
to amend the Act of June 18, 1934, to reaffirm the
authority of the Secretary of the Interior to take land
into trust for Indian Tribes, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay
vote of 323 yeas to 96 nays, Roll No. 208.
Pages H3813–16, H3824–25
Suspension—Proceedings Resumed: The House
agreed to suspend the rules and pass the following
measure. Consideration began Tuesday, May 14th.
Quadrennial Homeland Security Review Tech-
nical Corrections Act of 2019: H.R. 1892, to amend
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to make tech-
nical corrections to the requirement that the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security submit quadrennial
homeland security reviews, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote
of 415 yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 209.
Pages H3825–26
Director of the Congressional Budget Office—
Appointment: The Chair announced the joint ap-
pointment by the Speaker of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the President Pro Tempore of the
Senate of Dr. Phillip Swagel as Director of the Con-
gressional Budget Office for the term expiring Janu-
ary 3, 2023. Page H3835
Discharge Petition: Representative Mast presented
to the clerk a motion to discharge the Committee on
Rules from the consideration of H. Res. 348, pro-
viding for the consideration of the bill (H.R. 336)
to make improvements to certain defense and secu-
rity assistance provisions and to authorize the appro-
priation of funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and
to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people,
and for other purposes (Discharge Petition No. 3).
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that he had
issued an Executive Order declaring a national emer-
gency with respect to significant malicious cyber-en-
abled activities—referred to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc.
116–35). Pages H3835–36
Senate Referrals: S. 1231 was held at the desk. S.
1436 was held at the desk. Page H3801
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H3801.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Five yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H3812, H3812–13, H3824, H3824–25,
and H3825–26. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:35 p.m.
Committee Meetings
TO REVIEW USDA FARM BILL
CONSERVATION PROGRAMS
Committee on Agriculture: Subcommittee on Conserva-
tion and Forestry held a hearing entitled ‘‘To Review
USDA Farm Bill Conservation Programs’’. Testi-
mony was heard from Matthew Lohr, Chief, Natural
Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agri-
culture; and Richard Fordyce, Administrator, Farm
Service Agency, Department of Agriculture.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Defense
held a markup on the Defense Appropriations Bill,
FY 2020. The Defense Appropriations Bill, FY 2020
was forwarded to the full Committee, without
amendment. This hearing was closed.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development, and Related Agencies held
a markup on the Energy and Water Development,
and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020.
The Energy and Water Development, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020 was for-
warded to the full Committee, without amendment.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURE
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
markup on the Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 2020. The Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropria-
tions Bill, FY 2020 was forwarded to the full Com-
mittee, without amendment.
KEEPING OUR PROMISE TO AMERICA’S
SENIORS: RETIREMENT SECURITY IN THE
21ST CENTURY
Committee on the Budget: Full Committee held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Keeping Our Promise to America’s
Seniors: Retirement Security in the 21st Century’’.
Testimony was heard from Representative Larson,
and public witnesses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D543
May 15, 2019
EXAMINING THE OLDER AMERICANS ACT:
PROMOTING INDEPENDENCE AND
DIGNITY FOR OLDER AMERICANS
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Human Services held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Examining the Older Americans Act: Pro-
moting Independence and Dignity for Older Ameri-
cans’’. Testimony was heard from Lee Girard, Direc-
tor, Aging, Disability and Veterans Services Divi-
sion, Department of County Human Services, Mult-
nomah County, Oregon; Patricia Ducayet, Long-
Term Care Ombudsman, Office of the State Long-
Term Care Ombudsman, Texas Health and Human
Services, Texas; and public witnesses.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND OVERSIGHT OF
THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Accountability and Oversight of the Federal
Communications Commission’’. Testimony was heard
from the following Federal Communications Com-
mission officials: Ajit Pai, Chairman; Michael
O’Rielly, Commissioner; Brendan Carr, Commis-
sioner; Jessica Rosenworcel, Commissioner; and
Geoffrey Starks, Commissioner.
PROTECTING AMERICANS AT RISK OF
PFAS CONTAMINATION AND EXPOSURE
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment and Climate Change held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Protecting Americans at Risk of PFAS Con-
tamination and Exposure’’. Testimony was heard
from Brian Steglitz, Manager, Water Treatment
Services, City of Ann Arbor, Michigan; and public
witnesses.
PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH: A
REVIEW OF PROPOSALS TO STRENGTHEN
THE RIGHTS AND PROTECTIONS FOR
WORKERS
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on In-
vestor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and Capital
Markets held a hearing entitled ‘‘Promoting Eco-
nomic Growth: A Review of Proposals to Strengthen
the Rights and Protections for Workers’’. Testimony
was heard from public witnesses.
ASSESSING THE USE OF SANCTIONS IN
ADDRESSING NATIONAL SECURITY AND
FOREIGN POLICY CHALLENGES
Committee on Financial Services: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Security, International Development, and
Monetary Policy held a hearing entitled ‘‘Assessing
the Use of Sanctions in Addressing National Security
and Foreign Policy Challenges’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
THE CONFLICT IN LIBYA
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Middle East, North Africa, and International Ter-
rorism held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Conflict in
Libya’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 542, the ‘‘Supporting Research
and Development for First Responders Act’’; H.R.
1158, the ‘‘DHS Cyber Incident Response Team
Act’’; H.R. 2083, the ‘‘Homeland Procurement Re-
form Act’’; H.R. 2383, the ‘‘Secure Communities
and Safe Schools Act’’; H.R. 2476, the ‘‘Securing
American Non-Profit Organizations Against Ter-
rorism Act’’; H.R. 2539, the ‘‘Strengthening Local
Transportation Security Capabilities Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2589, the ‘‘Unifying DHS Intelligence Enter-
prise Act’’; H.R. 2590, the ‘‘DHS Overseas Per-
sonnel Enhancement Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2609, the
‘‘DHS Acquisition Review Board Act of 2019’’; and
H.R. 2621, the ‘‘Homeland Security Assessment of
Terrorists’ Use of Ghost Guns Act’’. H.R. 542, H.R.
1158, H.R. 2383, H.R. 2476, H.R. 2539, H.R.
2609, and H.R. 2621 were ordered reported, with-
out amendment. H.R. 2083, H.R. 2589, and H.R.
2590 were ordered reported, as amended.
EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGE AND
CONGRESSIONAL OVERSIGHT
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Executive Privilege and Congres-
sional Oversight’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
U.S. DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES FOR FY
2020
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Department of the Interior
Budget and Policy Priorities for FY 2020’’. Testi-
mony was heard from David Bernhardt, Secretary,
Department of the Interior.
EXAMINING THE IMPACTS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE ON PUBLIC LANDS RECREATION
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on Na-
tional Parks, Forests, and Public Lands held a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Examining the Impacts of Climate
Change on Public Lands Recreation’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURE
Committee on Natural Resources: Subcommittee on
Water, Oceans, and Wildlife held a hearing on H.R.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D544 May 15, 2019
2532, the ‘‘Tribal Heritage and Grizzly Bear Protec-
tion Act’’. Testimony was heard from Brian Nesvik,
Director, Wyoming Game and Fish Department; and
public witnesses.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSPECTOR
GENERAL REPORT ON EXCESS PROFITS BY
TRANSDIGM GROUP, INC.
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘DOD Inspector General Re-
port on Excess Profits by TransDigm Group, Inc.’’.
Testimony was heard from the following Department
of Defense officials: Kevin Fahey, Assistant Secretary
of Defense for Acquisition; Glenn Fine, Acting In-
spector General; Theresa Hull, Assistant Inspector
General for Acquisition, Office of Inspector General;
and public witnesses.
CONFRONTING WHITE SUPREMACY (PART
I): THE CONSEQUENCES OF INACTION
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Confronting White Supremacy (Part I): The
Consequences of Inaction’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
ADVANCING THE NEXT GENERATION OF
SOLAR AND WIND ENERGY
TECHNOLOGIES
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Energy held a hearing entitled ‘‘Ad-
vancing the Next Generation of Solar and Wind En-
ergy Technologies’’. Testimony was heard from pub-
lic witnesses.
MEMBER DAY HEARING: COMMITTEE ON
SMALL BUSINESS
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Member Day Hearing: Committee
on Small Business’’. Testimony was heard from Rep-
resentatives Case and Cárdenas.
STATUS OF THE BOEING 737 MAX
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Aviation held a hearing entitled ‘‘Sta-
tus of the Boeing 737 MAX’’. Testimony was heard
from Daniel K. Elwell III, Acting Administrator,
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation; and Robert L. Sumwalt, Chair, Na-
tional Transportation Safety Board.
THE ECONOMIC AND HEALTH
CONSEQUENCES OF CLIMATE CHANGE
Committee on Ways and Means: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘The Economic and Health Con-
sequences of Climate Change’’. Testimony was heard
from public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
MAY 16, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Science, Oceans, Fisheries, and Weather, to
hold hearings to examine atmospheric science research
and forecasting innovation, 10 a.m., SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: to hold hear-
ings to examine the Department of Energy’s carbon cap-
ture, utilization, and storage programs, including S.
1201, to amend the fossil energy research and develop-
ment provisions of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to en-
hance fossil fuel technology, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nominations of Bridget A. Brink, of Michigan, to
be Ambassador to the Slovak Republic, Kenneth A.
Howery, of Texas, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of
Sweden, Matthew S. Klimow, of New York, to be Am-
bassador to Turkmenistan, and John Jefferson Daigle, of
Louisiana, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Cabo
Verde, all of the Department of State, 2 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
S. 1328, to designate foreign persons who improperly
interfere in United States elections as inadmissible aliens,
S. 1321, to amend title 18, United States Code, to pro-
hibit interference with voting systems under the Com-
puter Fraud and Abuse Act, and the nominations of Ada
E. Brown, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Texas, Steven D. Grimberg, to be
United States District Judge for the Northern District of
Georgia, David John Novak, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia, and Matthew
H. Solomson, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: to hold hearings to exam-
ine the nomination of James Byrne, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 10 a.m., SR–418.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to hold closed hearings to
examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Full Committee, markup on
the Report on the Revised Suballocation of Budget Allo-
cations for FY 2020; and the State, Foreign Operations,
and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, FY 2020,
10:30 a.m., 2359 Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Department of Defense’s Financial Im-
provement and Audit Remediation Plan: The Path For-
ward’’, 10 a.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Military Personnel, hearing entitled
‘‘Military Personnel Management—How Are the Military
Services Adapting to Recruit, Retain, and Manage High
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D545
May 15, 2019
Quality Talent to Meet the Needs of a Modern Mili-
tary?’’, 2:30 p.m., 2212 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on En-
ergy, markup on H.R. 2088, a bill to amend the Energy
Independence and Security Act of 2007 to reauthorize the
Energy Efficiency and Conservation Block Grant Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; H.R. 2041, the ‘‘Weather-
ization Enhancement and Local Energy Efficiency Invest-
ment and Accountability Act’’; H.R. 2119, a bill to
amend the Energy Policy Act of 2005 to reauthorize
grants for improving the energy efficiency of public
buildings, and for other purposes; H.R. 1315, the ‘‘Blue
Collar to Green Collar Jobs Development Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 2665, the ‘‘Smart Energy and Water Efficiency Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 2044, the ‘‘Smart Building Acceleration
Act’’; H.R. 359, the ‘‘Enhancing Grid Security through
Public-Private Partnerships Act’’; H.R. 360, the ‘‘Cyber
Sense Act of 2019’’; H.R. 362, the ‘‘Energy Emergency
Leadership Act’’; and H.R. 370, the ‘‘Pipeline and LNG
Facility Cybersecurity Preparedness Act’’, 10 a.m., 2123
Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 2574, the ‘‘Equity and Inclusion En-
forcement Act’’; and H.R. 2639, the ‘‘Strength in Diver-
sity Act of 2019’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Oversight of Prudential Regulators: Ensuring
the Safety, Soundness and Accountability of Megabanks
and Other Depository Institutions’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Democracy, Development, and Defense: Rebal-
ancing U.S.-Africa Policy’’, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, Global
Human Rights, and International Organizations, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Dangers of Reporting on Human Rights’’,
2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Subcommittee on Over-
sight, Management, and Accountability, hearing entitled
‘‘Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers: Preparing
America’s Law Enforcement to Protect the Homeland’’,
10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on the Judiciary, Subcommittee on Antitrust,
Commercial, and Administrative Law, hearing entitled
‘‘Justice Denied: Forced Arbitration and the Erosion of
our Legal System’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee on Energy
and Mineral Resources, hearing entitled ‘‘Oil and Gas
Development: Impacts of Water Pollution Above and
Below Ground’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and Wildlife, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Examining the President’s Fiscal Year 2020
Budget Proposal for the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation and
U.S. Geological Survey’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Subcommittee for Indigenous Peoples of the United
States, hearing entitled ‘‘Investigating the Health and
Safety Risks of Native Children at BIE Boarding
Schools’’, 2 p.m., 1334 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘HIV Prevention Drug: Billions in Cor-
porate Profits after Millions in Taxpayer Investments’’, 10
a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Economic and Consumer Policy,
hearing entitled ‘‘CFPB’s Role in Empowering Predatory
Lenders: Examining the Proposed Repeal of the Payday
Lending Rule’’, 2 p.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Event Horizon Telescope: The
Black Hole Seen Round the World’’, 10 a.m., 2318 Ray-
burn.
Subcommittee on Environment, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Future of Forecasting: Building a Stronger U.S. Weather
Enterprise’’, 2 p.m., 2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, Subcommittee on Con-
tracting and Infrastructure, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight of
the SBA’s Women-Owned Small Business Federal Con-
tract Program’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘The Impacts of State-Owned
Enterprises on Public Transit and Freight Rail Sectors’’,
10 a.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Ways and Means, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Overcoming Racial Disparities and Social Deter-
minants in the Maternal Mortality Crisis’’, 10 a.m., 1100
Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘China’s Digital
Authoritarianism: Surveillance, Influence, and Political
Control’’, 9 a.m., 210 Cannon.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D546 May 15, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, May 16
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Wendy Vitter, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
At 12 noon, Senate will vote on confirmation of the
nominations of Wendy Vitter, and of Brian J. Bulatao,
of Texas, to be an Under Secretary of State (Manage-
ment). At 1:45 p.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of
the nomination of Jeffrey A. Rosen, of Virginia, to be
Deputy Attorney General, Department of Justice.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Thursday, May 16
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H.R. 987—
Strengthening Health Care and Lowering Prescription
Drug Costs Act.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Baird, James R., Ind., E596
Bustos, Cheri, Ill., E599
Cloud, Michael, Tex., E600
Costa, Jim, Calif., E600
Foxx, Virginia, N.C., E600
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E595
Graves, Garret, La., E599
Graves, Sam, Mo., E595, E596, E597
Griffith, H. Morgan, Va., E600
Heck, Denny, Wash., E602
Huizenga, Bill, Mich., E598
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E603
Lynch, Stephen F., Mass., E598, E601
Maloney, Carolyn B., N.Y., E598
Meeks, Gregory W., N.Y., E601
Meuser, Daniel, Pa., E603
Mooney, Alexander X., W.Va., E598
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E599
Panetta, Jimmy, Calif., E595, E597
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E597
Peters, Scott H., Calif., E596
Rogers, Mike, Ala., E599
Rose, John W., Tenn., E602
Rush, Bobby L., Ill., E595
Ryan, Tim, Ohio, E602
Sablan, Gregorio Kilili Camacho, Northern Mariana
Islands, E597
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E596
Steil, Bryan, Wisc., E595, E597
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E600, E602
Trahan, Lori, Mass., E599
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E599, E601
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:02 May 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D15MY9.REC D15MYPT1
