Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H3071
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 2019 No. 59
House of Representatives
The House met at 9 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Dear God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
Bless abundantly the Members of this
people’s House. During this season of
new growth, may Your redemptive
power help them to see new ways to
productive service, fresh approaches to
understanding each other, especially
those across the aisle, and renewed
commitment to solving the problems
facing our Nation.
May they, and may we all, be trans-
formed by Your grace and better re-
flect the sense of wonder, even joy, at
the opportunities to serve that are ever
before us.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER. The Chair has exam-
ined the Journal of the last day’s pro-
ceedings and announces to the House
her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER. Will the gentleman
from Arkansas (Mr. CRAWFORD) come
forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. CRAWFORD led the Pledge of Al-
legiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
The SPEAKER. The Chair will enter-
tain up to five requests for 1-minute
speeches on each side of the aisle.
f
END SUPPORT TO SAUDI ARABIA
(Ms. GABBARD asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. GABBARD. Madam Speaker,
right now, the United States continues
to support Saudi Arabia’s genocidal
war in Yemen. This support has been
ongoing since 2015 yet has never been
authorized by Congress. It must end
now.
U.S. support for this war has resulted
in dire consequences. Just last week,
the Saudi coalition bombed a hospital.
They have bombed school buses, wed-
dings, markets, funerals—tens of thou-
sands of Yemen civilians killed. Mil-
lions more are in dire need of humani-
tarian aid, starving and sick, without
access to food and water or basic medi-
cine. This has created the worst hu-
manitarian disaster in the world.
We are voting later today on an im-
portant resolution to finally end U.S.
support for Saudi Arabia’s war in
Yemen. We need to put politics aside.
Lives are at stake. We cannot afford to
delay.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to recognize the urgency with
which we must act, to vote against any
attempts to delay or block this resolu-
tion, and to vote to pass S.J. Res. 7
today.
f
BUDGET
(Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to discuss
our Nation’s ballooning debt and the
lack of interest across the aisle to ad-
dress this crisis. We currently face a
national debt that exceeds $22 trillion
and a deficit reaching $1 trillion.
President Reagan’s chief economic
adviser recently called our Nation’s fis-
cal situation ‘‘the most dangerous do-
mestic problem facing America’s Fed-
eral Government.’’
The majority party—so, the Demo-
cratic Party—is responsible for pro-
ducing a budget representative of their
values and priorities. Despite our grim
fiscal reality, Democrats have made
the decision to skip their duty of writ-
ing a budget, foregoing the only oppor-
tunity to look at our entire fiscal pic-
ture.
Speaker PELOSI has stated on numer-
ous occasions: Show me your budget,
and I will show you your values.
So, since the Democrats refuse to
pass a budget, do they truly have any
values that represent the American
people? These are Speaker PELOSI’s
own words.
If my businesses spent money like
the Federal Government, I would be
forced to file bankruptcy. These waste-
ful habits are encouraged by politicians
who do not see Federal dollars for what
they are: hard-earned American tax-
payer money.
The failure to produce this budget
begs the question: Are our friends
across the aisle concerned about our
national debt? Again, I refer to the
Speaker’s words: No budget, no values.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
(Mr. HORSFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker,
every 16 hours, a woman in this coun-
try is shot and killed by a current or
former partner.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.000 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3072 April 4, 2019
Just last week, an 18-year-old woman
in Las Vegas was shot dead by her boy-
friend while they sat in their car out-
side of a neighborhood barbecue.
This country has an epidemic of vio-
lence against women, which is why I
stand here today to ask this body to re-
authorize and expand the Violence
Against Women Act.
This bill will provide crucial re-
sources to survivors of domestic vio-
lence and sexual abuse. It will invest in
education programs that teach young
men to stop the cycle of violence. It
will provide Tribes with new mecha-
nisms to hold non-Indian predators ac-
countable for preying on Native
women. And it will close the boyfriend
loophole that allows physically abusive
ex-boyfriends and convicted stalkers
access to guns.
Madam Speaker, this legislation will
save lives, and I urge every Member of
this body to support its passage.
f
HONORING SERGEANT JOSEPH
‘‘JOEY’’ COLLETTE
(Mr. CRAWFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, I
rise this morning to mourn the loss of
an explosive ordnance disposal warrior.
On Friday, March 22, EOD Sergeant
Joey Collette was killed in action in
Afghanistan. At the time, Collette was
participating in a joint U.S.-Afghan
special operation.
Sergeant Collette deeply wanted to
deploy overseas. He did all he could and
gave his all to serve his country in Af-
ghanistan. He was loved and respected
by his brothers in arms.
He is survived by his wife, Caela,
whom he had married only 2 weeks
prior to deploying, and by his beautiful
young daughter.
I offer my most sincere condolences
to Joey’s family and friends. I ask the
rest of Congress to join me in ensuring
that Sergeant Joey Collette and his
sacrifice will not be forgotten.
Rest in peace, Sergeant Collette.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
(Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend her remarks.)
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of the reauthorization of the
Violence Against Women Act.
This critical legislation is important
not only for survivors, but it impacts
all of us. When we are talking about
survivors, we need to also look at the
root of the problem and the lasting im-
pacts of trauma on the survivors and
individuals as a whole. We must ac-
knowledge the impact of adverse child-
hood experiences, or ACEs.
ACE scores are based on a list of
events one can witness or undergo be-
fore turning 18, including sexual abuse
or death in a family. If a person scores
higher than 4, they are 700 times more
likely to develop depression and other
negative impacts. Obesity, diabetes,
and stroke also become more likely the
higher one’s ACE score.
Oklahoma’s average ACE score is 4.8,
significantly higher than the rest of
the country. It is no coincidence that
we rank at the bottom for health, too.
I am proud of leaders in my own dis-
trict, like the Palomar Family Justice
Center that uses ACE data and address-
es trauma in treating survivors. I am
thankful for the work of the Potts
Family Foundation, which has helped
lead the conversation on trauma in
Oklahoma and across the Nation.
These models need to be imple-
mented on a wider scale across the
country, and I am proud to stand with
the reauthorization of the Violence
Against Women Act today.
f
VOTE ON BORN-ALIVE ABORTION
SURVIVOR PROTECTION ACT
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, on Tuesday, I signed
the discharge petition to force a vote
on the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act. 193 Members, including
two Democrats, have already signed it.
A discharge petition has not received
such overwhelming support in the first
24 hours in at least 22 years.
I applaud Congresswoman ANN WAG-
NER for reintroducing this bill and Re-
publican Whip STEVE SCALISE for filing
the discharge petition.
The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act would require that a
child who is born alive after an at-
tempted abortion receives treatment
and be transferred to a hospital. This
legislation penalizes the intentional
killing of a child who is born alive.
Unfortunately, we have seen horrific
actions in New York and Virginia to
allow late-term abortion. It is, essen-
tially, the execution of a defenseless
child after birth.
Madam Speaker, this isn’t abortion;
this is infanticide. Any doctor who
would leave a child to die should face
the full extent of the law.
Americans deserve to know whether
their Representatives stand against in-
fanticide or not. I urge the House to
act on this bill. I urge us to choose life
over murder.
f
b 0915
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF MS.
BESSIE M. SWINDLE
(Mr. GREEN of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speak-
er, it is with great pride that I rise
today to commemorate and celebrate
the life of a great and noble American,
Ms. Bessie Swindle, who will be laid to
rest.
Madam Speaker, Ms. Swindle was
born in 1939 at a time when she could
buy a hat but she couldn’t try it on.
She was relegated to the balcony of the
movie and the back of the bus.
Yet, notwithstanding all of the ob-
stacles that life afforded her, she was a
servant to multiple elected officials:
two constables and two mayors.
She has been given a day in her
honor by Mayor Bill White in 2007.
She was, literally, a commissioner
without a commission. She was a coun-
cil person without a council. She was a
lawyer without a license. She was the
person who gave hope to the hopeless
and help to the helpless.
She lived up to the words of Ruth
Smeltzer:
Some measure their lives by days and
years,
Others by heartthrobs, passions, and tears.
But the surest measure under God’s sun,
Is what for others in your lifetime have
you done.
God bless you, dear Bessie. We love
you. Your spirit will live forever, and
your legacy will continue to change
the lives of others.
You made headway when others were
making headlines.
We love you.
f
VOTE FOR THE BORN-ALIVE ABOR-
TION SURVIVORS PROTECTION
ACT
(Mr. HARDER of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise to encourage the Speak-
er of the House to let us vote on H.R.
962, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act. It is more than com-
mon sense; it is common decency legis-
lation being put forth to end the bar-
baric act of infanticide.
Every day, Kansans watching from
back home assume this must already
be law. There is no way that, in Amer-
ica, it is legal to murder a child who al-
ready has been born.
Sadly, in some parts of this country,
it isn’t common sense; it isn’t common
decency. In some parts of the country,
it isn’t something inherently wrong to
kill a child who was born alive.
This is murder. It is appalling that it
is being protected. This is murder.
Madam Speaker, let us vote.
f
HEALTHCARE
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. WATKINS. Madam Speaker, last
week the administration made yet an-
other attempt to strip healthcare away
from our families.
Let me be clear: My community in
the Central Valley needs more health
coverage, not less. We need more doc-
tors; we need more nurses; we need
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.002 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3073
April 4, 2019
more mental health services; and we
need everyone with a preexisting condi-
tion to have coverage.
Each and every one of us in this
Chamber has a loved one or a neighbor
who would be hurt by this effort. This
includes my friend Vicky, from Mo-
desto.
She was healthy her whole life until
she had her first seizure. She was hos-
pitalized and was having four to five
seizures a day until her doctor was able
to find a medication that worked. She
has to pay $400 a month even now for
this medicine, and she has insurance.
Imagine if this lawsuit goes through.
Vicky will completely lose her insur-
ance. There are 100,000 other people in
my community with a story just like
hers. These are real people who would
be hurt.
Folks in my community have been
crystal clear on this issue: We need
more healthcare for more people.
My community needs us to move this
discussion forward, not backwards.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
HARDER of California). Pursuant to
House Resolution 281 and rule XVIII,
the Chair declares the House in the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union for the further con-
sideration of the bill, H.R. 1585.
Will the gentlewoman from New Jer-
sey (Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN) kindly
take the chair.
b 0919
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
1585) to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994, and for
other purposes, with Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN (Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose on Wednes-
day, April 3, 2019, amendment No. 38
printed in part B of House Report 116–
32 offered by the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ROSE) had been disposed of.
AMENDMENT NO. 39 OFFERED BY MRS. AXNE
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 39 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 29, strike lines 3 through 7 and insert
the following:
SEC. 201. SEXUAL ASSAULT SERVICES PROGRAM.
Section 41601(f)(1) of the Violent Crime
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34
U.S.C. 12511(f)(1)) is amended by striking
‘‘$40,000,000 to remain available until ex-
pended for each of fiscal years 2014 through
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘$60,000,000 to remain
available until expended for each of fiscal
years 2020 through 2024’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Iowa.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, the Vio-
lence Against Women Act expired on
September 30, 2018. It is incredibly dis-
appointing that we ever let this land-
mark bill expire in the first place, but
we now have an opportunity to provide
additional resources and address gaps
in the expired law to better protect
women in Iowa and across the land
from violence. My amendment will
help do that.
I have introduced an amendment
that will increase STOP grants to help
local law enforcement agencies and
community organizations better com-
bat and prosecute violence against
women. This funding will help law en-
forcement agencies develop and
strengthen strategies to end domestic
and sexual violence.
I have met with local police officers
and sheriffs throughout my district,
and they all tell me they are
underresourced and they are under-
staffed. I promised them I would do
anything in my power to make sure
they get what they need to protect our
communities.
STOP grants also provide prosecutors
with the proper tools and resources
they need to get justice for survivors
and prosecute those who commit vio-
lence against women.
While we must do everything in our
power to stop violence against women,
the sad reality is domestic and sexual
violence is prevalent in this country. It
is prevalent across all socioeconomic
backgrounds, and it is something that
is not exclusive to any one part of this
country. We have it in our own back-
yard.
For many victims of domestic and
sexual violence, recovery can be a life-
long process. We need to make sure
that we are providing organizations
that provide victim services, like the
Iowa Coalition Against Sexual Assault,
with the resources they need to develop
and strengthen programs to help as
many survivors as possible.
When I worked at the State of Iowa,
I helped the Crime Victims Assistance
Unit in the AG’s office improve their
processes, so I know that in Iowa—I
have seen it firsthand—we don’t have
enough resources to address the needs
that we have.
There are simple steps that we can
take that have a major impact on the
amount of people that we can help, and
that is what these grants do. They will
help our local law enforcement agen-
cies, our local prosecutors, and local
community organizations stop more
crimes, prosecute more perpetrators,
and provide services to more survivors.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I claim
the time in opposition.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Virginia is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Chair, I rise in
opposition to the amendment, which
increases the authorization of STOP
grants from $40 million to $60 million.
The amendment does not have an offset
from any other account.
We had a hearing on this important
legislation in committee. The gentle-
woman is correct in stating that do-
mestic violence is a problem and we
must take action to confront it. It was
disappointing that the legislation was
taken from what was a bipartisan con-
sensus and turned into a partisan docu-
ment that went far beyond the under-
lying legislation which was allowed to
expire.
We had a hearing, and no witness
that I recall advocated, during com-
mittee, for increasing the authoriza-
tion level for STOP grants.
STOP grants do perform a vital serv-
ice. In fact, one of my first jobs out of
law school was prosecuting under a
STOP grant, prosecuting domestic vio-
lence cases in Rockingham County in
Harrisonburg, Virginia.
In the markup in committee, not a
single Democrat offered any amend-
ment to increase the authorization
level by an additional $20 million.
There has been no reason given to add
an additional 50 percent to this specific
program as opposed to any program. So
I would urge my colleagues to oppose
this amendment.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. NADLER), my colleague.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
Madam Chair, I support this amend-
ment which would increase the sexual
assault services program authorization
from $40 million to $60 million.
This program assists States, Tribes,
and territories to provide intervention,
advocacy support, and related assist-
ance to victims of sexual assault.
Experts in the field have indicated
that this program is underfunded for
the depth and the breadth of the work
it covers, despite the remarks of the
gentleman from Virginia.
It is underfunded. We need more
money here. I support the amendment
of the gentlewoman.
Now, the gentleman from Virginia
says there is no offset. That is true. We
do not need an offset.
Of course, we could take it away
from President Trump’s personal part
of the tax, of the $1.8 trillion tax break
that the Republicans voted for for the
rich.
But the fact is we don’t need an off-
set. Under the rules, the appropriations
bill has to deal with that. This simply
makes funds available, and for a very
worthy purpose.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Chair, I would
state to the esteemed chairman of the
committee that we have proceeded
without offsets for many, many years
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.004 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3074 April 4, 2019
on many, many things, and that is one
of the reasons why we are over $20 tril-
lion in debt right now.
This House must exercise fiscal re-
straint and bring its budget back into
some semblance of order and exercise
responsibility. And so an offset is re-
sponsible, is appropriate, does not
exist, and was never discussed.
The chairman talks about experts.
We heard from no expert at the com-
mittee level as to the need for the addi-
tional $20 million in STOP grants.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues to
oppose the amendment, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Chair, I appre-
ciate what my colleague across the
aisle is saying; however, our debt can
be looked at in many ways to amend.
However, our local police officers, our
local communities, and our organiza-
tions that support victims with assist-
ance are in dire need of the additional
funding.
I would argue that this administra-
tion is the cause of this major debt
that we have, and we should not take
that out on our local communities that
I know are supported across the aisle.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Iowa (Mrs. AXNE).
The amendment was agreed to.
b 0930
AMENDMENT NO. 40 OFFERED BY MS. TORRES
SMALL OF NEW MEXICO
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 40 printed
in part B of House Report 116–32.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Madam Chairwoman, I have an amend-
ment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 171, insert after line 2 the following
(and conform the table of contents accord-
ingly):
SEC. 1408. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING
COMPLIANCE WITH IMMIGRATION
LAWS.
Nothing in this Act, or in any amendments
made by this Act, shall affect the obligation
to fully comply with the immigration laws.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 281, the gentlewoman
from New Mexico (Ms. TORRES SMALL)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Mexico.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Madam Chairwoman, I yield myself
such time as I may consume.
Madam Chairwoman, I rise to offer
amendment No. 40 to H.R. 1585, the Vi-
olence Against Women Reauthorization
Act.
My amendment is simple. It will en-
sure that everything in this bill com-
plies with current immigration law.
One in three women in the United
States will experience domestic vio-
lence. That is unacceptable. It doesn’t
matter who you are. Domestic violence
is unacceptable. This law protects all
survivors.
It ensures that our Nation recognizes
domestic violence and sexual assault as
crimes. It provides crucial protections
against domestic violence, dating vio-
lence, sexual assault, and stalking. It
provides survivors with the support
they deserve.
It provides our law enforcement with
everything they need to provide justice
to these survivors, and it sends a clear
message nationwide that our Federal
Government will protect all survivors
and condemn all domestic and sexual
assault offenders.
That is why the reauthorization of
VAWA should not be impacted by the
current debate on our immigration sys-
tem. That debate is for another day
and it is a debate we should have soon
in this Chamber. But I felt it was nec-
essary to offer this amendment to ac-
knowledge that as the House passes
this legislation, it is also in accordance
with the laws already enacted.
Again, this is all this amendment at-
tempts to do. It is important that fund-
ing goes where it is intended. And the
eligibility for VAWA grant funding is
clear in this bill. VAWA is the corner-
stone for safety and justice to sur-
vivors of violence and abuse. Our sole
focus today should be to keep that cor-
nerstone strong.
All of us know a survivor. She may
be our mother, he may be our best
friend. It may be ourselves. We, as a
country, know what to do and we
should do it together. Therefore, I en-
courage my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to support this essential legis-
lation.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, I claim
the time in opposition, although I am
not opposed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Virginia is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. CLINE. Madam Chairwoman, I
would answer the gentlewoman by say-
ing that we are in agreement that do-
mestic violence is a problem, and re-
gardless of who you are in this country,
you deserve protection if you are a vic-
tim of domestic violence. No matter,
woman, man, gay, straight, you de-
serve protection if you are a victim of
domestic violence, and we need to pro-
vide adequate protection.
Unfortunately, this bill does not pro-
vide that protection when you are al-
lowing environments to be created
where victims are at risk of being re-
victimized, whether it is through the
legal process, or through the shelter
process. We have problems with this
bill overall. But I commend the gentle-
woman for her amendment, because it
does ensure that the laws regarding im-
migration in this country are complied
with.
I wish that we had gone further. I of-
fered an amendment on another bill at
committee to ensure that ICE was no-
tified whenever an illegal immigrant
committed a crime involving a firearm
so that they could be deported quicker.
I wish that that had been attempted in
this legislation as well. ICE deserves to
be notified when someone is convicted
of a crime of domestic violence if that
defendant is illegal.
So while we could not go further, I
thank the gentlewoman for offering the
amendment. I do not oppose it, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Madam Chairwoman, I yield 1 minute
to the gentlewoman from California
(Ms. PELOSI), the Speaker of the House.
Ms. PELOSI. Madam Chairwoman, I
thank the gentlewoman for her leader-
ship in presenting the important
amendment to the Violence Against
Women Act. I thank the distinguished
chairman of the committee for his
leadership in bringing this VAWA reau-
thorization to the floor. I commend
KAREN BASS, the author of the legisla-
tion, the chair of the subcommittee of
jurisdiction, and I want to recognize
and acknowledge the work of Congress-
woman SHEILA JACKSON LEE over the
years in terms of ending violence
against women.
Again, we take an oath to protect the
American people. Nearly 25 years ago,
Congress honored that oath when we
enacted the bipartisan Violence
Against Women Act. It united our com-
munities and our country in a fight
against domestic violence in America.
Today, we honor that oath once more
by passing strong, bipartisan, long-
term VAWA reauthorization that will
save lives.
Again, I want to salute KAREN BASS,
a champion for women’s safety and se-
curity as chair of the Judiciary Sub-
committee on Crime, Terrorism, Home-
land Security, and Investigations, and
the many champions of VAWA in the
Congress who have made today pos-
sible. Again, I acknowledge Congress-
woman JACKSON LEE.
We thank all of the survivors, vic-
tims, and advocates who have shown
the generosity of spirit to tell their
stories. Nothing is more eloquent or ef-
fective than the stories which show
that this is not a legislative fight or an
issues fight. It is a personal fight about
America’s families.
I commend Congresswoman TORRES
SMALL for this important amendment
that recognizes and ensures that all
provisions of the bill comply with cur-
rent immigration law. This isn’t a bill
about immigration, but I wanted to
make that assertion, and I thank the
gentlewoman, Congresswoman TORRES
SMALL for this amendment.
We are pleased that the bill is bipar-
tisan. There should be nothing partisan
or political about ending the scourge of
domestic violence and sexual assault,
which one in three women faces today.
Madam Chairwoman, with this bill,
we are reinforcing what we did 25 years
ago, and what we did in 2013. We are
making it stronger with the legislation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.007 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3075
April 4, 2019
today, with lifesaving updates that re-
flect the voices of victims and sur-
vivors and the input of experts.
With this bill, we are empowering
law enforcement and making new in-
vestments in prevention. We are im-
proving lifesaving services to victims
of domestic violence, dating violence,
sexual assault, and stalking. We are
supporting survivors with protections
against discrimination in the work-
place and supporting their financial se-
curity.
We are closing dangerous loopholes
in our laws that right now allow those
who have been convicted of stalking or
dating violence to obtain firearms.
These are commonsense reforms that
will save lives and that no one should
object to.
We are strengthening protections for
Native American women because every
woman everywhere has the right to
live free from abuse. We thank the In-
dian Country and the Native American
women for their input on this. And
aren’t we blessed now to have for the
first time in American history, two Na-
tive American women serving in the
Congress of the United States: Con-
gresswoman SHARICE DAVIDS from Kan-
sas, and Congresswoman DEB HAALAND
from New Mexico, and they have al-
ready made their presence felt.
This bill has historically been bipar-
tisan. We urge all Members to join us
in a strong bipartisan vote for this bill,
which honors our oath, upholds our
values, and saves lives. Again, I urge a
‘‘yes’’ vote.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Madam Chairwoman, I yield 1 minute
to the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER).
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chairwoman, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
I rise in support of the gentle-
woman’s amendment. Representative
TORRES SMALL’S amendment makes it
clear that nothing in this bill impacts
or changes any obligations or require-
ments to comply with our immigration
laws.
This amendment alleviates any po-
tential concern or confusion about the
intent of this legislation. It makes
clear that the bill does not change any
immigration law, nor does it affect any
of the immigration obligations and re-
quirements under current law. It is
that simple, and I urge all of my col-
leagues to support it.
Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico.
Madam Chair, I thank the chairman;
the authors of this bill, Representative
BASS and Representative FITZPATRICK;
and the tireless advocates who have
worked to bring this bill to the floor
today for the safety and justice of all
survivors of violence and abuse.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, please sup-
port this bill, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New Mexico (Ms.
TORRES SMALL).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from New Mexico will
be postponed.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Chair, I move
that the committee do now rise.
The motion was agreed to.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
TORRES SMALL of New Mexico) having
assumed the chair, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Acting Chair of the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the
Union, reported that that Committee,
having had under consideration the bill
(H.R. 1585) to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994, and for
other purposes, had come to no resolu-
tion thereon.
f
b 0945
DIRECTING THE REMOVAL OF
UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES
FROM HOSTILITIES IN THE RE-
PUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CON-
GRESS
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, pursu-
ant to House Resolution 274, I call up
the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 7) to di-
rect the removal of United States
Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been
authorized by Congress, and ask for its
immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN). Pursuant to House
Resolution 274, the joint resolution is
considered read.
The text of the joint resolution is as
follows:
S.J. RES. 7
Resolved by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) Congress has the sole power to declare
war under article I, section 8, clause 11 of the
United States Constitution.
(2) Congress has not declared war with re-
spect to, or provided a specific statutory au-
thorization for, the conflict between mili-
tary forces led by Saudi Arabia, including
forces from the United Arab Emirates, Bah-
rain, Kuwait, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Sen-
egal, and Sudan (the Saudi-led coalition),
against the Houthis, also known as Ansar
Allah, in the Republic of Yemen.
(3) Since March 2015, members of the
United States Armed Forces have been intro-
duced into hostilities between the Saudi-led
coalition and the Houthis, including pro-
viding to the Saudi-led coalition aerial tar-
geting assistance, intelligence sharing, and
mid-flight aerial refueling.
(4) The United States has established a
Joint Combined Planning Cell with Saudi
Arabia, in which members of the United
States Armed Forces assist in aerial tar-
geting and help to coordinate military and
intelligence activities.
(5) In December 2017, Secretary of Defense
James N. Mattis stated, ‘‘We have gone in to
be very—to be helpful where we can in iden-
tifying how you do target analysis and how
you make certain you hit the right thing.’’.
(6) The conflict between the Saudi-led coa-
lition and the Houthis constitutes, within
the meaning of section 4(a) of the War Pow-
ers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1543(a)), either hos-
tilities or a situation where imminent in-
volvement in hostilities is clearly indicated
by the circumstances into which United
States Armed Forces have been introduced.
(7) Section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolu-
tion (50 U.S.C. 1544(c)) states that ‘‘at any
time that United States Armed Forces are
engaged in hostilities outside the territory
of the United States, its possessions and ter-
ritories without a declaration of war or spe-
cific statutory authorization, such forces
shall be removed by the President if the Con-
gress so directs’’.
(8) Section 8(c) of the War Powers Resolu-
tion (50 U.S.C. 1547(c)) defines the introduc-
tion of United States Armed Forces to in-
clude ‘‘the assignment of members of such
armed forces to command, coordinate, par-
ticipate in the movement of, or accompany
the regular or irregular military forces of
any foreign country or government when
such military forces are engaged, or there
exists an imminent threat that such forces
will become engaged, in hostilities,’’ and ac-
tivities that the United States is conducting
in support of the Saudi-led coalition, includ-
ing aerial refueling and targeting assistance,
fall within this definition.
(9) Section 1013 of the Department of State
Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1984 and 1985
(50 U.S.C. 1546a) provides that any joint reso-
lution or bill to require the removal of
United States Armed Forces engaged in hos-
tilities without a declaration of war or spe-
cific statutory authorization shall be consid-
ered in accordance with the expedited proce-
dures of section 601(b) of the International
Security and Arms Export Control Act of
1976 (Public Law 94–329; 90 Stat. 765).
(10) No specific statutory authorization for
the use of United States Armed Forces with
respect to the conflict between the Saudi-led
coalition and the Houthis in Yemen has been
enacted, and no provision of law explicitly
authorizes the provision of targeting assist-
ance or of midair refueling services to war-
planes of Saudi Arabia or the United Arab
Emirates that are engaged in such conflict.
SEC. 2. REMOVAL OF UNITED STATES ARMED
FORCES FROM HOSTILITIES IN THE
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CON-
GRESS.
Pursuant to section 1013 of the Department
of State Authorization Act, Fiscal Years 1984
and 1985 (50 U.S.C. 1546a) and in accordance
with the provisions of section 601(b) of the
International Security Assistance and Arms
Export Control Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–
329; 90 Stat. 765), Congress hereby directs the
President to remove United States Armed
Forces from hostilities in or affecting the
Republic of Yemen, except United States
Armed Forces engaged in operations directed
at al Qaeda or associated forces, by not later
than the date that is 30 days after the date
of the enactment of this joint resolution (un-
less the President requests and Congress au-
thorizes a later date), and unless and until a
declaration of war or specific authorization
for such use of United States Armed Forces
has been enacted. For purposes of this reso-
lution, in this section, the term ‘‘hostilities’’
includes in-flight refueling of non-United
States aircraft conducting missions as part
of the ongoing civil war in Yemen.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.011 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3076 April 4, 2019
SEC. 3. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING
CONTINUED MILITARY OPERATIONS
AND COOPERATION WITH ISRAEL.
Nothing in this joint resolution shall be
construed to influence or disrupt any mili-
tary operations and cooperation with Israel.
SEC. 4. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING IN-
TELLIGENCE SHARING.
Nothing in this joint resolution may be
construed to influence or disrupt any intel-
ligence, counterintelligence, or investigative
activities relating to threats in or ema-
nating from Yemen conducted by, or in con-
junction with, the United States Govern-
ment involving—
(1) the collection of intelligence;
(2) the analysis of intelligence; or
(3) the sharing of intelligence between the
United States and any coalition partner if
the President determines such sharing is ap-
propriate and in the national security inter-
ests of the United States.
SEC. 5. REPORT ON RISKS POSED BY CEASING
SAUDI ARABIA SUPPORT OPER-
ATIONS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this joint resolution, the Presi-
dent shall submit to Congress a report as-
sessing the risks posed to United States citi-
zens and the civilian population of Saudi
Arabia and the risk of regional humanitarian
crises if the United States were to cease sup-
port operations with respect to the conflict
between the Saudi-led coalition and the
Houthis in Yemen.
SEC. 6. REPORT ON INCREASED RISK OF TER-
RORIST ATTACKS TO UNITED
STATES ARMED FORCES ABROAD,
ALLIES, AND THE CONTINENTAL
UNITED STATES IF SAUDI ARABIA
CEASES YEMEN-RELATED INTEL-
LIGENCE SHARING WITH THE
UNITED STATES.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this joint resolution, the Presi-
dent shall submit to Congress a report as-
sessing the increased risk of terrorist at-
tacks on United States Armed Forces
abroad, allies, and to the continental United
States if the Government of Saudi Arabia
were to cease Yemen-related intelligence
sharing with the United States.
SEC. 7. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION REGARDING NO
AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF MILI-
TARY FORCE.
Consistent with section 8(a)(1) of the War
Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1547(a)(1)),
nothing in this joint resolution may be con-
strued as authorizing the use of military
force.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
joint resolution shall be debatable for 1
hour, equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
The gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) and the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. MCCAUL) each will control 30 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on S.J. Res.
7.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, it is a little sur-
prising that we find ourselves back on
the floor debating this resolution.
After all, it has already passed both
Chambers with bipartisan support. It
has passed the Senate twice.
Opponents of this measure have used
every trick in the book to slow it
down, to try and derail it, but we have
reached the last page in that book, and
I am confident that after we vote
today, this resolution will head to the
President’s desk, and the President
will have to face the reality that Con-
gress is no longer going to ignore its
constitutional obligations when it
comes to foreign policy and when it
comes to determining when and where
our military is engaged in hostilities.
We are taking up this resolution be-
cause we see a policy from this admin-
istration that has strayed from our
values and a crisis that demands moral
leadership, which is the war in Yemen.
I fully understand America’s security
concerns in Yemen. I appreciate the
complexities of our interests in the re-
gion. The Houthis are trouble. They
launch missiles and armed UAVs into
Saudi territory and international
waters, and that is a direct threat to
Americans. They are starving the Yem-
eni people, diverting assistance, and
holding civilians hostage to their polit-
ical demands.
The Houthis are one of the groups
Iran uses to drive instability and gain
influence. We all know what a serious
threat Iran poses in the region. The re-
gime is the world’s prolific state spon-
sor of terrorism, so it is important that
we push back against Iran and those
who depend on Iranian support.
But the Saudi-led coalition’s re-
sponse has not grappled with this prob-
lem in a responsible way, in a way de-
signed to minimize damage to civilians
and the communities where they live,
and in a way that could help bring
about a political solution to this crisis.
Instead, time after time after time,
coalition strikes have resulted in the
loss of innocent life, and the violence
has set off ripple effects that have con-
tributed to the worst humanitarian cri-
sis in the world.
Madam Speaker, 85,000 children have
starved to death and 14 million are on
the brink of famine. More than 1 mil-
lion suffer from cholera, and just last
week, the coalition reportedly bombed
a hospital run by Save the Children.
In the face of this catastrophe, the
administration has demanded no ac-
countability from the Saudis and
Emiratis. But Congress won’t remain
silent.
This brings us, once again, to the res-
olution we are now considering. This
measure would specifically ban aerial
refueling of warplanes carrying out air-
strikes. The Defense Department has
stopped refueling as a matter of policy.
This measure would do so as a matter
of law.
The Defense Department also says
that the United States is not engaged
in hostilities when it comes to this
war. Well, the Defense Department is
entitled to its opinion, but Congress is
a coequal branch of government, and
only we say when the United States is
at war. We don’t look to the executive
branch to explain the war powers that
reside in this body or for permission to
exercise that power, the power the
Framers gave to Congress.
This measure is written very nar-
rowly, so it won’t tie the hands of the
executive branch or set new precedents
or cause unintended consequences
when it comes to our other security
agreements around the world.
It does nothing to expand or modify
the authority provided under the Au-
thorization for Use of Military Force
this body passed in 2001. Instead, it fo-
cuses on this particular tragedy and
sends the message that enough is
enough, that Congress will no longer
abdicate its responsibility when it
comes to foreign policy, and that we
will push to make sure our values are
at the core of how the United States
conducts itself around the world.
This resolution is rooted in those val-
ues: respect for human rights, for
human dignity, and for the belief that
all people should be able to live free of
fear, oppression, and violence.
I hope the President understands
that; and if he uses his veto pen, I hope
he understands just what it is he is
vetoing.
Let me thank Mr. KHANNA for his
hard work and leadership on the reso-
lution we are considering today.
I also want to thank our ranking
member on the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee, Mr. MCCAUL. We have an hon-
est disagreement on this one, but he
has consistently and forthrightly made
his case on the policy. I am grateful to
all my colleagues who have contributed
so much to this important debate.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, let me first say, at
the outset, that the chairman and I
work very closely together. There is a
recent article that said that Chairman
ELIOT ENGEL and Ranking Member
MCCAUL forge a rare bipartisan bond,
and I think that is the way we like to
conduct this committee. It is a na-
tional security committee, and it needs
to be bipartisan. However, as the chair-
man mentioned, there are times when
we do have policy differences, but we
do have respect in those differences.
We did take this up on the floor sev-
eral weeks ago. I did oppose it then,
and I oppose it for the same reasons
today, most importantly, because the
resolution uses the war powers mecha-
nisms to direct the removal of U.S.
troops from hostilities.
The problem is there are no U.S.
Forces to remove, and the basic
premise of this resolution is that some-
how we have forces in Yemen that need
to be removed that are engaged in hos-
tilities. As the Department of Defense
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.009 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3077
April 4, 2019
has repeatedly confirmed, no United
States Forces are conducting hos-
tilities against the Houthis in Yemen.
This resolution abuses a war powers
tool to get at a completely different se-
curity assistance issue which Congress
already has clear tools to address. If
Members want to condition or cut off
U.S. security assistance to Saudi Ara-
bia, then bring forward a bill to do just
that.
But this resolution does nothing to
address the humanitarian crisis in
Yemen. It does nothing to secure jus-
tice for the heinous murder of Jamal
Khashoggi. It does not even make real
decisions on U.S. security assistance to
Saudi Arabia. The only thing it ad-
dresses clearly is the midair refueling
of coalition aircraft, ended in Novem-
ber of 2018, which is not in danger of re-
starting.
Meanwhile, this resolution stretches
the definition of war powers hostilities
to cover non-U.S. military operations
by other countries. Specifically, it re-
interprets U.S. support to these coun-
tries as ‘‘engagement in hostilities.’’
This radical reinterpretation has im-
plications far beyond Saudi Arabia.
This precedent will empower any single
Member to use privileged war powers
procedures to force congressional ref-
erendums that could disrupt U.S. secu-
rity cooperation agreements with more
than 100 countries around the world.
Just days after Israel was forced to
respond to rocket attacks from Gaza, I
believe this would be a dangerous
precedent to legitimize this abuse of
process.
It could also be used to call into
question our commitments to NATO
members. Let me remind my col-
leagues that we are celebrating NATO’s
70th anniversary this week, as we saw
the Secretary of NATO address a joint
session of Congress.
Finally, this one-sided resolution
completely ignores the destructive role
of the Houthis and their backers in
Tehran. The Houthis violently over-
threw the Government of Yemen. They
are attacking Saudi Arabia with weap-
ons they got from Iran in violation of
the U.N. Security Council resolutions.
They have killed Saudi civilians and
endangered many Americans living
there.
Human Rights Watch accused the
Houthis of taking hostages and tor-
turing detainees. The United Nations
says the Houthis use civilian human
shields. The World Food Program has
criticized them for illegally stealing
urgently needed food aid. The Houthis
have targeted ships in the Red Sea.
These realities are ignored in the
text of this resolution. The only im-
pact this resolution will have on the
Houthis will be to encourage them.
In addition, Madam Speaker, this is
very important because, since the last
time we debated this on the floor, the
Houthis engaged in a propaganda out-
let, supported by Hezbollah, actively
touting this very resolution online.
They used our debate on the floor of
the Congress to advance their propa-
ganda, a proxy of Iran and Yemen.
This is what we are doing here today.
I would submit, Madam Speaker, that
is very dangerous. It is dangerous, and
I believe it is reckless.
This will weaken the hand of the
U.N. Special Envoy, as well, to Yemen,
whose efforts currently represent the
best hope we have of bringing a nego-
tiated end to this conflict and ending
the suffering of the people of Yemen.
So, for these reasons, I continue to
oppose this pro-Iran, pro-Houthi reso-
lution. I hope that my colleagues will
join me in voting against it, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
21⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. DOGGETT).
Mr. DOGGETT. Madam Speaker, the
blood of innocents stains this Trump
administration. And while the Trump
family pals around with Saudi mur-
derers, that blood continues to flow in
the world’s worst humanitarian dis-
aster. Only last week, four years after
the first Saudi assault on Yemen, they
killed another group of children at a
hospital, apparently with American
bombs.
Just as the Trump administration
has aided and abetted war crimes in
Yemen, this Congress has aided and
abetted the Trump administration in
avoiding any accountability.
Last year, Republicans blocked any
consideration of a bipartisan Senate
resolution to stop U.S. involvement in
this war. Most recently, these folks
used a devious motion to recommit,
whose real purpose was not the very
worthy goal of condemning anti-Semi-
tism, but the sole purpose was to ob-
struct this resolution and ensure it
never became adopted by Congress.
Today, we must reject any such mo-
tion—no matter how worthy it may be,
it can be dealt with in other legisla-
tion—in order to halt all American in-
volvement in this travesty.
We are talking about our relations
with the Saudis. You know those folks,
Madam Speaker. They are the ones
with the leader with the bone saw to
dismember an opponent and who tor-
tures women for asserting their rights.
Hearts do break for those who are
lost and tortured, but until we break
with the Saudis in Yemen, the bomb-
ing, the starvation, the disease, and
the slaughter will continue.
Months, years, hundreds of small
graves ago, this Congress should have
done its job. Today is a moment of
moral clarity, a moment for this
Chamber to act as the Constitution re-
quires: to weigh war and peace and, for
once, to extract ourselves from a war
we did not start and to find a way to
make peace the victor.
We can finally place a clean War
Powers Act resolution directly on
President Trump’s desk, and do so
today. Let us do what is right, and let
us do so before more young lives are
destroyed.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LEE).
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, first of all, let me thank
Chairman ENGEL for yielding and also
for his leadership.
Also, I want to just mention Con-
gressmen KHANNA, POCAN, and MCGOV-
ERN. I want to also thank them in addi-
tion to Chairman ENGEL for bringing
this critical measure to the floor.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of S.J. Res. 7, which, of course, is
a joint resolution directing the re-
moval of U.S. Armed Forces from hos-
tilities in Yemen.
This critical resolution, which we are
taking now for the second time this
Congress, would end America’s uncon-
stitutional participation in the war in
Yemen.
Since 2015, the United States has par-
ticipated in the Saudi-led military
campaign in Yemen without authoriza-
tion from Congress. We have helped
create and worsen the world’s greatest
and largest humanitarian crisis.
Madam Speaker, 22.2 million Yem-
enis—that is 75 percent of the popu-
lation—needs humanitarian assistance.
b 1000
At least 85,000 children under the age
of 5—85,000—have died from war-related
hunger and disease.
Our involvement in this war is
shameful. That is why this bipartisan
and bicameral measure to end the
United States’ unconstitutional role in
this war is so important.
Yes, Madam Speaker, I voted against
that 2001 resolution, because I knew it
was open-ended and would set the stage
for endless wars. It was a blank check.
We see this once again today in Yemen.
We must repeal this 2001 blank check
for endless wars.
Over the past 18 years, we have seen
the executive branch use this AUMF
time and time again. It is a blank
check to wage war without congres-
sional oversight.
It is past time for Congress to re-
assert our Constitutional duty to de-
bate on matters of war and peace, and
it is past time to end this illegal, hor-
rific war in Yemen.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ and to support
this bipartisan bill to end the United
States’ role in Yemen.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
21⁄2 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman from New York
and the gentleman from Texas. We may
have some agreements because, frank-
ly, I think there is not one person on
this floor, in this House and in the Sen-
ate, who does not believe that there
has been enormous violence in Yemen.
I have been to Yemen. I want to go
back. I know that it is, if not the poor-
est, one of the poorest nations in the
world. The children are suffering.
There is a humanitarian crisis.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.015 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3078 April 4, 2019
If the United States should be en-
gaged in any aspect of this, let our
presence loom large in a humanitarian
way.
I think it is important to remind my
colleagues of the vicious bombing of an
innocent school bus where 40 children
died and any number of other
incidences where children were in-
volved and died.
Now, these children are suffering
from malnutrition and are dying from
lack of access to healthcare, as well as
no food. We can be a major force, the
United States, in providing that hu-
manitarian aid.
But this is a resolution already
passed by the other body, the Senate,
that indicates that, if we are to be en-
gaged in a war, there must be a debate
under the Constitution about taking
Americans into war. Because the
Americans who offer their sons and
daughters clearly are sacrificing. And
those who put on the uniform—and we
thank them—are willing to sacrifice
their lives.
This is a conflict between the Saudis
and Houthis. It is a violence that is
going to go on and on. And if we are to
prop them up—the Saudis—they will
never stop. They will never seek rec-
onciliation. They will never stop kill-
ing the babies because of an ‘‘acci-
dent,’’ they declared: It was a mistake.
We don’t know how it happened.
We cannot allow Yemeni children, or
any children, to be in the line of fire.
So, this resolution indicates that the
Congress must make a determinative,
if you will, assessment and engagement
through the War Powers Act and its
powers to declare war under the Con-
stitution.
Frankly, I believe that this is a
must-pass resolution. It must be signed
immediately, and can be signed, by the
President of the United States, and we
can begin to, in an effective manner,
withdraw troops and provide humani-
tarian aid to save the lives of children.
Madam Speaker, I support the resolu-
tion, and I thank the Senate for send-
ing it to us. We should vote on it and
pass it now.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from
Michigan (Mr. LEVIN).
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Speaker, I thank the chairman for his
leadership on this, and I really want to
thank Representative RO KHANNA for
his continued, steadfast efforts to end
this situation.
So, I strongly urge my colleagues to
support this resolution and finally end
U.S. involvement in the Saudi-led war
in Yemen.
If we fail to act today, if we let one
more opportunity to end these horrors
pass us by, we are telling the world we
are okay with another day in which in-
nocent civilians are killed; another day
that nearly 20 million people go with-
out basic healthcare, and even more in
need of emergency food aid; another
day that a child must battle illnesses
that could easily have been prevented,
if not for this crisis happening on our
watch.
We have an opportunity, as Members
of this body, Republicans and Demo-
crats, to tackle the difficult problems
and have the debates that others have
ignored for too long. This is one of
those problems. And this is one of
those moments that makes me opti-
mistic that the tide is finally turning.
I want to thank the chairman for
making this a top priority. It is long
past time for Congress to reassert its
role, our role, in foreign policy and ex-
ercise our Constitutional duty.
Seeing the level of suffering in
Yemen, we cannot wait one more day
to do it. I urge my colleagues to sup-
port this resolution.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
11⁄2 minutes to the gentleman from
California (Mr. KHANNA), who has been
so instrumental in bringing everyone
together to make a change in policy
that is much needed.
Mr. KHANNA. Madam Speaker, I
want to thank the chairman for his
leadership and his entire staff’s leader-
ship for getting us to this point. Let
me be very clear. If it weren’t for
Chairman ENGEL, we would not have
this vote on the floor today.
My motivation for this bill is very
simple. I don’t want to see 14 million
Yemenis starve to death. That is what
Martin Griffith had said at the U.N.,
that if the Saudis don’t stop their
blockade and let food and medicine in,
within 6 months we will see one of the
greatest humanitarian crises in the
world.
That should be a bipartisan issue,
that this Congress speak with a moral
voice that food and medicine should
get to civilians.
Now, as Chairman ENGEL knows, and
others know, I am not for the BDS
movement. I have supported very
strongly resolutions condemning anti-
Semitism. But I also don’t think that
these tactics should be used as weapons
to prevent efforts to stop the greatest
humanitarian crisis in the world. That
is insulting. It is insulting.
Those issues should be voted on sepa-
rately, and I will proudly vote, when
the time comes, against the BDS ef-
forts.
Madam Speaker, I want to, with
that, thank again Chairman ENGEL,
Representative MCGOVERN, Speaker
PELOSI, and Majority Leader HOYER
and their teams for getting us to this
point.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. SCHIFF).
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding, and
I rise in strong support of S.J. Res. 7
invoking the War Powers Resolution to
withdraw U.S. military support for the
Gulf coalition in Yemen.
For 4 years, the war in Yemen has
ground on, killing tens of thousands of
Yemeni civilians, and putting millions
at imminent risk of starvation and
deprivation.
The cause of the war is complicated
and has much to do with Iran’s malign
influence.
But our interest today is not in de-
bating the blame for the war, but in
bringing it to an end. That is why I
urge all Members to support this reso-
lution, because it is in our interest
and, above all, in the interest of the
Yemeni people to end the war.
U.S. military support for the Saudi
coalition has not prevented civilian
suffering, and it is my hope that, by
withdrawing our support, we will make
clear that a diplomatic resolution is
the only resolution to the conflict.
Madam Speaker, I urge support for
this resolution. I urge Members to op-
pose any motion to commit, which
would have the effect of killing this
bill and prolonging the world’s worst
humanitarian crisis.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
As I close, I include in the RECORD a
statement of administration policy
issued on Monday.
STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
S.J. RES. 7—DIRECTING THE PRESIDENT TO RE-
MOVE UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES FROM
HOSTILITIES IN THE REPUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT
HAVE NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CONGRESS—
SEN. SANDERS, I–VT AND 19 COSPONSORS
The Administration strongly opposes pas-
sage of S.J. Res. 7, a joint resolution that
purports to direct the President to remove
United States forces from hostilities in or af-
fecting the Republic of Yemen, with certain
exceptions.
The premise of the joint resolution is
flawed. Since 2015, the United States has pro-
vided limited support to member countries
of the Saudi-led coalition, including intel-
ligence sharing, logistics support, and, until
recently, aerial refueling, to assist in the de-
fense of United States allies and partners.
The provision of this support has not caused
United States forces to be introduced into
hostilities. Such support is provided pursu-
ant to licenses and approvals under the Arms
Export Control Act, statutory authorities
for Department of Defense to provide logis-
tics support to foreign countries, and the
President’s constitutional powers. Because
the President has directed United States
forces to support the Saudi-led coalition
under his constitutional powers, the joint
resolution would raise serious constitutional
concerns to the extent it seeks to override
the President’s determination as Com-
mander in Chief.
In addition to its erroneous premise, the
joint resolution would harm bilateral rela-
tionships in the region, negatively affect our
ability to prevent the spread of violent ex-
tremist organizations—such as al-Qa’ida in
the Arabian Peninsula and ISIS in Yemen—
and establish bad precedent for future legis-
lation by defining ‘‘hostilities’’ to include
defense cooperation such as aerial refueling
for purposes of this legislation. While we ap-
preciate that sections 5 and 6 of the resolu-
tion acknowledge these serious consequences
to some extent, after-the-fact reporting is
not an effective means to mitigate them. Our
continued cooperation with regional partner
nations allows the United States to support
diplomatic negotiations to end the conflict,
promote humanitarian access, mitigate ci-
vilian casualties, enhance efforts to recover
United States hostages in Yemen, and defeat
terrorists who seek to harm the United
States.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.017 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3079
April 4, 2019
If S.J. Res. 7 were presented to the Presi-
dent, his senior advisors would recommend
he veto the joint resolution.
Mr. MCCAUL. Madam Speaker, it
really, basically, states yet again that
the fundamental premise of this resolu-
tion is flawed, because U.S. forces are
not engaged in hostilities against the
Houthis in Yemen, which is what the
War Powers Act requires.
If we want to cut off economic assist-
ance or logistic assistance, security as-
sistance to Saudi, there is a way to do
that, but it is not through the War
Powers Act.
I think it is unfortunate that we
couldn’t work that out, but I think we
are using the wrong vehicle here. I
think this confrontation abuses the
War Powers process, and we need to
protect the integrity of the War Pow-
ers Act that Congress, in its wisdom,
passed.
Also, what worries me is the resolu-
tion stays silent on the role of Iran. It
does not condemn the Houthis, who are
responsible for the killings. It tells
them both to press on. It also under-
mines the peace negotiations going on,
as I speak. The U.S. envoy is working
with the full support of the United
States to negotiate a political end to
this conflict.
Getting all parties to the table has
taken substantial pressure, which I be-
lieve this resolution would relieve.
Again, I think the fact that the
Houthis are using this resolution as
propaganda to advance their cause is
concerning and disturbing.
The other side cannot tell us specifi-
cally what assistance this resolution
would cut off. What I can say for sure
is that this resolution says to the
Houthis and to Iran to keep going, be-
cause you can gain more ground.
It only emboldens the rebels who vio-
lently overthrew Yemen’s government
and the radical regime that backs
them. That would be Iran.
So I think this resolution would set a
dangerous precedent with respect to
the War Powers Act, a dangerous, dam-
aging policy. Once again, Madam
Speaker, I urge my colleagues to vote
against it, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
In closing, let me say this. Everyone
who knows me knows that I hold Iran
guilty to many nefarious things that
are happening in that region. This is
not really about Iran. Iran is providing
dangerous weapons to the Houthis, and
the Houthis have starved the Yemeni
people, killed civilians, and diverted
assistance. I am not here to defend the
Houthis.
The Saudis do have legitimate con-
cerns about the Houthis, and the
Houthis are not my vision of good and
righteous. Quite the opposite.
But this resolution doesn’t empower
Iran. Quite the opposite. The longer
the conflict goes on, and the longer the
United States supports it, the better
off Iran is.
We are really doing two things here.
We are saying to the administration—
and I, frankly, would say this, given
my experience over the past two dec-
ades—to any administration. There is
no blank check for war. We have abro-
gated our responsibility in the years
that I have been here—and I am as
guilty as anyone—by allowing adminis-
tration after administration after ad-
ministration to conduct wars that this
body should have voted on.
Only Congress can declare war. And
if we ignore what is happening with the
civilian population in this war with the
Houthis, then we do so at our own
peril. We then say that, because Saudi
Arabia does have legitimate concerns—
and they do—we are giving them a
blank check to do whatever they want.
b 1015
No blank checks anymore. No blank
checks to say the administration can
run wars without getting the approval
of Congress. And no blank checks to in-
discriminately bomb and have innocent
civilians and schoolchildren in buses be
killed, and people starving in a human-
itarian crisis.
We can’t just sit back and say: ‘‘Well,
you know, we have difficulties with
Iran, so we are going to look the other
way.’’ I have lots of difficulties with
Iran, but we can’t look the other way
when people are starving or when peo-
ple are being killed. That is what we
are doing now.
So we are doing two things. We are
saying no more war in which we are
complicit, where a population is whole-
sale starving. We are also saying that
this body is not giving a blank check
to every administration. And I would
be doing this no matter who the Presi-
dent of the United States was.
We need to reclaim our authority. We
have fought in war after war after war.
As everyone knows, we haven’t de-
clared war since before all of us were
born, since December 7, 1941, when
President Roosevelt stood up right
here and declared war. That was the
last time.
I hope this will be the start of Con-
gress taking back its constitutional
power, not for the sake of having a
fight with the executive branch, but for
the sake of doing what we are supposed
to do.
Congress has the power to declare
war. Congress has the power to say
what we do when it comes to war. We
are taking that back today. We are
saying that America will not be
complicit in the wholesale beating
down of civilian populations and look-
ing the other way.
Let me say that again. Iran has
fueled this conflict through its support
for the Houthis, but the longer this
conflict rages, the better it is for Iran.
Iran thrives on every misstep of the
Saudi-led coalition. A vote for this res-
olution is a vote to end the United
States’ involvement in this war, a war
which helps Iran.
Let me say again, for Congress, this
is an important step in reclaiming our
role in foreign policy, by debating
where and when the United States
military is engaged abroad. With the
humanitarian crisis in Yemen, it is
critical that we act now. I urge my col-
leagues to join me in supporting it.
Before I yield back, I want to, again,
tell Mr. MCCAUL that we don’t always
agree on things. I think we agree on
things more than we don’t. But I do ap-
preciate his earnest attempts with me
to try to make foreign policy as bipar-
tisan as we can. I think that is what we
need to do.
We need to show unity in strength. In
unity, there is strength. We are all
Americans. We may disagree from time
to time, but I think we are not going to
be disagreeable. So I thank Mr.
MCCAUL.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in strong support of S.J. Res. 7, which
directs the removal of United States Armed
Forces from hostilities in the Republic of
Yemen that have not been authorized by Con-
gress.
The passage of S.J. Res. 7 would mark the
first time in the 45 years since the enactment
of the War Powers Act that the House of Rep-
resentatives successfully invoked the statute’s
removal mechanism to compel the Executive
Branch to remove American troops from
harm’s way.
I support this resolution because, Congress
has the sole power to declare war under Arti-
cle I, Section 8, Clause 11 of the United
States Constitution.
Madam Speaker, Congress has not de-
clared war with respect to, or provided a spe-
cific statutory authorization for, the conflict be-
tween military forces led by Saudi Arabia, in-
cluding forces from the United Arab Emirates,
Bahrain, Kuwait, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco,
Senegal, and Sudan (the Saudi-led coalition),
against the Houthis, also known as Ansar
Allah, in the Republic of Yemen.
Since March 2015, members of the United
States Armed Forces have been introduced
into hostilities between the Saudi-led coalition
and the Houthis, including providing to the
Saudi-led coalition aerial targeting assistance,
intelligence sharing, and mid-flight aerial re-
fueling.
The United States has established a Joint
Combined Planning Cell with Saudi Arabia, in
which members of the United States Armed
Forces assist in aerial targeting and help to
coordinate military and intelligence activities.
Madam Speaker, the conflict between the
Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis con-
stitutes, within the meaning of Section 4(a) of
the War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C.
1543(a)), either hostilities or a situation where
imminent involvement in hostilities is clearly in-
dicated by the circumstances into which
United States Armed Forces have been intro-
duced.
Section 5(c) of the War Powers Resolution
(50 U.S.C. 1544(c)) states that, ‘‘at any time
that United States Armed Forces are engaged
in hostilities outside the territory of the United
States, its possessions and territories without
a declaration of war or specific statutory au-
thorization, such forces shall be removed by
the President if the Congress so directs.’’
Most importantly, no specific statutory au-
thorization for the use of United States Armed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.003 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3080 April 4, 2019
Forces with respect to the conflict between the
Saudi-led coalition and the Houthis in Yemen
has been enacted.
Also, no provision of law explicitly author-
izes the provision of targeting assistance or of
midair refueling services to warplanes of Saudi
Arabia or the United Arab Emirates that are
engaged in such conflict.
For this reason, the resolution directs that
the President remove United States Armed
Forces from hostilities in or affecting the Re-
public of Yemen, except United States Armed
Forces engaged in operations directed at al-
Qaeda or associated forces, by not later than
the date that is 30 days after the date of the
enactment.
The resolution makes clear that the term
‘‘hostilities’’ includes in-flight refueling, non-
United States aircraft conducting missions as
part of the ongoing civil war in Yemen.
Madam Speaker, Yemen is the largest hu-
manitarian crisis in the world right now. The
Yemen crisis began in the Arab Spring of
2011, when an uprising forced the country’s
long-time authoritarian president, Ali Abdullah
Saleh, to hand over power to his deputy,
Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi.
Since 2015, Saudi Arabia has launched an
estimated 18,000 air strikes on Yemen, attack-
ing hospitals, schools, water treatment plants,
funerals, markets and even farms.
The Saudis also imposed a blockade on
food, fuel and medicine from freely entering
the country in what can only be described as
a deliberate effort to starve the civilian popu-
lation into submission.
More than 14 million Yemenis are steps
away from starvation and at least 85,000 chil-
dren under the age of five have perished from
war-related hunger and disease.
The United States has supported the Saudi
led air campaign with mid-air refueling sup-
port, intelligence and targeting assistance, and
other support.
Yemen is experiencing the world’s worst
famine in 100 years, with 12 million to 13 mil-
lion innocent civilians at risk of dying from the
lack of food within months.
Madam Speaker, too many lives hang in the
balance to allow American involvement in
Yemen war to continue.
I ask all members to join me in supporting
S.J. Res. 37.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the previous
question is ordered on the joint resolu-
tion.
The question is on the third reading
of the joint resolution.
The joint resolution was ordered to
be read a third time, and was read the
third time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 1(c) of rule XIX, further
consideration of S.J. Res. 7 is post-
poned.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess subject to
the call of the Chair.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 18
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
b 1045
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN) at 10
o’clock and 45 minutes a.m.
f
ARMY SPECIALIST THOMAS J.
WILWERTH POST OFFICE BUILD-
ING
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the question on sus-
pending the rules and passing the bill
(H.R. 829) to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service lo-
cated at 1450 Montauk Highway in Mas-
tic, New York, as the ‘‘Army Specialist
Thomas J. Wilwerth Post Office Build-
ing’’.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. CON-
NOLLY) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Ms. HILL of California. Madam
Speaker, on that I demand the yeas
and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 423, nays 0,
not voting 8, as follows:
[Roll No. 151]
YEAS—423
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:55 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.005 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3081
April 4, 2019
NOT VOTING—8
Clark (MA)
Cook
Granger
Kustoff (TN)
McEachin
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
b 1113
Mr. RUSH changed his vote from
‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DIRECTING THE REMOVAL OF
UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES
FROM HOSTILITIES IN THE RE-
PUBLIC OF YEMEN THAT HAVE
NOT BEEN AUTHORIZED BY CON-
GRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
CARSON of Indiana). Pursuant to clause
1(c) of rule XIX, further consideration
of the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 7) to
direct the removal of United States
Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been
authorized by Congress, will now re-
sume.
The Clerk read the title of the joint
resolution.
MOTION TO COMMIT
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I have a
motion to commit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the joint resolu-
tion?
Mr. MCCAUL. I am in its current
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to com-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. McCaul moves to commit the joint res-
olution S.J. Res. 7 to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs with instructions to report the
same back to the House forthwith, with the
following amendment:
At the end of section 1, add the following
new paragraph:
(11) It is in the national security interest
of the United States to condemn and op-
pose—
(A) the Global Boycott, Divestment, and
Sanctions Movement (BDS Movement) tar-
geting Israel, including efforts to target
United States companies that are engaged in
commercial activities that are legal under
United States law; and
(B) all efforts to delegitimize the State of
Israel.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Texas is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, let me
first say that the Yemen resolution be-
fore us here today is pro-Iran and anti-
Israel.
I rise today to offer a motion stating
that it is in the national security in-
terest of the United States to oppose
the global movement to boycott the
State of Israel. This motion will not
kill the joint resolution or send it back
to the committee. If adopted, the reso-
lution will immediately proceed to
final passage.
As we heard from the powerful speech
of the Secretary of NATO yesterday, it
is in our national interest to work with
our allies to counter our shared threats
and promote our shared values.
Since its founding in 1948, the United
States has stood shoulder to shoulder
with Israel against enemies that want
to destroy it.
Let’s be clear about the BDS move-
ment: It is yet another enemy of Israel.
It wants to exclude, isolate, and, ulti-
mately, destroy Israel.
The founder of the BDS movement
has stated: ‘‘We oppose a Jewish state
in any part of Palestine. No Pales-
tinian . . . will ever accept a Jewish
state in Palestine.’’
The BDS movement is not about
equality. It is not about peace. It is
about undermining negotiation be-
tween Israel and the Palestinians, and
it is about placing all of the blame on
one party, and that is Israel.
We do not support a movement that
demands concessions from one party
alone. We do not stand with a move-
ment that seeks to isolate and shame
our strongest ally in the Middle East.
By weakening Israel, the global BDS
movement endangers American secu-
rity. When foreign entities like the
U.N. foster boycotts against Israel,
they are interfering with the United
States’ foreign policy.
The Senate passed a bill, S. 1, in its
wisdom, 2 months ago with over-
whelming bipartisan support to tackle
BDS, better support Israel and Jordan,
and sanction Assad’s brutal regime.
Sadly, the House Democratic leader-
ship won’t let that bill or a House
version of that bill to this floor for a
vote.
Mr. Speaker, I want to close with
this: As the son of a World War II vet-
eran, a B–17 bombardier who bombed
the Nazis and was part of the D-day air
campaign, it saddens me that we are
still struggling here today with the
same issues that the Greatest Genera-
tion defeated.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this motion, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong opposition to this motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Florida is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today with solemn responsibility. I
carry the legacy of the history of the
Jewish people, a history of persecution,
of discrimination, of scapegoating, but
also a history of perseverance and sur-
vival. The embodiment of that perse-
verance is the establishment of the
State of Israel, the home of the Jewish
people.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly condemn the
Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions
movement, economic warfare against
the State of Israel, and there is no one
in this Chamber—no one—who would
question my commitment to opposing
BDS or fighting anti-Semitism or sup-
porting our ally, Israel. But I also
strongly reject what my colleagues are
doing here today.
My colleague, my friend from Texas,
is right. There has been a long and bi-
partisan history of support for Israel,
and it has been so strong because of
that bipartisanship.
This is not a motion to commit about
BDS. We have seen this play out be-
fore. The last time this resolution
came up, my colleagues introduced a
resolution condemning BDS and anti-
Semitism and supporting Israel, and we
all voted for it until it was time to ac-
tually go on the record, and almost
every one of them voted against it.
This is about politics. This is about
trying to drive a wedge into this Cau-
cus where it does not belong. That is
what they are trying to do today.
Mr. Speaker, the Jewish community
also has a history of standing up
against atrocities like the humanity
crisis in Yemen. My colleagues are try-
ing to block us from standing in sup-
port of our human rights and American
values to condemn what is happening
there. That is what this is about. That
is why I am opposed to it, and we
should all oppose it.
I yield to the gentleman from Mary-
land (Mr. HOYER), the majority leader,
for his comments.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I have
taken no backseat to my support for
Israel for half a century. I rise in oppo-
sition to this cynical, political ploy.
We are about to vote on a resolution
concerning U.S. involvement in the
conflict in Yemen and how to promote
an end to a humanitarian crisis in a
country that threatens the lives of 22
million people. They are hungry. They
are displaced. They are scarred by a
war and violence. This resolution is
about them and about what we as a na-
tion can do to put a stop to that con-
flict.
The gentleman is incorrect. The gen-
tleman did not tell us the truth. This
kills this resolution.
In an effort to prevent Congress from
taking action on such an important
issue, however, House Republicans are
trying to make this a vote about some-
thing else; and in doing so, they risk
undermining the long history of bipar-
tisan consensus supporting our ally,
Israel.
How shameful. How sad.
The American people will not be
fooled or misled by this tactic. Our fel-
low supporters of Israel will not be
fooled. No one can accuse me of failing
to defend the U.S.-Israel partnership
and strongly opposing BDS.
Mr. Speaker, I will be voting against
this motion, and I urge all of my col-
leagues to do so as well. I urge every
single one of them to do so.
And I urge every Republican who be-
lieves that using Israel as a partisan
cudgel is dangerous, cynical, and harm-
ful to Israel to join me in voting
against this motion.
Mr. Speaker, none of the major orga-
nizations supporting Israel have any il-
lusions about what this motion seeks
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.006 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3082 April 4, 2019
to do. Its intention is not to unite, but
to divide. Its intention is not to sup-
port our ally, but to sabotage our reso-
lution about the conflict in Yemen.
This vote on this motion is a vote to
kill this joint resolution through a
cynical and dishonest tactic.
So let’s move past this charade of a
motion. Let’s stop playing games with
this very important and serious issue
in support of Israel. Reject ‘‘gotcha’’
politics.
Let me be clear: For as long as I am
majority leader, House Democrats will
never waiver in our party’s steadfast
support for a strong Israel relationship.
Vote ‘‘no.’’
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time.
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRIES
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, I have
a parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, will
the majority leader schedule S. 1, a
vote on this floor with his commitment
to Israel and his commitment to end-
ing BDS?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman has not stated a proper par-
liamentary inquiry.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, fur-
ther parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. MCCARTHY. First, the gen-
tleman did not answer my last. But
this one, Mr. Speaker, parliamentary
inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman was not stating a proper par-
liamentary inquiry.
Mr. MCCARTHY. Mr. Speaker, par-
liamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. MCCARTHY. The minority only
has one ability to bring something to
the floor in an MTR. This body wants
to have a vote on S. 1.
Will the majority leader schedule on
this floor a vote on BDS?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not stating a proper par-
liamentary inquiry.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, as a staunch
supporter of the U.S.-Israel relationship, I am
disgusted by the Republicans’ ongoing at-
tempts to politicize serious issues related to
anti-semitism and support for the U.S.-Israel
partnership. The vast majority of members on
both sides of the aisle in this chamber oppose
BDS. But that’s not what this vote today on
the motion to recommit was really about.
What actually occurred here today was a
political stunt to sink a bill addressing the
world’s worst humanitarian crisis, which is why
I voted against the Motion to Recommit.
Twenty four million—let me repeat: 24 mil-
lion—desperate Yemenis are in need of hu-
manitarian assistance.
Families are displaced. Children are starv-
ing. Lives are in imminent danger.
But instead of working with Democrats to
stop U.S. support for the Saudi and Emirati
coalition that is perpetuating this suffering, Re-
publicans politicized the U.S.-Israel relation-
ship in a vote intended to ensure this bill can-
not pass in the Senate and reach the Presi-
dent’s desk.
We know it would kill the bill, of course, be-
cause the Senate already rejected a similar
measure attached to this bill the first time we
considered it. That measure sought unsuc-
cessfully to create political division among
Democrats based on anti-semitism. It is par-
ticularly heinous to politicize hate given the
rise in all forms of bias-based violence in re-
cent years.
I have consistently worked to combat BDS
and will partner with House leadership to en-
sure that real legislation opposing this divisive
political movement is brought to the House
floor. But I will not give legitimacy to these Re-
publican attempts to threaten bipartisan sup-
port for the U.S.-Israel relationship and leave
millions of men, women, and children in dan-
ger of starvation and death.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to commit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to commit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I demand
a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage. This is a 5-minute
vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 194, noes 228,
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 8, as
follows:
[Roll No. 152]
AYES—194
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luria
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.027 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3083
April 4, 2019
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Gaetz
NOT VOTING—8
Clark (MA)
Cook
Granger
Kustoff (TN)
McEachin
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
b 1136
So the motion to commit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the joint
resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I demand
a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 247, noes 175,
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 9, as
follows:
[Roll No. 153]
AYES—247
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buck
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gosar
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Massie
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pelosi
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—175
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Scalise
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Amash
NOT VOTING—9
Clark (MA)
Cook
Granger
Kustoff (TN)
McEachin
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
Visclosky
b 1145
Mr. POSEY changed his vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the joint resolution was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 281 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the further
consideration of the bill, H.R. 1585.
Will the gentlewoman from New Jer-
sey (Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN) kindly re-
sume the chair.
b 1147
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
further consideration of the bill (H.R.
1585) to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994, and for
other purposes, with Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN (Acting Chair) in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The Acting CHAIR. When the Com-
mittee of the Whole rose earlier today,
a request for a recorded vote on amend-
ment No. 40 printed in part B of House
Report 116–32 offered by the gentle-
woman from New Mexico, Ms. TORRES
SMALL, had been postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 40 OFFERED BY MS. TORRES
SMALL OF NEW MEXICO
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, the unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on the amendment offered by the
gentlewoman from New Mexico (Ms.
TORRES SMALL) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The Acting CHAIR. This is a 2-
minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 425, noes 0,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 154]
AYES—425
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.015 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3084 April 4, 2019
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Norton
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—12
Clark (MA)
Cook
González-Colón
(PR)
Granger
Kustoff (TN)
McEachin
Plaskett
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
Sablan
b 1155
Mr. DUNCAN changed his vote from
‘‘no’’ to ‘‘aye.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 154.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment in the nature of a
substitute, as amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms. DA-
VIDS of Kansas) having assumed the
chair, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Acting
Chair of the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union, re-
ported that that Committee, having
had under consideration the bill (H.R.
1585) to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act of 1994, and for
other purposes, and, pursuant to House
Resolution 281, she reported the bill
back to the House with an amendment
adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment to the amendment re-
ported from the Committee of the
Whole?
If not, the question is on the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute, as
amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I
have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentlewoman opposed to the bill?
Ms. STEFANIK. I am, in its current
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Ms. Stefanik moves to recommit H.R. 1585
to the Committee on the Judiciary with in-
structions to report the same back to the
House forthwith, with the following amend-
ment:
Page 1, strike line 4 and all that follows
and insert the following:
SEC. 2. STOP GRANTS.
Section 1001(a)(18) of the Omnibus Crime
Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (34
U.S.C. 10261(a)(18)), by striking ‘‘through
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 3. GRANTS TO ENCOURAGE ARREST POLI-
CIES AND ENFORCEMENT OF PRO-
TECTION ORDERS.
Section 1001(a)(19) of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10261(a)(19)) is amended by striking
‘‘through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 4. LEGAL ASSISTANCE FOR VICTIMS.
Section 1201(f)(1) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 2000 (34 U.S.C. 20121(f)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 5. GRANTS TO SUPPORT FAMILIES IN THE
JUSTICE SYSTEM.
Section 1301(e) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 2000 (34 U.S.C. 12464(e)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 6. SEX OFFENDER MANAGEMENT.
Section 40152(c) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12311(c)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 7. COURT-APPOINTED SPECIAL ADVOCATE
PROGRAM.
Section 219(a) the Crime Control Act of
1990 (42 U.S.C. 13014(a)) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘through
2020’’.
SEC. 8. RURAL DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING VI-
OLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, STALK-
ING, AND CHILD ABUSE ENFORCE-
MENT ASSISTANCE.
Section 40295(e)(1) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12341(e)(1)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 9. GRANTS FOR ENHANCED TRAINING AND
SERVICES TO END ABUSE LATER IN
LIFE.
Section 40801(b)(5) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12421(b)(5)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 10. CREATING HOPE THROUGH OUTREACH,
OPTIONS, SERVICE, AND EDUCATION
FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH
GRANTS.
Section 41201(f) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12451(f)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 11. GRANTS TO COMBAT VIOLENT CRIMES
ON CAMPUSES.
Section 304(e) of the Violence Against
Women and Department of Justice Reauthor-
ization Act of 2005 (34 U.S.C. 20125(e)) is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:06 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.011 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3085
April 4, 2019
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 12. STUDY CONDUCTED THROUGH THE CEN-
TERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND
PREVENTION.
Section 402(c) of the Violence Against
Women and Department of Justice Reauthor-
ization Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 280b–4(c)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 13. SAVING MONEY AND REDUCING TRAGE-
DIES THROUGH PREVENTION.
Section 41303(f) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12463(f)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 14. ADDRESSING THE HOUSING NEEDS OF
VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC VIOLENCE,
DATING VIOLENCE, SEXUAL AS-
SAULT, AND STALKING.
(a) COLLABORATIVE GRANTS TO INCREASE
THE LONG-TERM STABILITY OF VICTIMS.—Sec-
tion 41404(i) of the Violence Against Women
Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12474(i)) is amended by
striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘through 2020’’.
(b) GRANTS TO COMBAT VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN IN PUBLIC AND ASSISTED HOUSING.—
Section 41405(g) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12475(g)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 15. NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTER ON
WORKPLACE RESPONSES TO ASSIST
VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC AND SEXUAL
VIOLENCE.
Section 41501(e) of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12501(e)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 16. GRANTS FOR TRIBAL JURISDICTION
OVER CRIMES OF DOMESTIC VIO-
LENCE.
Section 204 of Public Law 90–284 (25 U.S.C.
1301 et seq.) (commonly known as the ‘‘In-
dian Civil Rights Act of 1968’’) is amended by
striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 17. ANALYSIS AND RESEARCH ON VIOLENCE
AGAINST INDIAN WOMEN.
Section 905(b)(2) of the Violence Against
Women and Department of Justice Reauthor-
ization Act of 2005 (28 U.S.C. 534 note) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 18. STALKER DATABASE.
Section 40603 of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (34 U.S.C. 12402) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 19. FEDERAL VICTIM ASSISTANCE REAU-
THORIZATION.
Section 40114 of the Violence Against
Women Act of 1994 (Public Law 103–322; 108
Stat. 1910) is amended by striking ‘‘through
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 20. GRANTS FOR STRENGTHENING THE
HEALTHCARE SYSTEM’S RESPONSE
TO DOMESTIC VIOLENCE, DATING
VIOLENCE, SEXUAL ASSAULT, AND
STALKING.
Section 399P(g) of the Public Health Serv-
ice Act (42 U.S.C. 280g–4(g)) is amended by
striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 21. TRAINING AND SERVICES TO END VIO-
LENCE AGAINST PEOPLE WITH DIS-
ABILITIES.
Section 1402(e) of division B of the Victims
of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act
of 2000 (34 U.S.C. 20122(e)) is amended by
striking ‘‘through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 22. SEXUAL ASSAULT SERVICES PROGRAM.
Section 41601(f)(1) of the Violent Crime
Control and Law Enforcement Act of 1994 (34
U.S.C. 12511(f)(1)) is amended by striking
‘‘through 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘through 2020’’.
SEC. 23. RAPE SURVIVOR CHILD CUSTODY.
Section 409 of the Justice for Victims of
Trafficking Act of 2015 (34 U.S.C. 21308) is
amended by striking ‘‘through 2019’’ and in-
serting ‘‘through 2020’’.
Ms. STEFANIK (during the reading).
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent to dispense with the House read-
ing.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from New York?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from New York is recognized
for 5 minutes in support of her motion.
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, in
the United States, 1 in 3 women have
experienced some form of physical vio-
lence by an intimate partner; 1 in 7
women have been injured by an inti-
mate partner; 1 in 10 women have been
raped by an intimate partner; and 1 in
7 women have been stalked.
Let those numbers sink in for a mo-
ment. These are more than just num-
bers. These are our mothers, sisters,
daughters, friends, and colleagues in
this Chamber.
Today’s motion to recommit would
extend the Violence Against Women
Act through 2020 in order to continue
critical services that protect millions
of women, girls, and children across
our country.
I have a proven track record of sup-
porting VAWA, and today I am con-
tinuing the fight by standing up for the
victims and survivors to make sure
their voices are heard.
Last year, I introduced legislation
that would extend the Violence
Against Women Act; and then just last
month, I introduced another bill that
would reauthorize this program.
We all know, in this Chamber, that
the bill Speaker PELOSI has put on the
floor today will not pass the Senate
and be signed into law. However, my
bill, this motion to recommit, could
pass the House, the Senate, and be
signed into law this week.
This extension gives Republicans and
Democrats time to work together to
pass a truly bipartisan, long-term reau-
thorization of VAWA, just as Congress
has done many times before.
Sadly, there has been very little ef-
fort from my Democratic colleagues to
meaningfully engage in a process to re-
authorize VAWA that could pass with
broad bipartisan support.
The Democratic bill, H.R. 1585, was
referred to seven House committees,
but was only reported out of the Judi-
ciary Committee on a party-line vote.
It politicizes VAWA, and could put
women, girls, and children at potential
risk in the future.
Ending violence against women and
protecting women and children should
not be a partisan issue. But, unfortu-
nately, Speaker PELOSI and House
Democrats have made it a partisan
issue. They have refused to work with
Republicans in a meaningful way to re-
authorize the Violence Against Women
Act every chance they got, including
most recently in February during
spending negotiations.
House Democrats are the reason this
law has lapsed, putting lives in jeop-
ardy, and leaving victims, survivors,
and families at risk. Every single
minute that this critical, lifesaving
program goes unauthorized is another
minute that women who need help
can’t get it.
I ask my colleagues today; can we
stop playing political games at the ex-
pense of vulnerable women?
We must. Voting ‘‘yes’’ on this mo-
tion to recommit is the only oppor-
tunity to extend current law. Voting
‘‘no’’ on this motion to recommit
means that you are voting to end the
Violence Against Women Act and, in-
stead, knowingly voting for a partisan
bill that will never see the light of day
in the Senate. This will collect dust in
the Senate.
Once again, the Democratic bill on
the floor today will collect dust in the
Senate. Scoring political points, we
should never prioritize that over the
millions of women and children in this
country.
Let’s pass this clean extension today
to extend the Violence Against Women
Act. Fight for millions of women in
this country. Fight for survivors. Fight
for victims.
I am asking you to vote ‘‘yes’’ on the
motion to recommit, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I
rise in opposition to this motion to re-
commit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from Michigan is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I
have nothing but great respect for my
colleague who offered this; and I do
wish that we could do this together and
not politicize it. But that is exactly
what we are doing.
This motion to recommit would just
totally undermine this bill because it
is a short and incomplete reauthoriza-
tion; and it undermines the Violence
Against Women Act and this important
effort to reauthorize it.
This bill takes out things that have
become so basic, like the Rape Preven-
tion Fund, testing of rape case kits,
which is a horror across this country in
how many haven’t been tested.
It takes away child abuse training.
None of that is in this motion to re-
commit.
And what makes me really sad is
that this bill is one of the most suc-
cessful laws this House has passed. In
the 25 years since it was enacted, vio-
lence against women by a spouse, or an
intimate partner, has dropped by 65
percent. We need to build on that
progress.
Since then, victims, survivors, and
the communities where we live have
relied on the Congress to help provide
resources needed to prevent and inves-
tigate these crimes and to assist sur-
vivors.
I remember what it was like. I re-
member what it was like when you
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:06 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.010 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3086 April 4, 2019
called the police and they didn’t come
because your father was an important
man in town.
I remember what it was like when
someone on our college campus was
raped, and the police came to them and
said: ‘‘It’s your fault’’ and would do
nothing.
And I don’t want anybody in this
House to forget that Michigan State
University, with hundreds of victims,
was only brought to the forefront last
year, when hundreds of victims tried to
tell people something was happening,
and nobody would listen. We cannot go
back to those days. Since the original
passage of this bill, we have learned
from experience and from the unfortu-
nate continued perpetuation of these
crimes.
This House, together, on a bipartisan
basis, we authorized VAWA in 2000,
2005, and 2013. This bill builds on our
progress and success. We must not only
reauthorize it, but make its programs
even more effective, and help survivors
of sexual assault, domestic violence,
and other forms of harm with issues
that they face.
Women are staying in these situa-
tions because they need to go to the
doctor and they can’t afford
healthcare; they can’t find a place to
live; they don’t have economic secu-
rity. These are among the issues that
this bill is trying to address.
This motion to recommit would kill
the bill, and it leaves victims vulner-
able.
I do volunteer work at these domes-
tic—at places where people go for do-
mestic abuse.
Have you talked to anybody there?
Do you know how scared they are be-
cause funding is already being im-
pacted?
Stepping back means looking the
other way when victimization is taking
place; and they are counting on us to
do something. That is why we cannot
undermine this important law.
And I am going to say one other
thing. Do not let the NRA bully you.
This is not a poison pill. The provision
in this bill—don’t forget who I was
married to. John Dingell was on the
NRA board. Hell, he helped start it.
But all this does—we are not taking
away due process. All this does is say
that if someone has been convicted,
convicted, as an intimate partner, that
they would not have access to a gun.
And if someone has been convicted of
stalking—
You know what I would say to all of
you?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman from Michi-
gan has expired.
Members are reminded to address
their remarks to the Chair.
Without objection, the previous ques-
tion is ordered on the motion to recom-
mit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I
demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, the Chair
will reduce to 5 minutes the minimum
time for any electronic vote on the
question of passage.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 185, noes 237,
not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 155]
AYES—185
Abraham
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—237
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Roby
Rogers (AL)
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—9
Clark (MA)
Cook
Granger
Kustoff (TN)
Long
McEachin
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
b 1216
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I demand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 263, noes 158,
answered ‘‘present’’ 1, not voting 9, as
follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:06 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.036 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3087
April 4, 2019
[Roll No. 156]
AYES—263
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Balderson
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Burchett
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCaul
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Reed
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Steil
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walden
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
Young
Zeldin
NOES—158
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gooden
Gosar
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stefanik
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Walberg
Walker
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
ANSWERED ‘‘PRESENT’’—1
Fortenberry
NOT VOTING—9
Clark (MA)
Cook
Granger
Kustoff (TN)
Long
McEachin
Rooney (FL)
Rutherford
Ryan
b 1233
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. RYAN. Mr. Speaker, due to a conflict on
Thursday, April 4, 2019, I was not present to
cast my vote on the Republican Motion to Re-
commit on H.R. 1585 and Final Passage of
H.R. 1585, the Violence Against Women Re-
authorization Act of 2019.
As a cosponsor of H.R. 1585, I whole-
heartedly support reauthorization of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act (VAWA). Had I
been present my vote would have been NAY
on Roll Call 155 and YEA on Roll Call 156.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will remind all persons in the
gallery that they are here as guests of
the House and that any manifestation
of approval or disapproval of pro-
ceedings is in violation of the rules of
House.
AUTHORIZING THE CLERK TO
MAKE CORRECTIONS IN EN-
GROSSMENT OF H.R. 1585, VIO-
LENCE AGAINST WOMEN REAU-
THORIZATION ACT OF 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that in the engross-
ment of H.R. 1585, the Clerk be author-
ized to correct section numbers, punc-
tuation, spelling, and cross-references
and to make such other technical and
conforming changes as may be nec-
essary to reflect the actions of the
House, including the changes now at
the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the changes.
The Clerk read as follows:
In amendment number 7 offered by Ms.
Waters of California, modify the amendatory
instruction to read:
‘‘Page 39, line 6, insert after ‘efforts.’ the
following:’’
In amendment number 9 offered by Ms.
Johnson of Texas, modify the ninth amend-
atory instruction to read:
‘‘Page 62, beginning on line 1, strike ‘inter-
nal emergency transfers’ and insert ‘internal
transfers’ ’’; modify the tenth amendatory
instruction to read:
‘‘Page 62, line 3, strike ‘external emer-
gency transfers’ and insert ‘external trans-
fers’ ’’; and modify the twenty-second amend-
atory instruction to read:
‘‘Page 80, line 24, strike ‘external emer-
gency transfers’ and insert ‘external trans-
fers’ ’’.
In amendment number 13 offered by Mr.
Grijalva of Arizona, modify the amendatory
instruction to read:
‘‘Page 134, strike line 3 and all that follows
thru page 135, line 5, and insert the fol-
lowing:’’; and add at the end the following
amendatory instruction:
‘‘Strike page 135, lines 16 through 18.’’
Mr. NADLER (during the reading).
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the changes be considered as
read and printed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the original request of the
gentleman from New York?
There was no objection.
f
PRIVILEGED REPORT ON RESOLU-
TION OF INQUIRY TO THE PRESI-
DENT
Mr. NADLER, from the Committee
on the Judiciary, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–33) on the
resolution (H. Res. 243) of inquiry re-
questing the President and directing
the Attorney General to transmit, re-
spectively, certain documents to the
House of Representatives relating to
the actions of former Federal Bureau of
Investigation Acting Director Andrew
McCabe, which was referred to the
House Calendar and ordered to be
printed.
f
REMOVAL OF MEMBERS AS
COSPONSORS OF H.R. 1904
Mr. GRIJALVA. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that Rep-
resentatives MARK AMODEI of Nevada,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.012 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3088 April 4, 2019
SCOTT TIPTON of Colorado, KEN BUCK of
Colorado, TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico, and SUSIE LEE of Nevada be re-
moved as cosponsors of H.R. 1904.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Arizona?
There was no objection.
f
REQUEST TO CONSIDER H.R. 962,
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SUR-
VIVORS PROTECTION ACT
Mr. WALTZ. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary be discharged
from further consideration of H.R. 962,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, and ask for its immediate
consideration in the House.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
guidelines consistently issued by suc-
cessive Speakers, as recorded in sec-
tion 956 of the House Rules and Man-
ual, the Chair is constrained not to en-
tertain the request unless it has been
cleared by the bipartisan floor and
committee leaderships.
Mr. WALTZ. Madam Speaker, I urge
the Speaker to immediately schedule
this important bill.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
BOARD OF REGENTS OF THE
SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to sections 5580
and 5581 of the revised statutes (20
U.S.C. 42–43), and the order of the
House of January 3, 2019, of the fol-
lowing Member on the part of the
House to the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution:
Mr. SHIMKUS, Illinois
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I will
be happy to yield to the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. HOYER), my friend,
the majority leader of the House for
the purpose of inquiring about the
week to come.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank my friend, Mr. SCALISE, for
yielding. I also thank him for not men-
tioning the LSU-Maryland game one
more time.
Mr. SCALISE. Only because we are
no longer in the mix as well.
Mr. HOYER. We are both lamenting
that fact.
On Monday, Madam Speaker, the
House will meet at 12 p.m. for morning-
hour debate and 2 p.m. for legislative
business, with votes postponed until
6:30 p.m. On Tuesday, the House will
meet at 10 a.m. for morning-hour de-
bate and 12 p.m. for legislative busi-
ness. On Wednesday, the House will
meet at 9 a.m. for legislative business.
On Thursday and Friday, no votes are
expected in the House.
We will consider several bills under
suspension of the rules. The complete
list of suspension bills will be an-
nounced by close of business tomorrow.
Madam Speaker, the House will also
consider H.R. 1644, Save the Internet
Act of 2019. This bill will reverse the
administration’s repeal of critical net
neutrality protections, which will em-
power the FCC to prohibit unjust, un-
reasonable, and discriminatory prac-
tices and ensure consumers can make
informed decisions when shopping for
internet plans. This bill also enacts au-
thorities to support expanding
broadband to rural communities and
struggling Americans.
In addition, Madam Speaker, it is
possible the House will take action to
set the budget levels for discretionary
spending for the next 2 fiscal years.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
look forward to a robust debate on the
unaptly titled bill, ‘‘Save the Inter-
net.’’ I think a lot of people shiver at
the thought of the Federal Government
saving us from the internet.
The title II regulation that would be
imposed would allow the internet to be
regulated like a utility. This is not the
phone company of the 1970s. This is
probably one of the greatest innova-
tions that America has produced for
the world, allowing us to be a world
leader, dominant leader, in a growing
technology field. Primarily because the
government hasn’t figured out how to
regulate it, it has been able to grow so
robustly.
I would hope that we have that full
debate and people are very aware of the
negative connotations and, ultimately,
the damaging effects of a Federal regu-
lation of the internet that could slow
down that dramatic innovation that we
have seen with the Federal Govern-
ment not regulating it. It will be a ro-
bust debate.
Hopefully, we debate a number of
other issues. I know we had a robust
debate on the floor just a little while
ago on the BDS movement. It is a
growing concern for all of us who feel
passionately about Israel’s right to
exist as a Jewish State.
I know the leader has been a leader
in this Congress and a leader through-
out this country in an incredibly bipar-
tisan way standing up for that unique
relationship, but we have seen threats
from other countries. You have seen
heavy debate in Europe.
You have seen debate in areas in Pal-
estinian circles that want to under-
mine Israel’s right to exist as a Jewish
State by trying to boycott products
made in Israel, to crush Israel’s econ-
omy. That is why it is so important
that we stand up against this BDS
movement.
While we weren’t successful in the
motion to commit, there is legislation
that is incredibly bipartisan.
S. 1, a bill that has come over from
the Senate, unfortunately, hasn’t been
referred to committee, nor, also, H.R.
336, similar legislation that would
allow us to help support our friends
around the world who want to stand up
against the BDS movement and stand
with our good friend Israel.
Madam Speaker, I would like to ask
the gentleman, is there any plan to
allow either or both of those bills to
come to the floor so we can send a
strong message to our friends around
the world and to enemies of Israel, as
well, that we are not going to support
this BDS movement.
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, as the
gentleman knows, we share views, as
he has expressed, and we are awaiting
committee action. When the com-
mittee acts, we will make a determina-
tion of how to go forward.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, if I
could further inquire, S. 1 has not been
referred to committee. Is there a plan
to refer the bill to committee and, ulti-
mately, to allow it to move through
the process, as it has been incredibly
bipartisan but also incredibly timely,
that we as the United States Congress
stand with our friend Israel and stand
against what is a growing movement
that should be of concern to all of us?
I yield to the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, as I
said, I agree with the gentleman’s ob-
jective and position with respect to
BDS. The committee has legislation
before it and is considering it.
As you know, Mr. SCHNEIDER and Mr.
NADLER, I think, are the cosponsors of
that legislation. I expect the com-
mittee to consider it, and then, at that
point in time, we will make a decision
how to move forward.
b 1245
Mr. SCALISE. That is correct. And I
know those pieces of legislation are
just resolutions, not actual policy.
And, ultimately, if we are going to
make the stand, it has to be legislation
with teeth, with actual authorizing
language and with the ability for us to
give true support to our friends—not
just words, but actions as well.
So, hopefully, we can move both, and
I would just continue to urge.
And the gentleman from Maryland’s
support for Israel is unquestioned and
has been admired by people on both
sides. I would just urge that we, as a
House, move those bills, one or both of
the actual substantive bills, to the
floor as quickly as possible, as they
have already moved through the Sen-
ate.
S. 1 had 77 votes in support—so,
strongly bipartisan—coming out of the
Senate, but still no referral in the
House. Hopefully, we can get that expe-
dited.
And with that, on the idea of legis-
lating by resolution, I know that has
been a growing trend in this Congress
of this majority to move, instead of
substantive bills to deal with things
like lowering healthcare costs or help-
ing create more jobs.
There have been a lot of bills that are
just press releases, resolutions that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:19 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.043 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3089
April 4, 2019
don’t actually change law or help
change policy or work in a bipartisan
way to get bills to the President’s desk
that can address the growing issues
that our country faces.
Are we going to see a continued trend
in this majority of just resolutions, or
are we going to finally get to bipar-
tisan policy on some of these big
issues?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Well, of course, as the
gentleman well knows, we have,
Madam Speaker, passed many sub-
stantive pieces of legislation. We have
sent to the Senate H.R. 1, a very broad-
reaching reform bill trying to ensure
voting rights and access for everybody,
trying to ensure fair redistricting
throughout the country, trying to
make sure that dark money does not
control our elections, and making sure
that we are operating both in the exec-
utive and the legislative agency with
ethical conduct.
That passed unanimously on our side.
I forget exactly how many.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, op-
posed unanimously on our side, if I can
point out.
Mr. HOYER. Today’s vote, obviously,
we had two very substantive pieces of
legislation, one of which is going now
to the President, and the other of
which—the Violence Against Women
Act—had a signature bipartisan vote,
as the gentleman knows, passed the
House.
We have done the Land and Water
Conservation Fund, which had been
pending for some period of time in
making that a permanent piece of leg-
islation.
We made sure that women—in 1963,
we passed the Equal Pay Act. John
Kennedy signed it. Unfortunately, we
are still struggling to make sure that
that promise is realized and that
women are, in fact, paid based upon
what they do, not based upon what
their gender is.
So I would say to my friend, we have
passed a lot of legislation we had pend-
ing, and we are doing a lot of hearings.
We are dealing with infrastructure. We
are dealing with drug prices. We made
it a big issue in the campaign. We are
moving ahead to make sure the Afford-
able Care Act works in a way that it
was designed to work.
So I would say to my friend that we
have pursued, both on the floor and in
committee, the substantive legislation
that we have talked to the American
people about.
I also feel very strongly that we want
to avoid what happened to us at the
end of the last Congress, when you
were in the majority. We shut down the
government.
I am going to be working hard, hope-
fully on both sides of the aisle. I don’t
think anybody wants to see that as an
objective, so I am hopeful that we can
work together.
I am working with your ranking
member on the Appropriations Com-
mittee, KAY GRANGER, with whom I
have served for some period of time,
and Mrs. LOWEY to make sure that we
get the appropriation bills done in a
timely fashion and send them to the
Senate.
I am hopeful that that will occur,
and I am hopeful that we can fund the
government in a rational way and not
shut down government, which was so
irrational and so harmful to our coun-
try and so costly to our taxpayers.
So those are some of the things that
we have done, are doing, and will do;
and, hopefully, we can, to some degree,
work on this in as bipartisan a fashion
as possible.
In particular, the President has said
he wants to bring the cost of prescrip-
tion drugs down. We share that view. I
am hopeful that we can work together.
The President said he wants a sub-
stantial infrastructure piece of legisla-
tion. We share that view. We hope we
can work together on that.
So we have been pursuing, on a week-
ly basis; and this was, from our per-
spective, a pretty good week. I know
we disagree on the net neutrality bill,
but we do agree that it is a major piece
of legislation, and I expect to pass that
next week as well.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman.
It was heavily debated in the Energy
and Commerce Committee, as it should
be, and I am sure it will be heavily de-
bated on the floor.
A number of these other issues that
the gentleman mentioned, you know,
we litigated those on the floor. The
ones that went over to the Senate,
some with only Democratic votes, you
know, H.R. 1, for example, the Senate
majority leader made it very clear that
bill will not get any time on the Senate
calendar. There are a lot of others that
we would like to see real movement on.
I know there was concern of a lot of
people that there were three different
committees in the House this week
that spent the bulk of their time going
after the President personally again.
We have got the Mueller report com-
ing. The summary has already been
laid out and made it clear there was no
collusion with Russia. There was no ob-
struction of justice. We will see the re-
port.
What we talked about was that the
report be filed in compliance with law,
and the law makes it very clear that
things like classified information
aren’t released. That is the law. I think
we agreed that that is how it should be,
that you don’t release classified infor-
mation. You release the pertinent date.
I look forward to seeing that, and we
will see that. But, then, it seemed like
a continued assault in three different
committees continuing to focus on
harassing the President personally, as
opposed to focusing on some of those
policies.
But one of the policies that should be
coming out of the House where there is
a real deadline is the budget. April 15 is
the deadline.
I know, over and over again, Mem-
bers of the Democratic leadership, in-
cluding the Speaker, herself, said:
Show me your budget. Show me your
values.
There is no budget. And we have been
concerned that the agenda doesn’t fol-
low—the priorities in the budget are
really what you lay out. Those are
your values. Those are your priorities.
While they are moving a bill that
lays out caps, it is not bipartisan. But,
ultimately, when we get a caps agree-
ment, the gentleman knows it is going
to have to be a bipartisan agreement.
Last night, the Budget Committee
produced only a partisan, one-corner
deal—barely a one-corner deal. Typi-
cally, they have what are called four-
corner deals where the House, Senate—
Republicans and Democrats—come to-
gether and say: We are going to agree
on what those spending levels need to
be so that we can then write our appro-
priation bills, set the priorities of the
country, and avoid a government shut-
down.
That didn’t happen in the Budget
Committee. It was a very partisan bill
that was moved out; but, more impor-
tantly, it was not a budget.
I would hope that with the little bit
of time that is remaining to meet that
legal deadline that the majority would
try to actually produce a budget and
follow through on those over-and-over
again quotes: ‘‘Show me your budget.’’
‘‘Show me your values.’’
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his comment.
Of course, there was no budget last
year until very, very late in the year.
What was done was what we will cer-
tainly make sure we do very early on,
which is to try to establish the num-
bers, which, of course, a caps deal
would do. And our objective will be to
show our values in the appropriation
bills as they come to the floor—hope-
fully, in a timely fashion—and our
main objective would be not to shut
down the government but to do our
work on time.
I am confident that, working to-
gether, we can reach that objective.
Mr. SCALISE. Hopefully, we can get
a bipartisan agreement on what those
levels need to be to properly fund our
defense, to properly do the other things
the government should do and limit
the ways it can possibly be carried out,
and then, ultimately, to be able to get
the bills that follow it passed in time,
well before the September 30 deadline.
One of the areas that there is very
productive movement on is the new
trade deal between the United States,
Mexico, and Canada, USMCA. I know
there are bipartisan working groups.
The White House has been in negotia-
tions with the majority, the Speaker
and your team.
Can the leader give any insight into
where the conversations are going in
the House to get a timetable for when
we can start having a plan for that?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:19 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.045 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3090 April 4, 2019
You look at Canada’s House of Com-
mons, they have their own deadline of
when they rise, and, obviously, we
want to be aware of our other partners
that are included in this negotiation.
Is there talk of a timeline yet, if the
leader could share where those con-
versations are going.
I yield to the gentleman from Mary-
land.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, as the
gentleman may know, the Speaker in-
vited Mr. Lighthizer to address mem-
bers of the Democratic Caucus on
where we stood.
As you know, that agreement has not
been submitted. The Speaker said the
other day that, in order to consider
that in a positive way, the Mexicans,
whom the President has been some-
what critical of through the years,
take certain actions which make sure
that our workers and their workers are
treated fairly so we are competing on
an even keel.
But we certainly are in discussions.
There are a number of items of con-
cern, which have historically been of
concern, regarding the environment,
regarding workers’ rights, regarding
the availability of prescription drugs
for people, as well as enforcement, dis-
pute resolution.
So those are being discussed. The
conversations are ongoing, and I be-
lieve that the administration will
make a determination when they be-
lieve it is timely to submit that docu-
ment to us. As the gentleman knows,
once they do so, there is a timeframe
in which the House and Senate must
act. The committees must act within,
essentially, a 3-month period of time.
So we are in discussions. We are
waiting on the administration’s judg-
ment as to when to submit. And I am
sure they are discussing with us as to
when we think that is timely as well,
but there are still substantive matters
that are being discussed.
I would presume some of those are on
your side as well.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman.
I am encouraged by the conversa-
tions that both I have been in as well
as the conversations that I am aware
are going on on your side as well, be-
cause this is a bipartisan win for the
country.
This agreement would help ensure
that, as we all support free trade, we
also want more fair trade, and this
agreement, in many different cat-
egories and many different industries,
would help create more American jobs
and help American workers get treated
even more fairly by our neighbors to
the north and south.
Finally, if I may inquire of the gen-
tleman, we have talked a number of
times about the Born-Alive Act, the
bill that we have made multiple unani-
mous consent requests to bring up the
discharge petition moving through the
process. There are other means to
bring it up even quicker, and one would
be if the gentleman would schedule the
bill for the floor.
I would just inquire: Is there any
plan to schedule the Born-Alive Act on
the floor through a direct means versus
some of these other tools that are
being considered?
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his question.
As the gentleman knows, Madam
Speaker, the House voted on this bill
during the last two Congresses. The
most recent time it was brought to the
floor, the gentleman and his party were
in control of the House, the Senate,
and the Presidency. That bill was not
brought up in the Senate.
The gentleman mentioned, earlier,
H.R. 1 and that Mr. MCCONNELL has
said that wouldn’t be brought up. In
fact, when it passed this House, it went
to the Senate, and it was not brought
up by Senator MCCONNELL. So there
are no plans at this point in time for us
to bring this up.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I ap-
preciate the gentleman’s candor.
We will continue to pursue other
tools that we have available as the
growing momentum around the coun-
try builds, as people saw what hap-
pened in New York with a law ushered
in that allows babies to be murdered
after they are born alive, the Virginia
Governor gruesomely describing what
he hopes to be a similar law in his
State, other States taking those same
kinds of actions. So there is a growing
bipartisan interest that feels very
strongly that we need a Federal law to
protect babies who are born alive out-
side the womb.
So we will continue to pursue all of
those tools that are available and look
forward to the workweek ahead next
week as we finish our work prior to the
Easter recess.
Does the gentleman have anything
else?
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I have
nothing further to say. I thank the
gentleman from Louisiana.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Maryland,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
f
b 1300
ADJOURNMENT FROM THURSDAY,
APRIL 4, 2019, TO MONDAY,
APRIL 8, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet on Monday next, when it shall
convene at noon for morning-hour de-
bate and 2 p.m. for legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mrs.
MCBATH). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
REPUBLICAN LEADER
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Honorable KEVIN
MCCARTHY, Republican Leader:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, April 3, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to 36
U.S.C. § 101, I am pleased to appoint the fol-
lowing Members to the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission:
The Honorable George Holding of North
Carolina
The Honorable Robert B. Aderholt of Ala-
bama
Thank you for your attention to this mat-
ter.
Sincerely,
KEVIN MCCARTHY,
Republican Leader.
f
HONORING ABBY CURRAN
HORRELL FOR HER SERVICE
(Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend her remarks.)
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Speaker, I rise to congratulate
and thank my chief of staff, Abby
Curran Horrell.
Abby is an original member of Team
Kuster, dating back to the 2012 cam-
paign in the 113th Congress when I was
first elected. She has been my tireless
coach and confidant throughout my 6-
plus years in Congress. Through it all,
she has become a very dear friend.
I rise to thank Abby for her dedi-
cated service to our team and for her
service to everyone in New Hamp-
shire’s Second Congressional District.
Abby embodies our Team Kuster
motto, ‘‘Radical Hospitality,’’ culti-
vating a culture of respect and inclu-
sion. Because of her leadership, our
staff feel empowered to succeed and
grow as they take on new challenges.
Through her respect for each member
of our staff, Abby has created a col-
laborative culture, connecting our
Washington and New Hampshire offices
into a cohesive Team Kuster family.
As Abby grew the Team Kuster fam-
ily, we all enjoyed watching her grow
her own, juggling two maternity leaves
as she and Chad welcomed Daniel and
Eliza, and all of this while balancing
the fast-paced environment of Con-
gress.
Abby, we are all amazed by you. We
are proud to know you, and we know
you will do amazing things for Amer-
ica. You will be missed.
f
VOTE ON DISASTER
SUPPLEMENTAL FUNDING
(Mr. DUNN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to demand a vote on disaster
supplemental funding.
Next Wednesday will be the 6-month
anniversary of Hurricane Michael and 6
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:19 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.046 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3091
April 4, 2019
months with absolutely no supple-
mental disaster funding, no serious ac-
tion on the part of Congress to help the
victims of Florida, Georgia, Alabama,
the Carolinas, and even the California
wildfires.
Every time I am in Florida, I dis-
cover new destruction. That debris has
become firewood and is leading to mas-
sive wildfires. One just took out 700
acres. That debris is also clogging our
stormwater system, and flooding will
be our next disaster.
One of the strongest hurricanes in
the history of the United States rav-
aged Florida and left a path of destruc-
tion across the South, and yet, here we
are with only 3 legislative days before
Easter and no relief in sight.
The Senate again failed to pass a dis-
aster bill this week, and the House ap-
pears to have given up. This is shame-
ful. The lack of action is a disgrace to
the American people.
Madam Speaker, American citizens
are hurting. We must pass a disaster
relief bill and do it now.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF SHER-
IFF’S DEPUTY PETER JOHN HER-
RERA
(Ms. ESCOBAR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life of a father,
son, and public servant, Sheriff’s Dep-
uty Peter John Herrera, who passed
away at the age of 35 on Sunday, March
24, after being fatally shot at a traffic
stop.
A lifelong El Pasoan, Sheriff’s Dep-
uty Herrera proudly served the El Paso
County Sheriff’s Office for 11 years. His
leadership was exemplary. He was
widely commended by his fellow offi-
cers for always wearing his badge with
pride. He was the epitome of a public
servant who loved his community and
demonstrated it every day.
He was highly respected, supported,
and loved by many as a devoted father,
husband, brother, and friend. The com-
munity of El Paso mourns his untimely
death, but we are endlessly thankful
for his unwavering service and con-
tributions to our community. It was a
privilege to stand alongside so many El
Pasoans last week as he was laid to
rest.
Sheriff’s Deputy Peter Herrera’s
memory will live on among us for dedi-
cating his life to protecting and serv-
ing with integrity and purpose.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF ED
WESTCOTT
(Mr. FLEISCHMANN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. FLEISCHMANN. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor an east Ten-
nessee icon, Ed Westcott.
Those who knew Ed would tell you
that his ability to capture a story
through images was evident at an early
age. At just 20 years old, Ed became
the 29th individual hired by the Clinton
Engineer Works to begin to capture im-
ages at Oak Ridge. Ed was the sole pho-
tographer of the Manhattan Project—
the Manhattan Project, now well
known, then a secret.
His images lifted the veil off the se-
cret city and gave Americans a glimpse
into the lives of those who helped our
Nation win World War II.
From the alpha racetrack at Y–12 to
the images of daily life, we had Ed to
thank for over 15,000 photographs. His
work is proudly displayed in east Ten-
nessee and in Washington at the Na-
tional Archives.
To honor his contributions, I joined
with my colleagues in the Senate to
nominate him for the Presidential
Medal of Freedom.
On March 29, Ed Westcott passed
away, but his legacy will live on
through his images.
f
MOVING FORWARD TO PROTECT
WOMEN
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
today, we finished one stop of a jour-
ney, and that is the journey to pass the
Violence Against Women Act.
I have had the privilege to see and
shepherd this bill throughout my con-
gressional tenure, having stood along-
side senior Members many years ago in
the first reauthorization of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act. This bill
was started today in 2016. We began to
work and reach across the aisle to do
what is right for the victims of so
many horrific crimes.
We wanted children to be protected,
immigrant women to be protected. We
wanted to make sure that Native
American women were protected.
We wanted law enforcement and pros-
ecutors to have the tools. We wanted to
stop the backlog in rape kits that had
not been processed.
We did that today with a collective
group of Republican and Democratic
Members on a bill that should be non-
partisan.
We worked hard, and I was gratified
that we wound up giving a bill to the
Senate and that they must ask the
question: Are they not going to support
a bill that was bipartisan?
Madam Speaker, I thank Monalisa
Dugue, Milagros Cisneros, Joe
Graupensperger, Amy Rutkin, and
Chairman NADLER. I thank KAREN BASS
and all those women who worked to-
gether, including the outstanding work
that was done on the MTR with DEBBIE
DINGELL.
Madam Speaker, we are thanking
them because we are moving forward to
protect women in this country, includ-
ing against sex trafficking, which was
in the bill.
CONGRATULATING THE UNIVER-
SITY OF MONTANA WESTERN
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL TEAM
(Mr. GIANFORTE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the remarkable
women’s basketball team from the Uni-
versity of Montana Western in Dillon.
The Bulldogs recently captured the
NAIA Division I national title to close
out a stellar season. The team’s con-
vincing 75–59 victory over the nine-
time national champion, Oklahoma
City Stars, brought the national title
to Dillon, Montana.
The school’s first national title in
women’s basketball brought well-de-
served recognition to senior Brianna
King, a two-time All-American and
NAIA National Player of the Year.
Ms. King, however, was not alone on
the court. Fellow All-American Britt
Cooper won the tournament’s Hustle
Award and Tori Anderson made All-
Tournament First Team.
The Bulldogs’ head coach, Lindsay
Woolley, led the team to the national
title and was named the 2019 NAIA
Coach of the Year.
Congratulations to all the players
and coaches. Your school and State are
proud of you.
All Montana is Bulldog Nation.
f
SPECIAL EDUCATION FUNDING
(Mrs. CRAIG asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. CRAIG. Madam Speaker, as
mother of four, the wife of an educator,
and the daughter of a teacher, I know
that we should never underestimate
the power of a high-quality education.
In the nearly 40 years since the Indi-
viduals with Disabilities Education Act
was passed, the Federal Government
has not fulfilled its funding promise to
our special education students. Not
once.
This failure leaves our schools with
extreme budget cuts that impact every
student and forces them to turn to our
communities to bear the burden
through local tax levies.
That is why I am so proud to work
with Representative JARED HUFFMAN
and Minnesota Congressman PETE
STAUBER on a bipartisan basis for IDEA
full funding, to make sure that every
student, including those with special
needs, receives a high-quality edu-
cation in their neighborhood.
Providing a high-quality education
to all of our students is something that
we can all agree on, and we must work
together to get this done on behalf of
our communities.
f
TEXAS TECH HEADS TO FINAL
FOUR
(Mr. ARRINGTON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:19 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.049 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3092 April 4, 2019
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize the Red Raiders
of Texas Tech and a new standard of
excellence in west Texas.
Sports teaches us a lot about the
game of life. It teaches us that any-
thing worth doing is worth working
hard for. It teaches us the virtue of
competition, the value of setting ambi-
tious goals, and the necessity of mak-
ing sacrifices to achieve them.
Through sports, we learn how to
work as a team, how to be resilient in
the face of adversity, and how to dis-
play grace in victory as well as defeat.
No one embodies these traits better
than Coach Beard and the Texas Tech
men’s basketball team who have
earned their first trip to the Final
Four.
Coach Beard says the tough times
pass, but the tough people last. Let me
tell you, these Red Raiders are as
tough as west Texas.
To the team, listen to the coach:
Four to one, four parts mental, one
part physical.
To my fellow Americans, get your
guns up because Texas Tech is in Min-
neapolis, and we are coming home with
the national championship.
Go Tech.
f
CELEBRATING REAUTHORIZATION
OF THE VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN ACT
(Mr. SCHNEIDER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Madam Speaker, I
rise to celebrate the bipartisan reau-
thorization today of the Violence
Against Women Act.
In 2013, this legislation was one of
the first votes I took as a new Member
of Congress. This year, I was proud to
be an original cosponsor of the bill to
ensure survivors have access to essen-
tial services and justice.
It is a sad fact that VAWA remains
critically important. Despite some
progress, the rate of domestic violence
remains far too high.
I recently acquired a painting cre-
ated by a survivor of domestic vio-
lence. It is a beautiful scene of a
woman standing in a field of sunflowers
with a blue sky. But upon a closer
look, you see the broken chains at her
feet, chains representing her former
prison of domestic abuse.
While the woman in the painting was
fortunately able to break free, so many
others cannot. Today’s legislation
helps both groups.
I am particularly glad that this
year’s bill makes improvements to help
the victims of dating violence, sexual
assault, and stalking, and increases re-
sources available to vulnerable popu-
lations, including Native American
women and the LGBTQ community.
In our communities, there are many
local organizations doing amazing
work to help women escape situations
of domestic violence and rebuild their
lives, including A Safe Place in my dis-
trict. I commend their work and the
work of all groups like this across the
Nation, and I hope this legislation will
provide additional support and re-
sources for their important mission.
f
b 1315
HUMANITARIAN CRISIS AT
SOUTHERN BORDER
(Mr. RESCHENTHALER asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. RESCHENTHALER. Madam
Speaker, this week, as the humani-
tarian and security crisis at our south-
ern border worsens, my colleagues
across the aisle have failed to act. In-
stead, House Democrats chose to focus
on issuing illegal subpoenas for the
Mueller report, including its under-
lying evidence, investigative sources,
and grand jury materials. House Demo-
crats are effectively demanding that
Attorney General Barr break the law.
For nearly 2 years, Democrats misled
the American people about the special
counsel’s investigation. Now that it is
clear that there was absolutely no col-
lusion with Russia, my colleagues
across the aisle are grasping at straws
and completely ignoring the crisis at
our southern border.
Daily border crossings at our south-
ern border have hit levels that we have
not seen in decades. Adding to the com-
plexity and gravity of this crisis is the
dramatic increase in the number of un-
accompanied children and family units.
Customs and Border Protection ap-
prehended more than 100,000 family
unit aliens in 2018. That is up 600 per-
cent since 2013. The overwhelming
surge of migrants has stretched our fa-
cilities to a breaking point.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my col-
leagues across the aisle end the par-
tisan showmanship and work with us to
address this crisis.
f
HONORING REV. DR. ROBIN
WEINSTEIN
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker, I
am grateful for the opportunity to
honor an outstanding member of south
Jersey. Rev. Dr. Robin Weinstein is a
true believer in human potential and
harnesses that power through exten-
sive work and his community involve-
ment.
In addition to being an associate pro-
fessor at Wilmington University, he
started the M25 Initiative to find ways
to alleviate suffering, feed the hungry,
end poverty, reduce crime, and revi-
talize the community.
Dr. Weinstein is also a cofounder of
the Cumberland County Code Blue Coa-
lition, which provides emergency win-
ter shelter to those who are very much
in need.
On top of all of these things, Dr.
Weinstein serves as the founding pastor
of Bethany Grace Community Church
in Bridgeton, New Jersey. Under his
leadership, the church has started a
weekly soup kitchen, monthly food
pantry and clothing closet, showers for
the homeless, and many other pro-
grams that provide for the people of
south Jersey who so desperately need
them.
His tireless efforts make an impact
on the community that is felt far and
wide.
The people of south Jersey appreciate
all you do, Dr. Weinstein.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to highlight some pretty dis-
turbing numbers released by Customs
and Border Protection that help put
our border crisis into perspective.
In 2018, Customs and Border Patrol
agents and officers seized more than 1.7
million pounds of narcotics, including 1
million pounds of marijuana; 280,000
pounds of cocaine; 248,000 pounds of
methamphetamine; 6,500 pounds of her-
oin; 2,400 pounds of fentanyl, which is
enough doses to kill everyone in the
United States; and 139,000 pounds of
other illicit drugs.
It is also a humanitarian crisis. Bor-
der Patrol agents rescued from traf-
ficking 4,300 men and women near the
border last year. There is no telling
how many more have been caught up in
human trafficking that slipped through
the cracks.
Border Patrol says nearly every sec-
tor across the Southwest border has ex-
ceeded their capacity. Each day, nearly
half the agents on the Southwest bor-
der are diverted away from border se-
curity missions to instead care for,
transport, and process family units and
unaccompanied children.
Even former Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security Jeh John-
son of the Obama administration said
that we have a crisis with these huge
numbers.
Madam Speaker, we need to do our
job and get this border crisis solved.
f
HONORING STEPHEN ‘‘POPS’’
CULVER
(Mr. PANETTA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize and honor the
life and legacy of Stephen ‘‘Pops’’ Cul-
ver.
Pops, as he was fondly known, lived
his life to serve his country during the
Vietnam war; his students as an ele-
mentary schoolteacher; and his com-
munity as an advocate for suicide pre-
vention and awareness, something that
was personal to him after the tragic
loss of his son.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:19 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.051 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3093
April 4, 2019
It was that sense of service that guid-
ed Pops on an epic 10,000-mile motor-
cycle ride across this great country to
raise money for the brand-new Central
Coast Veterans Cemetery on the
former Fort Ord. During this trip, Pops
and his fellow American Legion broth-
ers of Post 31, Crash and Phin, the
group known as the Black Sheep, car-
ried an American flag, which you see
here in this photo, from the Central
Coast Veterans Cemetery to Arlington
National Cemetery, where that flag
was flown over the Tomb of the Un-
known Soldier.
Now on Memorial Day each year,
that flag is flown over the Central
Coast Veterans Cemetery to honor
those who served and sacrificed.
Based on Pop’s service, he was hon-
ored as the 2017 Veteran of the Year in
Monterey County.
Today, we here in Congress honor
Pops Culver not just as a veteran but
as an American who not only served
but understood and lived up to his obli-
gation to serve those who served us.
f
ISSUES OF THE DAY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. GOHMERT) is recognized for 60 min-
utes as the designee of the minority
leader.
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, the
bill that was entitled the Violence
Against Women Act was passed in the
House today, and I deeply regret it was
not the kind of bipartisan bill that I
feel like we should have had.
I don’t know anybody in this Cham-
ber who supports violence against
women or who does not want to do
what we can to stop it. We battled this
out verbally in the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
It is so clear to me, having pros-
ecuted sexual assaults of women who
were battered and beat up badly by
their husbands or partners, that it is
such an egregious thing. I heard over
and over as a felony judge in Texas
about how traumatized the women
were and potentially would be for the
rest of their lives. I heard that, with
counseling, they could work to avoid
having the triggers that put them right
back in the place where they were so
badly abused.
More recent literature indicates that
women who have been sexually as-
saulted seem to have a much higher
percent—a number of times, appar-
ently—more post-traumatic stress dis-
order after having been sexually abused
than even soldiers have after combat.
One suggestion in a study indicates
that because soldiers are trained for
what they go through, perhaps that re-
duces the amount of PTSD. There is no
adequate training to prepare a woman
for the kind of abuse that so many
have suffered.
One of the triggers that I have heard
about as a judge that could trigger this
trauma, reliving the experience all
over again, is a woman being in a con-
fined space and having a biological
man come in to that confined space.
We have heard of women assaulting
men who have done that, some who
may have been through sexual assault
before.
I understand the idea of my col-
leagues across the aisle who want to
help avoid hurting the feelings of bio-
logical men who think they are women,
or according to the latest rendition of
DSM–5, they are suffering from gender
dysphoria, which is kind of the oppo-
site of euphoria, but it basically is a
confusion or a discomfort with one’s
biologically assigned gender.
So I get it. You don’t want to make
them feel bad. You don’t want to hurt
their feelings. So to avoid hurting their
feelings, we would put so many women
at risk.
A lot of folks I have heard say that
one in four women will be sexually as-
saulted. If that is true, then that
means that those who voted for this
bill today would seek to punish again
and again and again women who have
suffered the outrageous and egregious
assault sexually or being battered with
no way out.
When my friend across the aisle,
DEBBIE DINGELL, speaks of those fears
and terrors as a child and abuse going
on in the home, my heart goes out to
her and anybody who has suffered like
that.
But this is the United States Con-
gress. Can’t we have a bill that doesn’t
have a political aspect and that just
tries to do the right thing by women
who have suffered from sexual assault
or being battered, and let them have a
confined space without a biological
man being forced into their trauma-
tized world? Couldn’t we agree on that?
The answer is no.
DEBBIE LESKO, my friend and col-
league also on the Judiciary Com-
mittee, has been such a victim. She
had amendments. She spoke brilliantly
about the suffering and what needed to
be done to fix the bill. And yet, it was
a political matter. It is too important
that we not hurt the feelings of men
who think they are women. Therefore,
we are just going to let those women
have to suffer. They just need to get
over their trauma, their PTSD, their
reliving the nightmare of a sexual as-
sault over and over again. There is
more regard for somebody’s hurt feel-
ings than someone else’s. A woman’s
terror forces them over and over
through such terror time and time
again.
I read a story about a woman seeing
a man and freaking out and started to
assault him. If a woman has been
through a sexual assault before, my
heart goes to her, not for the guy who
walks in and traumatized her so.
Yet if the majority here has their
way, that bill would become law. Those
traumatized women would be con-
demned to be traumatized repeatedly
at the demand of the Democratic ma-
jority in Congress, in the House here.
b 1330
I really would have hoped we could
have had a bill that we could all, of one
accord, say: This is right. This is the
thing to do by women.
But we can’t get a bill to the floor to
try to protect unborn women, unborn
girls.
In China, the abortion rate of girls is
dramatically higher than that of boys,
because they think—they haven’t been
like me and had three girls. They don’t
know how wonderful it is. So they
think: Gee, if I am only going to be al-
lowed to have one child, I prefer it be
a boy.
And there is outrageous discrimina-
tion—a real, true war on women—going
on in China. And China has yet to feel
the destructive results of what they
have required.
But that is a war, killing an unborn
child because she happens to be bio-
logically female. But we haven’t heard
condemnation about such practice in
this Congress, and that is a legitimate
war on women, children who were
never given the chance to live simply
because—not to live outside the womb
simply because they are biologically
women. It’s very tragic.
I hope the Senate will use some com-
mon sense and have a heart for the
women who have been victims of as-
sault. And I know. I have seen it. I
have heard it. As a prosecutor, I was
frustrated by it, when a woman would
come in, beat to a pulp, black and blue,
all bruised up and scarred. You want to
put her husband in prison forever,
doing that to anybody, and especially a
woman who could not defend herself.
And, time and again—too often, the
experts will tell you, those who pros-
ecute a lot—the woman will come back
and say: You know what, now that ev-
erything has healed, it is really my
fault.
And they have this idea that some-
how they deserved that kind of beating
when they didn’t at all. As a judge,
there were so many times that I told
young children—you could tell they
blamed themselves for a sexual as-
sault—without the jury around, you
need to understand this was not your
fault. You didn’t deserve this. You
never did anything to deserve it. This
was a crime committed against you.
You were the victim, and don’t ever
think that you deserved it, or you are
the guilty party.
Because it is amazing. Some men
have the ability to make their victims
think they are the ones at fault.
Yet, for those who suffer the trauma
again, having a man confront them in
a very confined space, they are going
to be condemned to relive it over and
over again. It is very unfortunate.
Hopefully, wisdom will win out and
the Senate will help us have a bill that
really considers the women and the
damage done by the full complement, if
you want to call it that, of this Vio-
lence Against Women Act, as it was la-
beled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:19 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.053 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3094 April 4, 2019
We have also heard repeatedly: There
is no crisis on the border. It is not a na-
tional emergency. This is a manufac-
tured emergency.
We have heard that over and over. We
have seen the montages of the main-
stream media saying: Manufactured
crisis. Manufactured crisis.
Apparently Jeh Johnson, former Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, didn’t
get the memo that he was supposed to
come forward and lie, so he actually
said: Yes, it is a crisis on the border.
It is a humanitarian crisis. It is a cri-
sis for our Nation’s security. And it is
so out of hand.
I keep hearing every day from people
whose jobs it is to protect America and
to protect Americans, protect people
who are legally here. But they are so
busy having to get names, whether
they are fictitious or not. Most of the
time there is no proper identification.
You have to take the person’s word,
take the information on where they
say they have relatives.
I have pointed it out before, but I
have been there when, while they are
going through questions with one end
of the group, at the other end, they are
moving kids: Why don’t you take this
kid. You take this kid, claim it is
yours. Oh, here. You take my address.
I’ll take your address.
These were addresses, apparently,
where the drug cartels needed them to
operate or work in either their drug
trafficking or sex trafficking. So,
under the laws the way they exist now,
as the border patrolmen have said, you
know, the cartels say: We’re the logis-
tics. The drug cartels get paid, and
they hire some person to bring them
across the border.
And the drug cartels, as I have heard
them say out there in the middle of the
night, when it is not on their list of
questions to ask, but often it gets
asked: How much did you pay to be
brought into this country?
And when the question is asked:
Where did you get that kind of
money—$5,000, $6,000, $7,000, $8,000. You
don’t have that. Where did you get that
money?
Well, we got so much here, so much
there, some sent from the U.S.
Well, what about the rest?
They are going to let me work it off
when I get where I am going.
So then, our own Homeland Security,
our own HHS, they ship the drug car-
tels’ future employees to the place that
the cartels want them to work.
So, I would hope that, as people read
stories: Oh, no, another meth lab bust-
ed, and this guy is part of the Mexican
drug cartel, and it is not in Texas, then
that is when people should remember:
Oh, yeah, that’s right. We use tax
money to send the cartels’ future em-
ployees to the cities where they want
them to work in sex trafficking or drug
trafficking.
I mean, an advanced civilization can-
not continue to reach its potential
when we are bringing in the people and
paying to put them where they can de-
stroy the city, the State, and ulti-
mately our country. This is a crisis.
As I understand, down in the quad-
rant of Texas, especially down south of
McAllen, where I have spent so many
nights, one was saying: We process
1,200 a day, process 13,000 in about 10
days—one area.
It is incredible. How can an intel-
ligent civilization keep doing that to
itself in the name of helping our coun-
try and helping our neighbors, when
the fact is that the most compas-
sionate thing Americans could do for
our neighbors in Mexico is to secure
the border completely. Nothing comes
in, like drugs or women being sex traf-
ficked. And, no, the drug cartels are
not going to take lightly to it.
But, you shut down the tens of mil-
lions of dollars every year that are
flowing from the U.S. into Mexico that
fund the mass corruption in Mexico,
then Mexico, in my opinion, would be-
come a top-ten economy in the world.
They have got some of the best nat-
ural resources in the world, a better ge-
ographic location than the United
States because they are between two
continents and two oceans. Their trade
ought to be astounding.
And they have got some of the hard-
est-working people in the world. So
why aren’t they a top economy? It is
because of all the money that flows
across from the United States to the
drug cartels in Mexico.
And, now, a huge source of revenue
for them is the money they get from
sending people across by the thousands
each week. It is insane.
We can’t prolong this little experi-
ment in self-government when we are
providing corrupt drug cartels with the
method to take us down and to keep
Mexico subjugated to their evil inten-
tions.
An article from CNS News by Ter-
ence Jeffrey, April 3 of this year,
points out that the five Federal dis-
trict court districts that sit along the
U.S.-Mexico border were the top five
districts in the country for the number
of defendants they convicted and sen-
tenced to imprisonment in fiscal year
2018, according to the data published by
the Administrative Office of U.S.
Courts.
I have a rather interesting chart
here. You see the Western District of
Texas has had 7,126 individuals con-
victed as criminals and sentenced to
prison; the Southern District of Texas,
5,939 people convicted as criminals,
sentenced to prison; Southern District
of California, very close, 5,470 con-
victed criminals sentenced to prison.
So, it isn’t just a wrist slap. Sentenced
to prison.
You have got the District of Arizona,
4,378; District of New Mexico, 3,923. Of
course, Florida is behind them. And
there are a lot of people coming in ille-
gally there, but it drops off so dramati-
cally. So, you see a bigger number of
these 30 top sentencing courts have 700
or less, and the Western District of
Texas has 7,000.
So why is this? It is because they are
border courts, and they are dramati-
cally affected by criminals coming
across our border.
As I understand it, one of the MS–
13ers that was caught—supposedly, for
every person we catch coming in ille-
gally, there are many times that many
that are coming in that we don’t catch.
No reason to doubt that that is true
about gang members, gangsters, part of
MS–13.
But, why are we allowing this to go
on for ourselves?
The old saying in Washington is: No
matter how cynical you get, it is never
enough to catch up. And, the more you
hang around this town, the more you
see there is something to that.
Could it be that a majority in the
House don’t want to stop this because
the thinking is: These may be our fu-
ture hope for being in the majority and
electing a President?
Heaven help us if that were the case,
that power is more important than pre-
serving a union where freedom once
abounded.
b 1345
Of course, it could never adequately
abound as there was slavery.
I just finished a book about the mir-
acle of Yorktown, focused largely on
George Washington. And we know he
ended up, though he was from a State
that prohibited the freeing of slaves, he
freed the slaves in his will.
But it wasn’t until Martin Luther
King, Jr., JOHN LEWIS, and others,
withstood tremendous oppression in
order that a White Christian boy like
me could grow up and treat my broth-
ers and sisters like brothers and sis-
ters. So we have made great progress.
And then it seemed like, just as we
get to the sixties, and the Constitution
finally is meaning what it says, we
start moving in a direction that most
civilizations, when you read their his-
tory, actually were moving them to the
dustbin of history.
Here we accomplished so much, and
freedom for—we spread it around. The
Civil Rights Act helped with that. And
now we are going to punish women who
have been victims of assault by forcing
them to endure men coming into their
private spaces.
We are going to take a country where
a massive amount of crime is occurring
on our border and our border areas—we
are overwhelmed with people that
don’t understand that it is a lot of edu-
cation and a lot of work involved in
order to preserve self-government.
So it is not unusual to see socialism
become so popular as an idea. It sounds
wonderful. Everybody’s going to share
and share alike.
But then you dig down, and you find
out historically, you can’t have social-
ism; you can’t have communism unless
you have a big, powerful government,
strong enough that it can take from
those who earn things and give it to
those who didn’t, without their permis-
sion, and punish them if they try to ob-
ject. That takes a big, strong govern-
ment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.055 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3095
April 4, 2019
And our Founders found actually, if
you let people keep what they earn,
put a small tax on it so you keep order
in the country, that that is far more
productive. That is how the United
States has been the greatest economy,
and still is, in the world.
But those freedoms are going away.
We are no longer ranked as the freest
country in the world. And as those
freedoms diminish, it shouldn’t be a big
surprise that freedoms are diminishing
as people that don’t understand what it
takes to preserve liberty and self-gov-
ernment come in, unabated, virtually.
We are not stopping people from com-
ing in.
I am hopeful, prayerful, I hope that
we will be able to have our government
do what has not been done, as far as I
know, since Woodrow Wilson, and that
is, have people on the border, use non-
lethal means, and say, you are not
coming in to our country illegally.
We ought to have a bipartisan bill
passed pretty easily with regard to asy-
lum that says, You can’t come into the
United States and claim asylum. You
have got to go to the nearest embassy
or an American embassy, somewhere to
claim asylum.
But if you come into the country ille-
gally, and your first act in America in-
volves breaking the law, then we are
not going to allow you to apply for asy-
lum. And you would see these massive
caravans stop overnight. That is why
there is such fluctuation.
Earlier last year, numbers were way
down. People in other countries
thought Trump was going to stop
them; that we had a President that
wanted to do all he could to stop illegal
immigration, secure the border.
But by the time they found out that
his party was not going to be in the
majority in the House, and that people
said they want to eliminate all barriers
and let people in, anybody that wanted
to come here, not just the over 1 mil-
lion that we give visas to, then the
numbers picked up.
And when they got word that if you
have a child, whether it is yours or
somebody else’s, it doesn’t matter,
that gets you into the country, and
keeps you in the country, get a child.
Bring a child. That is the thing to do.
It is really outrageous what that has
done to children. Now they are an im-
portant commodity to the drug cartels.
Make sure, whoever you are, wherever
you are coming from, even if you are
an MS–13er, bring a kid with you, bring
a child; because the United States
made such a big deal about we won’t
separate children from parents, even
though, to American citizens, we sepa-
rate children from parents every single
day of the year because, in America, at
least in the past, we didn’t believe in
putting children in confinement for
crimes their parents committed.
As a judge, I don’t know how many
warrants I signed, but I would never
allow a child to be incarcerated be-
cause of the alleged crime of their par-
ents. We don’t do that. So we separate
children from their parents every day
in America, in every county in Amer-
ica, in every State in America. It hap-
pens all the time, because we don’t
punish the children for the sins of their
parents.
But once word got out that if you
come to America illegally with a child,
you have got a good chance of staying
in, claim asylum, the courts are backed
up, and you have got a good chance of
staying for years; and once you are
here a number of years, just don’t show
up for your asylum hearing, and they
won’t know where you are, and you
will be in good shape.
It has got to stop. The American peo-
ple expect us to protect them, protect
the Constitution, and we have not done
a good job of that because there seems,
so often, right here in this room, more
devotion to people that hate America,
that still want to come here, than
there is to those who are legally here,
that are saying, I don’t want to be a
victim of a crime; would you please
protect me from people coming in ille-
gally that may commit a crime against
me.
And it shouldn’t even have to be said,
but because we have so many ‘‘lame
stream’’ media folks who either are
liars by trade, or simply that igno-
rant—no, all immigrants are not crimi-
nals or people looking to commit
crimes such as robbery, rape, destruc-
tion, murder; but they do happen.
When you look at the percentages of
people in our Federal prison who are in
the country illegally, an objective by-
stander looking on would go: Wow, why
is this country doing that?
Why are they letting all these people
in illegally, when they may have 20, 25
percent in their prison who are there
because they are in the country ille-
gally? Why are they letting that go on?
And the only answer from an accu-
rate cynic would be, Well, it is for poli-
tics. They think it is good for one po-
litical party, so they keep it up.
That is so dramatic, such a dramatic
demonstration of where the real prob-
lems are in this country.
And I have heard my friend, now Sen-
ator MARSHA BLACKBURN, point out,
every city in America is now a border
city, because of all of the illegal aliens
that they are having to take care of.
But an article in the Federalist, by
John Daniel Davidson, April 4—it is ac-
tually his testimony before the Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental
Affairs Committee—but he says: ‘‘I vis-
ited a migrant respite center in
McAllen, Texas, run by Catholic Char-
ities of the Rio Grande Valley, the
charitable arm of the Diocese of
Brownsville. Sister Norman Pimentel
helped establish the center in 2014, at
the height of the unaccompanied minor
crisis, when Immigration and Customs
Enforcement was overwhelmed with
thousands of children and teenagers
turning themselves in to U.S. Border
Patrol agents.
‘‘At that time, the center was receiv-
ing between 60 and 120 migrants a day,
nearly all of them families from Cen-
tral America. Here’s how it worked:
Every afternoon, ICE dropped off the
families at the Greyhound bus station
downtown, about a mile from the res-
pite center. Greyhound employees
would call the center to let them know
the migrants were there, and the cen-
ter would send vans to pick them up.
‘‘Once at the center, the children
would be sent to a separate room for a
hot meal while the parents took turns
working with volunteers to get in
touch with friends and family members
all over the country.’’
Or, as we have seen, sometimes those
are not friends and family; they are
people to which the drug cartels have
ordered them.
‘‘The goal was to get them all bus
tickets and get them on their way that
same day, usually later that evening,
because the next day there would be
another group of families coming in,
and there simply wasn’t space for more
than a couple dozen people to spend the
night there.
‘‘This wasn’t some gleaming facility.
The center occupied one half of a run-
down commercial building, consisting
of a large multipurpose room, a bath-
room and a shower, a small kitchen,
and a separate room for the makeshift
cafeteria. There was an area in a cor-
ner of the main room cordoned off for
young children to play and a large
stack of blue plastic mattresses in an-
other corner.’’
Anyway, ‘‘in December, the diocese
moved the center to a larger location,
a former nursing home, about 16,000
square feet. . . . that’s because the
number of migrants turning up at the
bus station skyrocketed. Today, the
new respite center is receiving about
800 people a day’’—800 people a day—
‘‘sometimes more. Last Sunday, 1,300
people were dropped off there and at
other shelters around town.’’
I mean, this is what is going on on
our border, when we are the most gen-
erous country in the world.
Some people even in this room will
shout: You know, we are a Nation of
immigrants. That is right. And that is
why we are so—we are the most gen-
erous country in the world when it
comes to giving free passes into Amer-
ica. Nobody gives a million or more
visas for legal entry into their country.
Nobody. Not these countries that are
geographically bigger. Not countries
that have a number of times the popu-
lation. No, nobody is that generous as
we are with letting immigrants in.
So it is outrageous to say, because
we want to limit those coming in to
the very—the most generous number in
the world, that we say come in legally,
what is wrong with that?
As has been said before, a nation
with no borders will not be a nation
much longer. Not for long.
But, we find out, yeah, it is a money-
maker. It is a moneymaker for the
drug cartels. Some people profit off the
people coming in here illegally. The
people that work here, either from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.057 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3096 April 4, 2019
drugs or legitimate businesses, they
send an awful lot of money home, and
that is the kind of people we want, peo-
ple that care about their families, want
to help them provide, make their way.
That is a very noble thing to send
money home to family. Unfortunately,
that is not all the people that are com-
ing in these days.
I want to touch on one other matter,
and that’s with regard to the special
counsel. I know there are people, the
House and Senate, that say, Oh, you
know, Robert Mueller is the gold
standard when it comes to prosecutor.
I submit that is some pretty tarnished
gold with an awful lot of impurities,
speaking metaphorically.
b 1400
So I wasn’t surprised when we
learned that the Mueller report indi-
cated, really, there is plenty of evi-
dence Russians were trying to get the
Trump campaign to conspire with
them; no evidence they did conspire
with the Russians.
Through the years of questioning
Robert Mueller in our committee and
doing a lot of research on the man, it
would explain why I was so upset when
he was appointed as special counsel, be-
cause I wanted somebody who would be
fair and investigate all parts. But when
we look back now, we see all the in-
dictments that came as a result of hav-
ing a special counsel, not one single
one of the indictments involved a con-
spiracy of any kind between anybody
at the Trump campaign, including our
President, and Russia.
What we have learned from all the
evidence we have gleaned in committee
and in public is that there was a con-
spiracy, and it involved top people at
the Department of Justice; it involved
top people at the FBI; it involved the
Clinton campaign; it involved Fusion
GPS; it involved a foreign agent named
Steele. He is a foreign agent.
And, by the way, our great Justice
Department, such as it is—or was in
the last couple years—never bothered
to tell the FISA court: This man has no
credibility with the FBI. We have
stopped using him as an agent of our
government, the foreign agent that he
is, because he is not trustworthy.
Never bothered to tell the judge that.
And I don’t know if it was one FISA
judge or more, but the fact is that the
FISA judges, nobody has punished any
of the applicants, or affiants, that have
come in and sworn before them that
this is true to the best of their knowl-
edge.
That was a lie. They didn’t give the
judge the best of their knowledge. It
was a lie and they knew it, and they
did it four times.
I have lost respect for whoever in the
FISA court would not call those law-
yers in, or the FBI agents, and say:
You lied to me when you didn’t tell me
the full truth. You committed a fraud
on my court, and now I need to decide
how long I am putting you in jail.
They haven’t done that. That tells
me we either need to get rid of the
FISA courts or we need to have such a
big overhaul because they have gotten
too comfortable in that star chamber.
And I know all of them haven’t, be-
cause I know there are some good
judges who have been nominated, con-
firmed by the Senate, and sit on Fed-
eral benches. I know there are plenty
of good ones. I have got too many good
friends not to know that. But we at
least have some who don’t care when
they are lied to if it furthers their own
political ideas, because that is the bot-
tom line.
Why would the FISA court or courts
that have been lied to, had fraud
against the court, why would they not
have already punished the people who
committed the fraud against their
court?
It seems to me it has got to be one of
two reasons:
They must be dishonest people;
therefore, they don’t mind being lied
to; or
They were so politically aligned with
the people who were committing the
fraud upon their court that they are
fine with the fraud because it helped
accomplish their political agenda as
well as the ones who committed the
fraud.
We need to do something about the
FISA courts. It is a real problem.
I know there are a lot of people who
think: Well, no, it is not really a prob-
lem because it has only been abused
against Republicans, and we hate Don-
ald Trump, didn’t want him to be
President, and so it is okay for them to
abuse the FISA court system and the
warrant system and the First and
Fourth and Fifth and Sixth Amend-
ments. It is okay to abuse those be-
cause we don’t like the people being
abused.
But there is a reason that we have an
adversarial system. With all its flaws,
it is the best there has ever been any-
where when it comes to justice. We are
not supposed to allow the kind of thing
that has now happened.
I was not surprised when Mueller
couldn’t help himself, Weissmann
couldn’t help himself: Yeah, the evi-
dence is not there to prosecute any-
body, but we want you to know we are
not exonerating him.
Well, that is not a prosecutor’s job. If
a prosecutor learns that a crime has
most likely—has probably been com-
mitted and that a person has probably
committed it and they find out a crime
has been committed, they look for a
person who probably committed the
crime. That is the job.
When you find the person, you gather
enough evidence that you can have
probable cause that they committed
the crime. You get them indicted. You
pursue them, prosecute them, convict
them, sentence them. That is how it is
supposed to work.
A prosecutor is not supposed to ever
go into something to exonerate some-
body. You don’t go into it looking for
evidence that exonerates somebody.
You are looking for evidence that
shows they are guilty. And if you don’t
find evidence that establishes they are
guilty, then you are supposed to move
on; although, Mueller has had a prob-
lem with that.
We also have seen the history, wheth-
er it was Comey admitting that—it
sounded like he admitted a crime, be-
cause he leaked information that he
knew should not have been disclosed to
a professor so that he would get it to
The New York Times so that they
could have a justification for appoint-
ing a special prosecutor. Wow.
You have got 18 U.S.C. 1905, disclo-
sure of confidential information. That
is a general provision. It is a felony to
disclose confidential information. You
have got other laws.
Well, this from the DOJ, their own
regulations. If you look at 1–7.110, it
says: ‘‘It is against the law to disclose
classified information to someone not
authorized to receive it.’’
But that has gone on during the
years Mueller was head of the FBI.
We have had FBI agents make clear:
No way we could prosecute a Member
of Congress without the knowledge and
okay of the Director of the FBI.
That would be Mueller when they
were pursuing Ted Stevens, Senator.
They fabricated a case against the
man. He had evidence he was not just
not guilty, but completely innocent.
But you do your investigation. You
gather up all the evidence that would
show somebody is innocent, completely
innocent, 100 percent innocent, and you
don’t let them have all their stuff back
and you manufacture evidence. You
threaten a witness to get them to lie so
you can convict somebody. That hap-
pened to Ted Stevens.
When I first heard, gee, he had added
a $700,000 addition to his home, some-
thing like that, I am going, well, he
should have known better than that.
Surely you are going to try a guy for
that.
Well, it turns out he overpaid. He
even told the contractor: Just cash my
checks. I have to overpay, because they
are watching everything I do, and I
have got to keep my nose clean.
They still went after him and con-
victed him immediately before an elec-
tion that he narrowly lost.
Thank God there was an FBI agent
with a conscience who did an affidavit
so the judge found out that the pros-
ecutor, the FBI, had framed Ted Ste-
vens for a crime he didn’t commit.
Those people should have been dis-
barred. They should have been thrown
out of the FBI. But the only guy forced
out was the one who did the affidavit,
because Mueller—obviously, it had to
be done with his knowledge, that you
run the guy off that had a conscience
and reported it to the court and you
keep on the FBI agent that helped fab-
ricate the case against the longest
serving Republican in the Senate at
the time.
He wouldn’t have been on that plane
where he was killed if it hadn’t been
for Mueller’s FBI and the framing of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.058 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3097
April 4, 2019
Ted Stevens. So he lost his seat in the
Senate, even though he was later exon-
erated.
And, of course, you know, we have
these repeated examples. I am not even
going to go back into the Whitey Bulg-
er situation when Mueller was in Bos-
ton.
But, you know, Curt Weldon, serving
here in the House, he was giving
speeches right here over and over about
the FBI could have stopped 9/11.
I didn’t know what he was saying,
whether it was true or not. He talked
about a program Able Danger, but I
sure did feel like Mueller needed to re-
spond, because this was a serious alle-
gation against his FBI.
Unbeknownst to me, he was going to
respond, but not with a statement that
Curt Weldon was wrong. No. What they
did, and I put the story—I have got a
lot of examples. I was doing an op-ed so
people would know some about Mueller
that I know and had found out and read
about.
Anyway, I started an op-ed. I let my
friend Sean Hannity know: I am doing
an op-ed on Mueller, and normally pa-
pers only want 500, 800 words, max, for
an op-ed, and I am already at 2,000.
Sean said: Just do it.
And, you know, it doesn’t make me a
dime in my case as a Member of Con-
gress, but I felt like the story needed
to get out. So Sean said: Well, yeah, we
can put it up on the Internet. People
can download it.
It ended up being 48 pages, but one of
the things I brought out was Curt
Weldon’s situation.
So I will read from the story that I
included. This was from an article by
WND: ‘‘Each of Weldon’s 10 previous re-
elections had been by sizeable margins.
Polls showed he was up by five to seven
points in the fall of 2006. Three weeks
prior to the election, however, a na-
tional story ran about Weldon based
upon anonymous sources’’—they had to
have come from the FBI—‘‘that an in-
vestigation was underway against him
and his daughter, alleging illegal ac-
tivities involving his congressional
work.’’
A week after the news story broke,
alleging a need to act quickly because
of the leak—and, see, this is typical for
Mueller and his crime team. They leak
information and then tell the judge: We
have got to do something quick be-
cause this information is getting out.
Yeah. You leaked it.
Just like when they used this dossier.
I used to have respect for dossiers. Now
it is a pejorative. But it was prepared
by a foreign agent named Christopher
Steele, hired by the Clinton campaign,
using Fusion GPS, using others like
Nellie Ohr, wife of FBI top official
Bruce Ohr, and they used this guy’s
dossier. Information from Christopher
Steele’s dossier, as fabricated as it was,
was provided to a reporter who did a
story about it.
It was one of the other frauds upon
the court. They tell the court: See, not
only do we have this information from
Christopher Steele, a foreign agent
that is untrustworthy—unfortunately,
they didn’t tell the judge that. They
knew it, but they didn’t tell it.
And they said: And look here. Here is
a story that also has this information
that corroborates Christopher Steele—
not bothering to tell the judge, actu-
ally, that is Christopher Steele cor-
roborating Christopher Steele. And he
didn’t even—he just talked to people in
Russia.
b 1415
So, you got a foreign agent using for-
eign agents. Who knows who they
worked for. Maybe Putin. So a foreign
agent using foreign agents in Russia,
as he worked for the Clinton Founda-
tion, Fusion GPS, to prepare opposi-
tion research that was not true against
the opposing campaign for president.
So they didn’t bother to tell the
judge then here in Curt Weldon’s case.
It must have been somebody from the
FBI leaked that they were going after
Curt Weldon that helped them get the
media involved and a judge to sign off
on a warrant.
And, gee, when they show up early in
the morning at 7 a.m., before business
on a Monday morning—local TV and
print media had all been alerted about
the raid—well, who would have done
that, but the FBI agents or maybe
Mueller or one of his minions. They
leaked to the media: They are all out
there and they were in position to
cover the story.
Within hours, Democratic protestors
were waving ‘‘Caught Red-Handed’’
signs outside Curt Weldon’s district of-
fice. But it turns out there was no fol-
low-up, there were no questions, no
grand jury investigation, nothing.
That is why they later called Curt
Weldon’s family and said: Hey, all that
stuff we got in our raid, you know, you
can come get it. Apparently, we didn’t
use it in a grand jury investigation.
No, they just used it to defeat Curt
Weldon.
So, it shouldn’t be a surprise when
Mueller’s report said: We didn’t have
evidence of a crime by the Trump ad-
ministration or Trump campaign re-
garding collusion or any of that, but
we didn’t exonerate him.
Well, no, that is not your job. Of
course, you don’t exonerate somebody.
But as special counsel—it sure
seemed just like Comey, these guys
that were all in tight. You know,
Comey, there was a great article some
years back about basically he and
Mueller are joined at the hip.
What a great gift for Mueller,
though. He is begging President Trump
to appoint him again back to being di-
rector of the FBI after Comey was fired
based on Rosenstein’s memo. And the
President said: No, I am not going to
give you a job.
Twenty-four hours later, he grabs a
job that will allow him to go after the
man who wouldn’t hire him as FBI di-
rector.
Mueller, if he had any sense of de-
cency, he would have told Rosenstein:
Look, you and I, Rosenstein, Rod, we
were involved in the original Russia in-
vestigation when we know Russia was
trying to get uranium illegally. We
really shouldn’t be involved in this
Russia investigation. It may bleed
over. And the President is supposed to
investigate. He wouldn’t hire me yes-
terday. That will look bad.
But you would have thought a man of
decency would have recused himself,
which Mueller did not do. There are so
many reasons for both him, Rosen-
stein, and certainly Weissman—they
were all involved in that original Rus-
sia investigation on uranium that they
put a lid on so that the sale could go
through, because, let’s face it, the Clin-
ton Foundation wouldn’t have gotten
that $145 million from the people prof-
iting from the uranium sale of U.S.
uranium, ultimately to Russia. It
wouldn’t have happened.
But Mueller not only did not recuse
himself, he accepted the job and imme-
diately went about hiring people that
hated Trump like he did. That is not
the mark of a real man of justice, a
real person of justice.
And he had a policy, when he was FBI
director, the 5-year up-or-out policy,
that caused us to lose, as was pre-
viously reported, thousands and thou-
sands of years of experience. Why? If
you got people experienced, they can
tell you when you are screwing up,
doing something wrong as FBI direc-
tor. He just wanted young people who
would salute the flag and do whatever
he said. Very unfortunate.
So he brought down Ted Stevens. He
brought down Curt Weldon. And what
about Dr. Steven Hatfill? I mean, the
story was that President Bush called
him in—There is no evidence that
Hatfill had anything to do with this
anthrax. Why are you still after it? Are
you sure he is the guy? And Mueller
said: I am 100 percent certain; is what
was reported.
And that is because, as the saying
goes, normally Mueller—well, I guess
the saying is: Often wrong, but never in
doubt.
He tells President Bush: I am 100 per-
cent certain. Yes, Hatfill is the guy.
He wasn’t the guy. And that is why it
cost the government a $6 million or
such settlement for destroying his life.
If you look at Scooter Libby, Scooter
Libby was framed, let’s face it. And
there is a great story explaining all
that, in fact, how Judith Miller was
manipulated. That poor person suffered
as a result of trying to do the right
thing. But she was ultimately per-
suaded that Scooter Libby said some-
thing he didn’t. And she later, as it
said, when Miller read Plame’s own
memoir, in there discovered that
Plame had worked at a State Depart-
ment bureau as a cover for a real CIA
role. That discovery, in Miller’s words,
left her cold. The idea that the bureau,
in her notebook, meant CIA had been
planted in her head by Fitzgerald or
the FBI. It was a strange word to use
for the CIA. Reading Plame’s memoir,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.060 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3098 April 4, 2019
Miller realized that bureau was in
brackets because it related to her work
at the State Department. In other
words, she shouldn’t have testified
against Scooter Libby. She was set up
and manipulated and, as a result, a
good man’s life was destroyed.
But you will find, Mueller never
apologizes when he always gets his
man. It is just sometimes it is wrong.
It needs more investigation. Not the
Trump administration, but Mueller.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 2 o’clock and 22 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until Monday, April 8,
2019, at noon for morning-hour debate.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
609. A letter from the Secretary, Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s interim final rule
— Margin Requirements for Uncleared Swaps
for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Partici-
pants (RIN: 3038-AE85) received April 3, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
610. A letter from the Deputy Secretary,
Division of Swap Dealer and Intermediary
Oversight, Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting the Department’s
final rule — De Minimis Exception to the
Swap Dealer Definition-Swaps Entered into
by Insured Depository Institutions in Con-
nection with Loans to Customers (RIN: 3038-
AE68) received April 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ag-
riculture.
611. A letter from the Chief, Officer Acces-
sions Policy Branch [G1/DMPM], Department
of the Army, Department of Defense, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule —
Schools and Colleges [Docket ID: USA-2018-
HQ-0018] (RIN: 0702-AA89) received April 3,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Armed Services.
612. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Defense Pricing and Contracting,
Department of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Repeal of
DFARS Clause ‘‘Oral Attestation of Security
Responsibilities’’ (DFARS Case 2019-D006)
[Docket: DARS-2019-0014] (RIN: 0750-AK41)
received April 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
613. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Defense Pricing and Contracting,
Department of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Repeal of
Congressional Notification for Certain Task-
and Delivery-Order Contracts (DFARS Case
2019-0007) [Docket: DARS-2019-0007] (RIN:
0750-AK45) received April 3, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Armed Services.
614. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Defense Pricing and Contracting,
Department of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Consent to
Subcontract (DFARS Case 2018-D065) [Dock-
et: DARS-2019-0006] (RIN: 0750-AK24) received
April 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Armed Services.
615. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Defense Pricing and Contracting,
Department of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Repeal of
Certain Defense Acquisition Laws (DFARS
Case 2018-D059) [Docket: DARS-2019-0013]
(RIN: 0750-AK20) received April 3, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Armed Services.
616. A letter from the Acting Principal
Deputy, Defense Pricing and Contracting,
Department of Defense, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Defense Federal Ac-
quisition Regulation Supplement: Modifica-
tion of DFARS Clause ‘‘Utilization of Indian
Organizations, Indian-Owned Economic En-
terprises, and Native Hawaiian Small Busi-
ness Concerns’’ (DFARS Case 2018-D051)
[Docket: DARS-2019-0012] (RIN: 0750-AK06)
received April 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
617. A letter from the Chief Counsel,
FEMA, Department of Homeland Security,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Suspension of Community Eligibility (Ala-
bama: Adamsville, City of, Jefferson County,
et al.) [Docket ID: FEMA-2019-0003; Internal
Agency Docket No.: FEMA-8571] received
April 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
618. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s Major final rule — Delay of Effective
Date; Regulatory Capital Rule: Implementa-
tion and Transition of the Current Expected
Credit Losses Methodology for Allowances
and Related Adjustments to the Regulatory
Capital Rule and Conforming Amendments
to Other Regulations (RIN: 3064-AE74) re-
ceived April 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
619. A letter from the Director, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation, transmitting the Corpora-
tion’s interim final rule — Margin and Cap-
ital Requirements for Covered Swap Entities
(RIN: 3064-AF00) received April 3, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Financial Services.
620. A letter from the Deputy General
Counsel, Office of Elementary and Secondary
Education, Department of Education, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule — Op-
portunities and Responsibilities for State
and Local Report Cards Under the Elemen-
tary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, As
Amended by the Every Student Succeeds Act
received April 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
621. A letter from the Director, Regulatory
Management Division, Environmental Pro-
tection Agency, transmitting the Agency’s
final rule — 2-methyl-2-[(1-oxo-2-pro-
penyl)amino]-1-propanesulfonic acid mono-
sodium salt polymer with 2-propenoic acid, 2-
methyl-, C12-16 alkyl esters; Tolerance Ex-
emption [EPA-HQ-OPP-2018-0058; FRL-9988-
62] received April 2, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
622. A letter from the Chief Administrative
Officer, transmitting the quarterly report of
receipts and expenditures of appropriations
and other funds for the period January 1,
2019, to March 31, 2019, pursuant to 2 U.S.C.
104a (H. Doc. No. 116—26); to the Committee
on House Administration and ordered to be
printed.
623. A letter from the Associate General
Counsel for Legislation and Regulations, Of-
fice of the General Counsel, Department of
Housing and Urban Development, transmit-
ting the Department’s final rule — Adjust-
ment of Civil Monetary Penalty Amounts for
2019 [Docket No.: FR-6139-F-01] (RIN: 2501-
AD90) received April 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
624. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Offering a Lump-Sum Payment Op-
tion to Retirees Currently Receiving Annu-
ity Payments under a Defined Benefit Plan
[Notice 2019-18] received April 2, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
625. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Permitted disparity in employer-pro-
vided contributions or benefits (Revenue
Ruling 2019-06) received April 2, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
626. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s IRB only
rule — Announcement and Report Con-
cerning Advance Pricing Agreements [An-
nouncement 2019-03] received April 2, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
627. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulations — Chapter 4 Regulations Relating
to Verification and Certification Require-
ments for Certain Entities and Reporting by
Foreign Financial Institutions [TD 9852]
(RIN: 1545-BL96) received April 2, 2019, pursu-
ant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
628. A letter from the Chief, Publications
and Regulations Branch, Internal Revenue
Service, transmitting the Service’s final reg-
ulations — Reportable Transactions Pen-
alties under Section 6707A [TD 9853] (RIN:
1545-BK62] received April 2, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Mr. NADLER: Committee on the Judici-
ary. House Resolution 243. Resolution of in-
quiry requesting the President and directing
the Attorney General to transmit, respec-
tively, certain documents to the House of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K04AP7.061 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3099
April 4, 2019
Representatives relating to the actions of
former Federal Bureau of Investigation Act-
ing Director Andrew McCabe; with an
amendment (Rept. 116–33). Referred to the
House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. WILLIAMS:
H.R. 2079. A bill to amend the Federal Re-
serve Act to prohibit certain member banks
from using discount window lending pro-
grams, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama (for her-
self, Mrs. MCBATH, Ms. HOULAHAN,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. CUELLAR, Mr. BERA,
Ms. SPANBERGER, Ms. KENDRA S.
HORN of Oklahoma, Mr. PHILLIPS, Mr.
SCHRADER, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas,
Ms. SLOTKIN, and Miss RICE of New
York):
H.R. 2080. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide for a Fed-
eral, cost-of-living based minimum wage,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
(for himself, Mr. VELA, Mr. JOYCE of
Pennsylvania, and Mr. CUELLAR):
H.R. 2081. A bill to amend the Animal
Health Protection Act to establish a grant
program for research on chronic wasting dis-
ease, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture.
By Mr. GOHMERT (for himself and Mr.
WRIGHT):
H.R. 2082. A bill to provide for parental no-
tification and intervention in the case of an
unemancipated minor seeking an abortion;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mr.
MAST, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. PAPPAS,
and Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi):
H.R. 2083. A bill to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 regarding the procure-
ment of certain items related to national se-
curity interests for Department of Homeland
Security frontline operational components,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security.
By Mr. ADERHOLT (for himself and
Mr. VARGAS):
H.R. 2084. A bill to amend the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to raise the
minimum age restriction with respect to the
sale of tobacco products, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. MATSUI,
Mr. YARMUTH, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Ms. MOORE, and Mr. COHEN):
H.R. 2085. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to establish a public
health insurance option, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself and Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania):
H.R. 2086. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow a refundable tax
credit against income tax for the purchase of
qualified access technology for the blind; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself and Mr.
BUCHANAN):
H.R. 2087. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to require certain manu-
facturers to report drug pricing information
with respect to drugs under the Medicare
program, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Ways and Means,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. STANTON (for himself and Mr.
VEASEY):
H.R. 2088. A bill to amend the Energy Inde-
pendence and Security Act of 2007 to reau-
thorize the Energy Efficiency and Conserva-
tion Block Grant Program, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Ms. FINKENAUER (for herself, Mrs.
AXNE, Mr. KIND, Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Ms.
DELAURO, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. LOEBSACK,
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Mr. PASCRELL, and Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut):
H.R. 2089. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend for 2 years tax
credits with respect to biodiesel and renew-
able diesel; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for himself
and Mr. POCAN):
H.R. 2090. A bill to clarify the status of the
North Country, Ice Age, and New England
National Scenic Trails as units of the Na-
tional Park System, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. SPEIER (for herself, Miss RICE
of New York, Ms. MOORE, Mr. FOS-
TER, Mr. COHEN, Mr. CICILLINE, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. ESPAILLAT,
Ms. JUDY CHU of California, Mr.
VEASEY, Ms. JAYAPAL, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. GALLEGO, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms.
DEGETTE, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, Mr. POCAN, Mr. BERA,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
HIMES, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. PRICE
of North Carolina, Mr. NADLER, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. MENG, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr. WELCH,
Ms. HAALAND, Mr. KILMER, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. RYAN, Mr. AGUILAR, and Ms.
TITUS):
H.R. 2091. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to ensure that members of the
Armed Forces and their families have access
to the contraception they need in order to
promote the health and readiness of all
members of the Armed Forces, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2092. A bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency to set a health-protective numerical
emission limitation for hydrogen cyanide
under section 112 of the Clean Air Act (42
U.S.C. 7412), and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GAETZ, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
MCCLINTOCK, Mr. COHEN, Mr. GRAVES
of Georgia, Ms. NORTON, Mr. YOUNG,
Mr. CORREA, Mr. BUCK, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. STEUBE, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. ARM-
STRONG, Mr. CRIST, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
Ms. TITUS, Mr. HUNTER, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. AMODEI, Mr.
RYAN, and Mr. NEWHOUSE):
H.R. 2093. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to provide for a new rule re-
garding the application of the Act to mari-
huana, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committees on Energy and Commerce,
and Transportation and Infrastructure, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 2094. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase the maximum age
for children eligible for medical care under
the CHAMPVA program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 2095. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, for the purpose
of addressing public health crises, to require
the manufacturers of covered products to de-
velop, maintain, and update a plan to miti-
gate the effects of such products on public
health, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania (for himself, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ):
H.R. 2096. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide tax credits for
energy storage technologies, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. DUFFY (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, Ms. ESHOO, Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, and Ms. SPEIER):
H.R. 2097. A bill to recognize the Hmong,
Khmer, Laotian, and other ethnic groups
commonly referred to as Montagnards, who
supported and defended the Armed Forces
during the conflict in Southeast Asia, au-
thorize assistance to support activities relat-
ing to clearance of unexploded ordnance and
other explosive remnants of war, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 2098. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to establish a veterans
visa program to permit veterans who have
been removed from the United States to re-
turn as immigrants, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary, and in
addition to the Committees on Armed Serv-
ices, and Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. VELA, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
LYNCH, Mr. RASKIN, and Mr.
SERRANO):
H.R. 2099. A bill to expand the workforce of
veterinarians specialized in the care and con-
servation of wild animals and their eco-
systems, and to develop educational pro-
grams focused on wildlife and zoological vet-
erinary medicine; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, and in addition to the Committee on
Natural Resources, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. HIMES (for himself, Mr. DIAZ-
BALART, and Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio):
H.R. 2100. A bill to promote the creation of
State anonymous school threat reporting
programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself and Ms.
NORTON):
H.R. 2101. A bill to provide for restrictions
on recently appointed Federal employees and
recently separated Federal employees with
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.004 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3100 April 4, 2019
respect to lobbying activities, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. KILDEE (for himself, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. KHANNA,
Mr. DELGADO, Ms. TORRES SMALL of
New Mexico, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Ms. DEAN, Mr. COHEN, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Ms. STEVENS, Mrs. TRAHAN,
and Mr. KIM):
H.R. 2102. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to furnish hospital care and
medical services to veterans and dependents
who were stationed at military installations
at which the veterans and dependents were
exposed to perfluorooctanoic acid or other
per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances, to pro-
vide for a presumption of service connection
for certain veterans who were stationed at
military installations at which the veterans
were exposed to such substances, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. LAMB (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Mr. RYAN, Mr. BRINDISI, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Ms. MENG, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, and
Mr. GARAMENDI):
H.R. 2103. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow workers an above-
the-line deduction for union dues and ex-
penses and to allow a miscellaneous itemized
deduction for workers for all unreimbursed
expenses incurred in the trade or business of
being an employee; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. LATTA (for himself and Mr.
WELCH):
H.R. 2104. A bill to clarify that no express
or implied warranty is provided by reason of
a disclosure relating to voluntary participa-
tion in the Energy Star program, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. COLE,
Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Ohio, Mr. KELLY of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. RYAN, and Mr. AUSTIN
SCOTT of Georgia):
H.R. 2105. A bill to establish the Wildlife
and Hunting Heritage Conservation Advisory
Committee to advise the Secretaries of the
Interior and Agriculture on wildlife and
habitat conservation, hunting, recreational
shooting, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources, and in addition
to the Committee on Agriculture, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LATTA (for himself, Mr. COLE,
Mr. RYAN, and Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of
Georgia):
H.R. 2106. A bill to amend section 100905 of
title 54, United States Code, to direct the
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary
of Agriculture to require annual permits and
assess annual fees for commercial filming ac-
tivities on Federal land for film crews of 5
persons or fewer, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources, and in
addition to the Committee on Agriculture,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself and Mr.
DEFAZIO):
H.R. 2107. A bill to expand the use of open
textbooks in order to achieve savings for stu-
dents and improve textbook price informa-
tion; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. PALMER (for himself and Mr.
GOSAR):
H.R. 2108. A bill to allow individuals to
choose to opt out of the Medicare part A ben-
efit; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself
and Mr. COOK):
H.R. 2109. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs, in awarding a contract for
the procurement of goods or services, to give
a preference to offerors that employ vet-
erans; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. SMITH of Washington (for him-
self, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mr. NADLER, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. VAN
DREW, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
GALLEGO, and Ms. SLOTKIN):
H.R. 2110. A bill to amend the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act
of 1985 to eliminate the section 251A seques-
trations, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ (for
herself, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. HASTINGS, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Ms. BARRAGÁN,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. DELAURO, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. DEUTCH, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 2111. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to provide for a Reducing
Youth Use of E-Cigarettes Initiative; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN (for her-
self and Mr. HILL of Arkansas):
H.R. 2112. A bill to establish the Refund to
Rainy Day Savings Program; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself and Mr.
GUTHRIE):
H. Res. 290. A resolution supporting in-
creased awareness of sepsis and the impor-
tance of early diagnosis and appropriate
intervention; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Ms. FRANKEL (for herself, Mr.
ENGEL, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. DEUTCH,
Mr. KEATING, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. BERA,
Mr. GALLEGO, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr.
COHEN, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
RUSH, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
VARGAS, Mr. CROW, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. SIRES, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms.
HILL of California, Mr. PANETTA, Ms.
ADAMS, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. VELA, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. SPEIER, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. TED LIEU
of California, Ms. NORTON, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, Mr. HIMES, Mr.
HASTINGS, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, and Mr.
MALINOWSKI):
H. Res. 291. A resolution recognizing that
contributions of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization are vital to United States na-
tional security; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself and Mr.
WATKINS):
H. Res. 292. A resolution celebrating the
heritage of Romani Americans; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on Natural Resources, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
MEMORIALS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, memorials
were presented and referred as follows:
16. The SPEAKER presented a memorial of
the Legislature of the State of North Da-
kota, relative to House Concurrent Resolu-
tion No. 3029, urging Congress to pass a fed-
eral prohibition on abortions performed 20
weeks postfertilization; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
17. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Iowa, relative to House Concur-
rent Resolution No. 10, recognizing the im-
portance of multilateral trade agreements to
Iowa’s economy and urging Congress to
enact legislation to implement a multilat-
eral trade agreement between the United
States, Canada, and Mexico; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
18. Also, a memorial of the Legislature of
the State of Arizona, relative to Senate Con-
current Memorial 1002, urging the United
States Congress to provide full, timely and
sustainable long-term funding for the Pay-
ment in Lieu of Taxes Program; jointly to
the Committees on Natural Resources and
Agriculture.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. WILLIAMS:
H.R. 2079.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. SEWELL of Alabama:
H.R. 2080.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania:
H.R. 2081.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8 of the United States Constitution which
gives Congress the power ‘‘to regulate Com-
merce with foreign Nations, and among the
several states, and within the Indian
Tribes.’’
By Mr. GOHMERT:
H.R. 2082.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
‘‘The Congress shall have Power . . . to
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
Congress shall have Power . . . ‘‘To regu-
late commerce with foreign nations, and
among the several states, and with the In-
dian tribes.’’
By Mr. CORREA:
H.R. 2083.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) The U.S. Constitution including Article
1, Section 8.
By Mr. ADERHOLT:
H.R. 2084.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L04AP7.100 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3101
April 4, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 2085.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power . . . To reg-
ulate Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California:
H.R. 2086.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 2087.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. STANTON:
H.R. 2088.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Ms. FINKENAUER:
H.R. 2089.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1:
The Congress shall have Power to lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 2090.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by the Constitution in the Government of
the United States or in any Department
thereof.
By Ms. SPEIER:
H.R. 2091.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Ms. DEGETTE:
H.R. 2092.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 3 of section 8 of article I of the Con-
stitution
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 2093.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 2094.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 2095.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania:
H.R. 2096.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Sections 7 & 8 of Article I of the United
States Constitution and Amendment XVI of
the United States Constitution.
By Mr. DUFFY:
H.R. 2097.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. GRIJALVA:
H.R. 2098.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
U.S. Const. art. I, §§ 1 and 8.
By Mr. HASTINGS:
H.R. 2099.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. HIMES:
H.R. 2100.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution, as this legislation pro-
vides for the general welfare of the United
States.
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 2101.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or office there-
of.
By Mr. KILDEE:
H.R. 2102.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. LAMB:
H.R. 2103.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. LATTA:
H.R. 2104.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. LATTA:
H.R. 2105.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes;
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States
Amendment II
A well regulated Militia, being necessary
to the security of a free State, the right of
the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not
be infringed.
By Mr. LATTA:
H.R. 2106.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2
The Congress shall have Power to dispose
of and make all needful Rules and Regula-
tions respecting the Territory or other Prop-
erty belonging to the United States
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power to regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations and among
the several States
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 2107.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. PALMER:
H.R. 2108.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1. Section 8. Clause 18
To make all Laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 2109.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SMITH of Washington:
H.R. 2110.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 7
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1, 2, 18
By Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ:
H.R. 2111.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN:
H.R. 2112.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States.
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by the Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Office there-
of.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 6: Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 9: Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. CLAY, and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 20: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 35: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 40: Mr. COOPER.
H.R. 95: Ms. WEXTON and Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 101: Mr. ALLEN, Mr. HICE of Georgia,
and Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 218: Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. KATKO, Mrs.
WALORSKI, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. EMMER, Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. TUR-
NER, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, and Mr.
ARRINGTON.
H.R. 303: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 307: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 336: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 446: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 497: Mr. CICILLINE and Mr. BANKS.
H.R. 530: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. CROW.
H.R. 534: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 535: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 555: Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Mr. WITTMAN, and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 586: Mr. BYRNE.
H.R. 594: Mr. RUSH and Mr. HOLDING.
H.R. 598: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 641: Ms. SCANLON and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 647: Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. THOMP-
SON of Mississippi, and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 737: Mr. BROWN of Maryland, Mr. COL-
LINS of New York, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
MARCHANT, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. PENCE, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. TURNER, and Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 759: Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 838: Mr. PERLMUTTER, Mr. BURGESS,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, and Mr. LAMALFA.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.020 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H3102 April 4, 2019
H.R. 858: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 874: Ms. SCANLON, Ms. FRANKEL, and
Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 965: Mr. COURTNEY and Mr. ALLRED.
H.R. 976: Ms. WATERS.
H.R. 996: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 1006: Mr. CHABOT and Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 1025: Mr. KING of New York, Mr. ROSE
of New York, and Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 1042: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1043: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Mrs.
AXNE.
H.R. 1044: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1049: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 1066: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1080: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. HARDER of California, Mr. DEFAZIO, Ms.
OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, and Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 1133: Mr. LAMB.
H.R. 1154: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms.
TITUS, Mr. PALLONE, and Mr. DEFAZIO.
H.R. 1197: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1224: Mr. POSEY, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. VAN DREW, Ms. DELBENE, and
Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1225: Ms. MATSUI, Mr. HIMES, and Mr.
RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1228: Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
UPTON, and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER.
H.R. 1243: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 1287: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 1327: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. CICILLINE,
Mr. LUJÁN, and Mr. JOHNSON of South Da-
kota.
H.R. 1400: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 1410: Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota
and Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 1471: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1489: Mr. GARAMENDI.
H.R. 1499: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY and Mr.
PAPPAS.
H.R. 1503: Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr.
VAN DREW, and Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 1520: Mr. WALDEN.
H.R. 1568: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr. LIPINSKI,
Mr. BUCHANAN, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. COHEN, and Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 1579: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 1595: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 1610: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
H.R. 1628: Mr. CASE.
H.R. 1629: Mr. WITTMAN.
H.R. 1641: Mr. BYRNE, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr.
GOODEN, Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
LAMB, Mr. VAN DREW, and Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 1644: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
BERA, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. GOMEZ, Mrs. TORRES
of California, Ms. BASS, Mr. JOHNSON of
Georgia, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. CLEAVER, Ms.
FUDGE, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr. ALLRED,
Mr. HECK, Mr. KILMER, and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 1675: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1680: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. GIBBS, and Mr. STIVERS.
H.R. 1706: Mr. PERRY.
H.R. 1709: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Ms. MENG, and Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 1730: Mr. BUCSHON and Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 1741: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina,
Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. BURCHETT, Mr. JOYCE of
Ohio, and Mr. NEWHOUSE.
H.R. 1753: Mr. BROOKS of Alabama.
H.R. 1759: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1791: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1830: Mr. SHERMAN and Mr. YOUNG.
H.R. 1837: Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
HOLDING, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia,
Mr. JOHNSON of South Dakota, Mr. OLSON,
Mr. HURD of Texas, Mr. SCHRADER, Mr. COLE,
Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Ms. DEAN, Mr. LEVIN of
Michigan, Mr. PASCRELL, and Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 1857: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 1863: Mr. COLE, Mr. KILDEE, and Mr.
FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1865: Mr. TONKO, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mr. WALBERG, Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. RUP-
PERSBERGER, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, and Ms.
LOFGREN.
H.R. 1869: Mr. WALKER, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr.
BALDERSON, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
CUELLAR, and Mr. CLAY.
H.R. 1873: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Ms.
LOFGREN, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1895: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee
and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1896: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1903: Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Ms. LOFGREN, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 1911: Mr. TIMMONS, Mr. RIGGLEMAN,
and Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 1933: Mr. GALLAGHER.
H.R. 1938: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1957: Mr. WATKINS and Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1987: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1992: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1995: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2000: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 2009: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 2010: Mr. WILLIAMS, Mr. ALLEN, Mr.
ABRAHAM, and Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 2048: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 2062: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana and Mr.
BURCHETT.
H. Con. Res. 29: Mr. RUSH.
H. Con. Res. 30: Ms. ESHOO, Mr. POCAN, and
Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H. Res. 23: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H. Res. 49: Mr. ALLRED and Ms. OMAR.
H. Res. 54: Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Penn-
sylvania.
H. Res. 60: Mr. MEEKS, Mr. MICHAEL F.
DOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia.
H. Res. 127: Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. PERRY, and
Mr. CASTRO of Texas.
H. Res. 222: Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
ALLRED, Mr. BEYER, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. BALDERSON, and Ms.
BARRAGÁN.
H. Res. 246: Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. ABRAHAM,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. STANTON, Ms.
SLOTKIN, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr. PAPPAS, Ms.
SHERRILL, Mr. BRADY, Mr. MCCAUL, Ms. STE-
VENS, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. SMITH of Missouri, Mr. MAST, Mr.
CROW, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. HORSFORD,
Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mr. ARMSTRONG, Mr.
KILMER, and Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL.
H. Res. 273: Mr. PENCE, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mrs.
WAGNER, Mr. PERRY, and Mr. CASTRO of
Texas.
H. Res. 277: Mr. COOPER.
H. Res. 279: Ms. KELLY of Illinois and Mr.
HARDER of California.
H. Res. 287: Mr. COSTA, Ms. NORTON, Mrs.
FLETCHER, Ms. MENG, and Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
f
DELETIONS OF SPONSORS FROM
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were deleted from public bills and reso-
lutions, as follows:
H.R. 1904: Mr. AMODEI, Mr. TIPTON, Mr.
BUCK, Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mexico, and
Mrs. LEE of Nevada.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions
and papers were laid on the clerk’s
desk and referred as follows:
5. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Council of the District of Columbia, relative
to Resolution 23-47, declaring the sense of
the Council that the District of Columbia is
committed to promoting the human rights
and well-being of all its residents, workers,
and visitors; and to call on the federal gov-
ernment to prevent nuclear war; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
6. Also, a petition of Mr. Gregory D. Wat-
son, a citizen of Austin, TX, relative to urg-
ing Congress to enact legislation that would
prohibit Members of Congress and State Leg-
islators from serving as delegates to a con-
vention the purpose of which would be to
ratify an already-drafted and already-pro-
posed amendment to the United States Con-
stitution, pursuant to the Constitution’s Ar-
ticle V, if Congress specifies the convention
mode of ratification, as occurred in the year
1933; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
DISCHARGE PETITIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XV, the fol-
lowing discharge petition was filed:
Petition 1, April 2, 2019, by Mr. SCALISE
on House Resolution 102, was signed by the
following Members: Mr. Scalise, Mrs. Wag-
ner, Mrs. Hartzler, Ms. Foxx of North Caro-
lina, Ms. Cheney, Mrs. Walorski, Mrs. Roby,
Mrs. Brooks of Indiana, Mr. Collins of New
York, Ms. Granger, Mr. Brady, Mr. Hudson,
Mr. Bost, Mr. McKinley, Mr. Burgess, Mr.
Ratcliffe, Mr. McCarthy, Mr. Newhouse, Mr.
Balderson, Mr. Baird, Mr. David P. Roe of
Tennessee, Mr. Timmons, Mr. Johnson of
Louisiana, Mr. LaMalfa, Mr. Johnson of
Ohio, Mr. Olson, Mr. Sensenbrenner, Mr. Cal-
vert, Ms. Herrera Beutler, Mr. Long, Mr.
Babin, Mr. Chabot, Mr. Womack, Mr. Joyce
of Pennsylvania, Mr. Johnson of South Da-
kota, Mr. Weber of Texas, Mr. Cloud, Mr.
Fulcher, Mr. Crenshaw, Mr. Byrne, Mr. Da-
vidson of Ohio, Mr. Estes, Mr. Smith of New
Jersey, Mr. Hice of Georgia, Mr. Green of
Tennessee, Mrs. Rodgers of Washington, Mr.
Bucshon, Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Ferguson, Mr.
Stauber, Mr. McClintock, Mr. Marshall, Mrs.
Lesko, Mr. Higgins of Louisiana, Mr. Nor-
man, Mr. Hagedorn, Mr. Carter of Georgia,
Mr. Aderholt, Mr. Flores, Mr. Meuser, Mr.
Wenstrup, Mr. Thompson of Pennsylvania,
Mr. Dunn, Mr. Latta, Mr. Loudermilk, Mr.
Walberg, Mr. Kustoff of Tennessee, Ms.
Stefanik, Mr. Watkins, Mr. Mitchell, Mr.
Gianforte, Mr. LaHood, Mr. Smith of Ne-
braska, Mr. Allen, Mr. Westerman, Mr. Wil-
liams, Mr. Pence, Mr. Jordan, Mr. Gonzalez
of Ohio, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Bishop of Utah,
Mr. Wittman, Mrs. Miller, Mr. Kelly of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. Amash, Mr. Gibbs, Mr. Bacon,
Mr. Arrington, Mr. Moolenaar, Mr. Budd, Mr.
Reschenthaler, Mr. John W. Rose of Ten-
nessee, Mr. Kevin Hern of Oklahoma, Mr.
Griffith, Mr. Joyce of Ohio, Mr. Burchett,
Mr. Spano, Mr. Hill of Arkansas, Mr. Rogers
of Alabama, Mr. Gaetz, Mr. Biggs, Mr.
Wright, Mr. Gosar, Mr. Cook, Mr. Palmer,
Mr. Duncan, Mr. Riggleman, Mr. Wilson of
South Carolina, Mr. Bergman, Mr. Emmer,
Mr. Comer, Mr. Webster of Florida, Mr.
Meadows, Mr. Guest, Mr. Holding, Mr. Simp-
son, Mr. Hurd of Texas, Mr. Gooden, Mr.
Crawford, Mr. Conaway, Mr. Stewart, Mr.
Massie, Mr. Brooks of Alabama, Mr. Smith of
Missouri, Mr. Rice of South Carolina, Mr.
Graves of Georgia, Mr. DesJarlais, Mr. For-
tenberry, Mr. Austin Scott of Georgia, Mr.
Walker, Mr. Banks, Mr. Cole, Mr. Gallagher,
Mr. Yoho, Mr. Mooney of West Virginia, Mr.
Taylor, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Thornberry, Mr.
Woodall, Mr. Cline, Mr. Walden, Mr. Steil,
Mr. Huizenga, Mr. Waltz, Mr. Stivers, Mr.
Turner, Mr. Tipton, Mr. Smucker, Mr.
Zeldin, Mr. Guthrie, Mr. Grothman, Mr.
Luetkemeyer, Mr. Steube, Mr. Fleischmann,
Mr. Lamborn, Mr. Posey, Mr. Reed, Mr.
Nunes, Mr. Buck, Mr. Curtis, Mr. Kinzinger,
Mr. Marchant, Mr. Lucas, Mr. Rogers of Ken-
tucky, Mr. Perry, Mr. Barr, Mr. Collins of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.024 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H3103
April 4, 2019
Georgia, Mr. Mullin, Mr. Kelly of Mis-
sissippi, Mr. Katko, Mr. Hunter, Mr. Harris,
Mr. Young, Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois, Mr.
Bilirakis, Mr. Palazzo, Mr. Gohmert, Mr.
Hollingsworth, Mr. King of Iowa, Mr. Carter
of Texas, Mr. McCaul, Mr. Fitzpatrick, Mr.
Mast, Mr. Schweikert, Mr. Amodei, Mr.
Shimkus, Mr. Graves of Louisiana, Mr.
Lipinski, Mr. McAdams, Mr. Roy, Mr.
McHenry, Mr. Graves of Missouri, Mr. Duffy,
Mr. Rouzer, Mr. Upton, Mr. Abraham, Mr.
King of New York, Mr. Peterson.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP7.029 H04APPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S2245
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, APRIL 4, 2019 No. 59
Senate
The Senate met at 11 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O Lord and Ruler, Your Name is
great, and we see Your glory in the
Heavens. We are grateful for this Na-
tion and for the deliberative process of
lawmaking, with its challenges and op-
portunities. As our Senators debate the
issues that are vital to our freedom,
give them wisdom, integrity, and cour-
age. Lord, let them be fully persuaded
in their minds about the course that
will best bless America. Deliver them
from a reluctance to respect honest dif-
ferences as they remember their ulti-
mate accountability to You. Bless and
keep them now and always.
We pray in Your great Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The Senate majority
leader is recognized.
f
S. RES. 50
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, yes-
terday, the Senate took an important
step to restore sense and order to the
way we approach the Executive Cal-
endar. It is one of this body’s most im-
portant responsibilities. Yet it has
been hampered recently by a campaign
of systematic and comprehensive ob-
struction that stands literally without
precedent in American history.
I won’t restate each part of our de-
bate from the floor yesterday, but the
objective facts of this situation are un-
ambiguous. For the past 2 years, we
have witnessed the accelerated erosion
of the norms by which this body has
historically considered Presidential
nominations. We have seen a dis-
appointing series of records broken in
the process, such as 128 cloture votes
on nominations in this President’s first
2 years—more than 5 times as many as
in the same period of every administra-
tion since Jimmy Carter, combined.
Forty-two executive branch positions
took cloture votes for the first time
ever.
This has been a new level of paral-
ysis, surrounding even the most quali-
fied and least controversial nominees.
In a way, it has been the natural out-
growth of the erosion on nominations
that began back in 2003 when our cur-
rent Democratic leader helped spur his
side of the aisle to walk away from
longstanding institutional norms and
declare the Executive Calendar open
season for regular, chronic filibuster
tactics and forced cloture votes. That
is when this relatively new mess began
in earnest.
In 2013, in a truly bipartisan vote, a
number of Republicans, including me,
joined with Democrats to implement
new expedited procedures for lower tier
nominees. We put them in place right
at the beginning of President Obama’s
second term, even as we on this side
were still licking our wounds from the
previous November’s election result.
This week, our Democratic col-
leagues had the chance to reciprocate.
They had the opportunity to do the
parallel thing, exactly the same thing,
and vote to limit undue Senate delays
for this Republican administration the
same way we Republicans did for Presi-
dent Obama’s administration. Oh, but
they weren’t interested.
These days, I am sorry to say, the
other side of the aisle seems to be
dominated by pure partisanship over
absolutely everything else. Remember,
it wasn’t long ago that this current be-
havior would have appeared unimagi-
nable. Just a few decades ago, the idea
of routinely forcing 60-vote thresholds
and extra delays on nominations was
firmly in third-rail territory. Well, a
lot has happened since then, but I hope
my colleagues share my belief that the
Senate’s traditions and norms are its
greatest assets. In that respect, yester-
day was a very good day for this body
as an institution.
The Senate has historically been de-
fined by two traditions. One has pre-
served the power of the minority in
considering legislation—to pump the
brakes or force a second look. That in-
cludes the legislative filibuster, which
I know many of us on both sides are 100
percent committed to preserving. In
my view and in the view of many, it is
inseparable from the way this body was
designed. It is what keeps the Senate
from swinging wildly back and forth
between each party’s entire agenda.
I don’t think my Democratic col-
leagues who are running for President
and publicly toying with undermining
the legislative filibuster would be too
keen to see Republicans enact our en-
tire, full-tilt conservative agenda with
just 51 votes, because some day the
shoe will be on the other foot. The
shoe, in fact, always at some point
ends up on the other foot.
That is one tradition.
The second tradition, concerning
nominations, has always been dif-
ferent. For decades and decades, it al-
lowed for a reasonable process for the
vast majority of Presidents’ nominees.
Yesterday, even though Democrats
walked away and Republicans had to
act alone, we took a big step toward re-
storing that second part of Senate tra-
dition.
I am sure yesterday’s progress has
not resolved every sore spot. I feel cer-
tain that we have not seen the last of
our Democratic colleagues’ addiction
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.000 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2246 April 4, 2019
to endlessly relitigating the 2016 elec-
tions instead of moving forward. But
with yesterday’s action, the Senate has
begun to move past this particularly
shameful new chapter. We have turned
the page on the kind of systematic ob-
struction and purely partisan delays
that were completely foreign to this
Chamber a few years ago but have
since become a daily routine. Now
more progress can take place.
Yesterday, after two unopposed com-
mittee votes and more than a year and
a half after Jeffrey Kessler was named
as President Trump’s choice for Assist-
ant Secretary of Commerce, his nomi-
nation was subjected to a cloture vote,
95 to 3. Because of our new procedures,
he was confirmed by voice vote just 2
hours later. Then we voted to end de-
bate on the nomination of Roy Altman
to serve on the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of Florida—an-
other uncontroversial, bipartisan
nominee. Today we will confirm him as
well. Then we will vote to end debate
on the nomination of Mark Calabria to
direct the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, and then we will vote to con-
firm him too.
Nominees will now be moving at a
more reasonable pace, and important
jobs are finally being filled. Already
there is real progress thanks to yester-
day’s pivot back to the Senate’s his-
toric tradition. We will keep working
to clear the backlog of talented indi-
viduals who are still waiting patiently
behind them.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read the nomi-
nation of Mark Anthony Calabria, of
Virginia, to be Director of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency for a term of
five years.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho is recognized.
Mr. CRAPO. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I rise to speak in support of the nom-
ination of Mark Calabria to be Director
of the Federal Housing Finance Agen-
cy, FHFA, for a 5-year term.
For over a decade, the FHFA has
served as the regulator and watchdog
of the government-sponsored enter-
prises Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and
the Federal Home Loan Bank System.
Since 2008, when Fannie and Freddie
were placed in conservatorship during
the financial crisis, the FHFA has also
served as conservator of these mort-
gage giants, charged with preserving
and conserving their assets and helping
to return them to stable financial foot-
ing.
As long as Fannie and Freddie re-
main in conservatorship, the FHFA Di-
rector will play an integral role in set-
ting the strategic direction, the guard-
rails, and the day-to-day management
of these companies, which have a com-
bined $5 trillion in assets.
It is critically important for the Sen-
ate to quickly confirm a qualified, ex-
perienced individual to this important
post. Fortunately, Mark Calabria
meets these requirements.
Dr. Calabria is a leading expert on
housing and mortgage finance and a re-
spected Ph.D. economist. He has al-
most 30 years of experience interacting
with the housing market from nearly
every perspective—academia, industry,
trade associations, think tanks, as a
congressional staffer, and as a regu-
lator.
He has dedicated the majority of his
career to public service, including as
Deputy Assistant Secretary of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, nearly a decade as a senior
professional staff member on the Sen-
ate Banking Committee, and now as
Chief Economist to Vice President
MIKE PENCE. He has also worked for the
National Association of Realtors, the
National Association of Home Builders,
the Farm Credit Council, the Harvard
University Joint Center for Housing
Studies, and recently at the CATO In-
stitute as director of financial regula-
tion studies.
Over the course of his public service
career, Dr. Calabria has worked to
champion market reforms that benefit
consumers and enhance the safety and
soundness of our housing finance sys-
tem. He also has a long history of
working across the aisle to deliver
meaningful and lasting reforms.
As an official at HUD, Dr. Calabria
oversaw HUD’s regulation of the mort-
gage market, primarily under the Real
Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or
RESPA.
During his time as a Senate staffer,
he worked on over 20 pieces of legisla-
tion that became law, mostly in the
areas of housing and mortgage finance.
In 2009, he worked on the Homeless
Emergency Assistance and Rapid Tran-
sition to Housing Act, or the HEARTH
Act, which strengthened our Nation’s
homelessness assistance programs.
Perhaps most notably, he played a
key role in drafting the Housing and
Economic Recovery Act of 2008, or
HERA, which established the FHFA
and created the position to which he is
now nominated. From his work on
HERA, Dr. Calabria has a keen under-
standing of the congressional intent
behind the law and therefore also a re-
spect for FHFA’s responsibilities and
boundaries as a regulator.
During his hearing a few weeks ago,
Dr. Calabria made a commitment to
carrying out the clear intent of Con-
gress in protecting taxpayers while
also underscoring the importance of
maintaining access to affordable hous-
ing. Before considering any action, Dr.
Calabria has said he will first ask:
What does the statute say?
He is also committed to working
with me and other Members of this
body to reach a comprehensive solution
on ending the conservatorship of
Fannie and Freddie once and for all. He
agrees with me and many others that
the action on housing finance reform
that is needed today is the prerogative
of Congress and that after over a dec-
ade of conservatorship, it is long over-
due.
As Fannie and Freddie continue to
dwell in government control, it appears
that the old, failed status quo is slowly
beginning to take hold again, with the
government in some ways expanding
its reach even further, entering new
markets where it has never been be-
fore.
This status quo is not a viable op-
tion, and finding a comprehensive solu-
tion remains a top priority for me and
the Banking Committee. The FHFA
can also play an important role in
helping us to move toward a more sus-
tainable housing finance system, facili-
tated by an engaged and strongly cap-
italized private sector.
If confirmed, I look forward to work-
ing with Dr. Calabria on these and
other efforts. Dr. Calabria’s nomina-
tion has been met with substantial sup-
port from the housing industry. Many
key stakeholders have written to the
Banking Committee to emphasize the
experience and trusted perspective that
Dr. Calabria will bring to the Agency.
The National Association of Home
Builders wrote:
Throughout his long career, Mark has
proven himself to be a keen expert in hous-
ing finance policy, adding significant value
to key policy discussions both on and off
Capitol Hill. NAHB has full confidence that
Mark is an excellent choice to be Director of
the FHFA. We believe he will bring his usual
high-level policy experience, outstanding
communication skills, and consummate pro-
fessionalism to this important regulatory
Agency at a critical time for the housing fi-
nance industry.
The National Association of Realtors
added:
Dr. Calabria’s decades of experience in
housing and finance policy have prepared
him to implement the FHFA’s mission. It
has also helped him to understand the need
for enhanced transparency at the FHFA and
a methodical approach in the development
and enforcement of its policies.
The Mortgage Bankers Association
noted:
Dr. Calabria will utilize his significant ex-
perience in government and knowledge of
both the single and multifamily business
lines within the secondary mortgage market
to protect taxpayers through an appropriate
mix of risk-sharing and private capital, work
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.002 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2247
April 4, 2019
to maintain deep, stable, and liquid mort-
gage markets, and ensure sustainable access
to affordable housing for all Americans.
The Manufactured Housing Institute
added:
Without question, Dr. Calabria is well-
qualified to lead the effort to strengthen the
Nation’s housing finance system and ensure
access to safe, affordable homeownership al-
ternatives.
It is important to have a Senate-con-
firmed leader at the FHFA, overseeing
our mortgage markets and making
sure taxpayers are well protected from
another financial crisis.
Dr. Calabria is highly qualified, high-
ly experienced, and well prepared for
this new role. I support Dr. Calabria
and urge my colleagues to join me in
voting yes on his nomination.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Dakota.
TAX REFORM
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, under
President Obama, our economy lan-
guished. Recovery from the recession
was historically slow and economic
growth for his last year in office was
an anemic 1.6 percent. Of course, all of
that meant reduced economic prospects
for American families. Wages were
stagnant, and jobs and opportunities
were often few and far between. Repub-
licans knew that if we wanted to im-
prove life for American families, we
needed to get our economy going again.
As soon as we took office in 2017, we
got right to work. We knew the biggest
thing we had to do was overhaul our
outdated Tax Code, which was acting
as a major drag on economic growth.
The Tax Code has a huge effect on eco-
nomic growth and the kinds of jobs,
wages, and opportunities available to
American workers.
A small business owner struggling to
afford a heavy tax bill is unlikely to
have the money to hire a new worker
or expand her business. A larger busi-
ness is going to find it hard to create
jobs or improve benefits for employees
if it is struggling to stay competitive
against foreign businesses paying much
less in taxes.
Prior to the passage of the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act, our Tax Code was not
helping American workers. It was tak-
ing too much money from Americans’
paychecks. It was making it difficult
for businesses to grow and create jobs.
So we passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act to put more money in Americans’
pockets, to spur economic growth, and
expand opportunities for American
workers. We cut tax rates for American
families, doubled the child tax credit,
and nearly doubled the standard deduc-
tion.
We lowered tax rates across the
board for owners of small- and medium-
sized businesses, farms, and ranches.
We lowered our Nation’s massive cor-
porate tax rate, which up until Janu-
ary 1 of last year was the highest cor-
porate tax rate in the developed world.
We expanded business owners’ ability
to recover the cost of investments that
they make in their businesses, which
frees up cash that they can reinvest in
their operations and in their workers,
and we brought the U.S. international
tax system into the 21st century so
American businesses are not operating
at a competitive disadvantage next to
their foreign counterparts.
I am proud to report that the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act is doing exactly
what it was supposed to do. It is grow-
ing our economy. It is creating jobs,
and it is expanding benefits and oppor-
tunities for American workers. Eco-
nomic growth from the fourth quarter
of 2017 to the fourth quarter of 2018 was
a strong 3 percent. The unemployment
rate dropped to 3.8 percent in Feb-
ruary, the 12th straight month that un-
employment has been at or below 4 per-
cent. That is the longest streak in
nearly 50 years.
The Department of Labor reports
that the number of job openings has ex-
ceeded the number of job seekers for 11
straight months. The economy has
added more than 5.3 million jobs since
President Trump was elected. Job
growth has averaged 209,000 jobs a
month over the past 12 months, exceed-
ing the 2017 average by 30,000 jobs a
month.
Wage growth has accelerated. Wages
are growing at a rate of 3.4 percent, the
seventh straight month in which wages
have grown at a rate of 3 percent or
greater. Median household income is at
an alltime high. Business investment is
up, which means more jobs and oppor-
tunities for American workers. U.S.
manufacturing is booming; small busi-
ness hiring recently hit a record high;
and the list goes on.
So what is the Democrats’ response
to tax reform success—continue or ex-
pand the policies that have made life
better for American families? Well, the
answer is no. Instead, Democrats are
proposing policies that would result in
massive tax hikes on just about every
American.
Consider Democrats’ Medicare for All
proposal, which would strip Americans
of their private health insurance. The
pricetag for this program is estimated
at $32 trillion over 10 years. To put
that number in perspective, the entire
Federal budget for 2019 is less than $5
trillion. Democrats are talking about
increasing Federal spending by more
than 70 percent. One Medicare expert
estimates that doubling the amount of
individual and corporate income tax
collected in this country would not be
enough to cover the cost of Medicare
for All. I don’t know about my Demo-
cratic colleagues, but I don’t know too
many working families who would be
able to afford to have their tax bill
double.
While $32 trillion is an insane
pricetag, it is dwarfed by the pricetag
for Democrat’s comprehensive, social-
ist fantasy, the Green New Deal. An
initial estimate suggests that the
Green New Deal would cost $93 trillion
over 10 years—$93 trillion. That is more
money than the 2017 gross domestic
product for the entire world. It is more
money than the U.S. government has
spent in its entire history.
Democrats like to talk about taxing
the rich to pay for various initiatives,
but the fact is, there aren’t enough
rich people in America to even come
close to paying for the Green New Deal,
even if you taxed every one of these
people at a rate of 100 percent.
Democrats’ socialist fantasies would
be paid for on the backs of working
families. Families would face huge tax
hikes that would permanently lower
their standard of living, but that is not
all. Families would also see a steep de-
cline in the jobs and opportunities
available to them. Tax reform has en-
abled and encouraged businesses to in-
vest in and grow, which is resulting in
better wages and benefits and increased
opportunities for American workers.
None of the growth we are seeing from
businesses would last under the tax
hikes businesses would face to pay for
Democrats’ socialist fantasies. Instead
of thinking about expanding, compa-
nies would be thinking about how they
could shrink their workforces or move
jobs and investments overseas. Instead
of raising wages or improving benefits,
companies would be avoiding wage
hikes and looking to trim their benefit
packages.
Under Democrats’ socialist fantasies,
American families would face a double
economic blow: huge tax hikes, fewer
jobs, lower wages, and reduced eco-
nomic opportunity.
There is no one in Congress who
doesn’t want to make life better for
American families. Socialism and the
massive tax hikes it would bring is not
the answer. Socialism would reduce op-
portunities for Americans, not expand
them; it would decrease Americans’
standard of living, not improve it; and
it would rob Americans of their choices
and many of their freedoms.
Republicans will continue to fight to
expand economic opportunity for
American families, and we will do ev-
erything we can to ensure that hard-
working Americans never have to live
under the miserable reality of Demo-
crats’ socialist fantasies.
I yield the floor.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H.R. 268
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, rather
than spend time yesterday on a ter-
ribly destructive rules change, Leader
MCCONNELL could have focused the
Senate on an urgent matter that this
Chamber has failed to act on: disaster
relief.
In a few moments, Senator LEAHY
and I will ask unanimous consent to
have a vote on a new version of the
emergency disaster relief that couldn’t
get through the Senate earlier this
week. Our new amendment offers this
Chamber a path forward from this
week’s impasse. It is a plan that meets
everyone’s needs. It doesn’t say only
aid this or only aid that; it recognizes
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.003 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2248 April 4, 2019
all American citizens deserve to be
helped when disaster strikes.
The amendment Senator LEAHY and I
will offer provides $16.7 billion in relief
for Americans struck by natural disas-
ters last year and in the last 2 years. It
includes $2.5 billion in new funding—
funding that the bill from the Repub-
lican side that failed, offered by Sen-
ators Shelby and Perdue, did not
have—$2.5 billion in new funding for
the recent flooding in Iowa, Nebraska,
and Missouri. We all agree these com-
munities need assistance now. This
amendment also crucially includes aid
for our fellow citizens in Puerto Rico
and other territories. It doesn’t say to
pick one or to pick the other. It says to
do both.
All of us in this Chamber should
agree that we must do something now
to help all Americans in need. This
amendment offers our Republican
friends—those who have said we need
aid in the Middle West—the oppor-
tunity to do just that. So, if this Cham-
ber wants to help families in Nebraska,
in Iowa, in Missouri and if we want to
help the families of Texas and of Flor-
ida, this amendment is the path for-
ward. It is the key to moving forward.
This is the solution that has the abil-
ity to pass the House. This is the op-
tion that has enough support to reach
the President’s desk. The Speaker of
the House has said the original Repub-
lican bill wouldn’t even have been put
on the floor. This bill will.
Now, some will say and, I know, my
dear friend from Alabama—and he is
my good friend—will say that the
President will not sign this. Well, I
have something else to say. If my col-
leagues on the other side pass this
measure, the President will dare not
veto it. That is my prediction. We all
know the President has huffed and
puffed about vetoing bills in the past.
He has said he would veto ‘‘this,’’ and
he has said he would veto ‘‘that.’’ Yet,
in most instances, when the Repub-
licans in the Senate have stood up, he
has caved. In this case in particular, he
will not want to veto legislation that
helps Nebraska and Iowa and Missouri
and Texas and Florida. So let’s not
play this game.
We all know what happened. There
was a bipartisan agreement. President
Trump went to the Republican lunch
and said: No aid for Puerto Rico. That
is why we are in this mess, but we can
change that. It is time to call the
President’s bluff. Elections have con-
sequences. There is a Democratic
House. The time has come for the Re-
publicans of this Chamber and for the
Republicans in the House to have a
frank conversation with the President
about what can and cannot pass the
Congress.
If the President cares about farmers
in Iowa and Texas and Missouri and all
American citizens who have been af-
fected by natural disasters, he will not
veto this bill. We know that. The meas-
ure we are presenting today isn’t some
solution that has been cooked up out of
left field; it is a simple proposal. We
need disaster relief for all Americans,
plain and simple.
Senators LEAHY and SHELBY worked
in good faith earlier this year, as they
always do, and I appreciate the great
relationship our Appropriations Com-
mittee chair and ranking member—
vice chair—have. It would have worked
had the President not gone to that
lunch. Who knows why, where, or when
he pounded the table and said: No aid
to Puerto Rico. He said that, OK? The
only problem is when we are at the
brink of a compromise, all too often,
President Trump torpedoes things, and
then the Republicans act powerless.
They don’t act.
If Leader MCCONNELL and the Senate
Republicans will not support this
measure—a measure that notes the
needs of all affected Americans—then
what is their plan that can pass the
House and pass the Senate and go to
the President’s desk?
If this measure just had aid to Puerto
Rico and not to the Middle West, the
President might veto it, but he is not
going to veto a bill that gives aid to
the Middle West nor should he.
So, if an ‘‘all of the above’’ solution
will not work, what on Earth will?
So far, the answer from this Chamber
on the other side seems to be nothing—
none of the above. That doesn’t make
sense. This is an emergency. People are
suffering. People can’t get back into
their homes. Small businesses need
help starting up again. This is not the
time to duck, to look for cover, to
know when the President has done
something sort of wrongly and seem-
ingly on a whim to just bow to what he
says. We should agree on the need to do
something now to help communities
that are recovering from natural disas-
ters. Our amendment offers the Repub-
licans the opportunity to do just that.
Nobody—no Member of this body—
should pick and choose which Amer-
ican citizens get help in times of crises.
It is a profound shame that my col-
leagues on the other side, thus far,
have allowed the President to derail
this process and have gone along with
appeasing him. I say the power of this
Chamber is greater than they realize. If
we vote on this package and if it passes
the Senate and if it passes the House
and reaches the President’s desk, the
President will sign it. He will not fol-
low through on a veto threat even if he
knows that doing so will be a profound
betrayal of his promise to look after
the well-being of all Americans.
I urge the Senators to support our
amendment today that gives aid to the
Middle West, to the South—those from
Florida to Texas—and to the people of
Puerto Rico.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that as in legislative session, the
Senate resume consideration of H.R.
268; that all pending amendments be
withdrawn; that Leahy amendment No.
246 be agreed to; that the bill, as
amended, be read a third time and
passed; and that the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, these
unanimous consent requests are polit-
ical and, I believe, are not productive
at the moment. We know that for two
reasons.
First, earlier this week, my Demo-
cratic colleagues rejected a disaster as-
sistance package that contained assist-
ance for the Midwest. Instead, they
supported a different version that did
nothing for folks in Iowa, in Nebraska,
and in other States who have been the
victims of catastrophic flooding. In
fact, if the Democrats had gotten their
way the other night, their bill would
have gone straight to the President’s
desk.
That brings me to the second reason
these procedural requests are empty
gestures. My Democratic colleagues
know that the measure they raise
today does not have the President’s
support, not unlike the bill they sup-
ported earlier this week. Those meas-
ures cannot secure the President’s sig-
nature.
My Democratic colleagues have re-
grouped today and have decided to pro-
vide assistance to the folks in the Mid-
west—the same folks they left stranded
earlier in the week. Yet they are will-
ing to help the Midwest only if Puerto
Rico gets billions more in Federal as-
sistance—billions more they cannot
justify right now.
Look, we all want to help the people
of Puerto Rico, and I know the Pre-
siding Officer has been deeply involved
in this. Congress, in its recognition of
those needs, has already committed
significant resources to the island. In
fact, Puerto Rico is eligible for more
than $90 billion in funding from the
previous supplemental.
For example, FEMA estimates that
Puerto Rico will be eligible to receive
more than $60 billion from the Disaster
Relief Fund as a result of the 2017
storms; yet Puerto Rico has only spent
approximately $10 billion of this
amount thus far.
Another example is Congress has ap-
proved $20 billion in Community Devel-
opment Block Grant—or CDBG—fund-
ing for Puerto Rico—$20 billion.
In February 2018, the Department of
Housing and Urban Development allo-
cated $1.5 billion of this amount to the
island; yet more than a year later, it
has spent only $42,000 out of the $1.5
billion allocation. Still, HUD allocated
another $8.2 billion just over a month
ago. In addition, Puerto Rico has been
granted an enormous amount of flexi-
bility to expend these resources.
FEMA used its administrative au-
thority to extend the 100-percent Fed-
eral cost share for emergency work in
Puerto Rico longer than it has for any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.004 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2249
April 4, 2019
other disaster in more than 10 years,
and not once has FEMA denied Puerto
Rico access to funding on the basis of
its ability to provide its own share of
the costs when required. More impor-
tantly, even if cost share were an issue,
which I don’t believe it is, Puerto Rico
could use its ample CDBG funding to
meet any cost share requirement.
However, it does not appear that ac-
cess to resources for cost share is actu-
ally an issue in Puerto Rico. According
to the Treasury Department, Puerto
Rico has billions of dollars in unre-
stricted cash on hand. In fact, the
Treasury Department reports it has
$5.6 billion in unrestricted cash, to be
precise. What is more, the land of Puer-
to Rico continues to collect tens—if
not hundreds—of millions of dollars a
month because revenues are exceeding
costs on the island, which only adds to
that $5.6 billion balance.
Despite all of these resources, we
have agreed that the Government of
Puerto Rico needs additional funding
for nutrition assistance. My Demo-
cratic colleagues have been in the fore-
front. The question is, Why? It is that
this money is actually being spent. In
fact, it is running out. So not only did
my Democratic colleagues leave folks
in the Midwest behind when they re-
jected the Shelby amendment earlier
this week, but they also passed up an
opportunity to help the people of Puer-
to Rico immediately.
Where do we go from here?
I think we need to find areas of
agreement, which we have before in my
working with Senator LEAHY, Senator
SCHUMER, and Senator MCCONNELL. I
am pleased that my Democratic col-
leagues have discovered a newfound
concern for the people in the Midwest.
We want to stay on that too. It is
promising that we not only agree on
that but also that we should provide
funding for nutrition assistance for the
people of Puerto Rico now. Yet, when
it comes to additional funding beyond
nutrition assistance for Puerto Rico, I
believe that our constituents—the
American taxpayers—deserve a de-
tailed explanation of exactly why ex-
isting funding is insufficient and why
the resources that we have provided
have not been spent.
How do we know Puerto Rico needs
more when it hasn’t come close to
spending what we have already pro-
vided it? Communities, meanwhile,
that experienced disasters in 2018 are
truly suffering because Congress has
provided them with nothing.
Unless my Democratic colleagues can
demonstrate this urgency, I believe
they should stop holding hostage those
who are suffering in the Midwest and
those who have been impacted by disas-
ters all over the United States. These
people are in urgent need of funding so
they can begin the rebuilding process,
and many of them have been waiting
for months and months for relief.
I hope we can come together and
work this out in a deliberate and fact-
based manner. Until then, I will con-
tinue to object to these haphazard
unanimous consent requests that will
get us nowhere.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 6 min-
utes regarding the Schumer-Leahy
amendment. I realize this will put off
the time slightly for the vote.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I am
sorry that the Republicans objected to
the earlier legislation we brought up,
which would have helped the Midwest.
It had money in it. Of course, we are
not, by any means, asking for billions
more for Puerto Rico in this amend-
ment. In total, this amendment would
add $3.2 billion, of which only $462 mil-
lion is for Puerto Rico. The rest is for
the Midwest floods, Alabama tornado,
Florida, California, Georgia and other
states.
I think it is unfortunate we have
reached an impasse on the emergency
disaster supplemental appropriations
bill.
For months, I urged Senate Repub-
lican leadership to take up and pass
H.R. 268. For nearly 3 months, it
wouldn’t. During those 3 months,
American communities suffered, and
new disasters struck the Midwest and
the Southeast. The new criticism from
the Republican leadership was, with
the Democrats’ pushing for more com-
prehensive aid to Puerto Rico in H.R.
268, that they must not care about the
American communities that have been
affected by more recent disasters.
But I would remind the Chamber that
it was the Republican leadership that
rejected my amendment to H.R. 268
that would have accommodated all of
these other communities.
I would also remind the Chamber
that the Trump administration has not
asked for one dime for Hurricanes Mi-
chael and Florence, the Alabama tor-
nadoes, or the Midwest flooding. To the
Trump administration, it is as though
they never happened.
I have always stood with victims of
disaster around this country. When my
own State of Vermont was devastated
by Tropical Storm Irene, Members of
this body came to me, not as Repub-
licans or Democrats but as concerned
American citizens looking to help, just
as I always have, whatever State it
might be. Red State, blue State, or
purple State, I have always voted to
support them, and today this
Vermonter is here to stand with all the
American communities affected by re-
cent natural disasters.
I have not given up on finding a path
forward. Today Leader SCHUMER and I
offered a substitute that would provide
$2.5 billion in new funding to address
the needs of communities affected by
the 2019 disasters, such as flooding in
the Midwest and tornadoes in Alabama.
It would also accommodate the needs
of the American citizens—remember
that they are Americans—in Puerto
Rico and other Territories by including
increased funding for the community
development block grant and grants to
help rebuild damaged water systems. It
also includes Medicaid funding for the
Northern Mariana Islands and cost
match waivers for the Northern Mar-
iana Islands, Guam, and American
Samoa.
Finally, it mandates that HUD speed
up the release of billions in previously
appropriated CDBG funding which the
Trump administration has unneces-
sarily withheld from disaster-stricken
communities in Puerto Rico, in Texas,
in Louisiana, in the U.S. Virgin Is-
lands, in Florida, in South Carolina, in
North Carolina, in West Virginia, in
California, in Missouri, and in Georgia.
We want to get help to all of those
States.
I am disappointed that once again
Senate Republicans have objected to
this critical assistance. We are the
United States of America. We are all
Americans. We cannot pick and choose
which American citizens to help in
times of crisis.
Frankly, I was offended when the
White House referred to Puerto Rico as
‘‘that country’’ that ‘‘only takes from
the U.S.A.’’ I would remind the White
House to look at a history book. Puer-
to Rico is part of the U.S.A. These are
our fellow American citizens. We in the
Senate must be better than that. We
must stand with all American citizens
in times of crisis.
I yield the floor.
f
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to the consideration of the fol-
lowing nomination, which the clerk
will report.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Roy Kalman Altman, of Florida, to be
United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Florida.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is, Will the Senate advise and
consent to the Altman nomination?
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 66,
nays 33, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 62 Ex.]
YEAS—66
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:11 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.006 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2250 April 4, 2019
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Wicker
Young
NAYS—33
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Carper
Casey
Coons
Durbin
Gillibrand
Heinrich
Hirono
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Stabenow
Udall
Van Hollen
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Harris
The nomination was confirmed.
The Senator from North Carolina.
Mr. TILLIS. Thank you, Madam
President.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to waive the mandatory
quorum call.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TILLIS. Thank you, Madam
President.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Mark Anthony Calabria, of Vir-
ginia, to be Director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency for a term of five years.
Mitch McConnell, Shelley Moore Capito,
Mike Crapo, Johnny Isakson, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Rounds, Marco Rubio, John
Barrasso, Pat Roberts, John Thune,
John Boozman, James E. Risch, Rich-
ard C. Shelby, Roger F. Wicker, Rich-
ard Burr, Thom Tillis, John Hoeven.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
mandatory quorum call has been
waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the nomination
of Mark Anthony Calabria, of Virginia,
to be Director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency for a term of five
years, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS) is
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 46, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 63 Ex.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—46
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—1
Harris
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The yeas
are 53, and the nays are 46.
The motion is agreed to.
The Senator from Tennessee.
CHINA
Mr. ALEXANDER. Thank you,
Madam President.
Today I received a letter from the
U.S. Ambassador to China, Terry
Branstad. Governor Branstad’s letter
said the following:
I am delighted to inform you that China’s
Ministry of Public Security announced China
will make all forms of fentanyl a controlled
substance effective May 1, 2019. If imple-
mented effectively, this will fulfill the com-
mitment President Xi made to the President
at the G–20 last December in Buenos Aires.
That commitment and this key development
are direct results of your visit to Beijing
during which you highlighted China’s role in
the global opioid crisis. Separately, I have
asked my staff to share diplomatic reporting
with you that addresses China’s action in
greater detail.
That is from Ambassador Terry
Branstad, our Ambassador to China.
This is important news. It will save
thousands of American lives. President
Trump deserves great credit for per-
suading President Xi at their meeting
in Argentina in December to do this,
the one thing that our drug enforce-
ment agents have said will reduce the
flow of fentanyl into the United States
more than any other single thing.
President Xi, the President of China,
deserves the thanks of the American
people for making this decision be-
cause our Drug Enforcement Agency is
convinced that this decision by China
and its senior officials will save thou-
sands of American lives.
The reason for this, we were told by
our Drug Enforcement Agency per-
sonnel in China, is that, one way or the
other, almost every bit of fentanyl that
makes its way into the United States
starts in China. These chemicals are
made and mixed there. Then they come
through the mail. They come through
Mexico, through China, many different
ways, but the chemicals start in China.
Every time China has made some
form of fentanyl illegal, the avail-
ability of that form of fentanyl in the
United States has begun to go straight
down.
What President Trump and President
Xi agreed to do on May 1 is to make all
forms of fentanyl illegal. This means
that if some clever scientist in China
says: Well, this form of fentanyl is ille-
gal, so I will make a different form
that isn’t, that clever scientist will
now be out of business.
One thing the Chinese know very
well how to do is to police their coun-
try. I would not want to be the Chinese
person, after May 1, who is in violation
of Chinese law that says all forms of
fentanyl are controlled substances and
illegal in China.
In October, I led a delegation of sen-
ior Members of the House of Represent-
atives and the Senate to meet with the
Chinese senior delegation. One would
have thought that all we talked about
was trade because trade was important
to all of our States, but at Governor
Branstad’s insistence, in every meeting
we had with senior Chinese officials, we
said: Fentanyl is our biggest problem,
and you can solve our biggest problem
more than anybody else in the world.
Instead of being our problem, why
don’t you be our solution? Why don’t
you let the United States point to
China and say that you helped us solve
a problem that is killing thousands of
Americans on a regular basis?
China agreed to do that in December
with President Trump. It has now been
announced that on May 1, all forms of
fentanyl will be controlled and there-
fore illegal.
We should watch and make sure it is
effectively done, but what we should
say today is: President Trump, we
thank you for putting fentanyl on top
of a busy agenda in December, and,
President Xi, we are grateful to you for
a decision we believe will save thou-
sands of American lives. I might add, it
is very helpful to have such an effec-
tive Ambassador as Terry Branstad in
China because he knew how to focus
the attention of many visiting delega-
tions.
Our delegation wasn’t the only one
who carried this message; Senator
PORTMAN and others have been there.
But this is an example of China re-
sponding to an urgent American prob-
lem, and we ought to give both Presi-
dents much more than a pat on the
back for this important step.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.008 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2251
April 4, 2019
HEALTHCARE
Madam President, I often suggest to
Tennesseans that we should look at
Washington as if it were a split-screen
television. For example, last October,
on one screen, you would have seen
Senators throwing food at each other
all month long over the Kavanaugh de-
bate, but in another part of the Cap-
itol, you had 72 Senators working to-
gether—Democrats, Republicans, three
different committees from the Senate,
five from the House—working together
to enact what the President called the
single most important law to deal with
a public health epidemic ever passed,
and that was the opioids bill.
While we are arguing—which we
know how to do—on such issues as the
border or the special counsel’s report,
on the other screen, you will see a lot
of work getting done if you take time
to look. That means there are bipar-
tisan efforts. That means Republicans
and Democrats are working together.
It takes 60 votes to get most things
done here. We are 53 to 47. So, as I
learned to count in the public schools
of Tennessee, I know I need to work
with some Democrats to get up to 60.
Usually, we find that when we do that,
we get up to 70 or 80 or 85 because we
can take even the most difficult issues
and find our way through them.
Today, I want to talk about one of
those efforts—a bipartisan effort to try
to reduce healthcare costs. Healthcare
and health insurance are often
conflated. We often mix them up, both
in Congress and in media stories. The
President sometimes does that too. I
want to be very clear that what I am
talking about is a bipartisan working
effort, that healthcare itself, not just
health insurance, is too expensive.
Health insurance has gotten a lot of
attention lately. The President
tweeted earlier this week that
‘‘deductibles, in many cases [are] way
over $7,000, mak[ing] it almost worth-
less or unusable.’’ I agree. High
deductibles tied to high premiums
make healthcare inaccessible for too
many Americans. I know the President
is looking at ways to give Americans
more affordable health insurance and
to protect patients with preexisting
conditions, and I look forward to hear-
ing his plan. But the truth is, the cost
of health insurance will not come down
or even grow more slowly unless we
lower the cost of healthcare. You can’t
have low-cost health insurance when
you have high-cost healthcare.
My top healthcare priority this Con-
gress is to enact legislation that will
give all Americans an opportunity for
better health outcomes and better
health experiences at a lower cost.
Democrats and Republicans are work-
ing together on that to get a result.
That is why Senator MURRAY, the
lead Democrat on the Senate’s Health
Committee, and I are working with
Senator GRASSLEY and Senator WYDEN,
the senior leaders on the Senate Fi-
nance Committee, which shares juris-
diction over healthcare. We are work-
ing together on developing specific, bi-
partisan steps to help deal with the
startling fact—which has come by way
of experts who come before our Health
Committee—that up to half of what
Americans spend on healthcare is un-
necessary. That is according to Dr.
Brent James of the National Acad-
emies in testimony before our com-
mittee.
Last December, in order to help focus
on reducing healthcare costs, after the
Senate Health Committee held five
hearings on reducing the cost of
healthcare, I wrote a letter to the
American Enterprise Institute, the
Brookings Institution, governors,
State insurance commissioners, doc-
tors, patient groups, academic experts,
and the public asking them to submit
specific recommendations to Congress
to lower healthcare costs. As of the
March 1 deadline for response, we have
received over 400 recommendations,
some as many as 50 pages long.
I want to talk about some of those
today. Before I do, it is important to
know that the cost of healthcare, in ef-
fect, has become a tax on the budgets
of families, employers, the Federal
Government, and State governments.
Warren Buffett has called the bal-
looning cost of healthcare ‘‘a hungry
tapeworm on the American economy.’’
Almost every day, I hear from Ten-
nesseans who are concerned that
healthcare is too expensive. For exam-
ple, Sherry from Hermitage, TN, wrote
me about her daughter’s family and
said:
They are new parents now and spend al-
most as much on healthcare premiums as
they do on their mortgage payment. That
doesn’t include the out-of-pocket expenses,
such as copays and deductibles.
Many people worry about a surprise
billing, which is when a patient re-
ceives care at an in-network hospital,
but an out-of-network specialist—like
an anesthesiologist, for instance—also
treats the patient.
Todd is a father from Knoxville, TN,
who recently took his son to an emer-
gency room after a bicycle accident.
The son was treated. Todd paid a $150
copay because the emergency room was
in-network for his health insurance,
and they headed home. Todd was pret-
ty surprised when he received a bill
later for $1,800 because even though the
emergency room was in-network, the
doctor who treated his son was not.
I hear a lot about the high cost of
prescription drugs. Shirley recently
wrote me from Franklin saying:
As a 71-year-old senior with arthritis, I
rely on Enbrel to keep my systems in check.
My copay has just been increased from $95 to
$170 every 90 days. At this rate, I will have to
begin limiting my usage in order to balance
the monthly budget.
I hear from doctors about adminis-
trative burden. Dr. Lee Gross, a Flor-
ida direct primary care doctor, testi-
fied at one of our hearings that insur-
ance and government regulations were
making primary care too expensive.
Dr. Gross founded one of the first di-
rect primary care practices. This is
where a patient might pay $60 a month
for an adult, $25 for the first child, $10
for each child after, and receive all
their primary care—strep tests, vac-
cines, minor surgical procedures, and
more. He calls it ‘‘NetFlix for
healthcare. After you pay your mem-
bership, you don’t have to pay for each
episode of care.’’
Dr. Atul Gawande, who is leading the
Amazon-Berkshire Hathaway-
JPMorgan healthcare venture, told me
recently in a conversation that direct
primary care doctors are a powerful
group for driving improved outcomes in
healthcare because the doctors take re-
sponsibility for the outcomes, the
risks, and the cost to the patient.
I also hear that the place where med-
ical procedures are performed can
make healthcare more expensive. For
example, Michael from Johnson City
shared that he recently had an endos-
copy of his esophagus—a fairly com-
mon, routine procedure. He had the
procedure at an outpatient facility,
which typically is less expensive than a
hospital; however, the procedure was
billed as being done at a hospital. Mi-
chael is on Medicare, and he wrote to
me saying: ‘‘Not only am I charged a
higher ‘‘hospital’’ rate, but taxpayers
are charged a higher rate, as well.’’
I imagine that every Senator has
heard similar stories from people in
their States and wants to do something
about reducing the cost of healthcare.
In addition to the more than 400 com-
ments we received, the American En-
terprise Institute and Brookings sent
us a detailed list of 18 specific policy
recommendations. The Senate Health
Committee can work on some of these.
Some of these fall into the jurisdiction
of other committees, and some are
steps the administration itself can
take without congressional action.
My staff and I are still reviewing all
of these recommendations, but I want
to mention some of them today.
One reason healthcare is so expensive
is that the cost is in a black box. Pa-
tients just don’t know how much a par-
ticular test and procedure will cost.
That makes it nearly impossible to
adequately plan for future healthcare
expenses, and because of that, the
healthcare system does not operate
with the discipline and the cost-saving
benefits of a real market.
Congress has already taken some
steps to increase transparency. For ex-
ample, last Congress, we passed and the
President signed legislation by Senator
COLLINS of Maine to ban the so-called
gag clauses in pharmacy contracts that
prevented pharmacists from telling a
patient that a drug was cheaper if they
paid with cash instead of their insur-
ance.
Now we have received recommenda-
tions on how to build on that first step.
For example, patients shouldn’t be pro-
hibited from knowing the cost of a sur-
gery or a doctor’s visit in advance of
scheduling the procedure or appoint-
ment. Insurers and employers should
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.012 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2252 April 4, 2019
not be prohibited from providing pa-
tients with information recommending
lower cost options or higher quality
providers.
Another recommendation—this one
from AEI and Brookings—is that em-
ployers contribute claims data—which
is information on how much a test or
service costs and how much insurance
paid for it—to what is known as an all
payer claims database. Eighteen States
currently have these databases so em-
ployers and insurers can see trends in
healthcare spending. This would help
break open the black box around the
claims data for the 181 million Ameri-
cans who get their healthcare on the
job.
One of our new Health Committee
Members, Senator BRAUN of Indiana,
owns a manufacturing and distribution
company. He employed over 1,000 peo-
ple before he became a Senator. He was
aggressive about helping his employees
reduce healthcare costs.
Healthcare Bluebook, a Tennessee
company that testified at one of our
five hearings on how to reduce
healthcare costs, recommended that we
look at the clauses in contracts em-
ployers sign with insurers that block
the employer from accessing de-identi-
fied claims data that they could use
‘‘for purpose of price and quality trans-
parency.’’
The Trump administration is also fo-
cused on transparency. For example,
Secretary Azar has proposed a regula-
tion to start requiring that advertise-
ments for prescription drugs include
the list price, and he has asked for
feedback on the idea of requiring that
the prices patients pay for medical
services also be disclosed.
Another strategy for achieving better
outcomes and better experiences at
lower costs is to focus on the 300,000
primary care doctors in our country.
Dr. Sapna Kripalani of Vanderbilt tes-
tified at one of our healthcare cost
hearings that primary care providers
are the ‘‘quarterbacks’’ of healthcare.
By coordinating patients’ care, man-
aging their chronic diseases, and pro-
viding other preventive care, primary
care doctors are able to help patients
stay healthy and out of the emergency
room.
Adam Boehler, who leads the Center
for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation,
told me that while primary care ac-
counts for only 3 to 7 percent of
healthcare spending, it can affect as
much as half of all healthcare spend-
ing.
One recommendation we received
came from Dr. Gilliam, a primary care
doctor in West Tennessee who runs a
direct primary care practice—the same
type of practice I mentioned earlier
that Dr. Gross runs. Dr. Gilliam said:
‘‘[Direct primary care] is the only
model that is able to offer affordable
healthcare with complete price trans-
parency.’’
One suggestion we have heard is to
change Internal Revenue Service rules
that block Americans from using their
health savings accounts to pay for the
monthly direct primary care fee.
Then there is drug pricing. Many rec-
ommendations are focused on reducing
what we spend on prescription drugs,
which is about 17 percent of all
healthcare spending.
One way is reforming prescription
drug rebates, the discounts that phar-
macy benefit managers negotiate with
pharmaceutical companies. The Trump
administration has proposed a new rule
for the $29 billion rebates on prescrip-
tion drugs that the government pays
for through Medicare Part D. One rec-
ommendation is to expand that to the
estimated $40 billion of rebates nego-
tiated in the private market.
Another way to lower drug prices is
to increase competition through ge-
neric drugs, which can be up to 85 per-
cent less expensive than brand drugs
when there are multiple approved
generics. I have heard concerns about
brand drug companies not providing ge-
neric companies the samples needed to
make generic drugs and other ways
that brands delay drug competition.
It was recommended that we increase
competition for the generic versions of
biologic drugs, which are called
biosimilars. One way to do that may be
with a bill Senator COLLINS introduced
to ensure that biosimilar manufactur-
ers have access to the information they
need to develop and bring to market
more biosimilars.
Then there is surprise billing.
AEI and Brookings also rec-
ommended we focus on helping to
eliminate surprise medical billing,
which is what happened when Todd, of
Knoxville, took his son to the emer-
gency room. AEI and Brookings said
the issue is not that insurance compa-
nies have limited doctors and hospitals
in their networks but that emergency
departments and ancillary physicians,
as well as hospitalists and ambulance
companies, have a lucrative out-of-net-
work billing arrangement that is un-
available to other providers, which en-
courages doctors to go out of network
and send patients high bills. Senator
CASSIDY and Senator HASSAN are lead-
ing the way to help eliminate surprise
billing.
We received comments about the im-
portance of the seamless exchange of
information between electronic health
records, which includes stopping infor-
mation blocking.
A goal of the 21st Century Cures Act,
which is a bipartisan bill that Senator
MCCONNELL said was the most impor-
tant bill that Congress, was to make it
easier for patients to access their
health records and for doctors and hos-
pitals to get the information they need
to treat patients. Last month, the De-
partment of Health and Human Serv-
ices released two proposed rules re-
quired by the Cures Act to lead to bet-
ter coordinated care and to less unnec-
essary health care. We held a hearing
on those last week. We heard a story of
the better experiences and outcomes
that can happen when health records
are interoperable. Finally, there is the
consolidation of healthcare.
We received comments on the de-
creasing choices and competition in
the healthcare system, which is when
hospitals merge with doctors’ offices or
other hospitals, when insurers merge
with other insurers, or when hospitals
and insurers merge so that these hos-
pitals or insurers have even more con-
trol over the market.
Some argue that the consolidation in
healthcare can benefit patients and
lower costs. Others say that it gives
patients fewer options and that
healthcare prices increase.
AEI and Brookings suggested that
one way to address the potential nega-
tive consequences of consolidation
would be to improve oversight of the
340B drug discount program, which has
been found to incentivize hospitals to
purchase physician practices or to em-
ploy physicians directly in order to
bring in additional revenue from the
340B discounts. This echoes what we
heard at our committee’s three hear-
ings.
I am also asking for other Senators
to continue to come forward to Senator
MURRAY, to Senator WYDEN, to Senator
GRASSLEY, and to me with their spe-
cific proposals as to how we can reduce
healthcare costs. What I hope to do is
to compile the proposals that fall
under the jurisdiction of our Senate
HELP Committee into a package of
legislation that the committee will
vote on early in the summer. We could
then combine that with whatever the
Senate Finance Committee passes and
ask the leader to put it on the Senate
floor and work with the House to send
legislation to the President’s desk.
This morning, in a hearing before the
Appropriations Committee, Secretary
Azar reiterated his support and the
President’s support for this bipartisan
process to reduce health care costs.
My staff and I will continue to review
recommendations and work with other
Members to incorporate ways so that
Americans like Sherry, Todd, Shirley,
and Michael will have better outcomes
and better experiences at lower costs.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The Senator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
MUELLER REPORT
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, 2 weeks
ago, after almost 2 years, Special Coun-
sel Mueller filed his report with the At-
torney General. The Attorney General
sent us a short letter that summarized
the major findings of the report.
A summary is not going to cut it.
The Attorney General’s own letter dis-
cusses the vast extent of the special
counsel’s investigation. It mentions
over 500 witness interviews, 2,800 sub-
poenas, 500 search warrants, 230 orders
for communications records, almost 50
orders for pen registers, and actually 13
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.013 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2253
April 4, 2019
requests to foreign governments. This
was an extraordinarily extensive inves-
tigation that yielded a rich collection
of facts about Russia’s attack on our
democracy. The American people de-
serve to see the results so that they
can judge the facts for themselves.
We know from court filings, news re-
ports, and the Senate Intelligence
Committee’s own investigations that
the Russians attempted to influence
the Trump campaign in many ways. At
least 17 individuals in the Trump orbit
had over 100 publicly released contacts
with Russian officials or inter-
mediaries. Yet, with all of those 100
contacts during the midst of a cam-
paign, somehow not one of those indi-
viduals—even those contacted with ex-
plicit offers of assistance from a hos-
tile government—called the FBI to re-
port those offers.
The Attorney General’s four-page
summary of this sprawling investiga-
tion—a summary that according to
press reports may not even accurately
reflect the Mueller report—focuses al-
most exclusively on the criminal por-
tion of the Mueller probe and barely
mentions the special counsel’s counter-
intelligence investigation into these
contacts.
The Senate Intelligence Committee—
with the only bipartisan counterintel-
ligence investigation still standing—
has documented extensive efforts by
the Russians to reach out to those
around then-Candidate Trump. Here
are a few examples:
We have documented in the public
domain Candidate Trump’s efforts to
negotiate a business deal to build what
was going to be called the largest
building in all of Russia. He negotiated
that deal throughout the whole pri-
mary process. According to his attor-
ney Mr. Giuliani, it may have been ne-
gotiated all the way through the elec-
tion. The deal itself may not have vio-
lated any laws. Yet, frankly, I think, if
I were a Republican primary voter, I
would have liked to have known that
my potential Presidential candidate
was still trying to do a deal with Vladi-
mir Putin’s government.
In our investigation, we also had ex-
posed ongoing communications be-
tween the President’s campaign chair-
man, Mr. Manafort, and Konstantin
Kilimnik, who has ties with both Rus-
sian intelligence and oligarch Oleg
Deripaska.
Our committee has made multiple
criminal referrals to the special pros-
ecutor based on what we have learned
and witnesses’ efforts to lie to us and
to obstruct our investigation.
This is what a counterintelligence in-
vestigation is all about. We need to
fully understand what the Russians
were trying to do, and we need to be
able to warn future campaigns and can-
didates about the lengths to which hos-
tile governments will go and the new
tools they will use to undermine our
democracy. I believe we cannot make
that full guidance to future campaigns
without there being a full release of
this report.
Some observers have said that the re-
port cannot be released without its
jeopardizing sources and methods. Let
me be clear. As vice chair of the Senate
Intelligence Committee, no one is more
sensitive to those concerns than am I,
but the resolution that we have specifi-
cally states that the report should be
released to the public in accordance
with the law. Clearly, sources and
methods would not be released under
this standard, nor would grand jury in-
formation.
What we are talking about here is
basic transparency. Let’s make sure
the full Mueller report is released to
Congress, including the underlying doc-
uments and intelligence. Then let’s
make sure the American people see as
much of this report as possible and as
soon as possible. Let’s do it in a bipar-
tisan way to protect sources and meth-
ods.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—H. CON. RES. 24
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that as in legislative session, the
Senate proceed to the immediate con-
sideration of H. Con. Res. 24, expressing
the sense of Congress that the report of
Special Counsel Mueller should be
made available to the public and to
Congress, and which is at the desk; fur-
ther, that the concurrent resolution be
agreed to, the preamble be agreed to,
and the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, in reserv-
ing the right to object, I am all for
transparency. I think we should know
as much about this investigation into
the President as we possibly can. We do
know that we only know part of the
story and that the Mueller report is
only part of the story. What we also
need to know is how this originated be-
cause I think it is very important that
we not turn our country into this back-
and-forth where each successive party
tries to use the apparatus of govern-
ment to investigate the previous Presi-
dent.
We do know now that the investiga-
tion of the Trump campaign reached to
the highest levels of the White House,
all the way up to President Obama.
What we don’t know is, was President
Obama told that the evidence to get
this investigation started was paid for
by the Hillary Clinton campaign? We
need to know that. That is not part of
the Mueller report, but that is some-
thing that I am asking that we should
attach to this resolution. We need to
know, was President Obama told that
this information came from the Hillary
Clinton campaign?
We do not yet know whether John
Brennan was involved and to what de-
gree. We do not know whether John
Brennan colluded with British spy
agencies to spy on Americans. It is ille-
gal for our CIA to spy on Americans.
We don’t yet know whether John Bren-
nan was colluding with British spy
agencies and other spy agencies to get
them to do his dirty work.
We do know now that John Brennan,
who had the power to listen to every
American’s phone call and who had the
power to listen to every person’s phone
call in the entire world, is a rank par-
tisan. We now know that John Brennan
has called the President a traitor, es-
sentially saying the President should
be put to death. This is the guy who
was in charge of this investigation.
This isn’t an objective person. We need
to know about all of the communica-
tions.
So I ask unanimous consent that we
modify this resolution and that we find
out about and gain access to all of the
communications between Comey, Bren-
nan, Clapper, the White House, and
President Obama, because I don’t want
to ruin this great country with politi-
cally motivated investigations year in
and year out.
This had to do with placing spies and
infiltrating the Trump campaign. Do
you really think that our intelligence
Agencies should be infiltrating each
other’s campaigns?
I don’t want this to happen to a Dem-
ocrat. When President Trump came to
the Hill a week ago, he said that this
shouldn’t happen to the next Demo-
cratic President. We should not misuse
the power of our intelligence Agencies
to have one party go after another.
How can we get on with the people’s
business if we are allowing the govern-
ment to be consumed with this kind of
stuff?
I ask unanimous consent that we
amend the resolution and look at the
entire story—not just at the investiga-
tion but at how we got here. The media
wouldn’t even print this fake dossier
because it was so scandalous and so
unverified and has turned out to be un-
true. Yet this was the basis for begin-
ning the investigation. This was the
basis for doing something extraor-
dinary—implanting spies and inform-
ants into the Trump campaign.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST MODIFICATION—
H. CON. RES. 24
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that we amend the resolution and
that as the Mueller report comes for-
ward, we also come forward with all of
the communications between the peo-
ple who got this started and we dis-
cover once and for all whether or not
these people have misused their offices
in starting this investigation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Does the
Senator from Virginia wish to modify
his request?
Mr. WARNER. In reserving the right
to object, I would simply point out to
my colleague from Kentucky that the
intelligence community, in its January
2017 report, reached a unanimous con-
clusion. That conclusion was that Rus-
sia massively interfered in our elec-
tions. Russia did it in the form of hack-
ing into personal information and re-
leasing it subjectively, and Russia did
it in terms of at least touching the
electoral systems in 21 of our States in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.015 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2254 April 4, 2019
ways that, frankly, found a great deal
of vulnerabilities. Russia also did it in
ways that manipulated social media
that, quite honestly, caught our Intel-
ligence Committee and the social
media companies off guard.
Our Intelligence Committee spent a
year in its review of the conclusions of
the intelligence community, and in
January of 2018, it unanimously agreed
that the intelligence community’s
findings were correct—that the Rus-
sians interfered and that they did it on
behalf of one candidate, Mr. Trump,
against another candidate, Mrs. Clin-
ton.
For those reasons, I respectfully ob-
ject to the request of my colleague
from Kentucky.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection to the original request?
The Senator from Kentucky.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, in clos-
ing, I hope we can move past this. The
President himself has called for the re-
lease of the report. In a rare stroke of
unanimity, the House voted 420 to 0. I
think many in this body would like to
move beyond this issue. The only way
we are going to be able to move beyond
this is to get this report released, to
get it out to the American public, and
to let those of us who are charged with
the intelligence community’s respon-
sibilities see all of the report, includ-
ing the underlying documents. I hope
we can get to that point.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
NATO
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, yes-
terday NATO Secretary General Jens
Stoltenberg addressed a joint session of
Congress—the first Secretary General
ever to do so.
The Secretary General is in Wash-
ington this week marking NATO’s 70th
anniversary. Created after World War
II, NATO is a political and military al-
liance of European and North Amer-
ican democracies.
Since its founding in 1949, NATO has
been a bulwark for freedom, for peace,
and for security around the world. For
70 years—70 years—NATO has been a
bedrock of U.S. security.
The United States stands firmly be-
hind NATO’s collective defense out-
lined in article 5 of its founding treaty.
As a member of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee and the Senate
NATO Observer Group, I recently trav-
eled to Brussels, Belgium, for meetings
at NATO headquarters.
I met with Ambassador Hutchison
and NATO officials to discuss ways to
strengthen the alliance.
These briefings reaffirmed for me
that now, more than ever, America
needs a strong NATO alliance. For our
safety, for the safety of our allies, we
must support and we must strengthen
NATO.
The alliance has expanded from an
original 12 to now 29 member nations.
These allies are our friends in times of
peace, they are our partners in times of
turmoil, and they are our defenders in
times of war.
In armed conflicts around the world,
NATO serves as a force multiplier for
all of its members. After the Sep-
tember 11, 2001, attacks, NATO allies
sent tens of thousands of troops to
fight alongside our U.S. forces in Af-
ghanistan. NATO is helping the United
States defeat ISIS in Iraq and in Syria,
and its role in the global war on ter-
rorism continues to expand.
At the same time, NATO members
are working together in Eastern Eu-
rope to deter Russian aggression.
NATO isn’t just protecting Europe
from Russian interference; it is serving
U.S. security interests in the region.
Given the emerging threats around
the globe, NATO must have the tools
and the resources it needs to deter our
enemies. This means that all members
need to recommit themselves to
NATO’s mission and fully meet their
pledges.
Secretary Stoltenberg has focused on
meeting alliance targets through
‘‘cash, capabilities, and contributions.’’
That is what we discussed in Belgium,
it is what he discussed yesterday, and
that has been his focus—cash, capabili-
ties and contributions.
At the Wales summit in 2014, every
NATO country agreed to spend a min-
imum of 2 percent of their GDP on de-
fense. The United States continues to
pay more than its fair share—about 22
percent of NATO’s entire budget and
more than 3 percent of our Nation’s
GDP.
President Trump, to his credit, has
pressed NATO and our allies to bear
the full share of their burden, both fi-
nancially and militarily. NATO’s Sec-
retary General projects that the alli-
ance will spend $100 billion more on de-
fense by the year 2020.
Now, 22 NATO nations have already
increased their defense spending since
the 2014 summit in Wales. In 2014, only
three allies met the Wales summit
spending target; seven met that target
in 2018. Still, 22 allies are falling short
of the 2 percent target. They must con-
tribute more if the alliance is to meet
its financial goals and provide a capa-
ble and credible deterrent.
This is especially important as NATO
faces more formidable foes. It is crit-
ical for their contributions to fund
military readiness, to develop new ca-
pabilities, and to improve alliance co-
hesion.
NATO allies and partners are increas-
ingly involved in terms of doing more
with their troop contributions as well.
Allies and partners now contribute
more than half the troops in NATO
missions.
We have made real progress on bur-
den sharing, and today we celebrate 70
years of NATO achievements. NATO
has helped bring about the democratic
and economic transformation of Cen-
tral and Eastern Europe. NATO has en-
abled European and Canadian soldiers
to fight alongside U.S. forces on the
frontlines of the war on terror. NATO
supported U.S. sanctions against Rus-
sia and insisted on Russia’s compliance
with international law. Without a
doubt, NATO is the most successful se-
curity alliance in our Nation’s history.
The United States remains as com-
mitted to NATO’s mission today as
when it was founded 70 years ago. We
want a strong NATO serving as a cor-
nerstone of international freedom,
peace, and security for another 70
years.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
NOMINATION OF MARK ANTHONY CALABRIA
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, earlier
today, the Senate invoked cloture on
the nomination for the next Director of
the Federal Housing Finance Agency.
The nominee is named Mark Calabria,
and I just want to say he is an extraor-
dinarily qualified and capable man. I
hope this body will overwhelmingly
confirm him.
He is a Ph.D. economist. He has tre-
mendous work experience in the field
of housing finance, which of course is
the domain of the Federal Housing
Agency. He has worked at HUD, the
Banking Committee, and now he is the
chief economist to Vice President
PENCE.
I am certainly looking forward to
working with Dr. Calabria on housing
finance reform, the great unfinished
work of the financial crisis, and I urge
my colleagues to vote to confirm him
later today.
UNREALIZED GAIN PROPOSAL
Mr. President, I also wanted to say a
few words about an idea that has been
floated by one of our colleagues. The
idea has been floated by my friend—he
is my friend, and he is a good man—
Senator WYDEN from Oregon. He is the
ranking member of the Senate Finance
Committee, and he is a very good man
with a very bad idea, and I want to ex-
plain why I believe the idea that he has
floated is so mistaken.
Fundamentally, his proposal is that
we change our Tax Code so that we
would impose taxes on unrealized in-
vestment gains every year.
Currently, we impose taxes on invest-
ments only when the asset is sold. If an
asset is purchased, it is later sold at a
higher price. The difference is the gain,
and we impose what we call a capital
gains tax on that gain—but only when
the gain is actually realized.
Under Senator WYDEN’s proposal, if
an asset goes up in value, even though
it hasn’t been sold, the fact that it has
gone up in value would require that in-
crease in value to be taxed. The inves-
tor would have to pay a tax.
There is another element of his pro-
posal, which is that these taxes that he
wants to impose on these phantom
gains would not be at the capital gains
tax rate that is currently enforced but
rather at personal income tax rates in-
stead.
The current capital gains rate is 23.8
percent. That is the top. That is the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.016 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2255
April 4, 2019
highest capital gains rate that is paid.
The highest personal income tax rate
in our Tax Code is 37 percent. So in
some circumstances, this would be a
huge tax increase.
Let me explain why I think both of
these are very bad ideas—taxing unre-
alized gains and taxing all gains at or-
dinary income rates.
First of all, let’s take the idea of
taxes on unrealized gains. These are
the paper gains. This is a market-to-
market appreciation that is unrealized
if the investor doesn’t actually sell the
asset. Well, there is a good reason that
our system has never imposed taxes on
unrealized gains; there are several, but
one is the value of the asset could go
back down.
One very widely held asset in Amer-
ica is stocks—stocks that you can buy
on an exchange, a share of a company—
and stocks famously go up and down.
So I think it strikes most people as un-
reasonable to force people to pay a tax
on this notional gain on a stock with-
out having sold it when that stock
could go back down. The gain could be
completely lost, but you would still
pay the tax.
There is another problem with this;
that is, the tax would be imposed with-
out a liquidity event for the investor.
In other words, the investor hasn’t sold
the asset, doesn’t have the cash. What
if the investor doesn’t have enough
cash to pay the tax bill on it? This risk
alone would have a chilling effect on
investment. It would discourage people
from making the investment in the
first place because they would have to
wonder and worry about what kind of
tax bill they will incur even if they
don’t sell the asset.
Yet another problem with this is the
complexity and difficulty of actually
implementing this. It is pretty easy to
determine the value of a stock, but
there are other categories of invest-
ment that are much more difficult to
value, like real estate or a small busi-
ness.
So imagine an entrepreneur buys a
small building and builds it out and
creates a restaurant, and that is his
business. He is operating a restaurant.
It may be profitable; it may not be.
But what if real estate values in that
neighborhood happen to go up? Well,
here you might have a struggling en-
trepreneur trying to make ends meet
in his restaurant, and the IRS is going
to come along and say: Oh, you owe us
a whole lot of money because we think
the land on which you are operating
has gone up in value.
What good does that do for the res-
taurant operator or the people working
for him, the jobs being created? It is
not a good idea at all.
There is another aspect to Senator
WYDEN’s proposal, and that is that he
would use a higher rate. He would like
the top rate of 37 percent to be im-
posed, at least in some cases, on these
capital gains, whether or not realized.
So the question is, Why do we have a
lower tax rate on capital gains than we
have on ordinary income, other sources
of incomes? Well, there are several rea-
sons for that, as well—good reasons.
One is we don’t exclude from our cal-
culation of an investor’s gain the com-
ponent of that gain that is attributable
only to inflation. Think about it. If
you make an investment in something
and the inflation rate is just 2 percent
a year, well, 10 years later, that is
going to nominally be worth like 25
percent more than it was when you
bought it, but you don’t have any real
gain; that is just a reflection of the
fact that dollars are worth less.
So as a sort of rough justice for the
fact that you nevertheless get taxed on
the full gain, even the nominal gain,
the gain that is not real, the gain that
is just inflation, at least it is taxed at
a lower rate to make up for that.
There is another factor, and that is
most investments are in an asset that
itself generates income, and that in-
come is taxed. So, for instance, a
stock—a stock is a share of a company;
a company has to pay tax. So imagine
an investor who invests in a company
and that company makes $100 of in-
come. That is the profit for the busi-
ness. Well, the first thing that business
has to do is pay 21 percent of that to
Uncle Sam. That is the tax on cor-
porate income. Well, that leaves $79
left over for the investors, and the in-
vestor has to pay 23.8 percent on that.
That works out to about $19. So at the
end of the day, on a $100 hundred gain,
the investor is able to go home with
only $60. That is a 40-percent effective
tax rate to the investor, despite the
fact that the nominal rate applied on
the investor’s gain is only 23.8 percent.
The combination—and that is what you
really have to look at—is more like 40
percent. That is higher than any indi-
vidual income tax rate that we have in
our entire code.
Of course, a gain on such an asset oc-
curs only when investors generally be-
lieve that the after-tax value has gone
up.
So I think it would be a big mistake
to go down this road. I think it would
be a big mistake to tax unrealized
gains. As it is now, gains are taxed.
They are taxed at the time in which
they are actually earned—they are ac-
tually realized—and it would be a mis-
take to raise the tax on this. Both of
these ideas, and certainly in combina-
tion, would absolutely, certainly have
a chilling effect on investment. They
would diminish the willingness of peo-
ple to invest in new businesses, in
growing business, in startup business,
and a chilling effect on investment
means a chilling effect on economic
growth.
So this proposal, I think, is mis-
guided. It comes at a time when the
tax reform that we have recently
passed, which actually encourages in-
vestment, is clearly working. Our tax
reform has generated a tremendous
surge in investment in equipment, in
technology, in new business. We have
seen tremendous growth in our overall
economy as a result.
In 2018, our economy grew at 3 per-
cent—the best since 2005. With a
strong, growing economy, we have seen
terrific results for the people we all
represent. Unemployment is at its low-
est rate in 50 years. African-American
unemployment is the lowest that has
ever been recorded; Hispanic unem-
ployment, the lowest ever recorded;
youth unemployment, the lowest rate
in many decades. Wages are now grow-
ing more rapidly than they have in
over 10 years, and they are accel-
erating, and the wage growth is strong-
est among lower income workers.
Clearly, the reforms we implemented
have been an incentive for more invest-
ment, and that has led to more growth.
I sure wouldn’t want to see us do any-
thing that would disrupt the fact that
we have created an environment where
there is now so much opportunity and
where work is paying so much more
than it has before.
As I said, Senator WYDEN is a good
man, but this is a bad idea. I certainly
hope we don’t move in this direction.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
NATO
Mr. TILLIS. Mr. President, I want to
speak briefly about a historic day,
April 4. It was the day the agreement
in Washington was signed to create the
NATO alliance after the Second World
War.
I want to start by repeating what
President Truman said on that day. He
said:
We hope to create a shield against aggres-
sion and the fear of aggression—all bulwark
which will permit us to get on with the real
business of government and society, the
business of achieving a fuller and happier life
for all of our citizens.
That agreement was signed on April
4, 1949. Since the 70 years that have fol-
lowed, the alliance has gotten stronger.
The alliance has grown. In fact, there
are a number of countries that hope
someday to also be a member of the
NATO alliance. It has been important
and what I believe is the most impor-
tant alliance in the history of man-
kind.
This week is NATO Week. Yesterday
we had the Secretary General speak to
us before a joint session of Congress.
The Secretary General was actually
very optimistic about the future of
NATO, and I am as well.
I was with a group a couple of weeks
ago who were wondering about NATO
and some of the discussions or dis-
agreements we have among our NATO
allies. I liken it to the kind of disagree-
ments I have with family. I grew up in
a family of six kids. It is a big family.
All of us have very different views, are
of very different ages and life experi-
ences. I really believe the disagree-
ments we have among our allies are
like the disagreements you have among
your family members, but at the end of
the day, make no mistake about it, an
attack on any one of us is viewed as an
attack on every one of us, and every
country takes that seriously.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.018 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2256 April 4, 2019
In fact, in the 70 years since NATO
was created—there is an obligation
within article 5 of the agreement that
if there is an attack on any one of us,
then we consider it an attack on every
one of us. It happened on 9/11. The only
time in the history of the alliance that
the article 5 obligation under the trea-
ty has been exercised is when NATO
countries joined with the United States
in the War on Terror.
Many people may not realize it, but
there was a huge human toll for living
up to their commitment. Many nations
sent their men and women into harm’s
way, and over 1,000 of them have died
since 9/11. Many others have been
gravely wounded, but they lived up to
their commitment. It was the first test
of the treaty. That happened only less
than 20 years ago.
Senator SHAHEEN and I are now co-
chairs of the Senate NATO Observer
Group. I want to compliment Senator
SHAHEEN for actually coming up with
the idea to reconstitute the group be-
cause we need to make sure our part-
ners, our allies, understand that Con-
gress believes NATO is a very impor-
tant alliance to ensure our mutual
safety and security.
There was another interesting point
that the Secretary General made in his
speech yesterday before Congress.
Some people have criticized President
Trump for telling our partners that
they need to pay their agreed-to fair
share. The Secretary General said the
President’s call has actually been an-
swered and that it was a positive step
that he took to make these other na-
tions recognize we must invest in our
mutual defense and our mutual secu-
rity. That can only come through inno-
vating technologies that will defend
the regions within the NATO alliance,
making sure our troops are working to-
gether and working very well on a mili-
tary-to-military basis, and we are
doing that, but without that sustained
commitment from our NATO allies, we
could lose ground, and it is in their
best interest to do it.
As I said earlier, NATO is growing.
We have a long list of countries that
hope they can meet the requirements
to someday come into NATO. Many of
them were within the sphere of influ-
ence for the Soviet Union before the
end of the Cold War.
We all know Russia is the greatest
threat to Europe. We all know Russia
has done things that are illegal, ac-
cording to international law. They
have annexed the Crimean region of
the Ukraine. Every week, Ukrainians
are dying in a war that very few people
know about. We have to make sure
that we actually confront Russian ag-
gression, and the best way to do that is
to have a strong NATO alliance.
On this historic day, April 4, 70 years
later, I believe the alliance is strong. I
believe that is what the Secretary Gen-
eral talked about yesterday, and I be-
lieve every Member of Congress shares
the view that the NATO treaty, the
NATO alliance, is the most important
bulwark against aggression and threats
to freedom.
I look forward to continuing to serve
with Co-Chair SHAHEEN to make sure
our partners know this Congress is pre-
pared to support them and to make
sure the alliance grows and remains
strong.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
NOMINATION OF MARK ANTHONY CALABRIA
Mr. BROWN. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent.
I rise in opposition to the nomination
of Mark Calabria. He is the wrong man
for this job.
Sometimes I kind of can’t believe
this place. I see these people. I see the
President of the United States, who
never really experienced any of these
challenges that homeowners in Cleve-
land, OH, or in Muncie, IN, face. He
can’t even get a loan from a local bank;
he has to go to Germany to go to Deut-
sche Bank. That is really beside the
point.
I just don’t understand, when we
have these academicians or people who
work in government for a while, and
then they go out and they do these
writings, and over time—I look at
someone like Mark Calabria. He seems
like a genuinely nice fellow and an
honorable guy, but some of the things
he said and has written in his career—
let me start with this. He questions the
need for the 30-year mortgage. A lot of
Members of Congress, a lot of people
voting on this nomination, and a lot of
people in the White House—the White
House looks like a retreat for Wall
Street executives. The majority lead-
er’s office down the hall has a stream
of lobbyists going in and out from the
banks and the oil companies and the
gun lobbyists and all that.
Mr. Calabria has said he questions
the need for a 30-year mortgage. Many
of my colleagues here and in the White
House don’t really have to worry about
paying their mortgage. They don’t
have to think about saving for retire-
ment and planning for retirement and
thinking: I have 7 years until I want to
retire; I have 14 years to save money
for my children to go on to college, to
go to Lorain Community College, or to
go to Dennis Center, or to Ohio State,
or to go to Bloomington, or to go the
University of Indiana.
Mr. Calabria’s questioning of 30-year
mortgages—most people can’t afford to
buy a house if they don’t have a long-
term 25- or 30-year mortgage. They
can’t put 50 percent down, like it was
before Franklin Roosevelt, and then
pay it off in 5 years. That is how we did
homeownership in this country 70, 80,
or 90 years ago. That is why there
wasn’t much homeownership then, and
then we figured out how to do it.
Mark Calabria just wants to blow all
that up and say: I don’t really like the
idea of a 30-year mortgage.
He is not being nominated for the
Secretary of the Interior. He is not
being nominated for the EPA. He is
being nominated for the Federal Hous-
ing Finance Agency. It is a critical job.
We know we have a housing afford-
ability crisis in this country. Think
about this. One-fourth of all renters
pay at least half of their income in
housing costs. That is one-fourth of
people who rent. I assume it may be
higher in Indiana, as it is in Appa-
lachia, OH, or it may be higher in East
Cleveland or in Gary than it is in some
other places, but whatever the number,
overall, one-quarter of renters in this
country pay 50 percent of their income
in housing. Do you know what that
means? It means that if your car
breaks down, you have to borrow
money from a payday lender so you can
go to work so you can keep making $12
or $14 an hour. It eventually means you
may get evicted because you can’t
meet your monthly rent.
The homeownership rate among Afri-
can Americans is at the same dismal
level it was before Congress put those
open housing, anti-discrimination laws
in place, and now this administration
is not even enforcing those laws.
Mr. Calabria doesn’t think we need
the current affordable housing goals.
He thinks we should eliminate the
GSEs, and—my favorite—he called
homeowners who are underwater in
their mortgages deadbeats.
I don’t know if he has ever actually
been to Ohio. He might have. He might
have ties there, for all I know. I don’t
know that he does, but 8 years ago in
Ohio, one out of five homeowners was
underwater. You know what that
means. It means they owed more for
their house than their home was worth.
It wasn’t their fault. It is not their
fault that in their community the
worth of their home was dropping. It is
not because they didn’t keep it up, but
it is because people were foreclosed on
or homes were abandoned or they were
evicted from those homes, and the
value kept dropping so they actually
owed more than their home was worth.
He calls those people deadbeats.
Somebody who loses their job and
can’t pay their mortgage, does that
make them a deadbeat? Somebody who
gets hurt on a construction project, he
or she is a carpenter or a boilermaker,
and they can’t work—he calls them
deadbeats? This is the person we want
in charge of housing?
He questioned the need for the Hard-
est Hit Fund. I know, in the Presiding
Officer’s State and in my State, that
the Hardest Hit Fund really has
mattered in helping clean up some
neighborhoods and trying to get a floor
under prices so they start going up
again.
He said: Just let prices fall. It is easy
for him to say to just let prices fall.
How about the people who are affected
by this?
My colleagues who support his nomi-
nation today shouldn’t act surprised
when he raises costs for borrowers,
when he makes it more difficult to de-
velop affordable housing, and when he
cuts off access to homeownership for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.019 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2257
April 4, 2019
American families, especially people of
color.
That is what he has advocated his en-
tire career. We should reject Dr.
Calabria’s nomination. We should tell
the President of the United States to
send us a new nominee who will take
this job seriously and a nominee who
will make it easier, not harder, for
Americans to afford housing.
I ask for a ‘‘no’’ vote for the nomina-
tion of Mark Calabria to head the Fed-
eral Housing Finance Agency.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
‘‘MOVE OVER’’ LAW
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, yester-
day in Warren, IL, a small town on the
Illinois-Wisconsin border, mourners
from near and far lined the streets and
packed the town’s high school to say
good-bye to a local hero. They came to
honor and bid farewell to an Illinois
State trooper, Brooke Jones-Story,
who was killed in the line of duty last
Thursday.
Trooper Jones-Story had pulled over
a truck a little after noon and was in-
specting it on the shoulder of U.S.
Highway 20 in Freeport, just west of
Rockford, IL, when a semitrailer
crashed into her squad car and the
truck she had stopped. The squad car
and truck she had pulled over burst
into flames. Trooper Jones-Story, a de-
voted public servant, 11-year veteran of
the Illinois State police, wife, step-
mother, daughter, sister, lifelong fan of
the Chicago Cubs, fan of Disney mov-
ies, animal rescuer, and a CrossFit
workout enthusiast, died instantly.
She was 34 years old. No one else was
injured.
Sadly and unbelievably, Trooper
Jones-Story was the second of three Il-
linois State troopers who have died
this year after being struck by vehicles
on the sides of roads and highways.
Three State troopers in Illinois were
killed in less than 3 months. All told,
16 Illinois State Troopers have been
struck by vehicles so far this year, sev-
eral suffering serious injuries.
Let me tell you about the other two
heroes we lost.
Just 2 days after Trooper Jones-
Story died, Trooper Jerry Ellis was
killed by a wrong-way driver near
Libertyville, IL.
It happened at 3:25 in the morning.
The driver was headed in the wrong di-
rection on Interstate 94 in Green Oaks
when he hit Trooper Ellis’s squad car
head-on. The driver who caused the
crash was also killed.
Jerry Ellis was 36 years old. He had
been an Illinois State Trooper for 11
years. Before that he had served his
country in the U.S. Army in Iraq.
He and his wife Stacy are the parents
of two little girls, Kaylee, age 7, and
Zoe, age 5.
Chris Lambert, in fact, was the first
Illinois State trooper killed this year.
It was January 12. He had just finished
his shift and was on his way home
when he stopped during a snowstorm to
help at the scene of a three-car acci-
dent on Interstate 294 in Northbrook.
Another driver, apparently trying to
avoid the pileup, swerved onto the left
shoulder of the highway, where Troop-
er Lambert was standing, and hit him
and killed him.
Trooper Lambert was 34 years old.
He, too, was an Army veteran. He
served in Iraq and Haiti. He had been
with the Illinois State Police since
2013.
He and his wife Halley were parents
of a 14-month-old daughter, Delaney.
The driver who hit him has been
charged with felony reckless homicide.
What makes the deaths of these three
public servants—these three heroes—
even harder to bear is that our State of
Illinois passed a law nearly 20 years
ago that was supposed to make roads
safer for police and other emergency
responders.
It is called the ‘‘Move Over’’ Law or
Scott’s Law. It was named after the
Chicago Fire Department lieutenant,
Scott Gillen, who was killed in 2000 by
a drunken driver while working on a
crash scene on the Chicago freeway.
Scott’s Law requires motorists to
slow down, and, if possible, move over
when they see a parked squad car, fire
engine, or ambulance with flashing
lights. If you can’t change lanes, slow
down and proceed cautiously. That is
what Scott’s Law says.
It was expanded in 2017 to include all
vehicles stopped with hazard lights on,
including tow trucks. Violators can
lose their license and face stiff fines—
up to $10,000.
Every State has some form of Scott’s
Law. Police and other first responders
in many States are working to draw at-
tention to these laws and to enforce
them.
I believe the Federal Government
needs to do more. In the upcoming sur-
face transportation reauthorization
bill, I will be working not only to in-
crease funding for highway safety
grants to provide States with the re-
sources they need to better enforce
these laws but also to encourage people
all across America to be sensitive to
the men and women who are serving us
in public capacities in law enforcement
and other responsibilities. They de-
serve our respect and our caution.
Despite these measures, Illinois
State Police have seen a troubling in-
crease in incidents in which a squad
car with its lights flashing has been hit
by a passing car. In 2016, there were 5
such incidents; in 2017, 12; and last
year, 8. Just a little over 3 months into
this year, already there have been 16
such incidents, with 3 young troopers
dead.
Two days ago, April 1, was Illinois
State Trooper Day—a day set aside
each year to honor the dedicated men
and women of the Illinois State Police.
As Brendan Kelly, now the acting di-
rector of the Illinois State Police said:
‘‘In 97 years, 69 men and women of the
Illinois State Police bravely put on
their uniforms to serve the citizens of
this State and never returned home.’’
But this is the first time in 66 years
that the Illinois State Police have lost
three state troopers in 1 year, and the
year is only a few months over.
State police are uncertain what is
driving this deadly trend, but Lucy
Kuelper—and I would like to show you
her photograph here.
Mr. SCHUMER. I will hold it up.
Mr. DURBIN. Lucy Kuelper, a sixth
grader from rural Rio, IL, hopes that
she may have a way to stop the terrible
losses.
I thank the Senator from New York.
Lucy is just 12 years old, but she
knows the fear of watching someone
you love go to work and the worry that
you might never see them again.
Lucy’s dad, her hero, John Kuelper, is
also a State trooper.
When Lucy learned about the number
of State troopers who had been hit and
killed recently, she asked her dad:
What can I do?
Together, they came up with an idea.
With help from her mom, Jessica, Lucy
created a Facebook page to raise
awareness about Scott’s Law. She calls
her page the Move Over Project.
She posted the photo, shown here, of
herself standing next to her dad, hold-
ing up a sign that says hashtag ‘‘move
over . . . for my DAD.’’
She asked other loved ones in the po-
lice force and other emergency services
to post similar photos with hashtag
‘‘move over for . . .’’ and fill in the
blank.
In 5 days, Lucy’s Facebook page re-
ceived more than 14,000 ‘‘likes.’’ People
have sent in photos from all over the
country. They want people to move
over for their dads, moms, sisters,
brothers, uncles, and friends. There are
photos of firefighters, police officers,
EMTs, and tow truck drivers standing
next to spouses, children, infants, par-
ents, friends, and pets.
This week, the State of Illinois Com-
mission on Volunteerism and Commu-
nity Service honored Lucy with its
Volunteer of the Week Award. She de-
served it, but Lucy says the only re-
ward she wants is for people to follow
the law and move over, so her dad and
others like him who do dangerous jobs
will be able to come home to their fam-
ilies at the end of the day.
I want to thank Lucy for her efforts
in starting the Move Over Project.
Look at the faces and the families in-
volved. Remember them the next time
you see an emergency vehicle on a
highway with its lights flashing parked
along a roadway. Move over and save
lives.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, first,
let me thank my good friend the Sen-
ator from Illinois for those great
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.020 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2258 April 4, 2019
words. We have had police officers in
New York hit the same way. There is a
bridge in New York on Southern State
Parkway that we named after an offi-
cer who died a few years ago in the
same situation, and I thank Lucy for
caring and pushing hard.
NOMINATION OF MARK ANTHONY CALABRIA
Mr. President, I rise in strong opposi-
tion to the nomination of Mark
Calabria to become the Director of
FHFA. I hope every Senator who has
homeowners in their districts will pay
attention here.
For decades we have had Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac providing mortgages
at lower rates for people because there
is a Federal guarantee. Because hous-
ing is such an important part of our
economy, it stimulates jobs and the
growth in the economy.
It is utterly amazing that, once
again, we are in a sort of ‘‘Alice in
Wonderland.’’ The nominations from
this administration go directly in the
face of what I bet almost every Member
on the other side believes—that inter-
est rates should be low for mortgages
and that there should be some kind of
Federal guarantee.
Well, here is what Dr. Calabria be-
lieves. First, he believes that the 30-
year mortgage is not necessarily part
of our Federal housing finance system.
He believes that Fannie and Freddie
guarantees should be no higher than
$200,000.
I would ask Dr. Calabria to visit
some of the middle-class neighborhoods
of New York—policemen, firemen,
teachers, construction workers. Their
homes would be put in jeopardy by
this, and a home is the middle class’s
piece of the rock.
What the heck are we doing around
here?
President Trump doesn’t pay atten-
tion to who the nominees are. They are
put forward by Mick Mulvaney, who
believes in no government involvement
in anything, and people get hurt.
What about the young couple with a
new job, a new baby? They want to buy
their first home. What about the per-
son of color? Finally, when zoning laws
and other things have changed, they
can get a home. What about parents
who are about to retire and want to
sell their home so that they can move
to smaller quarters and have a little
bit of extra money? What about grand-
parents? To put in somebody who
wants to undo the FHFA and undo our
rock solid housing system would be ri-
diculous.
I hope my colleagues will listen. If
you believe in homeownership, if you
believe the middle class ought to have
homeownership, you can’t support
somebody who wants to eliminate Fed-
eral guarantees, who wants to lower
the amount, and who wants to say that
the 30-year mortgage, which has had
such a success in America, should no
longer be the bedrock of our system.
I hope people will look at who this
nominee is and vote no. I certainly
will.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BARRASSO. I ask unanimous
consent that all time expires.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
All postcloture time is expired.
The question is, Will the Senate ad-
vise and consent to the Calabria nomi-
nation?
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I ask
for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Utah (Mr. LEE).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from New Jersey (Mr. BOOKER),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), and the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. SANDERS) are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BRAUN). Are there any other Senators
in the Chamber desiring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 52,
nays 44, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 64 Ex.]
YEAS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—44
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Booker
Harris
Lee
Sanders
The nomination was confirmed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, be-
fore I speak, I ask unanimous consent
that the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
and that the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s action on the
Calabria and Altman nominations.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
LEGLISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate re-
sume legislative session and be in a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Since I made that
unanimous consent motion, and I am
going to be speaking for longer than 10
minutes, I ask unanimous consent to
speak for whatever time I may con-
sume, which will probably be in the
neighborhood of 20 minutes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PRESIDENTIAL TAX RETURNS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, yes-
terday the Ways and Means Committee
sent a letter to the IRS requesting the
President’s tax returns. Last night, I
had a chance to read that letter, and I
have to say that if you take it at its
face value, it doesn’t make a whole lot
of sense. Consider the reasons that are
stated in that letter from the Ways and
Means Committee for requesting the
President’s tax returns. It states that
the committee is conducting oversight
of the audit process that the IRS uses
to evaluate Presidential tax returns.
Currently, the IRS examines the
President’s tax returns as a matter of
policy—simple policy—but a review
isn’t required by law. Democrats of the
Ways and Means Committee have said
they are now looking into whether the
current IRS policies of auditing the
President is enough or if congressional
action may be needed. Democrats have
even been talking about making IRS
audits of the President’s returns man-
datory every year, even though—now, I
understand that—even though the IRS
does that every year, and they have
been doing it for a long period of time.
In a press release, a Democratic
member of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee said he has a duty to examine
whether congressional action is needed
to require Presidential audits and to
oversee that they are done correctly.
Ask yourself why that member would
be saying that.
I, for one, haven’t seen any evidence
that the IRS has suddenly changed its
policy under this President, meaning
President Trump, or that it is con-
ducting a less thorough review of
President Trump’s taxes than it did of
previous Presidents or that it hasn’t
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.023 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2259
April 4, 2019
conducted a review at all. So why are
the Democrats considering these
changes to the Tax Code now? Why
didn’t they raise the issue under Presi-
dent Obama or President Bush or
President Clinton? The answer of
course is that nothing has changed.
There is no reason to believe the IRS
is doing any less due diligence in its re-
view of President Trump’s taxes than
it has for any other President in our
memory. The letter also states the
committee needs to know the scope of
the audit that the IRS conducts when
it looks at a President’s tax returns;
that it needs to know whether there is
a review of underlying business activi-
ties reported by the President. If
Democrats are truly interested in find-
ing out the level of scrutiny given to a
President’s tax returns, why not sim-
ply just ask the IRS to describe its
audit procedure? That is a very
straightforward question, and I am
sure Commissioner Rettig would be
happy to oblige with a straightforward
answer. Why is there a need to seek
President Trump’s tax returns in order
to get an answer to those questions? I
want to give you a hint: There isn’t
one.
The letter also states that the com-
mittee is looking into how the IRS is
doing its job of enforcing tax laws in a
fair and impartial manner. In a state-
ment yesterday, the Ways and Means
Committee said it especially wants to
know whether or not audits of Presi-
dential tax returns are fully and appro-
priately being conducted.
Along those lines, in addition to ask-
ing for President Trump’s tax returns
and those of his businesses for the last
6 years, the Democrats have asked for
information on the status of all audits
of those tax returns that have been
conducted. It sounds like they are
planning to conduct their own review
of the President’s tax returns to see
whether the IRS has been doing its job.
Now, there is a problem with that.
The IRS audits more than 1 million
tax returns every year. While audits of
the President and Vice President might
happen automatically, the audit proc-
ess that is followed for them ought to
be the same as it is for everyone else.
Every member of the Ways and Means
Committee knows that as well.
In members’ remarks yesterday, they
said the committee has a responsibility
to conduct oversight of the tax system
to determine how Americans, including
those in elected office, are complying
with the law. In other words, the Presi-
dent and the Vice President ought to
be held to the same high standards as
every other American—not a different
standard but the same standard. There
is no reason to believe this isn’t al-
ready happening. Democrats haven’t
offered a shred of evidence to suggest
the IRS hasn’t done its job auditing
President Trump, his taxes, or anybody
else’s for that matter.
By the way, if Democrats are really
so concerned about enforcement, then
why not ask the Treasury inspector
general to conduct a review of the IRS
audit process? Well, I want to tell you
why they might not do that. It is be-
cause they are not concerned about
oversight of the IRS enforcement proc-
ess at all. What they are interested in
is using their oversight responsibilities
to collect as much information about
this President’s finances as they can
get their hands on, and that is really
the bottom line, isn’t it?
This letter from the House Demo-
crats doesn’t make sense when taken
at face value because you can’t take it
at face value. Democrats say they are
interested in the tax returns of all
Presidents when they are really just
interested in one—President Trump’s.
If the effort to get the President’s
tax returns isn’t part of a grand reform
effort, as they would have us believe,
then what is it motivated by? I want to
tell you what it is motivated by. It is
motivated by the Democrats’ intense
dislike of this President. It is moti-
vated by their frustration over losing
an election they thought they would
easily win. It is motivated by their de-
sire to use all of the resources at their
disposal to find something—anything—
to bring this President down.
Just take a look at how this whole
effort to request the President’s tax re-
turn has unfolded. That will tell you a
real story. Democrats started making
calls for President Trump to release his
tax returns while he was still a can-
didate during the 2016 election. At the
time, Democratic calls for the release
of his tax returns were clearly just a
political attack, not a policy issue as
they now want us to believe.
Secretary Clinton said: ‘‘There must
be something really terrible in those
tax returns.’’
Her communications director used
the issue to chide then-candidate
Trump for ‘‘hiding behind fake excuses
and backtracking on . . . previous
promises.’’
In his speech before the Democratic
National Convention, Mrs. Clinton’s
running mate questioned then whether
then-Candidate Trump had been paying
his fair share, at once calling for him
to release his tax returns and asking:
‘‘Donald, what are you hiding?’’
Since the election, these calls have
continued, as you see yesterday. Demo-
crats have just come up with more in-
ventive excuses for making these calls,
although I suspect the underlying po-
litical reasons are the same today as
they were in 2016. Consider how those
reasons have changed over time.
Not long after the election, at the be-
ginning of the last Congress, 93 House
Democrats signed a resolution of in-
quiry directing the Secretary of Treas-
ury to turn over the President’s tax re-
turns. That request to turn over his tax
returns was to be provided to the full
House of Representatives and not to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
The House Democrats’ portion of
that resolution committee report,
signed by the ranking member and cur-
rent chairman, is filled with com-
plaints about the President’s refusal to
release his tax returns, none of which
ever mentioned reviewing IRS audits
or even inquiring about IRS audit pro-
cedures.
In that report, Democrats say that
the President has ‘‘rebuked over 40
years of tradition’’ by refusing to re-
lease his tax returns. They say that the
President’s tax returns should be re-
leased because he has a vast domestic
and international business empire.
They say they should be released be-
cause he is ‘‘not the average Amer-
ican.’’ They say they should be re-
leased because he is President of the
United States and has the power to
sign bills into law, and that is supposed
to serve as some kind of justification
for demanding and releasing his tax re-
turns. I can tell you that the law does
not support that argument.
Under section 6103 of the Federal Tax
Code, the tax returns of all Americans,
including even the President of the
United States, are considered to be pri-
vate information.
Without an individual’s permission,
tax information can’t be released ex-
cept under the most limited cir-
cumstances. Let’s not forget that our
Tax Code reads that way for a very
good reason.
Congress reformed the modern IRS
privacy law in 1976, not long after
President Nixon left office. Nixon had
used his power over the IRS to target
his political enemies. By passing that
law in 1976, Congress wanted to make
sure that never happened again. Con-
gress was determined to put protec-
tions in place that would prevent any
kind of abuse of that IRS power in the
future. Congress wanted to ensure pri-
vate tax information was never used
for political purposes again. But if you
strip away all of the pretense and trace
this current effort back to its roots,
that sounds an awful like what is hap-
pening right now with the efforts of the
members of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee.
I stopped listing them, but Demo-
crats have had plenty of other reasons
in the past for claiming to need Presi-
dent Trump’s tax returns.
In 2017, Democrats also said the
President’s taxes should be released be-
cause he stood to benefit from the tax
reform that Congress passed and the
President then signed into law. Appar-
ently, because the President is wealthy
and successful, they figured he must
have had a self-interest in supporting
that reform.
A more recent effort to get the Presi-
dent’s returns is contained in a bill the
House Democrats recently sent to the
Senate, known as H.R. 1. That bill con-
tains a provision requiring that can-
didates for President and Vice Presi-
dent, as well as the sitting President
and Vice President, release their last 10
years of individual tax returns. Assum-
ing the proposal lives on, even if the
bill doesn’t, I wonder if that is one of
the items they were hoping to evaluate
through their current oversight efforts.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:16 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.025 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2260 April 4, 2019
Maybe they want to see the Presi-
dent’s tax returns in order to evaluate
their proposal to see the President’s
tax returns. That sounds like a lot of
circular logic to me.
Democrats have also made a big deal
out of the fact that under section 6103,
the Secretary of the Treasury ‘‘shall’’
turn over relevant tax records to the
chairman of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee if he requests it. That is exactly
right, as long as the committee has a
legitimate legislative purpose in ask-
ing for them, as opposed to this per-
ceived political reason for why they
want to do it.
For decades, the courts have been
clear that congressional requests for
information, like those tax returns or
anything else we are trying to do, must
have a legitimate legislative purpose.
That is where the Democrats come up
very, very short.
See, they don’t have a purpose. All
they have are a lot of excuses. Let me
tell you something. Introducing legis-
lation that would essentially require
the President to release his tax returns
and then using that to somehow justify
requesting the President’s tax returns
is one of the worst excuses I have ever
heard of.
You would think, considering the
amount of time and practice they have
had trying to rationalize all of this and
make it sound so very good, they would
be able to come up with something a
little bit better than that. Apparently
not, and that really speaks volumes,
doesn’t it?
The fact is, the reasons the Demo-
crats have offered for wanting Presi-
dent Trump’s tax returns back in 2016
and 2017 don’t pass muster any better
than the ones they are trying to peddle
right now. That is because they are not
requesting the tax returns in order to
investigate a problem in need of over-
sight at all. All they really care about
is finding a pretext to bring this Presi-
dent down.
As a Member of Congress who knows
firsthand the importance of good over-
sight, that is what concerns me the
most about this whole campaign that
is going on in the other body.
I happen to know a thing or two
about oversight. Over my career, I have
conducted oversight of the last seven
Presidential administrations—Demo-
crat and Republican. I have called out
both parties for doing things they
shouldn’t be doing. In that spirit, I
have always said that every single
Member of Congress is dutybound to
conduct oversight of the Federal Gov-
ernment. In fact, I remind every new
Member that I run into in this body—
and the Presiding Officer has heard me
tell him this—that if you want to get a
bill passed, you have to have 51 votes
to get it passed, but if you want to do
oversight, you have to have one vote—
your own decision to do that oversight.
The responsibility to conduct over-
sight is and ought to be regarded by
each and every one of us as sacrosanct.
The power to conduct oversight flows
directly from the Constitution.
As Members of Congress, we owe it to
the people we represent to preserve and
protect its use as a tool for carrying
out our legitimate constitutional re-
sponsibilities. I don’t believe for a
minute that when the Framers created
article I—the power of Congress to leg-
islate—what they had in mind was
Members using these powers to collect
personal information on their political
opponents in an effort to destroy those
political opponents.
In all my years of conducting over-
sight, I have never started with an end
result and then worked backward in
search of a reason for making it hap-
pen. That is not how oversight is done.
Oversight is about advocating for
transparency, and with transparency
comes accountability in order to fix
problems and to improve government.
It is not about searching for ways to
sow division and tear down your polit-
ical opponents. What Democrats are
doing now looks a lot more like the
latter than the former. If that is what
they are up to, it is not oversight at
all.
When you strip away all of their pre-
texts and when you strip out their cir-
cular logic, all you have are Democrats
who want to go after the President in
any way they can. They dislike him
with a passion, and they want his tax
returns to destroy him. That is all this
whole process is about, and it is
Nixonian to the core.
I yield.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I ask that
the order for the quorum call be re-
scinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
H.R. 268
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, earlier this
week, the Senate debated a disaster re-
lief funding bill that would have pro-
vided $131⁄2 billion in assistance to
States and territories that have been
touched by recent hurricanes,
wildfires, and other natural disasters. I
share my colleagues’ commitment to
provide necessary assistance to get af-
fected Americans back on their feet.
As chairman of the Budget Com-
mittee, I believe we should always con-
sider the budgetary effects of any legis-
lation pending before this body. Sup-
plemental appropriations bills high-
light a real challenge in controlling
Federal spending. How should we budg-
et for inevitable natural disasters and
emergencies?
Answering this question is important
because the Federal Government con-
tinues to spend more money than it
takes in and will soon confront annual
deficits exceeding $1 trillion a year.
These surging deficits add to our rising
debt, which stands today at $22 trillion,
or more than $65,000 per person. That is
regardless of age—the baby who was
born this morning owes $65,000. By 2029,
if nothing is done, the national debt
will grow to more than $33 trillion, or
more than $94,000 per person.
Adding urgency to this situation is
the surge in autopilot spending, which
now represents more than two-thirds of
what the Federal Government spends
each year. Two-thirds of what we spend
is not actually voted on; it happens
automatically.
As our population ages, rising
healthcare and interest costs will com-
pound our fiscal problems. In 10 years,
nearly 80 cents of every dollar the gov-
ernment spends will be on mandatory
programs and interest on the debt. We
need to do everything we can to im-
prove our fiscal situation, and that in-
cludes improving the way we provide
disaster relief.
Some of my colleagues may not real-
ize that since the passage of the Budget
Control Act in 2011, Congress has spent
$250 billion outside of the discretionary
caps responding to natural disasters
and other emergencies.
This spending has received special
designations under the law that ex-
empt it from discretionary spending
limits, but such spending still has the
very real effect of further increasing
the Federal budget deficit—and the
Federal debt. One designation that is
often used is the ‘‘emergency’’ designa-
tion, which implies it is for something
Congress did not anticipate. But as we
all know, natural disasters happen on
an annual basis, and in recent years we
have had multiple natural disasters in
a fiscal year.
I want to applaud my friend from
Utah, Senator ROMNEY, for offering an
amendment that recognizes the chal-
lenge of budgeting for disasters and
emergencies. Disaster relief funding
must be built into our base budgets,
which is why I have incorporated these
costs in recent budget resolutions, in-
cluding the one that passed through
our Budget Committee last week.
While there is no silver bullet to this
problem, I am willing and eager to
work with any of my colleagues who
believe there is a better way to antici-
pate these costs.
The Senate Budget Committee re-
cently held a hearing that partially
touched on ideas to better budget for
disaster funding. One option is to offset
emergency spending increases with
spending reductions in other areas. An-
other option could require a dedicated
fund for emergencies, similar to how
some States budget for these events. I
have also considered whether a new ac-
tuarially sound insurance program
could appropriately assess the risk for
such disasters while maintaining af-
fordable premiums. Budgeting for
emergencies and disasters is not a pre-
cise science, but I believe Congress can
do a lot better than just calling an
emergency and adding to the debt.
While we work to more honestly
budget for these annual costs, there are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.026 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2261
April 4, 2019
other ways we can lower the costs of
natural disasters. The Federal Emer-
gency Management Agency has found
that every $1 spent mitigating against
natural disasters saves an average of
$6. Last year, Congress passed the Dis-
aster Recovery Reform Act, which I
was proud to support. This bill in-
cluded programs that encouraged miti-
gation activities. Congress should be
open to any idea that could help our
country better plan for annual costs of
these natural disasters. This would
allow us to respond to natural disasters
more efficiently, while also reducing
the burden on American taxpayers.
With our country more than $22 tril-
lion in debt and quickly approaching $1
trillion annual deficits, we must do ev-
erything in our power to put our coun-
try on a more fiscally sustainable path.
Better budgeting for natural disasters
will not fix all of our financial prob-
lems, but it is a good place to start.
Before I conclude, I want to touch on
another area of concern, and that is
the growing prevalence of directed
scorekeeping. That is a way of saying:
We are not going to count that, even
though we are going to spend it, and we
can spend it more than once.
Congressional budget statutes have
established scoring rules that are in-
tended to provide standardized ac-
counting to ensure that lawmakers
have the best possible information
upon which to base fiscal decisions. In
recent years, however, we have seen
more and more attempts to undermine
that process and instead direct the
scoring outcomes.
Last week, the Senate Budget Com-
mittee, which I chair, approved a fiscal
year 2020 budget resolution that aims
to crack down on this process by allow-
ing a surgical point of order to be
raised against any such provision.
What that means is that the offending
provision can be stricken from the un-
derlying measure unless 60 Senators
vote to retain it.
Unfortunately, the disaster bill
which was brought to the floor this
week included a provision that would
essentially direct the appropriations
from the Harbor Maintenance Trust
Fund, up to a limit, to be scored as
costing zero dollars. The effect of this
change would allow Congress to spend
an additional $2 billion above the stat-
utory spending caps each year, while
obscuring the real budgetary impacts
from the American people. I filed an
amendment that would solve that.
It is long past time for an honest
conversation about the fiscal chal-
lenges facing our country. In the Budg-
et Committee, we tried to advance that
conversation with the budget that was
approved last week. Unfortunately, the
directed scorekeeping provision in the
disaster bill considered earlier this
week would set that effort back. I hope
that when Congress returns to consid-
eration of disaster legislation, it aban-
dons that multiple-spending effort.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NATO
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I
come to the floor today following our
colleague Senator TILLIS to join him in
talking about the importance of NATO
and expressing our deep appreciation
for the North Atlantic Treaty Organi-
zation.
Senator TILLIS and I are the cochairs
of the newly established Senate NATO
Observer Group, which builds on the ef-
fort that was started back in the 1990s,
by Tom Daschle and Trent Lott, to ad-
dress the expansion of NATO, following
the fall of the Berlin Wall. Our task is
not just to shepherd through the Sen-
ate any changes in NATO that require
Senate approval, but it is also to re-
mind all of us and to remind the Amer-
ican public just how important NATO
is.
Over the last seven decades, the
NATO alliance has stood by its mem-
bers in the darkest hours, including in
Afghanistan, after the United States
was attacked on September 11.
As Secretary General Stoltenberg re-
minded us yesterday, the only time ar-
ticle 5, the mutual aid clause of the
NATO charter, has been invoked was
after September 11, after the United
States was attacked by terrorists.
Our Transatlantic bond has been crit-
ical to the United States and NATO,
and, in particular, it has sustained a
period of unprecedented global security
and stability. While people may not
recognize it, every day the United
States sees the benefit of NATO.
Whether we need to use NATO bases to
evacuate American troops from con-
flict or to ensure that American goods
and people travel safely across the At-
lantic Ocean, NATO plays a critical
role.
As NATO marks its 70th anniver-
sary—today, in fact—the fact is that
the alliance makes us stronger around
the world and safer at home. So it is no
wonder that Americans are very sup-
portive of this organization. Any impli-
cation that Americans don’t like or un-
derstand NATO is just simply wrong.
This week the Pew Research Center
unveiled research to show that nearly 8
in 10 Americans, or 77 percent of Amer-
icans, including large majorities in
both the Democratic Party and the Re-
publican Party, agree that being a
member of NATO is good for the United
States.
We have also seen that the Chicago
Council on Global Affairs has recorded
a steady increase in NATO favorability
across generations of Americans. Even
the millennials, the generation born
between 1981 and 1996, which are now
the largest voting bloc in the United
States, value our alliances, and 72 per-
cent back the United States’ contribu-
tion to NATO.
Boosted by these numbers, Congress
has been more active than at any time
in my memory in expressing its sup-
port for NATO. In 2017 and 2018, Con-
gress took more votes in support of the
United States’ enduring commitment
to article 5 and NATO than at any time
since the fall of the Soviet Union. That
is why Senators TILLIS and I reestab-
lished the Senate NATO Observer
Group last year. Since then, we have
enjoyed a diverse and active member-
ship across the Republican and Demo-
cratic Parties, as well as the enduring
support of the Senate’s leadership—
both Senator MCCONNELL, the majority
leader, and Senator SCHUMER, the
Democratic leader.
Further, Congress continues to put
its word into action by allocating sig-
nificant levels of funding to help Eu-
rope deter threats that emanate from
NATO’s eastern and southern borders,
already having provided $6.5 billion in
the last year alone for the European
Deterrence Initiative.
I have no doubt that as the Senate
prepares to provide its advice and con-
sent to NATO’s 30th member, North
Macedonia, Members of Congress will,
once again, rally to NATO’s side and
push forward on initiatives to further
strengthen NATO.
I should just call out the Republic of
North Macedonia, as well as the coun-
try of Greece, for reaching an agree-
ment around the name change for
North Macedonia that both countries
have agreed to and that the Par-
liaments of both countries have sup-
ported.
So as China and Russia struggle to
maintain allies and resort to coercion
and force to keep countries in their
sphere, NATO has proven to be an en-
during American advantage in an un-
certain world.
Our NATO allies continue to magnify
the strength of our military, and they
stand ready to protect us and protect
our shared interests and values world-
wide. For this reason, I thank our al-
lies for what they have done for the
United States and for the people of Eu-
rope who are part of our partner na-
tions.
While we may have our differences,
we will always remain stronger with
allies. As the Secretary General said
yesterday, ‘‘it is good to have friends.’’
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.028 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2262 April 4, 2019
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 21.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Daniel Desmond Domenico, of Colo-
rado, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Colorado.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of Rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Daniel Desmond Domenico, of Col-
orado, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Colorado.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Pat Roberts, Roy Blunt, Deb Fisch-
er, David Perdue, Todd Young, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, Steve Daines,
John Hoeven, Thom Tillis.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 27.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Patrick R. Wyrick, of Oklahoma, to be
United States District Judge for the
Western District of Oklahoma.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Patrick R. Wyrick, of Oklahoma,
to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Oklahoma.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Pat Roberts, Roy Blunt, Deb Fisch-
er, David Perdue, Todd Young, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, Steve Daines,
John Hoeven, Thom Tillis.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 105.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South Caro-
lina, to be Administrator of the Wage
and Hour Division, Department of
Labor.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South
Carolina, to be Administrator of the Wage
and Hour Division, Department of Labor.
John Thune, Thom Tillis, Steve Daines,
James Lankford, John Boozman, John
Cornyn, Mike Crapo, Roy Blunt, Mike
Rounds, John Hoeven, Pat Roberts,
Richard Burr, David Perdue, Roger F.
Wicker, Lindsey Graham, James E.
Risch, Mitch McConnell.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 173.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
John P. Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Am-
bassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of
America to the Kingdom of Saudi Ara-
bia.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of John P. Abizaid, of Nevada, to be
Ambassador Extraordinary and Pleni-
potentiary of the United States of America
to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, John
Thune, John Barrasso, Johnny Isakson,
Pat Roberts, John Cornyn, Lindsey
Graham, Thom Tillis, Roy Blunt, John
Boozman, James E. Risch, Roger F.
Wicker, John Hoeven, Mike Rounds,
Steve Daines, Shelley Moore Capito.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 31.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to be
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Indiana.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.030 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2263
April 4, 2019
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Indiana.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Pat Roberts, Roy Blunt, Deb Fisch-
er, David Perdue, Todd Young, John
Thune, Mike Rounds, Steve Daines,
John Hoeven, Thom Tillis.
f
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to legislative session.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to executive session to
consider Calendar No. 30.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to the motion.
The motion was agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the nomination.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
David Steven Morales, of Texas, to be
United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of David Steven Morales, of Texas, to
be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas.
Mitch McConnell, Johnny Isakson, Roger
F. Wicker, John Boozman, John Cor-
nyn, Mike Crapo, Shelley Moore Cap-
ito, Steve Daines, Roy Blunt, Deb
Fischer, David Perdue, Todd Young,
John Thune, Mike Rounds, John
Hoeven, Thom Tillis, Lindsey Graham.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO JOHN STURGEON
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, it is
Thursday afternoon on the Senate
floor, and it is one of my favorite times
of the week because I get to come down
and talk about an Alaskan who has
made a difference in my State and in
the country sometimes. This one, by
the way, is a big one. I think I am
being a little bit presumptuous, but the
pages, I think, view this as kind of one
of their favorite speeches of the week
because you learn about Alaska, and I
get to brag about my wonderful State.
Now, I have been hearing a little bit
back home that people like to watch
this sometimes, but the gentleman I
am going to talk about is John Stur-
geon. That is him right there in front
of the U.S. Supreme Court, and that is
him with his hovercraft in Alaska
when he is out moose hunting. This is
an epic tale—epic, and it just hap-
pened. So I am going to be a little bit
more long-winded on this ‘‘Alaskan of
the Week’’ speech because it is actu-
ally really important for Alaskans; it
is really important for my colleagues;
and it is really, really important for
Federal judges who rule on things that
relate to Alaska.
We had an epic, huge U.S. Supreme
Court case that just came down last
week relating to this heroic figure,
John Sturgeon, related to the Alaska
National Interest Lands Conservation
Act, ANILCA—that is a mouthful; that
is a huge statute that was passed by
this body in 1980—and how that has
been interpreted over the years, over
the decades. The Supreme Court just
last week interpreted this case in a
way that we Alaskans think it should
have been interpreted, but unfortu-
nately Federal Agencies for 40 years
have been interpreting it another way.
So I am going to talk a little bit about
that.
I will begin by talking about John
Sturgeon and this battle he waged. Lit-
erally, they are going to make a movie
out of this someday. Trust me. This is
an epic—an American classic—12-year
legal battle that he waged so he could
go hunt a moose off the Nation River,
a river in Alaska, and the Feds were
saying he couldn’t. So he fought and he
fought, and he went to the Supreme
Court not once but twice. So are we
ready? This is one epic story that,
again, I guarantee you they are going
to make a movie out of someday.
So let me begin by talking about
John Sturgeon, the 74-year-old man
right there and what brought him to
Alaska. Well, he is from Minnesota,
originally and, like so many Alaskans,
soon-to-be Alaskans—people watching,
we want you to come up and visit, by
the way. We want you to come up and
live there. He felt the pull of Alaska
very early in life.
John says he remembers dreaming
about Alaska as a child. When he was
graduating from high school, he ap-
plied for a few jobs as a hunting and
fishing guide, but like many patriotic
Americans—actually, many of my fel-
low Alaskans—he joined the military
instead. My State has more veterans
per capita than any State in the coun-
try. After he finished two tours in
Vietnam in the Navy—so we are talk-
ing a real heroic guy here—he formed a
plan. He was going to go to college, get
a degree in forestry, and then head
north to Alaska. That is what he did.
He stuck with the plan.
As soon as he finished his last exam
in college, he put it on the professor’s
desk, and without even getting his di-
ploma, he jumped into his car and
drove all the way out to Alaska. He
didn’t even wait for graduation.
So, initially, he moved to Wrangell in
Southeast Alaska, and then he became
director of the division of forestry for
the State of Alaska—a great job, a
really important job. It was a position
he held until 1986, and then he formed
his own timber company, which he
runs today with his son.
Now, throughout all this time, John
Sturgeon, like many Alaskans, loved to
get out to see our great outdoors, to
hunt, to fish. There was a particular
area in the interior part of Alaska that
he discovered that was particularly
good for moose hunting. For those of
you who have been up to Alaska or
haven’t, we have very large moose, and
we have a lot of them, a lot of moose.
To get to this area, however, he had
to cross a river—the Nation River,
within the Yukon-Charley National
Preserve, which is a preserve that was
actually created by Congress. I am
going to get to that. The Nation River,
in a lot of areas, is very shallow. It is
very shallow, so the best way to tra-
verse the Nation River is via hover-
craft. You are looking at John Stur-
geon’s hovercraft right there.
It was 2007, and John was in his
hovercraft when the steering cable
broke, and he and two friends lugged
the hovercraft to a sandbar to fix the
cable—just like this. This is the sand-
bar right here at the Nation River.
Three park rangers then showed up.
We love our park rangers up in Alaska,
but we also have a little more skep-
ticism than most States about Federal
agencies saying they can control what
we can and can’t do. John says that
they were very cordial, asking all sorts
of questions about hunting in the area.
He said: I just thought they were in-
terested in the hunting. Then one of
them pulled out a thick rule book.
Uh-oh. They found and pointed to a
section in the rule book in which
hovercrafts aren’t allowed in Federal
parks or preserves. They told him they
were going to cite him for violating
this Federal regulation if he didn’t
move his hovercraft.
I talked earlier about this big law, a
giant law that passed in 1980. Most
Alaskans didn’t want it passed.
Think about this. Unfortunately, this
happens a fair amount to my State.
There are laws that come from the
Federal Government that we don’t
want; yet Senators and Congressmen
pass them anyway and tell Alaskans
how to live their lives. That is what
ANILCA did. It is a huge law.
Of course, back then, our Senators
fought for provisions that protected
Alaskans’ interests, even though they
didn’t really like the law. I will talk a
little later about what that law did.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.039 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2264 April 4, 2019
John Sturgeon knew ANILCA specifi-
cally said that in Alaska—ANILCA is
only about Alaska—navigable waters
and submerged lands within a park or
reserve were governed by State laws
and regulations, not Federal laws and
Federal regulations. It gets a little
complicated, but Senators like Ted
Stevens and Congressman YOUNG
fought this bill. They said: Look, if you
are going to pass it, you have to make
sure things are in there to protect our
citizens.
So John Sturgeon looked at these
park rangers and said: Look, I am on
State land and State water. You can’t
cite me. You shouldn’t even be on these
lands.
They said that it didn’t matter, that
they still had the authority, just as
they had the authority to ban
hovercrafts on all parks and preserves
across the country, and they showed
him this regulation book.
John Sturgeon thought they were
wrong, but he moved his hovercraft
anyway without getting cited. But this
issue still really gnawed him. If you
are being told by a Federal official to
do something and you think it is
wrong—well, he thought it was time to
fight it.
John had personally seen when
ANILCA passed—and a lot of people
predicted it—this huge bill that gave so
much of Alaska away to the Federal
Government. Little by little, Federal
agencies and Federal officials started
telling Alaskans: Hey, you can’t do
this. You can’t do that. We have au-
thority over you on this.
It was this creeping maneuver, which
we thought was ignoring provisions of
ANILCA and treating the public lands
in Alaska as if they were in the lower
48, but they are different. Most people
who have been impacted over the years
by this overreach of the Federal Gov-
ernment, quietly but aggressively tell-
ing Alaskans what they can and can’t
do according to the law, couldn’t do
anything about it. Going against the
Federal Government—a lawsuit, for ex-
ample—is time-consuming. It is expen-
sive. As John said, ‘‘You just can’t
fight the beast.’’ So most went away,
and the Federal power kept creeping,
creeping, and creeping.
After consulting with some lawyers
about 12 years ago, John Sturgeon de-
cided, you know what, I am going to
fight this. I am going to fight it.
So guess what. He did it. He filed a
suit. He lost in district court. He lost
in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit. Trust me, I am going to
talk about that court of appeals,
which, unfortunately, has jurisdiction
over 40 percent of the entire country
and one in five Americans. They very
frequently get the cases wrong. This is
another great example of their com-
pletely blowing it.
It went to the U.S. Supreme Court
not once but, as I said, twice. We just
got the second case last week, and,
boy, was it a big decision for Alaska.
That was 12 years ago. He has been
fighting this for 12 years. Guess how
much it cost John Sturgeon to do this;
guess why people don’t do this. It took
$1.2 million in legal fees to vindicate
the rights of the State of Alaska and
his fellow Alaskans. Just for that rea-
son, he should be Alaskan of the Week.
The final, unanimous decision by the
Supreme Court that came down is a
historic—historic—decision for the
State of Alaska in favor of John Stur-
geon and completely against the Park
Service and the Federal Government’s
abuse of power.
This decision is celebrated across the
great State of Alaska, and it also
upheld a very important subsistence
provision for Alaska Natives as well.
Every argument that the Park Serv-
ice made in holding up its aggressive
use of its authority over John Stur-
geon ‘‘ran aground,’’ in Justice Kagan’s
words. She was the author of this very
important decision last week.
Let’s talk a little bit about ANILCA
and Justice Kagan’s decision. By the
way, it was a 9-to-0 decision. We always
hear about the Supreme Court being di-
vided. It was 9-zip. This is the second
time this went in front of the Ninth
Circuit, and the U.S. Supreme Court
said: This is not hard, Ninth Circuit
and Federal agents.
It was 9 to 0 in favor of John Stur-
geon and the great State of Alaska.
As I mentioned, ANILCA passed here
in 1980. It is a huge bill, several hun-
dred pages. Few—even the experts—
have actually read the text of ANILCA
to understand why the provisions in it
are so important. But to their credit,
the members of the U.S. Supreme
Court clearly read this statute.
As I mentioned, the decision written
by Justice Kagan will serve as a guide
on how lands are to be regulated by the
Federal Government in Alaska accord-
ing to Federal law.
In the decision, Justice Kagan begins
with some history. By the way, I high-
ly recommend that all of my fellow
Alaskans read the decision. Pages, you
guys should read it too. Anyone watch-
ing who cares about Alaska should read
this decision. It is quite a big one.
Justice Kagan goes through great
pains to try to explain a very com-
plicated topic and writes in very plain
language. It is quite a good opinion.
She begins by talking about some Alas-
kan history.
The Federal Government, as most
know, bought Alaska from Russia in
1867—365 million acres of land. That is
well over the size of Texas.
Sorry, Senator CRUZ and Senator
CORNYN. I know you guys like to talk
about the size of Texas, but we are
way, way bigger.
For the first 90 years, all of the land
was owned and controlled by the Fed-
eral Government, which completely ne-
glected the land and the people in it,
who were mostly Alaska Natives.
Justice Kagan wrote in her opinion:
‘‘By the 1950s, Alaskans hankered for
both statehood and land—and Congress
decided to give them both.’’
Along with statehood came 103 mil-
lion acres for the State of Alaska to
manage in order to create a tax base.
The Statehood Act also gave Alaska
‘‘title to an ownership of the lands be-
neath the navigable waters,’’ such as
the Nation River, which is where John
Sturgeon was hunting. But statehood
didn’t resolve all of the land disputes
at all.
The Alaska Native people rightfully
demanded jurisdiction over the lands
that had been their ancestral lands and
that they had lived on for thousands of
years. So in 1971, Congress, this body,
passed the Alaska Native Claims Set-
tlement Act, which resulted in the for-
mation of Alaska Native corporations
that were able to choose up to 40 mil-
lion acres of land for the Alaska Native
people. That is roughly the size of
Pennsylvania.
More land claims and disputes came
about, given the large size of Alaska
and given the different land holdings.
All of this takes us to the very large
statute, ANILCA, which passed here in
1980, which was at the heart of the law-
suit that we just heard about and that
the Supreme Court ruled on last week.
In 1980, after a very long and conten-
tious battle—one that resulted in pro-
tests all across Alaska, which, as Jus-
tice Kagan noted in her opinion, in-
volved a modern-day Paul Revere gal-
loping through crowds in Alaska,
shouting ‘‘The Feds are coming! The
Feds are coming!’’—104 million acres of
land were set aside by Congress for
preservation in Alaska. Think about
that.
I say to the Presiding Officer, you are
from the great State of Indiana. If the
Federal Government, over your objec-
tion, came and said, ‘‘We are going to
take a huge chunk of Indiana, and we
are going to keep it and preserve it,’’
you probably wouldn’t have voted for
that.
Our Senators didn’t like this, but the
Congress overruled them. That happens
sometimes when your State is so big. It
is something we still have to focus on—
when people focus on my State and
want to lock it up.
So here is what they did: 104 million
acres were set aside for preservation.
Ten new national parks, monuments,
and preserves were created, and three
existing ones were expanded. These
areas were called conservation units. It
is essentially a national park. All of
this did not come without challenges
because, unlike in the lower 48, these
new areas—103 million acres—that is
bigger than California. It is huge.
These new preservation units, con-
servation units, had within them pri-
vate land, Native land, and State land.
So it was very complicated.
These are what are called inholdings
in Alaska—a patchwork of inholdings.
Our Senators did a great job of saying
that the inholdings can’t be regulated
by the Federal agencies. They are pri-
vate lands; they are Alaska Native cor-
poration lands; they are State lands, so
the Feds can’t regulate them. We be-
lieve that was in ANILCA. That was
part of the deal, part of the settlement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.044 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2265
April 4, 2019
Part of the reason is that, as one
writer put it, while many Americans
come to Alaska to view our parks—and
we are glad they do; they are beau-
tiful—‘‘many Alaskans think of those
same parks as some combination of
home, office, grocery store, and source
of renewal. They have known these
lands intimately, from one year to per-
haps ten thousand years.’’
As Justice Kagan also noted in her
opinion:
[R]ivers function as the roads of Alaska.
. . . Over three-quarters of Alaska’s 300 com-
munities live in regions unconnected to the
State’s road system.
Let me repeat that. We have over 200
communities, villages, that are not
connected by roads. We need a lot more
infrastructure in Alaska. So you either
have to get there by taking an airplane
or, in the winter, a snow machine or a
boat on a river, if the village is on a
river.
I am still quoting Justice Kagan. She
says: ‘‘Residents of these areas include
many of Alaska’s poorest citizens, who
rely on rivers for access to necessities
like food and fuel.’’
You are starting to get the picture.
Our Senators fought to make sure the
Federal Government couldn’t regulate
these areas because we need them for
economic development, to get food, to
hunt, and to get fuel. Slowly but sure-
ly, the Federal Government, whether
Democrats or Republicans, started to
say: No, no, no. We control this.
We are going to tell you Alaskans
how to live your life, despite the fact
that we thought ANILCA said they
can’t.
Congress, as I mentioned, particu-
larly Alaska’s delegation, understood
that this was something they had to
balance. Yes, we need to protect the
lands, but at the same time—and again
I am quoting Justice Kagan here—the
law had to ‘‘provide adequate oppor-
tunity for satisfaction of the economic
and social needs of the State of Alaska
and its people.’’
You can’t just go to a State, over the
objections of their own representatives
in Congress, and say: We are going to
nationalize all of this, and all of you
citizens who live there, we are going to
tell you what to do with your lives.
Now, this body needs to understand
this because sometimes, even today, we
still have issues where some of my col-
leagues want to lock up and shut down
the great State of Alaska, and they
don’t take into account the people I ac-
tually represent. It is a frustration, but
it is something we will continue to
guard against.
Well, our Senators did a good job of
guarding us in the ANILCA Act, but
the Federal Government kind of ig-
nored a lot of what was in there, and
certainly the Ninth Circuit U.S. Court
of Appeals did.
So, as Justice Kagan put it, if you
continue to read her opinion, she says:
‘‘So if . . . you see some tension within
the [ANILCA] statute, you are not mis-
taken [when you see that tension]: It
arises from Congress’s twofold ambi-
tions [when they passed ANILCA in
1980].’’
She described it as ‘‘a grand bar-
gain,’’ the ‘‘Janus-faced nature in its
statement of purpose, reflecting the
century-long struggle over federal reg-
ulation of Alaska’s resources.’’
That is her quote. Here is how it was
supposed to work, the twofold ambi-
tions. It was supposed to balance the
ideas of preservation of Alaska’s lands
with also allowing the State, not the
Federal Government, to regulate those
inholdings I am talking about—private
land, State of Alaska land, and Native
corporation land. That is what this law
was reflected to do when it was writ-
ten.
It can be confusing. It is a very big
law, particularly for Federal employees
who see it as their job to preserve and
keep people out of these parks and not
to—remember, you have Alaskans who
have lived there for thousands of years
or who had private property in there
prior to this law being passed.
As Justice Kagan wrote—and here is
a quote from her, which is a really im-
portant one for Alaska. She said:
If [John] Sturgeon lived in any other
State, his [law]suit would not have a prayer
of success. . . . Except that Sturgeon lives in
Alaska. And as we—
The Supreme Court—
have said before, ‘‘Alaska is often the excep-
tion, not the rule’’ [when it comes to these
kind of Federal laws in Federal parks].
Alaska, as the Justices say over and
over in this monumental decision
brought down from the Supreme Court
last week, is different. John Sturgeon
understood this. The Ninth Circuit U.S.
Court of Appeals, which unfortunately
handles all of the Federal appeals from
Alaska district courts, does not under-
stand this. They haven’t for decades,
unfortunately.
The first time John Sturgeon took
this case up through the courts, he
went to the Ninth Circuit, and they, of
course, said: No. Sorry. Federal agents
win. John Sturgeon, you lose. You now
have the right to move your hovercraft
on the Nation River because the Fed-
eral officials have all the power over
that river.
The U.S. Supreme Court—this is
about 3 years ago—actually said: No,
we don’t think that is the case. We are
going to reverse this and send it back
to the Ninth Circuit.
So what did the Ninth Circuit do?
They held again that Sturgeon is going
to lose. The Federal Government wins.
They just came up with a different rea-
son. I read that Ninth Circuit opinion.
It was one of the most remarkable
opinions I have ever read of a court of
appeals—Federal court of appeals ig-
noring the U.S. Supreme Court. It is
breathtaking how they just ignored the
U.S. Supreme Court in their second
opinion.
Now, sometimes the U.S. Supreme
Court doesn’t like to be ignored. I was
a law clerk on the Ninth Circuit. I have
seen them do that a lot. What did the
Supreme Court do? They essentially
said: You can’t ignore us. So they took
it again. They took it again, and they
came out with a 9-to-0 opinion. If you
are a Ninth Circuit judge, you have to
be embarrassed—embarrassed—because
the U.S. Supreme Court took you to
task. They essentially said you cannot
have Federal agents in Alaska who can
do whatever they believe is in their
power with ignoring ANILCA. ANILCA
says: ‘‘Alaskans have to be able to reg-
ulate, to use, and to control areas
within these Federal preserves if they
are inholdings, private land, State
land, or Alaska Native corporation
land.’’ This is something the Federal
agencies have ignored and certainly
the Ninth Circuit has ignored.
One of our jobs here, as you know, is
to confirm judges who have been nomi-
nated. Any Ninth Circuit judge who is
now coming before this body for con-
firmation, the first thing I am going to
do is hand them this Sturgeon opinion
from the U.S. Supreme Court last week
and say: Read this. Read it and under-
stand it because the Ninth Circuit has
been getting the issues of Federal
power over Alaska wrong for decades,
and this U.S. Supreme Court decision
finally sets them right—finally sets
them right. This is a monumentally
important decision for my State, and I
believe other States, but certainly for
my State.
So after a 12-year battle and after
spending $1.2 million on legal fees, our
Alaskan of the Week for today, John
Sturgeon, right there in front of the
U.S. Supreme Court, made history—
made history. A moose hunter said: I
am not going to be pushed around by
the Federal Government. I think I have
the right to do this, and I think my
State, not the Feds, controls this area
of Alaska.
He was right. Despite the Federal dis-
trict court telling him he was wrong
and despite the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Ninth Circuit telling him he
was wrong twice, he was right. He sim-
ply wouldn’t give up. Because of John
Sturgeon, Alaskans will have firm
ground to fight on the legal subject
that comes before the courts in my
State all the time in the Ninth Circuit,
which is how much power the Federal
Government has to control Alaskans,
our economy, and our future.
As Justice Kagan wrote, in those
areas, like the Nation River, [ANILCA]
‘‘makes clear, Park Service adminis-
tration does not replace local [and
State] control.’’ This body said that.
Unfortunately, Federal agencies have
ignored it and so has the Ninth Circuit,
but now the Supreme Court has spoken
and has spoken very, very definitively.
‘‘It makes you feel patriotic,’’ John
Sturgeon said recently when we con-
tacted him. ‘‘One little guy from Alas-
ka—a moose hunter—can be heard by
the U.S. Supreme Court [two times].
That just blew me away.’’
It does make you feel patriotic. It
does make you feel that if one man
thinks he is right, he can fight and win
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.045 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2266 April 4, 2019
in the courts of the United States, al-
though it took 12 years and over a mil-
lion dollars—and again, he didn’t just
win. He won 9 to 0—9 to 0. That is as
good as it gets in the U.S. Supreme
Court.
In Alaska, this man is a hero. He
doesn’t accept the label. He is too mod-
est. He does acknowledge he wouldn’t
have gotten as far as he did without
the help of some excellent attorneys,
all of whom I know and have had the
opportunity in my life to work with
and become friends with: Matt Findley,
Ruth Botstein, and Jon Katchen, who
wrote an amicus brief in both hearings,
including one for the congressional del-
egation that the U.S. Supreme Court
used a lot. He also had an amazing out-
pouring of support from the commu-
nity all over the State. People across
the State of Alaska, Democrats and
Republicans—it didn’t matter—they
knew what he was fighting for. He also
had an amazing of support from the
community, groups and individuals
who stood with him throughout the
years and who, all told, raised all but
$100,000 to pay for the legal bills.
Justice Kagan said this decision
means ‘‘Sturgeon can again rev up his
hovercraft in search of moose.’’ That is
Justice Kagan in her opinion, and he is
planning to do just that. He is ready.
He has been working on the hovercraft.
Again, there it is in the picture. It was
in his garage over the past few months.
It has a new engine, and he recently
fired it up just like Justice Kagan told
him to do, and he says it is running
fine. He can’t wait to get out and
moose hunt.
But this story, as you probably have
gathered, is bigger than one man and
his moose. ‘‘Alaska is different,’’ John
said, and, by the way, that is what the
Supreme Court was saying throughout
the entire opinion. ‘‘It’s special. And
it’s meant to be that way and should be
treated differently by the law. The peo-
ple of Alaska truly won’’ in this very
important case.
Thank you, John Sturgeon, for never
giving up. Thank you for your hard
work and your determination, and
thank you for being our Alaskan of the
Week. I also want to give a big thanks
to our nine Justices on the Supreme
Court. Justice Kagan, who wrote an ex-
ceptional decision, shows that she and
the other eight Justices on the Court
understand that Alaska is different, as
they say probably five times in their
opinion. We can love our lands, we can
protect them fiercely, and we can live
and play and earn a living on them as
well. So for her very well-reasoned de-
cision, maybe she should be an hon-
orary Alaskan of the Week as well. I
don’t think Justice Kagan is from
Alaska, though, but for today, all our
thanks and praise and gratitude goes
to John Sturgeon for really an incred-
ible legal battle that is going to go
down in the history books as a super-
duper important day for Alaska.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SCOTT of Florida). The majority leader.
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session for a
period of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING FRANK TREADWAY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today I would like to remember the life
of Frank Treadway, who passed away
earlier this year at the age of 96.
Born in Bell County in southeast
Kentucky, Frank was one of 12 chil-
dren, and much of his childhood was
spent helping on the family farm in
Noetown. During his teenage years,
Frank worked at the Middlesboro
Country Club as a golf caddy, devel-
oping a lifelong love for the game. Like
so many members of the Greatest Gen-
eration, Frank proudly answered his
Nation’s call to service, and he enlisted
in the U.S. Navy during World War II.
Aboard the U.S.S. Kyne, Frank served
throughout the Pacific. For their meri-
torious participation in combat, the
crew received multiple commenda-
tions.
After Frank returned home from the
war, Frank married the love of his life,
Inez. They spent 70 years together and
raised seven children. Farming re-
mained an enduring passion, and one of
Frank’s proudest accomplishments was
the founding and continued success of
his local farm market, Treadway Gar-
dens. Throughout his life, Frank re-
mained loyal to his childhood home
and always held the people of southeast
Kentucky in high regard. Elaine and I
commend this hero for his service, and
we send our condolences to Inez, their
children, family, and friends.
f
LIFESPAN RESPITE CARE
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, today I
wish to reaffirm my partnership on the
Lifespan Respite Care Reauthorization
Act of 2019 with my good friend, Sen-
ator TAMMY BALDWIN, who I would like
the record to reflect is an original lead
cosponsor of S. 995. As the long-
standing coauthors of this legislation,
Senator BALDWIN and I have been
working together to provide the nec-
essary resources to State respite agen-
cies to ensure that caregivers have ac-
cess to the respite services they need.
Following the introduction of the legis-
lation earlier this week, we heard testi-
mony in the Senate Special Committee
on Aging that reaffirmed the impor-
tance of respite care for the millions of
caregivers who are caring for loved
ones with Alzheimer’s and other de-
mentias. I look forward to continuing
to work with Senator BALDWIN to ad-
vance S. 995.
RECOGNIZING THE MASSACRE RIM
WILDERNESS STUDY AREA
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
I come forward today to recognize the
Massacre Rim Wilderness Study Area’s
designation as an International Dark
Sky Sanctuary. Located 150 miles
north of Reno in Washoe County, NV,
Massacre Rim Wilderness Study Area
is a region with rolling hills, buttes,
plateaus, and narrow canyons, covered
in sagebrush and junipers. Massacre
Rim is a natural, undisturbed, and iso-
lated environment that offers visitors
rare opportunities to enjoy scenic vis-
tas of up to 60 miles, as well as solitude
away from development and distrac-
tion. Thanks to the location’s remote-
ness, Massacre Rim’s night views are
completely uninhibited by light pollu-
tion. These unique qualities allow for
nearly unparalleled stargazing, which
has attracted visitors from around the
world.
On March 30, 2019, the International
Dark-Sky Association designated the
Massacre Rim Wilderness Study Area
as an International Dark Sky Sanc-
tuary, only the fourth location to
achieve this distinction in the United
States and the seventh in the entire
world. The International Dark-Sky As-
sociation deemed Massacre Rim worthy
of this honor due to its qualifications
as ‘‘land that has an exceptional or dis-
tinguished quality of starry nights and
a nocturnal environment that is pro-
tected for its scientific, natural, or
educational value, its cultural heritage
and/or public enjoyment.’’
For most of human history, a night
sky teeming with stars and shooting
comets was a regular occurrence for
our ancestors. Prior to the Industrial
Revolution, one could look to the sky
and find awe-inspiring wonder, in-
trigue, and entertainment. For most of
us, that is no longer the case. Accord-
ing to a 2016 National Geographic arti-
cle, 80 percent of Americans cannot see
the Milky Way due to light pollution.
While light pollution is a necessary and
small consequence to our growth and
development as a society, it is impera-
tive that we recognize the significant
value in our increasingly rare dark sky
places, such as Massacre Rim. Fortu-
nately, for visitors and residents of the
great State of Nevada, views of both
the Milky Way and our neighboring
galaxy, Andromeda, are available at
Massacre Rim.
Our State’s booming outdoor recre-
ation economy is a testament to the
success of our public lands and high-
lights the importance of keeping our
invaluable natural resources available
for all to utilize and enjoy. I commend
the nonprofit organization, Friends of
Nevada Wilderness, for spearheading
the Massacre Rim Wilderness Study
Area’s Dark Sky Sanctuary designa-
tion, and for continuing to educate
others about the natural wonders
available in the Silver State.
From Massacre Rim, to the Lake
Tahoe Basin, to the Ruby Mountains,
residents and visitors can attest that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04AP6.047 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2267
April 4, 2019
our public lands allow us to connect
with our collective past and preserve
our shared treasures for future genera-
tions.
f
REMEMBERING HARRIS
LLEWELLYN WOFFORD, JR.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, today I
wish to remember and pay tribute to
former Senator Harris Llewellyn
Wofford, Jr. and his life of dedicated
service to our country and the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania.
Harris lived a life of service, com-
mitted to advancing civil rights and
ending injustice. Early in his career,
Harris went to India to study non-
violence and the teachings of Gandhi.
The lessons he learned during that
time would become indispensable as
Harris got to know Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., and became involved in the
civil rights movement, helping to pass
the Civil Rights Act of 1957, the first
civil rights legislation since recon-
struction.
When John F. Kennedy was running
for President in 1960, Harris was an ad-
viser on his campaign. Days before the
election, Dr. King was unjustly impris-
oned, and Wofford urged Kennedy and
his team to call Coretta Scott King to
comfort her and demonstrate his com-
mitments to civil rights. Once Kennedy
was elected, Harris Wofford served as
Special Assistant to the President for
Civil Rights and chairman of the Sub-
cabinet Group on Civil Rights. He
urged the President and Attorney Gen-
eral Robert F. Kennedy to pursue civil
rights legislation. Wofford would join
Martin Luther King and others in the
Selma to Montgomery Civil Rights
marches in 1965 in support of voting
rights for African-Americans.
While serving in the Kennedy admin-
istration, Wofford worked with R. Sar-
gent Shriver on the creation of the
Peace Corps, eventually leaving the
White House to serve as the Peace
Corps’ special representative to Africa
and director of operations in Ethiopia,
as well as associate director. He would
also play a role in the creation of Vol-
unteers in Service to America, a do-
mestic version of the Peace Corps.
In 1991, when former Pennsylvania
Senator H. John Heinz was killed in a
plane crash, my father, Governor Rob-
ert P. Casey, turned to Harris Wofford
to fill the vacancy. Harris went on to
win a special election and served until
1994 when he narrowly lost reelection.
While in office, he worked to pass the
National and Community Service Act,
creating AmeriCorps, the Senior Corps
and Learn and Serve America. Harris
would go on to serve as the head of
AmeriCorps.
If one tried to sum up Harris
Wofford’s life in one word, it would be
service. He truly believed that through
service every individual could con-
tribute to the betterment of his or her
community, State, country, and the
world. Harris Wofford’s friend, Martin
Luther King, Jr., said ‘‘everyone can be
great, because everyone can serve.’’
Today we honor Harris Wofford’s life of
service which will continue to inspire
Americans to serve one another and
our Nation.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
RECOGNIZING THE UNIVERSITY OF
MONTANA WESTERN WOMEN’S
BASKETBALL TEAM
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
the University of Montana Western
women’s basketball team for their first
ever NAIA Division I national cham-
pionship.
The University of Montana Western
women’s basketball team won the
NAIA Division I national championship
game 75–59 over Oklahoma City Univer-
sity and finished their season with 30
wins and only 4 losses. These ladies
have done an incredible job exem-
plifying the hard work that all Mon-
tanans are known for.
The team also received several indi-
vidual awards for coaches and players.
Their head coach, Lindsay Woolley,
was awarded the NAIA Coach of the
Year. The Montana Western Bulldogs
also had the NAIA Player of the Year,
Brianna King. Ms. King set a Univer-
sity of Montana Western single-season
scoring record with 771 points.
Congratulations to the University of
Montana Western women’s basketball
team on an incredible season and a
memorable outcome as the NAIA Divi-
sion I National Champions.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO FIRST LIEUTENANT
KATIE KIENTZ
∑ Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, today I
wish to recognize and pay tribute to
United States Army 1LT Kate M.
Kientz, a proud Oklahoman who is cur-
rently serving her country in Kosovo. I
had the pleasure of meeting and speak-
ing with Lieutenant Kientz back in
February during a congressional dele-
gation trip to the region, and I was
proud to see a strong Oklahoman such
as herself representing our State and
our country so well. I would like to ex-
press my sincere thanks for the excel-
lent work of Lieutenant Kientz in ad-
vancing the mission in Europe. Her
dedication to duty is instrumental to
prepare ready forces, ensure strategic
access, deter conflict, enable the NATO
alliance, strengthen partnerships, and
counter transnational threats in order
to protect and defend the United
States.
Lieutenant Kientz was raised in my
home city of Tulsa, OK, and attended
Bishop Kelley High School. She contin-
ued her education at the University of
Oklahoma and graduated in 2017 with a
degree in political science and letters.
Following graduation, she interned at
the Oklahoma House of Representa-
tives and participated in Reserve Offi-
cers’ Training Corps exchanges in Bei-
jing and Slovakia. These experiences
were the foundation of a strong back-
ground that prepared her for a success-
ful career in military intelligence.
As of January 2018, Lieutenant
Kientz has been the chemical officer
and S4 in charge of logistics in the 1st
Squadron, 89th Cavalry Regiment. She
arrived in Kosovo in October of 2018
and plans to then finish her time as a
lieutenant at Fort Drum before
transitioning into military intel-
ligence.
Meeting Lieutenant Kientz in Kosovo
had an impact on me and reassured me
that the next generation is in great
hands with leaders such as herself. On
behalf of Congress and the United
States of America, I thank 1LT Kate
M. Kientz and her family for their com-
mitment, sacrifice, and contribution to
our great Nation. I join my colleagues
in wishing her future success in all as-
pects of life as she continues to serve
as a role model for service, sacrifice,
and leadership.∑
f
REMEMBERING LILLA
WEINBERGER
∑ Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, I wish
today to recognize the life of Lilla
Weinberger, a beloved daughter, friend,
and activist who devoted her life to the
causes of democracy and the literary
arts.
Lilla Weinberger was born in 1941 in
Pasadena, CA. She became involved in
the women’s movement while at
CalArts. After college, she worked at
the Library of Congress and carried out
research and worked on speeches for
President Lyndon Johnson’s landmark
education legislation. She moved to
Lenox, MA, and there, she was integral
to the building of the first-ever domes-
tic violence shelter in the Common-
wealth.
In 1991, Lilla moved to Sonoma, CA,
and founded Readers’ Books, which be-
came a cherished institution. She be-
came deeply involved in the inde-
pendent bookstore community and
served on the board of the Northern
California Independent Booksellers As-
sociation from 1997–2003.
Lila was a strong believer in political
participation and grassroots democ-
racy. She was an active member of the
Barack Obama Presidential campaigns
in 2008 and 2012. She became the north-
ern California regional head of the
Obama campaign in 2012 and later be-
came Obama’s field director in Mary-
land. In 2013, Lilla returned to Massa-
chusetts and became the regional field
director for my first U.S. Senate cam-
paign. She was our warrior in western
Massachusetts and became an indispen-
sable member of our campaign oper-
ation.
I am honored to commemorate the
remarkable achievements of Lilla
Weinberger, a distinguished leader, our
dear friend, and a truly great Amer-
ican.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.014 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2268 April 4, 2019
TRIBUTE TO CAPTAIN JOHN
‘‘JACK’’ FREDERICK WILSON
∑ Mr. ROMNEY. Mr. President, it is
my honor to pay tribute to Captain
John ‘‘Jack’’ Frederick Wilson, who
celebrated his 100th birthday this past
Tuesday, April 2.
Born on April 2, 1919, and raised in
Park City, UT, Jack is one of only a
small handful of pilots trained at
Brigham Young University. He joined
the Army Air Corps on December 11,
1941, just 4 days after the Japanese sur-
prise attack on Pearl Harbor.
After training in the B–24 Liberator
bomber, he was made a pilot in the 90th
Bombing Group in the Fifth Air Force
of the Army Air Corps and was de-
ployed to New Guinea. He and his crew
were eventually assigned to reconnais-
sance missions in the North China Sea
tracking the Japanese fleet, and his B–
24 was stripped of all bombs, machine-
guns, and defensive measures to be re-
placed with extra fuel tanks. Jack said
of that time, ‘‘My career as a B–24 pilot
basically consisted of long periods of
boredom punctuated with moments of
terror.’’
He was a member of the Jolly Rogers
and has carried his membership card
his entire life, which says, ‘‘Having
been assigned to the best damned
heavy bomb group, and having paid his
dues, Captain Jack F. Wilson is hereby
considered a member in good standing
of the Jolly Rogers.’’
As a typhoon threatened the island
airstrip where he was stationed, locals
from Okinawa showed him a cave that
he and his B–24 crew sheltered in, sav-
ing their lives. Despite popular opinion
at the time, Jack never demonized the
Japanese people. He believed ‘‘there
are good people everywhere’’ and
taught his children and grandchildren
the same.
After the war, Jack used his flying
skills to help locate wildfires and pio-
neered the ‘‘interagency’’ concept, es-
tablishing the National Interagency
Fire Center in Boise, ID. The main
headquarters building bears his name.
In honor of a native Utahn and one of
the last remaining B–24 pilots from
World War II, the U.S. Congress ex-
tends warm greetings to Mr. Wilson on
April 2, 2019, his 100th birthday. We
commend him for his life of service and
his valor in defense of his country.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SAMUEL S. LIONEL
∑ Ms. ROSEN. Mr. President, it is my
distinct honor to recognize Samuel S.
Lionel, who is celebrating his 100th
birthday. Considered the ‘‘Dean’’ of the
Nevada Bar, Sam’s defense of Nevada
values stands as a strong reminder of
the tremendous work he has done for
our State.
For decades, Sam has represented
one of the largest law firms in Nevada,
fighting for critically important issues
such as our thriving tourism industry
and defending Nevada’s unique western
heritage. The dedication he has placed
into his practice has strengthened our
State’s economy and helped shape the
Las Vegas Valley that we know and
love today. In fact, it was Sam who
played a key role in the conception and
development of many of the hotels and
casinos on the Las Vegas Strip, setting
the stage for Nevada’s unprecedented
growth and its booming entertainment
scene.
Sam is known for his philanthropic
heart. He remains particularly active
in Jewish philanthropy, and we share a
long history of working together in our
synagogue, Congregation Ner Tamid.
Sam has also been a central benefactor
of the University of Nevada, Las Vegas,
endowing the namesake Samuel S. Lio-
nel Professor of Intellectual Property
Law position at the William S. Boyd
School of Law in 2016. I know firsthand
the wonderful leader Sam is, and his
philanthropic work has distinguished
him in the Jewish and legal commu-
nities not only in Nevada but also
throughout the United States. Sam’s
name is and will always remain syn-
onymous with his professional and
philanthropic dedication to the Silver
State.
Happy birthday to Sam, a loving hus-
band, father, grandfather, great-grand-
father, servant leader, and loyal
friend.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO WHIT ARMSTRONG
∑ Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, today I
wish to honor the retirement of Whit
Armstrong, a native of Montgomery,
AL, from the Alabama Power Company
board of directors, effective on April 26,
2019. Whit is an acknowledged leader in
the financial and investment arena
with over 30 years in the banking in-
dustry, including service as a member
of the Alabama State Banking Board.
He has provided decades of service to
improve the quality of life in his com-
munity and across the State of Ala-
bama with numerous civic, economic
development, educational, and business
organizations.
Mr. Whit Armstrong previously
served as president, chief executive of-
ficer, and chairman of the board of The
Citizens Bank in Enterprise, AL, and of
its holding company, Enterprise Cap-
ital Corporation, Inc. He currently
serves as managing member of Creeke
Capital Investments, LLC, also located
in Enterprise, AL.
Whit has earned many recognitions
for his contributions, among them a
Silver Beaver Award for Outstanding
Service to the Boy Scouts and the 1975
Alabama Jaycees’ Outstanding Young
Man of Alabama Award. He earned his
bachelor’s degree and master of science
in finance with a focus in banking from
the University of Alabama.
At home in the Wiregrass, Whit is
married to Dr. Rebecca Brown Arm-
strong. They have a son, Whit Junior,
and four grandchildren, Whit III, Char-
lotte, James, and Katrina Armstrong.
An engaged resident in his community,
Whit is an active member of First
United Methodist Church of Enterprise.
His extensive experience in business
and civic life, along with his seasoned
judgment and knowledge of the Ala-
bama Power Company, have provided
great value to Alabama Power’s board
of directors.
What is truly remarkable are Whit
Armstrong’s many accomplishments
and contributions to the State. I am
proud to take this time to recognize
him for his service on the Alabama
Power Company board of directors,
which has benefitted the customers of
Alabama Power, the people of Ala-
bama, and the State. His achievements
and dedication to advancing the indus-
try have not gone unnoticed. I join
Whit Armstrong’s friends, family, and
colleagues in wishing him the best of
luck as he transitions into a new chap-
ter of his life, and I thank him for his
commitment to Alabama.∑
f
150TH ANNIVERSARY OF SIGMA NU
FRATERNITY
∑ Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I am
pleased to advise the Senate of the
150th anniversary of Sigma Nu Frater-
nity, a principles-based men’s fraternal
organization with more than 160 chap-
ters on college campuses in the United
States, approximately 12,000 current
collegiate members, and more than
250,000 initiates in its history. This
year, Sigma Nu celebrates the 150th an-
niversary of its public founding on Jan-
uary 1, 1869, at the Virginia Military
Institute in Lexington, VA. Cadets
James Frank Hopkins, James
McIlvaine Riley, and Greenfield
Quarles joined together to form Sigma
Nu as a brotherhood committed to the
principles of love, honor, and truth and
in firm opposition to hazing. Sigma Nu
Fraternity remains the only men’s col-
lege fraternity founded in direct oppo-
sition to hazing. Its history and its
mission to develop ethical leaders for
today’s society are worthy of the high-
est esteem.
Originally founded as the Legion of
Honor, Sigma Nu’s central founding
value is honor, and the concept that a
man’s character and conduct should al-
ways be governed by a high sense of
honor guides all its work. This value is
as relevant 150 years later as it was
then.
For 150 years, members of Sigma Nu
have led in their respective commu-
nities, professions, and families. From
NASA to the Pentagon, from the arts
to the sciences, and from business to
public service, there are few facets of
American life and history in which a
Sigma Nu initiate has not made his
mark.
When this Nation has called upon its
citizen-soldiers, Sigma Nu initiates
have answered that call. They have
fought and died in every major conflict
since the Civil War. Its members are
veterans of every branch of the Armed
Forces, including two Medal of Honor
recipients. Sigma Nus have understood
the price of freedom and been willing
to make the ultimate sacrifice for it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.018 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2269
April 4, 2019
The 12,000 collegiate members on
campuses across the country today
serve their communities in student
government, interfraternity councils,
athletic teams, and other student orga-
nizations. Last year, these young fu-
ture leaders of our Nation performed
over 375,000 hours of community serv-
ice and raised over $2 million for phil-
anthropic causes.
Whether it is through its award-win-
ning ethical leadership development
program, LEAD, or through the
mentorship of more than 2,000 volun-
teer advisors, Sigma Nu continues to
be at the forefront of developing the
minds, hearts, and character of its ini-
tiates, inspiring them to excel with the
timeless value of honor.
Today, in its 150th year, Sigma Nu
Fraternity calls upon its initiates to
renew that legacy, to reflect on the
principles of its founders, and to com-
mit to a strong future for this es-
teemed brotherhood. As a proud ini-
tiate of Sigma Nu Fraternity, I would
like to congratulate the fraternity on
achieving 150 years of love, honor, and
truth and to wish it many more years
to come.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Ridgway, one of his
secretaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and a withdrawal which were referred
to the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
At 11:03 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mrs. Cole, one of its reading clerks, an-
nounced that the Speaker has signed
the following enrolled bill:
H.R. 276. An act to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognizing In-
spiring School Employees (RISE) Award Pro-
gram recognizing excellence exhibited by
classified school employees providing serv-
ices to students in prekindergarten through
high school.
The enrolled bill was subsequently
signed by the President pro tempore
(Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment and
with an amended preamble:
S. Res. 23. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Countering International
Parental Child Abduction Month and ex-
pressing the sense of the Senate that Con-
gress should raise awareness of the harm
caused by international parental child ab-
duction.
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment and
with a preamble:
S. Res. 27. A resolution calling for a
prompt multinational freedom of navigation
operation in the Black Sea and urging the
cancellation of the Nord Stream 2 pipeline.
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment and
with an amended preamble:
S. Res. 35. A resolution supporting demo-
cratic principles and standards in Bolivia
and throughout Latin America.
S. Res. 67. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate on the importance and
vitality of the United States alliances with
Japan and the Republic of Korea, and our
trilateral cooperation in the pursuit of
shared interests.
By Mr. RISCH, from the Committee on
Foreign Relations, without amendment and
with a preamble:
S. Res. 95. A resolution recognizing the
198th anniversary of the independence of
Greece and celebrating democracy in Greece
and the United States.
S. Res. 96. A resolution commending the
Government of Canada for upholding the rule
of law and expressing concern over actions
by the Government of the People’s Republic
of China in response to a request from the
United States Government to the Govern-
ment of Canada for the extradition of a
Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. executive.
f
EXECUTIVE REPORTS OF
COMMITTEES
The following executive reports of
nominations were submitted:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI for the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
*Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant
Secretary of the Interior.
*Aimee Kathryn Jorjani, of Wisconsin, to
be Chairman of the Advisory Council on His-
toric Preservation for a term expiring Janu-
ary 19, 2021.
*David Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be Sec-
retary of the Interior.
By Mr. GRAHAM for the Committee on the
Judiciary.
Daniel P. Collins, of California, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
Kenneth Kiyul Lee, of California, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit.
James Wesley Hendrix, of Texas, to be
United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Texas.
Sean D. Jordan, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Texas.
Mark T. Pittman, of Texas, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Texas.
Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia, to be
United States Marshal for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Virginia for the term of four years.
*Nomination was reported with rec-
ommendation that it be confirmed sub-
ject to the nominee’s commitment to
respond to requests to appear and tes-
tify before any duly constituted com-
mittee of the Senate.
(Nominations without an asterisk
were reported with the recommenda-
tion that they be confirmed.)
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mr. CASEY (for himself, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABENOW, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. BROWN,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. KLO-
BUCHAR, and Mr. MERKLEY):
S. 1026. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow workers an above-
the-line deduction for union dues and ex-
penses and to allow a miscellaneous itemized
deduction for workers for all unreimbursed
expenses incurred in the trade or business of
being an employee; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Ms. BALDWIN (for herself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. MURPHY, and Ms. STABE-
NOW):
S. 1027. A bill to clarify the status of the
North Country, Ice Age, and New England
National Scenic Trails as units of the Na-
tional Park System, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. WARREN (for herself, Mr.
GARDNER, Mr. BENNET, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Mr. CRAMER, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr. PAUL, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1028. A bill to amend the Controlled Sub-
stances Act to provide for a new rule regard-
ing the application of the Act to marihuana,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN):
S. 1029. A bill to allow the use of certified
facility dogs in criminal proceedings in Fed-
eral courts, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. PAUL,
and Mr. LEE):
S. 1030. A bill to allow individuals to
choose to opt out of the Medicare part A ben-
efit; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. HAWLEY:
S. 1031. A bill to implement recommenda-
tions related to the safety of amphibious
passenger vessels, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Ms.
SMITH):
S. 1032. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify the definition of
income for purposes of determining the tax-
exempt status of certain corporations; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WHITEHOUSE (for himself, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. MENENDEZ, and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 1033. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to establish a public health in-
surance option, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mr. TESTER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
Mr. REED, Mrs. MURRAY, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. MURPHY,
Mr. SANDERS, and Mr. DURBIN):
S. 1034. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase the maximum age
for children eligible for medical care under
the CHAMPVA program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. ROUNDS (for himself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. INHOFE,
Mr. HAWLEY, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.032 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2270 April 4, 2019
RISCH, Mr. DAINES, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
Ms. ERNST, Mr. ENZI, Mr. THUNE, Mr.
MORAN, and Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina):
S. 1035. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit dismemberment
abortions, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr. KING,
Ms. SMITH, and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 1036. A bill to expand the use of open
textbooks in order to achieve savings for stu-
dents and improve textbook price informa-
tion; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself and
Ms. SMITH):
S. 1037. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to modernize provisions
relating to rural health clinics under Medi-
care; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mrs. FISCHER:
S. 1038. A bill to strengthen highway fund-
ing in the near term, to offer States addi-
tional financing tools, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. PAUL,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. LEAHY, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. SANDERS, Mr. MERKLEY,
Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. MURPHY, Mr. MAR-
KEY, Mr. SCHATZ, and Ms. HIRONO):
S. 1039. A bill to limit the use of funds for
kinetic military operations in or against
Iran; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. WYDEN, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 1040. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to identify each alien
who is serving, or has served, in the Armed
Forces of the United States on the applica-
tion of any such alien for an immigration
benefit or the placement of any such alien in
an immigration enforcement proceeding, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
MERKLEY, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 1041. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to establish a veterans
visa program to permit veterans who have
been removed from the United States to re-
turn as immigrants, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Ms.
HIRONO, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 1042. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to allow certain alien
veterans to be paroled into the United States
to receive health care furnished by the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LEE (for himself, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. RUBIO,
Mr. PERDUE, Mr. THUNE, Mr. RISCH,
Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. COTTON, Ms.
MCSALLY, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. SCOTT of
South Carolina, Mr. WICKER, Mr.
ENZI, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. BRAUN,
Mr. ROUNDS, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. HAWLEY,
Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. JOHN-
SON, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. ROMNEY, Mr.
MORAN, and Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 1043. A bill to amend the Fair Labor
Standards Act of 1938 to provide compen-
satory time for employees in the private sec-
tor; to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. BROWN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mrs. SHAHEEN, and Mr.
TOOMEY):
S. 1044. A bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to foreign traffickers of illicit opioids,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
JONES):
S. 1045. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to expand the authority of the
Secretary of Health and Human Services to
permit nurses to practice in health care fa-
cilities with critical shortages of nurses
through programs for loan repayment and
scholarships for nurses; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself,
Mr. GARDNER, Mr. JONES, Mr. JOHN-
SON, Ms. BALDWIN, and Mrs. BLACK-
BURN):
S. 1046. A bill to establish the Office of
Internet Connectivity and Growth, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Ms.
HIRONO, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 1047. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to create a dependency and in-
demnity compensation allowance for sur-
viving spouses receiving dependency and in-
demnity compensation from the Department
of Veterans Affairs, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Mr. WYDEN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. REED,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. BROWN, and Mr.
MARKEY):
S. 1048. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide for a Reducing Youth
Use of E-Cigarettes Initiative; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BENNET, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. COONS, Ms. CORTEZ
MASTO, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MENEN-
DEZ, Mr. REED, Mr. SANDERS, Ms.
STABENOW, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. WYDEN, Mr. KAINE,
Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. CARDIN, Mr. DUR-
BIN, Ms. HARRIS, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr.
MURPHY, Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. PETERS,
Ms. ROSEN, Mr. TESTER, and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 1049. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to ensure that members of the
Armed Forces and their families have access
to the contraception they need in order to
promote the health and readiness of all
members of the Armed Forces, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. CRUZ, Ms. MURKOWSKI, and
Mrs. FISCHER):
S. 1050. A bill to amend the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act to increase the ability
of a State to administer a permit program
under that Act, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. CRUZ, and Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI):
S. 1051. A bill to amend the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 to establish a program to
allow States to assume certain Federal re-
sponsibilities under that Act with respect to
agency actions applicable to highway
projects within the States, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mr. MANCHIN (for himself, Mrs.
CAPITO, and Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. 1052. A bill to authorize the Office of
Fossil Energy to develop advanced separa-
tion technologies for the extraction and re-
covery of rare earth elements and minerals
from coal and coal byproducts, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. COONS (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 1053. A bill to establish a universal per-
sonal savings program, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr. SUL-
LIVAN, Mr. CRUZ, and Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI):
S. 1054. A bill to amend title 54, United
States Code, to establish a program to allow
States to assume certain Federal respon-
sibilities under that title with respect to
agency actions applicable to highway
projects within the States, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Mr.
MURPHY):
S. 1055. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 regarding the procurement
of certain items related to national security
interests for Department of Homeland Secu-
rity frontline operational components, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mrs. HYDE–SMITH:
S. 1056. A bill to clarify oversight and ju-
risdiction over the regulation, inspection,
and labeling of cell-cultured meat and poul-
try, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, and Ms. SINEMA):
S.J. Res. 18. A joint resolution proposing a
balanced budget amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
WICKER):
S. Res. 141. A resolution celebrating the
heritage of Romani Americans; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
and Mr. COONS):
S. Res. 142. A resolution condemning the
Government of the Philippines for its contin-
ued detention of Senator Leila De Lima,
calling for her immediate release, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Relations.
By Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, and Mr. CRUZ):
S. Res. 143. A resolution recognizing
Israeli-American culture and heritage and
the contributions of the Israeli-American
community to the United States; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. ROUNDS,
Ms. WARREN, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. LANKFORD, and Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI):
S. Res. 144. A resolution designating May 5,
2019, as the ‘‘National Day of Awareness for
Missing and Murdered Native Women and
Girls’’; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN):
S. Res. 145. A resolution commemorating
the bicentennial of the birth of Rabbi Isaac
Mayer Wise and the 130th anniversary of the
founding of the Central Conference of Amer-
ican Rabbis; considered and agreed to.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.024 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2271
April 4, 2019
By Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
LEAHY):
S. Res. 146. A resolution recognizing the
centennial of the Institute of International
Education; considered and agreed to.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. MENENDEZ,
and Mr. RISCH):
S. Con. Res. 13. A concurrent resolution re-
affirming the United States commitment to
Taiwan and to the implementation of the
Taiwan Relations Act; to the Committee on
Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 16
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
16, a bill to amend title VII of the Tar-
iff Act of 1930 to provide for the treat-
ment of core seasonal industries af-
fected by antidumping or counter-
vailing duty investigations, and for
other purposes.
S. 66
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
66, a bill to regulate assault weapons,
to ensure that the right to keep and
bear arms is not unlimited, and for
other purposes.
S. 151
At the request of Mr. THUNE, the
names of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the
Senator from Wyoming (Mr. BARRASSO)
were added as cosponsors of S. 151, a
bill to deter criminal robocall viola-
tions and improve enforcement of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act
of 1934, and for other purposes.
S. 169
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 169, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to provide an ex-
emption from gross income for civil
damages as recompense for trafficking
in persons.
S. 246
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 246, a bill to block the implemen-
tation of certain presidential actions
that restrict individuals from certain
countries from entering the United
States.
S. 260
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 260, a bill to assist em-
ployers providing employment under
special certificates issued under sec-
tion 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards
Act of 1938 to transform their business
and program models, to support indi-
viduals with disabilities to transition
to competitive integrated employment,
to phase out the use of such special
certificates, and for other purposes.
S. 286
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER), the Senator from
Maine (Ms. COLLINS) and the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 286, a bill to
amend title XVIII of the Social Secu-
rity Act to provide for the coverage of
marriage and family therapist services
and mental health counselor services
under part B of the Medicare program,
and for other purposes.
S. 431
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
431, a bill to promote registered ap-
prenticeships and on-the-job training
for small and medium-sized businesses
within in-demand industry sectors,
through the establishment and support
of eligible partnerships.
S. 517
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
ROUNDS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
517, a bill to establish a tiered hiring
preference for members of the reserve
components of the Armed Forces.
S. 567
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN), the Senator from Okla-
homa (Mr. INHOFE), the Senator from
Kentucky (Mr. MCCONNELL), the Sen-
ator from Tennessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN),
the Senator from South Dakota (Mr.
THUNE), the Senator from North Caro-
lina (Mr. BURR), the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. PORTMAN), the Senator from Idaho
(Mr. RISCH), the Senator from Wis-
consin (Mr. JOHNSON), the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. TILLIS), the Sen-
ator from Montana (Mr. DAINES) and
the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS) were added as cosponsors of S.
567, a bill clarifying that it is United
States policy to recognize Israel’s sov-
ereignty over the Golan Heights.
S. 596
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
ROBERTS) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 596, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for di-
rect payment to physician assistants
under the Medicare program for certain
services furnished by such physician
assistants.
S. 598
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Idaho (Mr.
RISCH) was added as a cosponsor of S.
598, a bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to increase certain funeral
benefits for veterans, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 684
At the request of Mr. HEINRICH, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. MCSALLY) and the Senator from
Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 684, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal
the excise tax on high-cost employer-
sponsored health coverage.
S. 692
At the request of Mr. TOOMEY, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
692, a bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to repeal the excise
tax on medical devices.
S. 729
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 729, a bill to prohibit the use of
funds to Federal agencies to establish a
panel, task force, advisory committee,
or other effort to challenge the sci-
entific consensus on climate change,
and for other purposes.
S. 792
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 792, a bill to require enforcement
against misbranded milk alternatives.
S. 851
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 851, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Labor to issue an occupational safe-
ty and health standard that requires
covered employers within the health
care and social service industries to de-
velop and implement a comprehensive
workplace violence prevention plan,
and for other purposes.
S. 874
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI), the Senator from New
York (Mr. SCHUMER), the Senator from
Colorado (Mr. GARDNER) and the Sen-
ator from Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO)
were added as cosponsors of S. 874, a
bill to authorize the cancellation of re-
moval and adjustment of status of cer-
tain individuals who are long-term
United States residents and who en-
tered the United States as children,
and for other purposes.
S. 879
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 879, a bill to provide a
process for granting lawful permanent
resident status to aliens from certain
countries who meet specified eligibility
requirements, and for other purposes.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) and the Senator from
Idaho (Mr. CRAPO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 880, a bill to provide out-
reach and reporting on comprehensive
Alzheimer’s disease care planning serv-
ices furnished under the Medicare pro-
gram.
S. 950
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 950, a bill to require the
Director of the United States Geologi-
cal Survey to perform a nationwide
survey of perfluorinated compounds,
and for other purposes.
S. 952
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.027 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2272 April 4, 2019
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 952, a bill to provide that the
Federal Communications Commission
may not prevent a State or Federal
correctional facility from utilizing
jamming equipment, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 962
At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 962, a bill to provide fund-
ing for Federally qualified health cen-
ters and the National Health Service
Corps.
S. 995
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 995, a bill to amend title XXIX
of the Public Health Service Act to re-
authorize the program under such title
relating to lifespan respite care.
S. 1022
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1022, a bill to clarify the effect of
certain final rules and determinations
of the Environmental Protection Agen-
cy relating to greenhouse gas emis-
sions standards for light-duty vehicles.
S.J. RES. 13
At the request of Mr. KAINE, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) was added as a cosponsor of S.J.
Res. 13, a joint resolution to repeal the
authorizations for use of military force
against Iraq, and for other purposes.
S. CON. RES. 9
At the request of Mr. ROBERTS, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. SMITH) and the Senator from Ohio
(Mr. PORTMAN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. Con. Res. 9, a concurrent res-
olution expressing the sense of Con-
gress that tax-exempt fraternal benefit
societies have historically provided
and continue to provide critical bene-
fits to the people and communities of
the United States.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 98, a resolution establishing
the Congressional Gold Star Family
Fellowship Program for the placement
in offices of Senators of children,
spouses, and siblings of members of the
Armed Forces who are hostile casual-
ties or who have died from a training-
related injury.
S. RES. 120
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 120, a resolution opposing ef-
forts to delegitimize the State of Israel
and the Global Boycott, Divestment,
and Sanctions Movement targeting
Israel.
S. RES. 123
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
PORTMAN), the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) and the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) were added as co-
sponsors of S. Res. 123, a resolution
supporting the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and recognizing its 70
years of accomplishments.
S. RES. 135
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE), the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN), the Senator
from Missouri (Mr. BLUNT), the Senator
from New Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Alabama (Mr.
JONES), the Senator from Washington
(Ms. CANTWELL), the Senator from New
Mexico (Mr. UDALL), the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Sen-
ator from Maine (Ms. COLLINS), the
Senator from Indiana (Mr. BRAUN), the
Senator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI),
the Senator from Wyoming (Mr. BAR-
RASSO), the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY), the Senator from Illi-
nois (Mr. DURBIN) and the Senator from
Mississippi (Mr. WICKER) were added as
cosponsors of S. Res. 135, a resolution
expressing the gratitude and apprecia-
tion of the Senate for the acts of her-
oism and valor by the members of the
United States Armed Forces who par-
ticipated in the June 6, 1944, amphib-
ious landing at Normandy, France, and
commending those individuals for lead-
ership and bravery in an operation that
helped bring an end to World War II.
AMENDMENT NO. 246
At the request of Mr. LEAHY, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN) and the Senator from West
Virginia (Mr. MANCHIN) were added as
cosponsors of amendment No. 246 in-
tended to be proposed to H.R. 268, a bill
making supplemental appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
KING, Ms. SMITH, and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 1036. A bill to expand the use of
open textbooks in order to achieve sav-
ings for students and improve textbook
price information; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1036
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Affordable
College Textbook Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The high cost of college textbooks con-
tinues to be a barrier for many students in
achieving higher education.
(2) According to the College Board, during
the 2017–2018 academic year, the average stu-
dent budget for college books and supplies at
4-year public institutions of higher edu-
cation was $1,240.
(3) The Government Accountability Office
found that new textbook prices increased 82
percent between 2002 and 2012 and that al-
though Federal efforts to increase price
transparency have provided students and
families with more and better information,
more must be done to address rising costs.
(4) The growth of the internet has enabled
the creation and sharing of digital content,
including open educational resources that
can be freely used by students, teachers, and
members of the public.
(5) According to the Student PIRGs, ex-
panded use of open educational resources has
the potential to save students more than a
billion dollars annually.
(6) Federal investment in expanding the
use of open educational resources could sig-
nificantly lower college textbook costs and
reduce financial barriers to higher edu-
cation, while making efficient use of tax-
payer funds.
(7) Educational materials, including open
educational resources, must be accessible to
the widest possible range of individuals, in-
cluding those with disabilities.
SEC. 3. OPEN TEXTBOOK GRANT PROGRAM.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) INSTITUTION OF HIGHER EDUCATION.—The
term ‘‘institution of higher education’’ has
the meaning given the term in section 101 of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1001).
(2) OPEN EDUCATIONAL RESOURCE.—The
term ‘‘open educational resource’’ has the
meaning given the term in section 133 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1015b).
(3) OPEN TEXTBOOK.—The term ‘‘open text-
book’’ means an open educational resource
or set of open educational resources that ei-
ther is a textbook or can be used in place of
a textbook for a postsecondary course at an
institution of higher education.
(4) RELEVANT FACULTY.—The term ‘‘rel-
evant faculty’’ means both tenure track and
contingent faculty members who may be in-
volved in the creation or use of open text-
books created as part of an application under
subsection (d).
(5) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Education.
(6) SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIAL.—The term
‘‘supplemental material’’ has the meaning
given the term in section 133 of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1015b).
(b) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—From the
amounts appropriated under subsection (k),
the Secretary shall make grants, on a com-
petitive basis, to eligible entities to support
projects that expand the use of open text-
books in order to achieve savings for stu-
dents while maintaining or improving in-
struction and student learning outcomes.
(c) ELIGIBLE ENTITY.—In this section, the
term ‘‘eligible entity’’ means an institution
of higher education, a group of institutions
of higher education, or States on behalf of
institutions of higher education.
(d) APPLICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each eligible entity desir-
ing a grant under this section, after con-
sultation with relevant faculty, shall submit
an application to the Secretary at such time,
in such manner, and accompanied by such in-
formation as the Secretary may reasonably
require.
(2) CONTENTS.—Each application submitted
under paragraph (1) shall include a descrip-
tion of the project to be completed with
grant funds and—
(A) a plan for promoting and tracking the
use of open textbooks in postsecondary
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.030 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2273
April 4, 2019
courses offered by the eligible entity, includ-
ing an estimate of the projected savings that
will be achieved for students;
(B) a plan for evaluating, before creating
new open textbooks, whether existing open
textbooks could be used or adapted for the
same purpose;
(C) a plan for quality review and review of
accuracy of any open textbooks to be created
or adapted through the grant;
(D) a plan for assessing the impact of open
textbooks on instruction and student learn-
ing outcomes at the eligible entity;
(E) a plan for disseminating information
about the results of the project to institu-
tions of higher education outside of the eligi-
ble entity, including promoting the adoption
of any open textbooks created or adapted
through the grant; and
(F) a statement on consultation with rel-
evant faculty, including those engaged in the
creation of open textbooks, in the develop-
ment of the application.
(e) SPECIAL CONSIDERATION.—In awarding
grants under this section, the Secretary
shall give special consideration to applica-
tions that demonstrate the greatest poten-
tial to—
(1) achieve the highest level of savings for
students through sustainable expanded use
of open textbooks in postsecondary courses
offered by the eligible entity;
(2) expand the use of open textbooks at in-
stitutions of higher education outside of the
eligible entity; and
(3) produce—
(A) the highest quality open textbooks;
(B) open textbooks that can be most easily
utilized and adapted by faculty members at
institutions of higher education;
(C) open textbooks that correspond to the
highest enrollment courses at institutions of
higher education;
(D) open textbooks created or adapted in
partnership with entities within institutions
of higher education, including campus book-
stores, that will assist in marketing and dis-
tribution of the open textbook; and
(E) open textbooks that are accessible to
students with disabilities.
(f) USE OF FUNDS.—An eligible entity that
receives a grant under this section shall use
the grant funds to carry out any of the fol-
lowing activities to expand the use of open
textbooks:
(1) Professional development for any fac-
ulty and staff members at institutions of
higher education, including the search for
and review of open textbooks.
(2) Creation or adaptation of open text-
books.
(3) Development or improvement of supple-
mental materials and informational re-
sources that are necessary to support the use
of open textbooks, including accessible in-
structional materials for students with dis-
abilities.
(4) Research evaluating the efficacy of the
use of open textbooks for achieving savings
for students and the impact on instruction
and student learning outcomes.
(g) LICENSE.—For each open textbook, sup-
plemental material, or informational re-
source created or adapted wholly or in part
under this section that constitutes a new
copyrightable work, the eligible entity re-
ceiving the grant shall release such text-
book, material, or resource to the public
under a non-exclusive, royalty-free, per-
petual, and irrevocable license to exercise
any of the rights under copyright condi-
tioned only on the requirement that attribu-
tion be given as directed by the copyright
owner.
(h) ACCESS AND DISTRIBUTION.—The full and
complete digital content of each open text-
book, supplemental material, or informa-
tional resource created or adapted wholly or
in part under this section shall be made
available free of charge to the public—
(1) on an easily accessible and interoper-
able website, which shall be identified to the
Secretary by the eligible entity;
(2) in a machine readable, digital format
that anyone can directly download, edit with
attribution, and redistribute; and
(3) in a format that conforms to accessi-
bility standards under section 508 of the Re-
habilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d),
where feasible.
(i) REPORT.—Upon an eligible entity’s com-
pletion of a project supported under this sec-
tion, the eligible entity shall prepare and
submit a report to the Secretary regarding—
(1) the effectiveness of the project in ex-
panding the use of open textbooks and in
achieving savings for students;
(2) the impact of the project on expanding
the use of open textbooks at institutions of
higher education outside of the eligible enti-
ty;
(3) open textbooks, supplemental mate-
rials, and informational resources created or
adapted wholly or in part under the grant,
including instructions on where the public
can access each educational resource under
the terms of subsection (h);
(4) the impact of the project on instruction
and student learning outcomes; and
(5) all project costs, including the value of
any volunteer labor and institutional capital
used for the project.
(j) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 2
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary shall prepare and submit
a report to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate
and the Committee on Education and Labor
of the House of Representatives detailing—
(1) the open textbooks, supplemental mate-
rials, and informational resources created or
adapted wholly or in part under this section;
(2) the adoption of such open textbooks, in-
cluding outside of the eligible entity;
(3) the savings generated for students,
States, and the Federal Government through
projects supported under this section; and
(4) the impact of projects supported under
this section on instruction and student
learning outcomes.
(k) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
carry out this section such sums as are nec-
essary.
SEC. 4. TEXTBOOK PRICE INFORMATION.
Section 133 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1015b) is amended—
(1) in subsection (b)—
(A) by striking paragraph (6) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(6) OPEN EDUCATIONAL RESOURCE.—The
term ‘open educational resource’ means a
teaching, learning, or research resource that
is offered freely to users in at least one form
and that resides in the public domain or has
been released under an open copyright li-
cense that allows for its free use, reuse,
modification, and sharing with attribution.’’;
and
(B) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘textbook
that’’ and all that follows through the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘textbook that may
include printed materials, computer disks,
website access, and electronically distrib-
uted materials.’’;
(2) in subsection (c)(1)—
(A) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A), by striking ‘‘or other person or adopting
entity in charge of selecting course mate-
rials’’ and inserting ‘‘or other person or enti-
ty in charge of selecting or aiding in the dis-
covery and procurement of course mate-
rials’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(E) Whether the college textbook or sup-
plemental material is an open educational
resource.’’;
(3) in subsection (d)—
(A) in the subsection heading, by striking
‘‘ISBN’’; and
(B) in paragraph (1)—
(i) in the matter preceding subparagraph
(A)—
(I) by striking ‘‘disclose, on the institu-
tion’s Internet course schedule and in a man-
ner of the institution’s choosing, the Inter-
national Standard Book Number and retail
price information’’ and inserting ‘‘verify and
disclose (on, or through a link from, the in-
stitution’s Internet course schedule and in a
manner of the institution’s choosing) the
International Standard Book Number and re-
tail price information’’;
(II) by striking ‘‘and retail price’’ and in-
serting ‘‘, retail price, and any applicable
fee’’;
(III) by inserting ‘‘, and whether each re-
quired and recommended textbook and sup-
plemental material is an open educational
resource,’’ after ‘‘supplemental materials’’;
and
(IV) by striking ‘‘used for preregistration
and registration purposes’’; and
(ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘for a
college textbook or supplemental material,
then the institution shall so indicate by
placing the designation ‘To Be Determined’ ’’
and inserting ‘‘or available for a college
textbook or supplemental material, then the
institution shall indicate the status of such
information’’;
(4) by striking subsection (e) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(e) AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION FOR
COLLEGE BOOKSTORES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—An institution of higher
education receiving Federal financial assist-
ance shall assist a college bookstore that is
operated by, or in a contractual relationship
or otherwise affiliated with, the institution,
in obtaining required and recommended
course materials information and such
course schedule and enrollment information
as is reasonably required to implement this
section so that such bookstore may—
‘‘(A) verify availability of such materials;
‘‘(B) source lower cost options, including
presenting lower cost alternatives to faculty
for faculty to consider, when practicable;
and
‘‘(C) maximize the availability of format
options for students.
‘‘(2) DUE DATES.—In carrying out paragraph
(1), an institution of higher education may
establish due dates for faculty or depart-
ments to notify the campus bookstore of re-
quired and recommended course materials.’’;
(5) in subsection (f)—
(A) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4)
as paragraphs (4) and (5); and
(B) by inserting after paragraph (2) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) available open educational re-
sources;’’; and
(6) by striking subsection (g) and redesig-
nating subsections (h) and (i) as subsections
(g) and (h), respectively.
SEC. 5. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that institutions
of higher education should encourage the
consideration of open textbooks by faculty
within the generally accepted principles of
academic freedom that establishes the right
and responsibility of faculty members, indi-
vidually and collectively, to select course
materials that are pedagogically most appro-
priate for their classes.
SEC. 6. GAO REPORT.
Not later than 3 years after the date of en-
actment of this Act, the Comptroller General
of the United States shall prepare and sub-
mit a report to the Committee on Health,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.034 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2274 April 4, 2019
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Sen-
ate and the Committee on Education and
Labor of the House of Representatives on the
cost of textbooks to students at institutions
of higher education. The report shall par-
ticularly examine—
(1) the implementation of section 133 of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C.
1015b), as amended by section 4, including—
(A) the availability of college textbook and
open educational resource information on
course schedules;
(B) the compliance of publishers with ap-
plicable requirements under such section;
and
(C) the costs and benefits to institutions of
higher education and to students;
(2) the change in the cost of textbooks;
(3) the factors, including open textbooks,
that have contributed to the change of the
cost of textbooks;
(4) the extent to which open textbooks are
used at institutions of higher education; and
(5) how institutions are tracking the im-
pact of open textbooks on instruction and
student learning outcomes.
By Mr. SCHUMER (for himself,
Mr. COTTON, Mr. BROWN, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, and Mr. TOOMEY):
S. 1044. A bill to impose sanctions
with respect to foreign traffickers of il-
licit opioids, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 1044
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Fentanyl Sanctions Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 4. Definitions.
TITLE I—SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO
FOREIGN OPIOID TRAFFICKERS
Sec. 101. Identification of foreign opioid
traffickers.
Sec. 102. Sense of Congress and reporting on
international opioid control re-
gime.
Sec. 103. Imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 104. Description of sanctions.
Sec. 105. Waivers.
Sec. 106. Procedures for judicial review of
classified information.
Sec. 107. Briefings on implementation.
TITLE II—COMMISSION ON COMBATING
SYNTHETIC OPIOID TRAFFICKING
Sec. 201. Commission on combating syn-
thetic opioid trafficking.
TITLE III—OTHER MATTERS
Sec. 301. Director of National Intelligence
program on use of intelligence
resources in efforts to sanction
foreign opioid traffickers.
Sec. 302. Department of Defense funding.
Sec. 303. Department of State funding.
Sec. 304. Department of the Treasury fund-
ing.
Sec. 305. Appropriate committees of Con-
gress defined.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress makes the following findings:
(1) The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention estimate that from June 2017
through June 2018 more than 48,000 people in
the United States died from an opioid over-
dose, with synthetic opioids (excluding
methadone), contributing to a record 31,500
overdose deaths. While drug overdose deaths
from methadone, semi-synthetic opioids, and
heroin have decreased in recent months,
overdose deaths from synthetic opioids have
continued to increase.
(2) The objective of preventing the pro-
liferation of synthetic opioids though exist-
ing multilateral and bilateral initiatives re-
quires additional efforts to deny illicit ac-
tors the financial means to sustain their
markets and distribution networks.
(3) The People’s Republic of China is the
world’s largest producer of illicit fentanyl,
fentanyl analogues, and their immediate pre-
cursors. From the People’s Republic of
China, those substances are shipped pri-
marily through express consignment carriers
or international mail directly to the United
States, or, alternatively, shipped directly to
transnational criminal organizations in Mex-
ico, Canada, and the Caribbean.
(4) In 2015, Mexican heroin accounted for 93
percent of the total weight of heroin seized
in the United States, transported to the
United States by transnational criminal or-
ganizations that maintain territorial influ-
ence over large regions in Mexico and remain
the greatest criminal drug threat to the
United States.
(5) The United States and the People’s Re-
public of China, Mexico, and Canada have
made important strides in combating the il-
licit flow of opioids through bilateral efforts
of their respective law enforcement agencies.
(6) Insufficient regulation of synthetic
opioid production and export and insufficient
law enforcement efforts to combat opioid
trafficking in the People’s Republic of China
and Mexico continue to contribute to a flood
of opioids into the United States.
(7) While the Department of the Treasury
used the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designa-
tion Act (21 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.) to sanction
the first synthetic opioid trafficking entity
in April 2018, precision economic and finan-
cial sanctions policy tools are needed to ad-
dress the flow of synthetic opioids.
SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the United States should apply eco-
nomic and other financial sanctions to for-
eign traffickers of illicit opioids to protect
the national security, foreign policy, and
economy of the United States; and
(2) it is imperative that the People’s Re-
public of China follow through on the com-
mitments it made to the United States on
December 6, 2018, through the Group of
Twenty—
(A) to schedule the entire category of
fentanyl-type substances as controlled sub-
stances; and
(B) to change its national and provincial
laws and increase provincial law enforce-
ment efforts to prosecute traffickers of
fentanyl substances.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) ALIEN; NATIONAL; NATIONAL OF THE
UNITED STATES.—The terms ‘‘alien’’, ‘‘na-
tional’’, and ‘‘national of the United States’’
have the meanings given those terms in sec-
tion 101 of the Immigration and Nationality
Act (8 U.S.C. 1101).
(2) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES AND LEADERSHIP.—The term ‘‘appro-
priate congressional committees and leader-
ship’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on
the Judiciary, the Select Committee on In-
telligence, and the majority leader and the
minority leader of the Senate; and
(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Financial Services, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on
Homeland Security, the Committee on the
Judiciary, the Permanent Select Committee
on Intelligence, and the Speaker and the mi-
nority leader of the House of Representa-
tives.
(3) CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE; LISTED CHEM-
ICAL.—The terms ‘‘controlled substance’’,
‘‘listed chemical’’, ‘‘narcotic drug’’, and
‘‘opioid’’ have the meanings given those
terms in section 102 of the Controlled Sub-
stances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
(4) ENTITY.—The term ‘‘entity’’ means a
partnership, joint venture, association, cor-
poration, organization, network, group, or
subgroup, or any form of business collabora-
tion.
(5) FOREIGN OPIOID TRAFFICKER.—The term
‘‘foreign opioid trafficker’’ means any for-
eign person that the President determines
plays a significant role in opioid trafficking.
(6) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’—
(A) means—
(i) any citizen or national of a foreign
country; or
(ii) any entity not organized under the
laws of the United States or a jurisdiction
within the United States; and
(B) does not include the government of a
foreign country.
(7) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘‘knowingly’’,
with respect to conduct, a circumstance, or a
result, means that a person has actual
knowledge, or should have known, of the
conduct, the circumstance, or the result.
(8) OPIOID TRAFFICKING.—The term ‘‘opioid
trafficking’’ means any illicit activity—
(A) to cultivate, produce, manufacture, dis-
tribute, sell, or knowingly finance or trans-
port illicit opioids, controlled substances
that are opioids, listed chemicals that are
opioids, or active pharmaceutical ingredi-
ents or chemicals that are used in the pro-
duction of controlled substances that are
opioids;
(B) to attempt to carry out an activity de-
scribed in subparagraph (A); or
(C) to assist, abet, conspire, or collude with
other persons to carry out such an activity.
(9) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an
individual or entity.
(10) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) any citizen or national of the United
States;
(B) any alien lawfully admitted for perma-
nent residence in the United States;
(C) any entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within
the United States (including a foreign
branch of such an entity); or
(D) any person located in the United
States.
TITLE I—SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO
FOREIGN OPIOID TRAFFICKERS
SEC. 101. IDENTIFICATION OF FOREIGN OPIOID
TRAFFICKERS.
(a) PUBLIC REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and leadership, in accordance with
subsection (c), a report—
(A) identifying the foreign persons that the
President determines are foreign opioid traf-
fickers;
(B) detailing progress the President has
made in implementing this title; and
(C) providing an update on cooperative ef-
forts with the Governments of Mexico and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.034 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2275
April 4, 2019
the People’s Republic of China with respect
to combating foreign opioid traffickers.
(2) IDENTIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL PER-
SONS.—If, at any time after submitting a re-
port required by paragraph (1) and before the
submission of the next such report, the
President determines that a foreign person
not identified in the report is a foreign
opioid trafficker, the President shall submit
to the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership an additional report con-
taining the information required by para-
graph (1) with respect to the foreign person.
(3) EXCLUSION.—The President shall not be
required to include in a report under para-
graph (1) or (2) any persons with respect to
which the United States has imposed sanc-
tions before the date of the report under this
title or any other provision of law with re-
spect to opioid trafficking.
(4) FORM OF REPORT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Each report required by
paragraph (1) or (2) shall be submitted in un-
classified form but may include a classified
annex.
(B) AVAILABILITY TO PUBLIC.—The unclassi-
fied portion of a report required by para-
graph (1) or (2) shall be made available to the
public.
(b) CLASSIFIED REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and leadership, in accordance with
subsection (c), a report, in classified form—
(A) describing in detail the status of sanc-
tions imposed under this title, including the
personnel and resources directed toward the
imposition of such sanctions during the pre-
ceding fiscal year;
(B) providing background information with
respect to persons newly identified as foreign
opioid traffickers and their illicit activities;
(C) describing actions the President in-
tends to undertake or has undertaken to im-
plement this title; and
(D) providing a strategy for identifying ad-
ditional foreign opioid traffickers.
(2) EFFECT ON OTHER REPORTING REQUIRE-
MENTS.—The report required by paragraph (1)
is in addition to the obligations of the Presi-
dent to keep Congress fully and currently in-
formed pursuant to the provisions of the Na-
tional Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3001 et
seq.).
(c) SUBMISSION OF REPORTS.—Not later
than 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, and annually thereafter until the
date that is 5 years after such date of enact-
ment, the President shall submit the reports
required by subsections (a) and (b) to the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
leadership.
(d) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.—
(1) INTELLIGENCE.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this section, a report re-
quired by subsection (a) or (b) shall not dis-
close the identity of any person if the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence determines that
such disclosure could compromise an intel-
ligence operation, activity, source, or meth-
od of the United States.
(2) LAW ENFORCEMENT.—Notwithstanding
any other provision of this section, a report
required by subsection (a) or (b) shall not
disclose the identity of any person if the At-
torney General, in coordination, as appro-
priate, with the Director of the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation, the Administrator of
the Drug Enforcement Administration, the
head of any other appropriate Federal law
enforcement agency, and the Secretary of
the Treasury, determines that such disclo-
sure could reasonably be expected—
(A) to compromise the identity of a con-
fidential source, including a State, local, or
foreign agency or authority or any private
institution that furnished information on a
confidential basis;
(B) to jeopardize the integrity or success of
an ongoing criminal investigation or pros-
ecution;
(C) to endanger the life or physical safety
of any person; or
(D) to cause substantial harm to physical
property.
(3) NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.—If the Director
of National Intelligence makes a determina-
tion under paragraph (1) or the Attorney
General makes a determination under para-
graph (2), the Director or the Attorney Gen-
eral, as the case may be, shall notify the ap-
propriate congressional committees and
leadership of the determination and the rea-
sons for the determination.
(e) PROVISION OF INFORMATION REQUIRED
FOR REPORTS.—The Secretary of the Treas-
ury, the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Defense, the Secretary of State, the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and the Direc-
tor of National Intelligence shall consult
among themselves and provide to the Presi-
dent and the Director of the Office of Na-
tional Drug Control Policy the appropriate
and necessary information to enable the
President to submit the reports required by
subsection (a).
SEC. 102. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORTING
ON INTERNATIONAL OPIOID CON-
TROL REGIME.
(a) SENSE OF CONGRESS.—It is the sense of
Congress that, in order to apply economic
and other financial sanctions to foreign traf-
fickers of illicit opioids to protect the na-
tional security, foreign policy, and economy
of the United States—
(1) the President should instruct the Sec-
retary of State to commence immediately
diplomatic efforts, both in appropriate inter-
national fora such as the United Nations, the
Group of Seven, the Group of Twenty, tri-
laterally and bilaterally with partners of the
United States, to establish a multilateral
sanctions regime against foreign opioid traf-
fickers; and
(2) the Secretary of State, in consultation
with the Secretary of the Treasury, may
consider forming a new coalition of coun-
tries to establish a multilateral sanctions re-
gime against foreign opioid traffickers if cer-
tain countries in existing multilateral fora
fail to cooperate with respect to establishing
such a regime.
(b) REPORTS TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall in-
clude, in each report required by section
101(b), an assessment conducted by the Sec-
retary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of the Treasury, of the extent to
which any diplomatic efforts described in
subsection (a) have been successful.
(2) ELEMENTS.—Each assessment required
by paragraph (1) shall include an identifica-
tion of—
(A) the countries the governments of which
have agreed to undertake measures to apply
economic or other financial sanctions to for-
eign traffickers of illicit opioids and a de-
scription of those measures; and
(B) the countries the governments of which
have not agreed to measures described in
subparagraph (A), and, with respect to those
countries, other measures the Secretary of
State recommends that the United States
take to apply economic and other financial
sanctions to foreign traffickers of illicit
opioids.
SEC. 103. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.
The President shall impose 5 or more of
the sanctions described in section 104 with
respect to each foreign person that is an en-
tity, and 4 or more of such sanctions with re-
spect to each foreign person that is an indi-
vidual, that—
(1) is identified as a foreign opioid traf-
ficker in a report submitted under section
101(a); or
(2) the President determines is owned, con-
trolled, directed by, supplying or sourcing
precursors for, or acting for or on behalf of,
such a foreign opioid trafficker.
SEC. 104. DESCRIPTION OF SANCTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The sanctions that may
be imposed with respect to a foreign person
under section 103 are the following:
(1) LOANS FROM UNITED STATES FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS.—The United States Govern-
ment may prohibit any United States finan-
cial institution from making loans or pro-
viding credits to the foreign person.
(2) PROHIBITIONS ON FINANCIAL INSTITU-
TIONS.—The following prohibitions may be
imposed with respect to a foreign person
that is a financial institution:
(A) PROHIBITION ON DESIGNATION AS PRI-
MARY DEALER.—Neither the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System nor
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York may
designate, or permit the continuation of any
prior designation of, the financial institution
as a primary dealer in United States Govern-
ment debt instruments.
(B) PROHIBITION ON SERVICE AS A REPOSI-
TORY OF GOVERNMENT FUNDS.—The financial
institution may not serve as agent of the
United States Government or serve as repos-
itory for United States Government funds.
The imposition of either sanction under sub-
paragraph (A) or (B) shall be treated as one
sanction for purposes of section 103, and the
imposition of both such sanctions shall be
treated as 2 sanctions for purposes of that
section.
(3) PROCUREMENT BAN.—The United States
Government may not procure, or enter into
any contract for the procurement of, any
goods or services from the foreign person.
(4) FOREIGN EXCHANGE.—The President
may, pursuant to such regulations as the
President may prescribe, prohibit any trans-
actions in foreign exchange that are subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States and
in which the foreign person has any interest.
(5) BANKING TRANSACTIONS.—The President
may, pursuant to such regulations as the
President may prescribe, prohibit any trans-
fers of credit or payments between financial
institutions or by, through, or to any finan-
cial institution, to the extent that such
transfers or payments are subject to the ju-
risdiction of the United States and involve
any interest of the foreign person.
(6) PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS.—The Presi-
dent may, pursuant to such regulations as
the President may prescribe, prohibit any
person from—
(A) acquiring, holding, withholding, using,
transferring, withdrawing, transporting, im-
porting, or exporting any property that is
subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States and with respect to which the foreign
person has any interest;
(B) dealing in or exercising any right,
power, or privilege with respect to such prop-
erty; or
(C) conducting any transaction involving
such property.
(7) BAN ON INVESTMENT IN EQUITY OR DEBT
OF SANCTIONED PERSON.—The President may,
pursuant to such regulations or guidelines as
the President may prescribe, prohibit any
United States person from investing in or
purchasing significant amounts of equity or
debt instruments of the foreign person.
(8) EXCLUSION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS.—
The President may direct the Secretary of
State to deny a visa to, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security to exclude from the
United States, any alien that the President
determines is a corporate officer or principal
of, or a shareholder with a controlling inter-
est in, the foreign person.
(9) SANCTIONS ON PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFI-
CERS.—The President may impose on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.036 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2276 April 4, 2019
principal executive officer or officers of the
foreign person, or on individuals performing
similar functions and with similar authori-
ties as such officer or officers, any of the
sanctions described in paragraphs (1)
through (8) that are applicable.
(b) PENALTIES.—A person that violates, at-
tempts to violate, conspires to violate, or
causes a violation of any regulation, license,
or order issued to carry out subsection (a)
shall be subject to the penalties set forth in
subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a
person that commits an unlawful act de-
scribed in subsection (a) of that section.
(c) EXCEPTIONS.—
(1) INTELLIGENCE ACTIVITIES.—Sanctions
under this section shall not apply with re-
spect to any activity subject to the reporting
requirements under title V of the National
Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et seq.) or
to any authorized intelligence activities of
the United States.
(2) EXCEPTION RELATING TO IMPORTATION OF
GOODS.—The authority to impose sanctions
under subsection (a)(6) shall not include the
authority to impose sanctions on the impor-
tation of goods.
(3) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH UNITED NA-
TIONS HEADQUARTERS AGREEMENT.—Sanctions
under subsection (a)(8) shall not apply to an
alien if admitting the alien into the United
States is necessary to permit the United
States to comply with the Agreement re-
garding the Headquarters of the United Na-
tions, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947,
and entered into force November 21, 1947, be-
tween the United Nations and the United
States, the Convention on Consular Rela-
tions, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and en-
tered into force March 19, 1967, or other ap-
plicable international obligations.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION; REGULATORY AUTHOR-
ITY.—
(1) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
(2) REGULATORY AUTHORITY.—The President
shall issue such regulations, licenses, and or-
ders as are necessary to carry out this sec-
tion.
SEC. 105. WAIVERS.
(a) WAIVER FOR STATE-OWNED FINANCIAL IN-
STITUTIONS IN COUNTRIES THAT COOPERATE IN
MULTILATERAL ANTI-TRAFFICKING EFFORTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may, on a
case-by-case basis, waive for a period of not
more than 12 months the application of sanc-
tions under this title with respect to a finan-
cial institution that is owned or controlled,
directly or indirectly, by a foreign govern-
ment or any political subdivision, agency, or
instrumentality of a foreign government, if
the President, not less than 30 days before
the waiver is to take effect, certifies to the
appropriate congressional committees and
leadership that the foreign government is
closely cooperating with the United States
in efforts to prevent opioid trafficking.
(2) CERTIFICATION.—The President may cer-
tify under paragraph (1) that a foreign gov-
ernment is closely cooperating with the
United States in efforts to prevent opioid
trafficking if that government is—
(A) implementing domestic laws to sched-
ule all fentanyl analogues as controlled sub-
stances; and
(B) doing 2 or more of the following:
(i) Implementing substantial improve-
ments in regulations involving the chemical
and pharmaceutical production and export of
illicit opioids.
(ii) Implementing substantial improve-
ments in judicial regulations to combat
transnational criminal organizations that
traffic opioids.
(iii) Increasing efforts to prosecute foreign
opioid traffickers.
(iv) Increasing intelligence sharing and law
enforcement cooperation with the United
States with respect to opioid trafficking.
(3) SUBSEQUENT RENEWAL OF WAIVER.—The
President may renew a waiver under para-
graph (1) for subsequent periods of not more
than 6 months each if, not less than 30 days
before the renewal is to take effect, the Di-
rector of National Intelligence certifies to
the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership that the government of the
country to which the waiver applies has ef-
fectively implemented and is effectively en-
forcing the measures that formed the basis
for the certification under paragraph (2).
(b) WAIVERS FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AND
ACCESS TO PRESCRIPTION MEDICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President may waive
the application of sanctions under this title
with respect to a person if the President de-
termines that the application of such sanc-
tions with respect to that person would sig-
nificantly harm—
(A) the national security of the United
States; or
(B) subject to paragraph (2), the access of
United States persons to prescription medi-
cations.
(2) MONITORING.—The President shall es-
tablish a monitoring program to verify that
a person receiving a waiver under paragraph
(1)(B) is not trafficking illicit opioids.
(3) NOTIFICATION.—Not later than 21 days
after making a determination under para-
graph (1) with respect to a person, the Presi-
dent shall notify the appropriate congres-
sional committees and leadership of the de-
termination and the reasons for the deter-
mination.
(c) HUMANITARIAN WAIVER.—The President
may waive, for renewable periods of 180 days,
the application of the sanctions under this
title if the President certifies to the appro-
priate congressional committees and leader-
ship that the waiver is necessary for the pro-
vision of humanitarian assistance.
SEC. 106. PROCEDURES FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—If a finding under this
title, or a prohibition, condition, or penalty
imposed as a result of any such finding, is
based on classified information (as defined in
section 1(a) of the Classified Information
Procedures Act (18 U.S.C. App.)) and a court
reviews the finding or the imposition of the
prohibition, condition, or penalty, the Presi-
dent may submit such information to the
court ex parte and in camera.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall be construed to confer or
imply any right to judicial review of any
finding under this title, or any prohibition,
condition, or penalty imposed as a result of
any such finding.
SEC. 107. BRIEFINGS ON IMPLEMENTATION.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of the Fentanyl Sanctions Act,
and every 180 days thereafter until the date
that is 5 years after such date of enactment,
the President, acting through the Secretary
of State, in coordination with the Secretary
of the Treasury, shall provide to the appro-
priate congressional committees and leader-
ship a comprehensive briefing on efforts to
implement this title.
TITLE II—COMMISSION ON COMBATING
SYNTHETIC OPIOID TRAFFICKING
SEC. 201. COMMISSION ON COMBATING SYN-
THETIC OPIOID TRAFFICKING.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—There is established a
commission to develop a consensus on a stra-
tegic approach to combating the flow of syn-
thetic opioids into the United States.
(2) DESIGNATION.—The commission estab-
lished under paragraph (1) shall be known as
the ‘‘Commission on Synthetic Opioid Traf-
ficking’’ (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Commission’’).
(b) MEMBERSHIP.—
(1) COMPOSITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), the Commission shall be composed of the
following members:
(i) The Administrator of the Drug Enforce-
ment Administration.
(ii) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
(iii) The Secretary of Defense.
(iv) The Secretary of the Treasury.
(v) The Secretary of State.
(vi) Two members appointed by the major-
ity leader of the Senate, one of whom shall
be a Member of the Senate and one of whom
shall not be.
(vii) Two members appointed by the minor-
ity leader of the Senate, one of whom shall
be a Member of the Senate and one of whom
shall not be.
(viii) Two members appointed by the
Speaker of the House of Representatives, one
of whom shall be a Member of the House of
Representatives and one of whom shall not
be.
(ix) Two members appointed by the minor-
ity leader of the House of Representatives,
one of whom shall be a Member of the House
of Representatives and one of whom shall
not be.
(B)(i) The members of the Commission who
are not Members of Congress and who are ap-
pointed under clauses (vi) through (ix) of
subparagraph (A) shall be individuals who
are nationally recognized for expertise,
knowledge, or experience in—
(I) transnational criminal organizations
conducting synthetic opioid trafficking;
(II) the production, manufacturing, dis-
tribution, sale, or transportation of syn-
thetic opioids; or
(III) relations between—
(aa) the United States; and
(bb) the People’s Republic of China, Mex-
ico, or any other country of concern with re-
spect to trafficking in synthetic opioids.
(ii) An official who appoints members of
the Commission may not appoint an indi-
vidual as a member of the Commission if the
individual possesses any personal or finan-
cial interest in the discharge of any of the
duties of the Commission.
(iii)(I) All members of the Commission de-
scribed in clause (i) shall possess an appro-
priate security clearance in accordance with
applicable provisions of law concerning the
handling of classified information.
(II) For the purpose of facilitating the ac-
tivities of the Commission, the Director of
National Intelligence shall expedite to the
fullest degree possible the processing of secu-
rity clearances that are necessary for mem-
bers of the Commission.
(2) CO-CHAIRS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall
have 2 co-chairs, selected from among the
members of the Commission, one of whom
shall be a member of the majority party and
one of whom shall be a member of the minor-
ity party.
(B) SELECTION.—The individuals who serve
as the co-chairs of the Commission shall be
jointly agreed upon by the President, the
majority leader of the Senate, the minority
leader of the Senate, the Speaker of the
House of Representatives, and the minority
leader of the House of Representatives.
(c) DUTIES.—The duties of the Commission
are as follows:
(1) To define the core objectives and prior-
ities of the strategic approach described in
subsection (a)(1).
(2) To weigh the costs and benefits of var-
ious strategic options to combat the flow of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.036 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2277
April 4, 2019
synthetic opioids from the People’s Republic
of China, Mexico, and other countries.
(3) To evaluate whether the options de-
scribed in paragraph (2) are exclusive or
complementary, the best means for exe-
cuting such options, and how the United
States should incorporate and implement
such options within the strategic approach
described in subsection (a)(1).
(4) To review and make determinations on
the difficult choices present within such op-
tions, among them what norms-based re-
gimes the United States should seek to es-
tablish to encourage the effective regulation
of dangerous synthetic opioids.
(5) To report on efforts by actors in the
People’s Republic of China to subvert United
States laws and to supply illicit synthetic
opioids to persons in the United States, in-
cluding up-to-date estimates of the scale of
illicit synthetic opioids flows from the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China.
(6) To report on the deficiencies in the reg-
ulation of pharmaceutical and chemical pro-
duction of controlled substances and export
controls with respect to such substances in
the People’s Republic of China and other
countries that allow opioid traffickers to
subvert such regulations and controls to
traffic illicit opioids into the United States.
(7) To report on the scale of contaminated
or counterfeit drugs originating from the
People’s Republic of China and India.
(8) To report on how the United States
could work more effectively with provincial
and local officials in the People’s Republic of
China and other countries to combat the il-
licit production of synthetic opioids.
(9) In weighing the options for defending
the United States against the dangers of
trafficking in synthetic opioids, to consider
possible structures and authorities that need
to be established, revised, or augmented
within the Federal Government.
(d) FUNCTIONING OF COMMISSION.—The pro-
visions of subsections (c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (i),
and (m) of section 1652 of the John S. McCain
National Defense Authorization Act for Fis-
cal Year 2019 (Public Law 115–232) shall apply
to the Commission to the same extent and in
the same manner as such provisions apply to
the commission established under that sec-
tion, except that—
(1) subsection (c)(1) of that section shall be
applied and administered by substituting ‘‘30
days’’ for ‘‘45 days’’;
(2) subsection (g)(4)(A) of that section shall
be applied and administered by inserting
‘‘and the Attorney General’’ after ‘‘Sec-
retary of Defense’’; and
(3) subsections (h)(2)(A) and (i)(1)(A) of
that section shall be applied and adminis-
tered by substituting ‘‘level V of the Execu-
tive Schedule under section 5316’’ for ‘‘level
IV of the Executive Schedule under section
5315’’.
(e) TREATMENT OF INFORMATION RELATING
TO NATIONAL SECURITY.—
(1) RESPONSIBILITY OF DIRECTOR OF NA-
TIONAL INTELLIGENCE.—The Director of Na-
tional Intelligence shall assume responsi-
bility for the handling and disposition of any
information related to the national security
of the United States that is received, consid-
ered, or used by the Commission under this
section.
(2) INFORMATION PROVIDED BY CONGRESS.—
Any information related to the national se-
curity of the United States that is provided
to the Commission by the appropriate con-
gressional committees and leadership may
not be further provided or released without
the approval of the chairperson of the com-
mittee, or the Member of Congress, as the
case may be, that provided the information
to the Commission.
(3) ACCESS AFTER TERMINATION OF COMMIS-
SION.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, after the termination of the Commis-
sion under subsection (h), only the members
and designated staff of the appropriate con-
gressional committees and leadership, the
Director of National Intelligence (and the
designees of the Director), and such other of-
ficials of the executive branch as the Presi-
dent may designate shall have access to in-
formation related to the national security of
the United States that is received, consid-
ered, or used by the Commission.
(f) REPORTS.—The Commission shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees and leadership—
(1) not later than 270 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, an initial report
on the activities and recommendations of
the Commission under this section; and
(2) not later than 270 days after the submis-
sion of the initial report under paragraph (1),
a final report on the activities and rec-
ommendations of the Commission under this
section.
(g) LIMITATION ON FUNDING.—Of amounts
made available under sections 302, 303, and
304 to carry out this Act, not more than
$5,000,000 shall be available to the Commis-
sion in any of fiscal years 2020 through 2025.
(h) TERMINATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission, and all
the authorities of this section, shall termi-
nate at the end of the 120-day period begin-
ning on the date on which the final report re-
quired by subsection (f)(2) is submitted to
the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership.
(2) WINDING UP OF AFFAIRS.—The Commis-
sion may use the 120-day period described in
paragraph (1) for the purposes of concluding
its activities, including providing testimony
to Congress concerning the final report re-
quired by subsection (f)(2) and disseminating
the report.
TITLE III—OTHER MATTERS
SEC. 301. DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE PROGRAM ON USE OF IN-
TELLIGENCE RESOURCES IN EF-
FORTS TO SANCTION FOREIGN
OPIOID TRAFFICKERS.
(a) PROGRAM REQUIRED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Director of National
Intelligence shall, with the concurrence of
the Director of the Office of National Drug
Control Policy, carry out a program to allo-
cate and enhance use of resources of the in-
telligence community, including intelligence
collection and analysis, to assist the Sec-
retary of the Treasury and the Adminis-
trator of the Drug Enforcement Administra-
tion in efforts to identify and impose sanc-
tions with respect to foreign opioid traf-
fickers under title I.
(2) FOCUS ON ILLICIT FINANCE.—To the ex-
tent practicable, efforts described in para-
graph (1) shall—
(A) take into account specific illicit fi-
nance risks related to narcotics trafficking;
and
(B) be developed in consultation with the
Undersecretary of the Treasury for Ter-
rorism and Financial Crimes, appropriate of-
ficials of the Office of Intelligence and Anal-
ysis of the Department of the Treasury, the
Director of the Financial Crimes Enforce-
ment Network, and appropriate Federal law
enforcement agencies.
(b) REVIEW OF COUNTERNARCOTICS EFFORTS
OF THE INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY.—The Di-
rector of National Intelligence shall, in co-
ordination with the Director of the Office of
National Drug Control Policy, carry out a
comprehensive review of the current intel-
ligence collection priorities of the intel-
ligence community for counternarcotics pur-
poses in order to identify whether such prior-
ities are appropriate and sufficient in light
of the number of lives lost in the United
States each year due to use of illegal drugs.
(c) REPORTS.—
(1) QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PROGRAM.—Not
later than 90 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, and every 90 days there-
after, the Director of National Intelligence
and the Director of the Office of National
Drug Control Policy shall jointly submit to
the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership a report on the status and ac-
complishments of the program required by
subsection (a) during the 90-day period end-
ing on the date of the report. The first report
under this paragraph shall also include a de-
scription of the amount of funds devoted by
the intelligence community to the efforts de-
scribed in subsection (a) during each of fiscal
years 2017 and 2018.
(2) REPORT ON REVIEW.—Not later than 120
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the Director of National Intelligence
and the Director of the Office of National
Drug Control Policy shall jointly submit to
the appropriate congressional committees
and leadership a comprehensive description
of the results of the review required by sub-
section (b), including whether the priorities
described in that subsection are appropriate
and sufficient in light of the number of lives
lost in the United States each year due to
use of illegal drugs. If the report concludes
that such priorities are not so appropriate
and sufficient, the report shall also include a
description of the actions to be taken to
modify such priorities in order to assure
than such priorities are so appropriate and
sufficient.
(d) INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY DEFINED.—In
this section, the term ‘‘intelligence commu-
nity’’ has the meaning given that term in
section 3(4) of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
SEC. 302. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDING.
(a) SOURCE OF FUNDS.—Subject to sub-
section (b), amounts authorized to be appro-
priated for each of fiscal years 2020 through
2025 for the Department of Defense for oper-
ation and maintenance shall be available for
operations and activities described in sub-
section (c).
(b) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT AVAILABLE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the amount available under subsection (a) in
a fiscal year to carry out operations and ac-
tivities described in subsection (c) may not
exceed the following:
(A) In fiscal year 2020, $25,000,000.
(B) In each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025,
$35,000,000.
(2) EXCLUSION OF FUNDS FOR US SOUTHCOM
FROM LIMITATION.—Amounts authorized to be
appropriated for a fiscal year for operation
and maintenance and available for such fis-
cal year for the United States Southern
Command for operations and activities de-
scribed in subsection (c)(2) shall not count
toward the limitation applicable to such fis-
cal year under paragraph (1).
(c) OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES.—The oper-
ations and activities described in this sub-
section are the following:
(1) The operations and activities of any de-
partment or agency of the United States
Government (other than the Department of
Defense) in carrying out this Act.
(2) The operations and activities of the De-
partment of Defense in support of any other
department or agency of the United States
Government in carrying out this Act.
(d) TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Defense
may transfer funds authorized to be appro-
priated for the Department of Defense as de-
scribed in subsection (a) to any other depart-
ment or agency of the United States Govern-
ment to carry out this Act.
(2) NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—Any transfer
under this subsection shall not be subject to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.036 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2278 April 4, 2019
any reprogramming requirements under law.
However, a notice on any such transfer shall
be provided to the appropriate committees of
Congress.
(3) INAPPLICABILITY OF TRANSFER LIMITA-
TIONS.—Any transfer under this subsection in
a fiscal year shall not count toward or apply
against any limitation on amounts
transferrable by the Department of Defense
in such fiscal year, including any limitation
specified in an annual defense authorization
Act for such fiscal year.
SEC. 303. DEPARTMENT OF STATE FUNDING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary of State to carry out the oper-
ations and activities described in subsection
(b)—
(1) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
(2) $35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2025.
(b) OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES DE-
SCRIBED.—The operations and activities de-
scribed in this subsection are the following:
(1) The operations and activities of any de-
partment or agency of the United States
Government (other than the Department of
State) in carrying out this Act.
(2) The operations and activities of the De-
partment of State in support of any other de-
partment or agency of the United States
Government in carrying out this Act.
(c) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), amounts authorized to be ap-
propriated by subsection (a) may not be obli-
gated until 15 days after the date on which
the President notifies the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress of the President’s inten-
tion to obligate such funds.
(2) WAIVER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
may waive the notification requirement
under paragraph (1) if the Secretary deter-
mines that such a waiver is in the national
security interests of the United States.
(B) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—If the Sec-
retary exercises the authority provided
under subparagraph (A) to waive the notifi-
cation requirement under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall notify the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress of the President’s inten-
tion to obligate amounts authorized to be
appropriated by subsection (a) as soon as
practicable, but not later than 3 days after
obligating such funds.
(d) TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
may transfer funds authorized to be appro-
priated by subsection (a) to any other de-
partment or agency of the United States
Government to carry out this Act.
(2) NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—Any transfer
under this subsection shall not be subject to
any reprogramming requirements under law.
However, a notice on any such transfer shall
be provided to the appropriate committees of
Congress.
SEC. 304. DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY FUND-
ING.
(a) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Secretary of the Treasury to carry out
the operations and activities described in
subsection (b)—
(1) $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
(2) $35,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021
through 2025.
(b) OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES DE-
SCRIBED.—The operations and activities de-
scribed in this subsection are the following:
(1) The operations and activities of any de-
partment or agency of the United States
Government (other than the Department of
the Treasury) in carrying out this Act.
(2) The operations and activities of the De-
partment of the Treasury in support of any
other department or agency of the United
States Government in carrying out this Act.
(c) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), amounts authorized to be ap-
propriated by subsection (a) may not be obli-
gated until 15 days after the date on which
the President notifies the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress of the President’s inten-
tion to obligate such funds.
(2) WAIVER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury may waive the notification require-
ment under paragraph (1) if the Secretary de-
termines that such a waiver is in the na-
tional security interests of the United
States.
(B) NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT.—If the Sec-
retary exercises the authority provided
under subparagraph (A) to waive the notifi-
cation requirement under paragraph (1), the
Secretary shall notify the appropriate com-
mittees of Congress of the President’s inten-
tion to obligate amounts authorized to be
appropriated by subsection (a) as soon as
practicable, but not later than 3 days after
obligating such funds.
(d) TRANSFER AUTHORITY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Treasury may transfer funds authorized to
be appropriated by subsection (a) to any
other department or agency of the United
States Government to carry out this Act.
(2) NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.—Any transfer
under this subsection shall not be subject to
any reprogramming requirements under law.
However, a notice on any such transfer shall
be provided to the appropriate committees of
Congress.
SEC. 305. APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CON-
GRESS DEFINED.
In this title, the term ‘‘appropriate com-
mittees of Congress’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions, the Select Committee on Intelligence,
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Financial Services, the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, the Permanent
Select Committee on Intelligence, and the
Committee on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 141—CELE-
BRATING THE HERITAGE OF
ROMANI AMERICANS
Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
WICKER) submitted the following reso-
lution; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 141
Whereas the Romani people trace their an-
cestry to the Indian subcontinent;
Whereas Roma have been a part of Euro-
pean immigration to the United States since
the colonial period and particularly fol-
lowing the abolition of the enslavement of
Roma in the historic Romanian principal-
ities;
Whereas Roma live across the world and
throughout the United States;
Whereas the Romani people have made dis-
tinct and important contributions in many
fields, including agriculture, art, crafts, lit-
erature, medicine, military service, music,
sports, and science;
Whereas, on April 8, 1971, the First World
Romani Congress met in London, bringing
Roma together from across Europe and the
United States with the goal of promoting
transnational cooperation among Roma in
combating social marginalization and build-
ing a positive future for Roma everywhere;
Whereas April 8 is therefore celebrated
globally as International Roma Day;
Whereas Roma were victims of genocide
carried out by Nazi Germany and its Axis
partners, and an estimated 200,000 to 500,000
Romani people were killed by Nazis and their
allies across Europe during World War II;
Whereas, on the night of August 2–3, 1944,
the so-called ‘‘Gypsy Family Camp’’ where
Romani people were interned at Auschwitz-
Birkenau was liquidated, and in a single
night, between 4,200 and 4,300 Romani men,
women, and children were killed in gas
chambers;
Whereas 2019 is the 75th anniversary of
that tragic event;
Whereas many countries are taking posi-
tive steps to remember and teach about the
genocide of Roma by Nazi Germany and its
Axis partners; and
Whereas the United States Congress held
its first hearing to examine the situation of
Roma in 1994: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) remembers the genocide of Roma by
Nazi Germany and its Axis partners and
commemorates the 75th anniversary of the
destruction of the ‘‘Gypsy Family Camp’’
where Romani people were interned at
Auschwitz;
(2) commends the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum for its role in promoting
remembrance of the Holocaust and educating
about the genocide of Roma;
(3) supports International Roma Day as an
opportunity to honor the culture, history,
and heritage of the Romani people in the
United States as part of the larger Romani
global diaspora; and
(4) welcomes the Department of State’s
participation in ceremonies and events cele-
brating International Roma Day and similar
engagement by the United States Govern-
ment.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 142—CON-
DEMNING THE GOVERNMENT OF
THE PHILIPPINES FOR ITS CON-
TINUED DETENTION OF SENATOR
LEILA DE LIMA, CALLING FOR
HER IMMEDIATE RELEASE, AND
FOR OTHER PURPOSES
Mr. MARKEY (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs. BLACKBURN,
and Mr. COONS) submitted the fol-
lowing resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions:
S. RES. 142
Whereas extrajudicial killings perpetrated
by the Government of the Philippines as part
of a Government-directed antidrug campaign
present the foremost human rights challenge
in the Philippines;
Whereas the Department of State’s 2017
Human Rights Report notes numerous
human rights concerns, including the perse-
cution of human rights defenders and the de-
tention of political prisoners in the Phil-
ippines, stating, ‘‘The most significant
human rights issues included: killings by se-
curity forces, vigilantes and others allegedly
connected to the government, and by insur-
gents; torture and abuse of prisoners and de-
tainees by security forces; often harsh and
life threatening prison conditions;
warrantless arrests by security forces and
cases of apparent government disregard for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.036 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2279
April 4, 2019
legal rights and due process; political pris-
oners; killings of and threats against jour-
nalists; official corruption and abuse of
power; threats of violence against human
rights activists; violence against women; and
forced labor.’’;
Whereas, on February 23, 2017, an arrest
warrant was issued for Philippine Senator
Leila De Lima for allegations related to drug
trafficking, and as of April 4, 2019, Senator
de Lima had been detained for 770 days;
Whereas the charges brought against Sen-
ator De Lima followed a history of criti-
cizing extrajudicial killings in the Phil-
ippines and the Rodrigo R. Duterte adminis-
tration’s antidrug campaign, including—
(1) in 2009, in her capacity as Chair of the
Commission on Human Rights, Senator De
Lima investigated the alleged involvement
of then-Mayor of Davao City Rodrigo R.
Duterte in the extrajudicial killings exe-
cuted by the so-called ‘‘Davao Death Squad’’;
(2) on December 15, 2014, then-Secretary of
Justice De Lima led a raid of the national
penitentiary which resulted in the confisca-
tion of drugs, firearms, and contraband
items and the extraction of 19 drug lords and
high-profile inmates involved in the facili-
ty’s drug network;
(3) on July 13, 2016, Senator De Lima, in
her capacity as Chair of the Senate Com-
mittee on Justice and Human Rights, filed
Senate Resolution No. 9 calling for an inves-
tigation into extrajudicial killings and sum-
mary executions of suspected drug offenders
arising from President Duterte’s ‘‘War on
Drugs’’;
(4) on August 22, 2016, Senator De Lima
conducted Senate hearings during which al-
leged former death squad members detailed
extrajudicial killings executed as part of the
antidrug campaign and one member testified
that Duterte participated in extrajudicial
killings as mayor of Davao City; and
(5) on August 2, 2016, and September 19,
2016, Senator De Lima delivered two privi-
leged speeches on the Senate floor calling on
President Duterte to end the killings;
Whereas President Duterte vowed to pub-
licly destroy Senator De Lima;
Whereas the charges against Senator De
Lima were supported by testimony from in-
mates whose illegal activities were disrupted
by her 2014 raid;
Whereas the United Nations Human Rights
Council’s Working Group on Arbitrary De-
tention adopted an Opinion on August 24,
2018, finding several categories of arbitrary
detention and concluding, ‘‘Ms. De Lima’s
political views and convictions are clearly at
the centre of the present case and that the
authorities have displayed an attitude to-
wards her that can only be characterized as
targeted and discriminatory. Indeed, she has
been the target of partisan persecution and
there is no explanation for this other than
her exercise of the right to express such
views and convictions as a human rights de-
fender.’’;
Whereas the Department of State’s 2017
Human Rights Report highlighted due proc-
ess obstructions in the case of Senator De
Lima, stating, ‘‘During the year prosecutors
used a variety of legal tactics, including fil-
ing new and amending previous charges, to
delay arraignment.’’;
Whereas the United Nations Working
Group on Arbitrary Detention recommended
that the Government of the Philippines
adopt certain measures, including—
(1) the immediate release of Senator De
Lima;
(2) an independent investigation of the cir-
cumstances surrounding the arbitrary deten-
tion; and
(3) the provision of compensation and other
reparations, including reinstatement to the
positions from which she was ousted;
Whereas, on July 20, 2017, the Tom Lantos
Human Rights Commission of the United
States Congress held a hearing on The
Human Rights Consequences of the War on
Drugs in the Philippines, during which
Human Rights Watch testified about the ‘‘re-
lentless government campaign’’ against Sen-
ator De Lima ‘‘in evident response to her
outspoken criticism of Duterte’s ‘war on
drugs’ and her calls for accountability’’;
Whereas Amnesty International finds Sen-
ator De Lima’s detention to be based solely
on her criticism of the Government of the
Philippines, her political beliefs, and her
peaceful defense of human rights, and con-
siders her a Prisoner of Conscience; and
Whereas the immediate release of Senator
De Lima has been called for by nongovern-
mental organizations, human rights groups,
parliamentary bodies, and individuals in-
cluding the European Parliament, the Aus-
tralian Parliament, the Inter-Parliamentary
Union, Amnesty International, Human
Rights Watch, Liberal International, ASEAN
Parliamentarians for Human Rights, and
many of Senator De Lima’s colleagues in the
Senate minority bloc;
Whereas Maria Ressa, an investigative
journalist who founded the online news plat-
form Rappler, has been arrested several times
on charges against her and her news organi-
zation widely viewed by human rights ob-
servers and a number of governments as part
of a pattern of ‘‘weaponizing the rule of law’’
to repress independent media; and
Whereas Ms. Ressa has been released on
bail, but she and Rappler still face charges
and will soon be standing trial: Now, there-
fore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) condemns—
(A) the Government of the Philippines for
its role in state-sanctioned extrajudicial
killings by police and other armed individ-
uals as part of the ‘‘War on Drugs’’;
(B) the arrest and detention of human
rights defenders and political leaders who ex-
ercise their rights to freedom of expression;
(C) the harassment, arrest, and unjustified
judicial proceedings against the media and
journalists, in particular, the proceeding
against Rappler and Maria Ressa; and
(D) the continued detention of Senator
Leila De Lima;
(2) considers Senator De Lima to be a pris-
oner of conscience, detained solely on ac-
count of her political views and the legiti-
mate exercise of her freedom of expression;
(3) calls on the Government of the Phil-
ippines to immediately release Senator De
Lima, drop all charges against her, remove
restrictions on her personal and work condi-
tions, and allow her to fully discharge her
legislative mandate, especially as Chair of
the Committee on Social Justice;
(4) urges the Government of the Phil-
ippines to recognize the importance of
human rights defenders and their work and
allow them to operate freely without fear of
reprisal; and
(5) urges the Government of the Phil-
ippines to guarantee the right to the freedom
of the press, and to drop all the charges
against Maria Ressa and Rappler.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 143—RECOG-
NIZING ISRAELI-AMERICAN CUL-
TURE AND HERITAGE AND THE
CONTRIBUTIONS OF THE
ISRAELI-AMERICAN COMMUNITY
TO THE UNITED STATES
Mr. CRAMER (for himself, Mr. RUBIO,
and Mr. CRUZ) submitted the following
resolution; which was referred to the
Committee on the Judiciary:
S. RES. 143
Whereas Israeli-Americans are a vibrant
immigrant community contributing to the
diversity of the United States;
Whereas Israeli-Americans, including
those on college campuses in the United
States, have been subject to forms of dis-
crimination and desire to connect with their
culture and celebrate their heritage free
from bigotry and bias;
Whereas the United States is a nation of
immigrants, and Israeli-Americans con-
tribute invaluable skills that promote the
economy and protect the national security of
the United States;
Whereas the contributions of Israeli-Amer-
icans in the fields of astrophysics, mathe-
matics, chemistry, aerospace engineering,
biotech, agriculture, and Internet tech-
nologies have been invaluable to the United
States;
Whereas Israeli-Americans have helped to
form a strong bond between the people of the
United States and the people of Israel, rein-
forcing the shared values and interests be-
tween the two countries; and
Whereas countless Israeli-Americans have
enriched the society of the United States:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) affirms that the Israeli-American com-
munity has contributed immensely to the so-
ciety and culture of the United States; and
(2) condemns all forms of discrimination
that aim to marginalize or disenfranchise
members of the Israeli-American commu-
nity.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 144—DESIG-
NATING MAY 5, 2019, AS THE
‘‘NATIONAL DAY OF AWARENESS
FOR MISSING AND MURDERED
NATIVE WOMEN AND GIRLS’’
Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
TESTER, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. ROUNDS, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. GARDNER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
LANKFORD, and Ms. MURKOWSKI) sub-
mitted the following resolution; which
was referred to the Committee on the
Judiciary:
S. RES. 144
Whereas, according to a study commis-
sioned by the Department of Justice, in some
Tribal communities, American Indian
women face murder rates that are more than
10 times the national average murder rate;
Whereas, according to the most recently
available data from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, in 2017, homicide
was the sixth leading cause of death for
American Indian and Alaska Native females
between 1 and 44 years of age;
Whereas little data exist on the number of
missing American Indian and Alaska Native
women in the United States;
Whereas, on July 5, 2013, Hanna Harris, a
member of the Northern Cheyenne Tribe,
was reported missing by her family in Lame
Deer, Montana;
Whereas the body of Hanna Harris was
found 5 days after she went missing;
Whereas Hanna Harris was determined to
have been raped and murdered, and the indi-
viduals accused of committing those crimes
were convicted;
Whereas the case of Hanna Harris is an ex-
ample of many similar cases; and
Whereas Hanna Harris was born on May 5,
1992: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) designates May 5, 2019, as the ‘‘National
Day of Awareness for Missing and Murdered
Native Women and Girls’’; and
(2) calls on the people of the United States
and interested groups—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.042 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2280 April 4, 2019
(A) to commemorate the lives of missing
and murdered American Indian and Alaska
Native women whose cases are documented
and undocumented in public records and the
media; and
(B) to demonstrate solidarity with the
families of victims in light of those trage-
dies.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 145—COM-
MEMORATING THE BICENTEN-
NIAL OF THE BIRTH OF RABBI
ISAAC MAYER WISE AND THE
130TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
FOUNDING OF THE CENTRAL
CONFERENCE OF AMERICAN
RABBIS
Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
PORTMAN) submitted the following res-
olution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 145
Whereas March 29, 2019, marks the bicen-
tennial of the birth of Rabbi Isaac Mayer
Wise (referred to in this preamble as ‘‘Rabbi
Wise’’) on March 29, 1819;
Whereas Rabbi Wise—
(1) moved to Cincinnati, Ohio, in 1854; and
(2) resided in Cincinnati, Ohio, until his
death in 1900;
Whereas Rabbi Wise is widely recognized
as—
(1) the pioneering architect of Reform Ju-
daism in the United States; and
(2) the founding organizer of Reform Jew-
ish institutions in the United States;
Whereas the United States is home to the
largest Reform Jewish community in the
world, which considers Rabbi Wise to be 1 of
the preeminent founders;
Whereas in 1873, Rabbi Wise founded the
Union of American Hebrew Congregations,
now known as the Union for Reform Juda-
ism;
Whereas in 1875, Rabbi Wise founded He-
brew Union College, now known as Hebrew
Union College–Jewish Institute of Religion,
which, as of March 2019—
(1) has campuses in—
(A) Cincinnati, Ohio;
(B) Los Angeles, California;
(C) New York, New York; and
(D) Jerusalem;
(2) is the premier Jewish seminary in
North America; and
(3) is the academic, spiritual, and profes-
sional leadership development center of Re-
form Judaism;
Whereas in 1889, Rabbi Wise founded the
Central Conference of American Rabbis;
Whereas in 2019—
(1) the annual convention of the Central
Conference of American Rabbis shall be held
in Cincinnati, Ohio; and
(2) the Central Conference of American
Rabbis shall celebrate the 130th anniversary
of the founding of the Central Conference of
American Rabbis at that convention;
Whereas the Senate congratulates the Cen-
tral Conference of American Rabbis for
reaching the significant milestone of 130
years as an organization; and
Whereas, for 130 years, the Central Con-
ference of American Rabbis has made invalu-
able contributions to the cultural and reli-
gious fabric of the United States: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes March 29, 2019, as the bicen-
tennial of the birth of Rabbi Isaac Mayer
Wise (referred to in this resolving clause as
‘‘Rabbi Wise’’);
(2) recognizes the outstanding accomplish-
ments of Rabbi Wise, which have had an en-
during effect on life, culture, and religion in
the United States;
(3) recognizes the extraordinary role of
Rabbi Wise in the history of the United
States; and
(4) congratulates the Central Conference of
American Rabbis on the 130th anniversary of
the founding of the conference by Rabbi
Wise.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 146—RECOG-
NIZING THE CENTENNIAL OF
THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-
NATIONAL EDUCATION
Mr. WICKER (for himself and Mr.
LEAHY) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was considered and agreed
to:
S. RES. 146
Whereas 2019 marks the 100th anniversary
of the founding of the Institute of Inter-
national Education (referred to in this pre-
amble as the ‘‘IIE’’), the oldest educational
exchange organization in the United States;
Whereas the trustees of the IIE and the
students and scholars associated with the
IIE have contributed to their societies in nu-
merous ways and have been recognized with
108 Nobel Prizes;
Whereas the IIE was founded by former
Secretary of State Elihu Root, President
Nicholas Murray Butler of Columbia Univer-
sity, and Professor Stephen Duggan, Sr., of
the College of the City of New York, with
support from the Carnegie Corporation of
New York;
Whereas the IIE was established to dem-
onstrate that the international exchange of
people and ideas can transcend borders and
promote greater understanding and peace;
Whereas the IIE is privileged to administer
200 programs that promote mutual under-
standing and enhance the national security
and economic competitiveness of the United
States, including—
(1) the Fulbright Program, the flagship
international exchange program sponsored
by the United States Government;
(2) the Benjamin A. Gilman International
Scholarship Program, which enables high-
performing United States undergraduate stu-
dents of limited financial means to study or
intern abroad;
(3) the Hubert H. Humphrey Fellowship
Program, which provides a year of enrich-
ment in the United States for experienced
professionals from designated countries un-
dergoing development or political transition;
(4) Open Doors, the comprehensive infor-
mation resource on—
(A) international students and scholars
studying or teaching at higher education
institutions in the United States; and
(B) students from the United States
studying abroad for academic credit at
their home colleges or universities;
(5) EducationUSA, the network of over 425
international student advising centers in 178
countries that promotes higher education in
the United States to students around the
world;
(6) the International Visitor Leadership
Program, the premier professional exchange
program of the Department of State;
(7) TechWomen, a mentorship and ex-
change program pairing emerging inter-
national women leaders in science, tech-
nology, engineering, and mathematics with
women professionals in the United States;
(8) the Boren Awards and The Language
Flagship, initiatives of the National Secu-
rity Education Program that invests in the
next generation of leaders in the United
States by supporting United States under-
graduate and graduate students in learning
languages critical to United States interests;
and
(9) Project Global Officer, a Department of
Defense initiative providing summer scholar-
ships and year-round language training to
Reserve Officers’ Training Corps students for
critical language study and cultural learn-
ing;
Whereas the IIE has been rescuing schol-
ars, artists, and students threatened by war,
civil and religious conflict, terrorism, and
dictatorships and other forms of repression
continuously since 1920;
Whereas, in 2002, the IIE endowed a perma-
nent Scholar Rescue Fund (referred to in
this preamble as the ‘‘IIE-SRF’’) to aid
scholars threatened by conflict and repres-
sion in their home countries by—
(1) vetting the scholars;
(2) providing the scholars with funding;
and
(3) placing the scholars at host institu-
tions;
Whereas, since the endowment of the IIE-
SRF in 2002, the IIE-SRF has—
(1) placed 793 scholars from 59 countries at
393 host institutions in 44 countries; and
(2) saved entire national academies;
Whereas building economies, helping gov-
ernments and corporations develop an edu-
cated workforce, and preparing students and
professionals for success in the global econ-
omy is fundamental to the work of the IIE;
Whereas there are more than 27,000 annual
participants in programs developed, man-
aged, and implemented by the IIE; and
Whereas the IIE is at the foundation of a
network of colleges, universities, and com-
munities that host over 1,000,000 inter-
national students annually, at a benefit of
over $42,000,000,000 to the economy of the
United States: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate recognizes—
(1) on the 100th anniversary of the estab-
lishment of the Institute of International
Education (referred to in this resolution as
the ‘‘IIE’’) the many accomplishments of—
(A) the members and staff of the IIE; and
(B) the participants in programs adminis-
tered by the IIE;
(2) the contributions of the members and
staff of the IIE to—
(A) national security;
(B) economic development;
(C) advancement of cultural awareness;
and
(D) cooperation among nations;
(3) the effectiveness of the IIE at pro-
moting opportunity by—
(A) providing scholarships and admin-
istering programs that benefit underserved
populations;
(B) rescuing and assisting threatened and
displaced scholars, students, and artists; and
(C) encouraging teaching and learning
across cultures into the future; and
(4) the important role of the IIE as a dis-
tinguished partner with the—
(A) United States Government;
(B) private sector; and
(C) nonprofit and philanthropic commu-
nities.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 13—REAFFIRMING THE
UNITED STATES COMMITMENT
TO TAIWAN AND TO THE IMPLE-
MENTATION OF THE TAIWAN RE-
LATIONS ACT
Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mr.
MARKEY, Mr. INHOFE, Mr. MENENDEZ,
and Mr. RISCH) submitted the following
concurrent resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.039 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2281
April 4, 2019
S. CON. RES. 13
Whereas the Taiwan Relations Act (re-
ferred to in this resolution as the ‘‘TRA’’),
which was signed into law on April 10, 1979,
codified into law the basis for continued
commercial, cultural, and other relations be-
tween the people of the United States and
the people of Taiwan, and serves as the foun-
dation to preserve and promote continued bi-
lateral bonds;
Whereas the TRA enshrines the United
States commitment to make available to
Taiwan such defense articles and defense
services in such quantity as may be nec-
essary to enable Taiwan to maintain a suffi-
cient self-defense capability;
Whereas pursuant to section 1206 of the
Foreign Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal
Year 2003 (Public Law 107–228; 22 U.S.C. 2321k
note.), Taiwan is to be treated as though it
were designated a major non-NATO ally for
transfers of defense articles or defense serv-
ices;
Whereas in 1982, President Ronald Reagan
further clarified the importance and resil-
ience of the United States-Taiwan relation-
ship by agreeing to the Six Assurances;
Whereas the TRA and the Six Assurances
are cornerstones of United States policy
with respect to Taiwan, as was reaffirmed—
(1) by the House of Representatives with
the adoption of H. Con. Res. 88 on May 16,
2016; and
(2) by the Senate with the adoption of S.
Con. Res. 38 on July 6, 2016;
Whereas the TRA and the Six Assurances
have been essential components in helping to
maintain peace, security, and stability in
the Western Pacific, thereby furthering the
political, security, and economic interests of
the United States and Taiwan;
Whereas the United States and Taiwan
have forged ever closer economic and secu-
rity relations during the last 4 decades based
on—
(1) their shared commitment to democ-
racy, human rights, the rule of law, and free
market principles; and
(2) their willingness to partner in efforts to
combat global terrorism and to address other
global challenges, such as challenges related
to the environment, public health, energy se-
curity, education, women’s empowerment,
digital economy, poverty, and natural disas-
ters;
Whereas the United States-Taiwan global
partnership was further strengthened in
June 2015, with a memorandum of under-
standing between the American Institute in
Taiwan and the Taipei Economic and Cul-
tural Representative Office in the United
States, which established the Global Co-
operation and Training Framework, and has
allowed the 2 parties to cohost many work-
shops on critical topics, including a Decem-
ber 2018 workshop on humanitarian assist-
ance and disaster relief that was attended by
10 regional governments;
Whereas Taiwan has the expertise, willing-
ness, and capability to engage in inter-
national efforts to mitigate global chal-
lenges related to such issues as public
health, aviation safety, crime, and ter-
rorism, but its participation in such efforts
has been constrained by conditions imposed
by the People’s Republic of China;
Whereas successive Congresses have called
upon the executive branch to develop strate-
gies to obtain meaningful participation for
Taiwan in international organizations, such
as the World Health Organization, the Inter-
national Civil Aviation Organization, and
the International Criminal Police Organiza-
tion (commonly known as ‘‘INTERPOL’’);
Whereas the House of Representatives
passed H.R. 353 on January 22, 2019, which ex-
presses support for Taiwan’s participation at
the World Health Organization’s World
Health Assembly as an observer;
Whereas communication on bilateral secu-
rity, cultural, and commercial interests
would be greatly enhanced with the full im-
plementation of the Taiwan Travel Act (Pub-
lic Law 115–135), which was signed into law
on March 16, 2018, and which states ‘‘the
United States Government should encourage
visits between officials from the United
States and Taiwan at all levels’’;
Whereas the United States and Taiwan
have built a strong economic partnership in
which—
(1) the United States is Taiwan’s third
largest trading partner; and
(2) Taiwan is the 11th largest trading part-
ner of the United States and a key destina-
tion for United States agricultural exports;
Whereas strong United States-Taiwan eco-
nomic relations have been a positive factor
in stimulating economic growth and job cre-
ation for the people of the United States and
of Taiwan; and
Whereas successive Congresses have pub-
licly reaffirmed United States commitments
to Taiwan under the Taiwan Relations Act
and Six Assurances, including most recently
on December 31, 2018, with the enactment
into law of the Asia Reassurance Initiative
Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–409), which states
that—
(1) it is United States policy ‘‘to support
the close economic, political, and security
relationship between Taiwan and the United
States’’; and
(2) the President should—
(A) ‘‘conduct regular transfers of defense
articles to Taiwan that are tailored to
meet the existing and likely future threats
from the People’s Republic of China, in-
cluding supporting the efforts of Taiwan to
develop and integrate asymmetric capa-
bilities, as appropriate, including mobile,
survivable, and cost-effective capabilities,
into its military forces’’; and
(B) ‘‘encourage the travel of high-level
United States officials to Taiwan, in ac-
cordance with the Taiwan Travel Act’’:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That Congress—
(1) reaffirms that the Taiwan Relations
Act and the Six Assurances are, and will re-
main, cornerstones of United States rela-
tions with Taiwan;
(2) encourages United States officials at all
levels to travel to meet with their counter-
parts in Taiwan, and for high-level Taiwan
officials to enter the United States and meet
with United States officials, in accordance
with the Taiwan Travel Act;
(3) reiterates that the President should
conduct regular transfers of defense articles
to Taiwan consistent with Taiwan’s national
security requirements in accordance with ex-
isting law, including the Asia Reassurance
Initiative Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–409);
(4) calls upon the Secretary of State to ac-
tively engage internationally in support of
Taiwan’s meaningful participation in inter-
national organizations engaged in addressing
transnational threats and challenges such as
those related to health, aviation security,
and crime and terrorism;
(5) recognizes Taiwan’s partnership in com-
bating global terrorism, including as a full
partner in the Global Coalition to Defeat
ISIS, and in addressing other global chal-
lenges through the Global Cooperation and
Training Framework and similar initiatives;
(6) urges the President to explore opportu-
nities to expand and deepen bilateral eco-
nomic and trade relations with Taiwan;
(7) underscores the importance of the close
people-to-people ties cultivated through ini-
tiatives such as the Fulbright Program,
which has supported thousands of scholar
and grantee exchanges between the United
States and Taiwan for 60 years;
(8) welcomes the inclusion of Taiwan into
the United States visa waiver program and
U.S. Customs and Border Protection’s Global
Entry Program to make it easier for those
traveling from Taiwan to visit the United
States; and
(9) acknowledges the important work done
by the American Institute in Taiwan and the
Taipei Economic and Cultural Representa-
tive Office in support of United States-Tai-
wan interests.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I have 6
requests for committees to meet during
today’s session of the Senate. They
have the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, April 4,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND NATURAL
RESOURCES
The Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, April 4, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a hearing on the following
nominations: David Bernhardt, of Vir-
ginia, to be Secretary, and Susan
Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant
Secretary, both of the Department of
the Interior, and Aimee Kathryn
Jorjani, of Wisconsin, to be Chairman
of the Advisory Council on Historic
Preservation.
COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY AND
GOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
The Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs is au-
thorized to meet during the session of
the Senate on Thursday, April 4, 2019,
at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, April 3,
2019, at 2:45 p.m., to conduct a hearing
on the following nominations: Daniel
P. Collins, and Kenneth Kiyul Lee,
both of California, both to be a United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, James Wesley Hendrix, and Mark
T. Pittman, both to be a United States
District Judge for the Northern Dis-
trict of Texas, Sean D. Jordan, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Texas, Ronald D.
Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Homeland Security, Virgil
Madden, of Indiana, to be a Commis-
sioner of the United States Parole
Commission, and Nick Edward Proffitt,
of Virginia, to be United States Mar-
shal for the Eastern District of Vir-
ginia, Department of Justice.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:36 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.040 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2282 April 4, 2019
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, April 3, 2019, at 2.45 p.m., to con-
duct a closed hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON AVIATION, OPERATIONS,
SAFETY, AND SECURITY
The Subcommittee on Aviation, Op-
erations, Safety, and Security of the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Thursday, April 4, 2019, at 10:15 a.m., to
conduct a hearing.
f
SUPPORTING THE NORTH ATLAN-
TIC TREATY ORGANIZATION AND
RECOGNIZING ITS 70 YEARS OF
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of Cal-
endar No. 5, S. Res. 123.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 123) supporting the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization and rec-
ognizing its 70 years of accomplishments.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
know of no further debate on the meas-
ure.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the question is on
agreeing to the resolution.
The resolution (S. Res. 123) was
agreed to.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the mo-
tions to reconsider be considered made
and laid upon the table with no inter-
vening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The resolution is printed in the
RECORD of March 27, 2019, under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
COMMEMORATING THE BICENTEN-
NIAL OF THE BIRTH OF RABBI
ISAAC MAYER WISE AND THE
130TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
FOUNDING OF THE CENTRAL
CONFERENCE OF AMERICAN
RABBIS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 145, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 145) commemorating
the bicentennial of the birth of Rabbi Isaac
Mayer Wise and the 130th anniversary of the
founding of the Central Conference of Amer-
ican Rabbis.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 145) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
RECOGNIZING THE CENTENNIAL
OF THE INSTITUTE OF INTER-
NATIONAL EDUCATION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to consideration of S. Res.
146, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 146) recognizing the
centennial of the Institute of International
Education.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the reso-
lution be agreed to, the preamble be
agreed to, and the motions to recon-
sider be considered made and laid upon
the table with no intervening action or
debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 146) was
agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR MONDAY, APRIL 8,
2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 4 p.m., Monday, April 8,
2019, and that following the prayer and
pledge, the morning hour be deemed
expired, the Journal of proceedings be
approved to date, the time for the two
leaders be reserved for their use later
in the day, and the Senate be in a pe-
riod of morning business, with Sen-
ators permitted to speak therein for up
to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL MONDAY,
APRIL 8, 2019, AT 4 P.M.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:39 p.m., adjourned until Monday,
April 8, 2019, at 4 p.m.
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
THE JUDICIARY
FRANK WILLIAM VOLK, OF WEST VIRGINIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN
DISTRICT OF WEST VIRGINIA, VICE JOHN T.
COPENHAVER, JR., RETIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
SCOTT SOLES, OF TEXAS, TO BE CHIEF FINANCIAL OF-
FICER, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, VICE JON M.
HOLLADAY.
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
MICHELLE BOWMAN, OF KANSAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE
SYSTEM FOR A TERM OF FOURTEEN YEARS FROM FEB-
RUARY 1, 2020. (REAPPOINTMENT)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ALLISON HERREN LEE, OF COLORADO, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FOR A TERM EXPIRING JUNE 5, 2022, VICE KARA MAR-
LENE STEIN, TERM EXPIRED.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
MICHAEL J.K. KRATSIOS, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE
AN ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE
AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY, VICE PATRICIA K. FALCONE,
RESIGNED.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
ALMA L. GOLDEN, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT AD-
MINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, VICE ARIEL PABLOS–
MENDEZ.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RICHARD B. NORLAND, OF IOWA, A CAREER MEMBER OF
THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO LIBYA.
THE JUDICIARY
STEVEN D. GRIMBERG, OF GEORGIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT
OF GEORGIA, VICE RICHARD W. STORY, RETIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
RANDALL P. HUFF, OF WYOMING, TO BE UNITED
STATES MARSHAL FOR THE DISTRICT OF WYOMING FOR
THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE JOSEPH CAMPBELL
MOORE, TERM EXPIRED.
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS SENIOR MILITARY ACQUISITION ADVISOR IN THE
GRADE INDICATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
1725(A):
To be colonel
CHRISTOPHER B. ATHEARN
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
THEODORE W. KLEISNER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
ROBERT W. HUGHES
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
LARRY R. JORDAN, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SEC-
TIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be major
KONTRINA S. PARK
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
MARCUS L. JORDAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
ROBERT M. HUDSON
TERRY W. PARTIN
JAMES D. SIZEMORE
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.043 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S2283
April 4, 2019
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JOHN E. CALLIHAN II
MICHAEL A. HOFFMAN
JOHN A. MEYER
JEFFREY F. RYAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
BOGUSLAW A. AUGUSTYN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JAMES R. ACHENBACH
DERRIL J. ALBERT
ALLAN D. BARALL
JEREMY BARAN
LOUISA R. BARGERON
RYAN W. BARNES
FRANK A. BART
ERIK S. V. BENSON
JULIE M. BIRCH
ROBERT G. BLAIR III
JIMMY W. BOAN
DEREK R. BOLZ
GARY H. BOUTELLE
KACEY C. BRASHEAR
PATRICIA L. BREWER
DANIEL M. BROWN
JOHN F. BRUNETT
WILLIAM D. BUNDY
DUANE A. BURK
CHRISTINA L. BURTON
ANTHONY C. BUSILLO III
CHRISTOPHER J. BUZARD
MATTHEW M. CAIN
MARK D. CAMPBELL
ARCHER R. CARR
ABIGAIL A. CATHELINEAUD
JOHN A. CHAVEZ
BRAD A. CLAWSON
BRIAN A. COPE
MICHAEL J. CREEDON
ANGEL R. DAVILALOPEZ
DAVID J. DAVIS
MARK P. DEDRICK
ANDREW S. DEJESSE
CECILIA A. DIAZ
ROBERT J. DINAN
ROSA A. DRAKE
OBUN J. DUFFY
REX A. EISERER
GREGORY H. FAIRBANK
DAVID M. FARABAUGH
SUZANNE M. FIELD
GAIL A. FISHER
PHILLIP A. FLEMING
WALTER L. FLINN
MARTIN R. FLYNN
JEFFREY W. FOREST
DAVID M. FOSTER
KAREN D. R. FRICKE
JAMES H. GORMLY
JASON A. GRIDER
JOHN C. HAAS, JR.
THOMAS J. HARZEWSKI
NANCY L. HENDERSON
LEE A. HERRING
JAY A. HINES
PHILLIP L. HIRSCH
PATRICK E. HUGHES
MILTON V. HUMPHREY
GREGORY P. HUTCHINS
MICHAEL A. JACOBSON
GEOFFREY J. JERAM
MARK L. JOHNSTON, JR.
HEIDI A. JONES
CHARLES C. JORDAN
LAWRENCE J. KAPP
OK K. KIM
CHAD E. KIRCHNER
ADRIAN I. KOBRYN
REGINALD J. KORNEGAY
ERIC C. KOTOUC
GERALD J. KRIEGER
MICHAEL R. LAFONTAINE
RODERICK F. LAUGHMAN
HARRY M. LAWSON
MATTHEW J. LAWSON
RICHARD R. LEACH
SCOTT A. LEIDIGH
JOHN W. LEWIS
ANTHONY M. LEYVA
CHRISTOPHER G. LIBERTINI
RUSSELL J. LOFQUIST
PAUL V. LOHMANN
GEORGE N. MAY
JAMES F. MAZZEI
CARLUS U. MCCONNELL
WILLIAM S. MCDANIEL
EDWARD A. MCGOLDRICK
JOHN M. MCGOWAN
KEVIN O. MCKENZIE
CLINTON MEAD
MICHAEL C. MELANCON
CARLOS J. MELENDEZ
ROBERT W. METCALFE
JOSEPH S. MILLER
CHRISTOPHER MINOR
CHARLES S. MOLINETS
TRACY G. MONTEITH
MICHAEL A. NAPOLITANO
DAVID S. NASH
CHRISTOPHER J. NIEWIND
DAVID A. OKIMOTO
RODERICK J. PAGE
JAMES E. PATRICK
STEPHEN M. PAZAK
MATTHEW W. PETERSON
JEAN P. PLAMONDON
RONNIE H. PRESTON, JR.
MOHAMMED Z. RAHMAN
ANDREW L. RAMOS
BRIAN J. REGAN
DIANE M. RICHBURG
MATT F. RIESENBERG
CHRISTOPHER B. RILEY
DEAN B. ROBERTS
DEVON D. ROBERTS
JANET E. ROSS
STEPHEN B. RUBRIGHT
THERESA J. RUSIN
NICHOLAS M. SANCHEZ
RUDOLPH P. SANTACROCE
WESLEY B. SARGENT
GREGORY M. SAWMELLE
MATTHEW T. SCILLIA
JOHN A. SHULLI
CHRISTOPHER S. SIMCOX
BETH A. SISSON
DARRIN L. SMITH
EDDIE J. SMITH
GREGORY M. SMITH
MICHAEL D. SMITH
MICHAEL J. SMITH
TRAVIS A. SMITH
JONATHAN D. SOLTZ
DARREN A. SPAULDING
THERON C. SPURGEON
GEORGE M. STATHAM III
BENJAMIN L. STEVENS
BRYAN L. STOVER
FRANCIS C. SUYAK
ELIZABETH K. SWEET
MICHAEL L. TANG
HENRY L. TENNANT, JR.
JOSEPH C. THAMES, JR.
KATHERINE J. TOWNSEND
JOHN H. TUCKWILLER
SIEGFRIED J. ULLRICH
ANDREW B. ULMER
CHRISTOPHER M. UPCHURCH
TIMOTHY J. VERSPRILLE
STEPHEN D. VILE, JR.
GERARD D. WALSH
ALLISON E. WATKINS
KEITH B. WEBER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
KEITH A. ARCHIBALD
JASON M. ARNDT
BETTINA K. AVENT
JERRY A. BROWN
ANTHONY M. CALLANDRILLO
JOHN G. CASEY
DANIEL L. CEDERMAN
MARCUS A. CHEATHAM
JOHN J. COIRO
BETTY S. CUMMISKEY
VERNON R. DAVIS
ERIC R. FRIEBIS
LEAF S. HALES
SHAWN T. HUBBELL
DAVID M. JENKINS
ELAINE J. JOHNSON
VALERIA G. JOHNSON
BRET D. JONES
DOUGLAS R. KISSELL
MARITZA LAGARES
STEVEN E. LAMPKINS
JAMES M. LEWIS
ANDREW T. LOVE
THOMAS MANION
JABAR M. MARKS
MARY P. MARTINEZ
RHONDA R. MCCULLEY
DANIEL C. MCTIGUE
MATTHEW N. METZEL
CASEY J. MINER
WILLIAM G. MORRIS
CHARLES N. MOULTON
JEFFREY C. MOZINGO
GARY L. OLIVER
JOSEPH R. PARNELL
AARON P. RADTKE
KIP R. REITZ
JOSEPH C. RICKER
JOHN A. SALO
NICHOLAS J. SCHAPPER
TERRANCE L. SCHOOLER
DARRELL S. SCHUSTER
THOMAS L. SHARRATT
TROY N. SHEARER
TY S. SHORT
MICKIE J. SKAGGS
TRENT A. SMITH
JOSEPH L. THOMAS
MARK A. WATERS
FRANK L. WITSBERGER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
TIMOTHY B. ALEXANDER
MICHAEL J. BANKS
DAVID C. BARKUS
AARON H. BAUGHER
JOSEPH A. BAULDRY
HUNTER L. BELCHER
JASON P. BENSON
ANDREW M. BISHOP
BRIAN L. BLANKENSHIP
ALVIN P. BOLTON
JOHN B. BOWLIN
RODNEY W. BOWMAN
SEAN A. BRADY
DONALD R. BRAUGHT
SHILOH P. BRIGGS
MARK E. BRODERICK
TIMOTHY A. BROOKS
JEFFERY P. BURKE
SCOTT L. BUSH
KENDRICK L. CAGER
MIRIAM D. CARLISLEWESTFALL
BRYAN M. CARR
MAXIME C. CASTELEYN
ERICA M. CHRISTIE
SHAWN C. CODY
JOSEPH A. COOKE, JR.
BRETT A. COOPER
GREGORY S. COOPER
JUNE S. COPELAND
VIRGINIA C. CORDERY
KEVIN P. CRAWFORD
JAMEY L. CREEK
DAVID E. CRENSHAW
PAUL F. CRIGLER
ROBERT S. CROCKEM, JR.
JAMES C. CROWLEY
HENRY J. CUDNEY
JAMES T. CULVER
MICHAEL B. DAAKE
ROBERT C. DAVIS
BRIAN K. DEAN
MARC D. DEFREYN
SCOTT J. DESORMEAUX
MICHAEL G. DYKES
ANDREW R. DZIENGELESKI
MICHAEL W. ECKER
CARL E. ENGSTROM
JEFFREY A. ERICKSON
MICHAEL D. EVANS
EVAN C. EWACHIW
JAMES A. FALEAFINE
BRIAN S. FALLON
GREGORY T. FARR
TOD M. FENNER
ROBERT B. FISK
DEAN J. FIX
ANTHONY D. FORD
RENEE M. FORD
DOUGLAS J. FORTIER
CRAIG A. FOURNIER
ARTHUR J. GARFFER, JR.
RANDALL K. GATES
FRANCIS E. GERMANESE
DAVID L. GIBBONS III
DANIEL E. GILBERT
THOMAS W. GOLDEN
LINDA S. GRAY
LOUIS D. GRAY
MARVIN R. GREEN III
BRYANT L. HAAS
JOHN C. HALL
DAVID S. HAMILTON
CHARLES A. HANCOCK
MICHAEL D. HANSON
LANCE D. HARGRAVE
MICHAEL S. HATFIELD
CRAIG S. HEATHSCOTT
BILLIE W. HEISER II
BRIAN P. HENNESSEY
JAVID D. HERAVI
MICHAEL K. HERRINGTON
MICHAEL W. HICKS
JAMES R. HIGGINBOTHAM
ARVID R. HILL
DEREK J. HOLLAND
SCOTT E. HOUSE
TURON M. HUMPHREY
SARAH E. HURLEY
JOHN M. INSETTA
BARRY C. JACKSON
JOSE B. JAQUES
CHARLES K. JAWORSKI, JR.
PETER J. JERZAK
JEFFARY L. JIANNONI
BARRY L. JOHNSON
CHRISTOPHER M. JOHNSON
ROBERT C. JORGENSEN, JR.
MARK E. KALIN
DENNIS E. KEENER
AARON P. KEIRN
JARED D. LAKE
DAVID R. LAYDON
BOBBY J. LEE, JR.
NATALIE L. LEWELLEN
HEATH M. LEWIS
PATRICK L. LEWIS
DANIEL J. LONG
WILLIAM B. LONG
JOHN G. LOWE
MATTHEW A. LUTZ
REECE J. LUTZ
CHRIS M. MABIS
JASON P. MAHFOUZ
JUSTIN L. MANN
MICHAEL J. MANUCY, JR.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 22:05 Jul 01, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\RECORD19\APRIL\S04AP9.REC S04AP9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S2284 April 4, 2019
TIMOTHY R. MAPLES
MICHAEL P. MARCINIAK
GREGORY MARCUSON
WILLARD B. MARLOW
CHARLES B. MARTIN, JR.
ROBERT M. MARTINEZ
MICHAEL D. MCCOY
ERIC D. MCELWAIN
GARY S. MCLEOD
SARAH M. MCLEVY
JAMES L. MCNAIR III
ROBERT H. MEDINA
CARL C. MEREDITH
TIMOTHY M. METCALF
CHRISTOPHER S. MOENSTER
DAVID A. MOORE
ANTHONY MOSCATO
JASON P. NELSON
ROBERT D. NESBIT, JR.
RODNEY D. NEWTON
ERIC W. NORRIS
JAMES M. PALEMBAS, JR.
ROBERT J. PAYNE
WILLY F. PEGUES IV
JUSTIN D. PERRYMAN
NATHANIEL W. PETERS
THOMAS C. PETERSON
SALLY F. PETTY
IRA J. PHILLIPS, JR.
JOHN E. PITT
DAVID C. POLKINGHORN
MATTHEW N. PORTER
PAMELA L. PRINCE
JOSHUA B. QUANTZ
JAMES C. RAE, JR.
KENNETH J. RATLIFF
DARREN REAM
CASEY D. REED
RANDY N. REMIKER
EDMUND M. RIELY
RAYMOND J. RIPBERGER
FELIX A. RODRIGUEZ, JR.
GREGORY W. ROGERS
CARLOS R. ROQUE
STEPHAN J. RUPPELLEE
ARON T. SACCHETTI
CHRISTOPHER J. SAMULSKI
DEMIAN W. SANMIGUEL
CLEMENT V. SAWIN
SEAN W. SAWYER
STEPHEN E. SAWYER
MICHAEL T. SCATES
LORI R. SCHANHALS
JOHN A. SCHOTT
AARON R. SCHUH
JAMES D. SEWARD
WILLIAM M. SHARP
FRED B. SHIRAH, JR.
JOSHUA M. SIMER
JOHN D. SIVLEY
NATHANIEL R. SKELLY
JAMES S. SLAVEN
STEPHEN G. SMITH
TIFFANY M. SNEED
RAGNAR P. SORENSEN
WILLIAM G. START
JONATHAN S. STEINBACH
TOMMIE D. STEVENS
ERIC M. STILLER
CHAD E. STONE
JEFFREY D. STOWELL
JOHN W. STRAIN II
SHANE P. STRICKLAND
TIMOTHY A. STROHMAN
STEPHEN M. STROUD
CRAIG A. SWANK
PAUL W. TAPPEN
DEXTER T. THORNTON
KENDRICK D. TRAYLOR
PHILLIP G. TREVINO
DANA L. TUCKER
TODD J. VERRILL
WALTER E. VONHOVEN
ROBERT S. WALKER
PAUL A. WATERS
BRIAN E. WATSON
RAY P. WATSON
MATTHEW E. WEAR
DAVID E. WEST, JR.
JONATHAN C. WILLIAMS
JASON L. WISEHART
KENNETH P. WISNIEWSKI III
MATTHEW S. WOODRUFF
ROBERT J. YENCHA
WING Y. YU
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
GUY W. JENSEN
DAVID L. RHOINEY
VENITA M. SIMPSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
MARISSA A. MAYOR
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be captain
ADAM C. HANCOCK
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be commander
JOHN J. EASTMAN
f
CONFIRMATIONS
Executive nominations confirmed by
the Senate April 4, 2019:
THE JUDICIARY
ROY KALMAN ALTMAN, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF FLORIDA.
FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
MARK ANTHONY CALABRIA, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE DIREC-
TOR OF THE FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY FOR A
TERM OF FIVE YEARS.
f
WITHDRAWAL
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on April 4,
2019 withdrawing from further Senate
consideration the following nomina-
tion:
RONALD D. VITIELLO, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY, VICE SARAH
R. SALDANA, WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SENATE ON JANU-
ARY 16, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:37 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A04AP6.005 S04APPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E403
April 4, 2019
HONORING MR. ANTONIO ‘‘TONY’’
FRIAS
HON. LORI TRAHAN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mr. Antonio ‘‘Tony’’ Frias of Hudson,
Massachusetts who is turning 80 years old on
Saturday, April 6, 2019. Tony dedicated his
life to his community and business, as the co-
founder of S&F Concrete Contractors, Inc.
Tony has lived his life admirably, and his leg-
acy of hard work and public service continues
to inspire many in our community.
Tony Frias was born in Santa Maria Island,
Azores and left school after the 4th grade to
immigrate to the United States in 1955 with
the earnest pursuit to create a better future.
Before becoming involved in construction,
Tony challenged himself in various positions,
building skills, determination, and exploring in-
terests to cultivate. After seven years of work-
ing in the concrete construction industry, Tony
and his brother Joseph joined forces with Jack
Santos to establish S&F Concrete Contractors,
Inc. Today, he continues his work with over 50
years of construction experience at the fore-
front of the company.
Tony’s lifetime commitment to our commu-
nity and his work at S&F Concrete Contractors
has been invaluable to Massachusetts. I am
proud to rise in honor of Tony’s 80th birthday
and look forward to his continuing to inspire
others in our community.
Madam Speaker, it is with great honor that
I recognize Mr. Antonio Frias today.
f
RECOGNIZING THE 70TH
ANNIVERSARY OF NATO
HON. STEVE COHEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. COHEN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the 70th Anniversary of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
NATO emerged out of the ashes of World
War II and has been the cornerstone of our
security across the Atlantic and around the
world. It has also been an important building
block for our relationships with transatlantic
partners.
NATO remains the most important and crit-
ical security link between the United States
and Europe. NATO has been an important
way for the United States to demonstrate a
strong commitment to the independence, sov-
ereignty, territorial integrity, and democratic
development of the countries that have
emerged from the former Soviet Union, includ-
ing Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania, Georgia,
Ukraine, and Moldova. NATO allies and part-
ners in both Central and Eastern Europe have
stood alongside the United States in joint
peace operations in the Western Balkans, Af-
ghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere.
NATO stood with the United States in one
of the darkest days of our history when we
were attacked on 9/11. When the United
States invoked Article 5, the first time done so
by a country in the history of the Alliance,
NATO joined our fight and are still engaged in
Afghanistan to this day.
Last year, I was proud to introduce and see
the House of Representatives pass H. Res.
256, a resolution expressing support for the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization and the
countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The
House of Representatives sent a strong mes-
sage that no matter what President Trump
says during the NATO Summit in Brussels,
Congress strongly supports our treaty allies
and the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
our friends in Central and Eastern Europe.
We will continue to work to counter Russian
aggression in Europe including the occupation
of Georgian territory, the annexation of Cri-
mea, continued violations of Baltic airspace
and threats to Moldovan territorial integrity and
sovereignty.
We will stand by our allies, as they have
stood by us.
f
DYLANN ADAMS CHAVEZ
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Dylann
Adams Chavez for receiving the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award.
Dylann Adams Chavez is a student at North
Arvada Middle High School and received this
award because her determination and hard
work have allowed her to overcome adversi-
ties.
The dedication demonstrated by Dylann
Adams Chavez is exemplary of the type of
achievement that can be attained with hard
work and perseverance. It is essential stu-
dents at all levels strive to make the most of
their education and develop a work ethic
which will guide them for the rest of their lives.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Dylann Adams Chavez for winning the Arvada
Wheat Ridge Service Ambassadors for Youth
award. I have no doubt she will exhibit the
same dedication and character in all of her fu-
ture accomplishments.
f
THE 51ST ANNIVERSARY OF THE
ASSASSINATION OF THE REV.
DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR.
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
today, April 4, 2019, marks the 51st anniver-
sary of one of the darkest and most sorrowful
days in American history, the assassination in
Memphis, Tennessee of the Rev. Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. Holiday.
The mortal life of one of the towering figures
of the 20th century may have been cut short
on the balcony of the Lorraine Motel a half
century ago, but the spirit that animated that
life and inspired a nation lives on and reminds
us that nothing is impossible when we are
guided by the better angels of our nature.
In remembering the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., we commemorate a man of action,
who put his life on the line for freedom and
justice every day.
We honor the courage of a man who en-
dured harassment, threats and beatings, and
even bombings.
We celebrate the man who went to jail 29
times to achieve freedom for others, and who
knew he would pay the ultimate price for his
leadership, but kept on marching and pro-
testing and organizing anyway.
Dr. King once said that we all have to de-
cide whether we ‘‘will walk in the light of cre-
ative altruism or the darkness of destructive
selfishness.’’
‘‘Life’s most persistent and nagging ques-
tion,’’ he said, is ‘‘what are you doing for oth-
ers?’’
And when Dr. King talked about the end of
his mortal life in one of his last sermons, on
February 4, 1968 in the pulpit of Ebenezer
Baptist Church, even then he lifted up the
value of service as the hallmark of a full life:
‘‘I’d like somebody to mention on that day
Martin Luther King, Jr. tried to give his life
serving others,’’ he said. ‘‘I want you to say on
that day, that I did try in my life . . . to love
and serve humanity.’’
We should also remember that the Rev. Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was, above all, a per-
son who was always willing to speak truth to
power.
There is perhaps no better example of Dr.
King’s moral integrity and consistency than his
criticism of the Vietnam War being waged by
the Johnson Administration, an administration
that was otherwise a friend and champion of
civil and human rights.
Martin Luther King, Jr. was born in Atlanta,
Georgia on January 15, 1929.
Martin’s youth was spent in our country’s
Deep South, then run by Jim Crow and the Ku
Klux Klan.
For young African-Americans, it was an en-
vironment even more dangerous than the one
they face today.
A young Martin managed to find a dream,
one that he pieced together from his read-
ings—in the Bible, and literature, and just
about any other book he could get his hands
on.
Not only did those books help him educate
himself, but they also allowed him to work
through the destructive and traumatic experi-
ences of blatant discrimination, and the dis-
criminatory abuse inflicted on himself, his fam-
ily, and his people.
As a youngster, Dr. King learned to use his
imagination and his dreams to see right
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.001 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E404 April 4, 2019
through those ‘‘White Only’’ signs—to see the
reality that all men, and women, regardless of
their place of origin, their gender, or their
creed, are created equal.
Dr. King was a dreamer and through
dreams he was able to lift his mind beyond
the reality of his segregated society to a be-
loved place where it was possible that white
and black, red and brown, and all others live,
work, and prosper together in harmony.
But the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was
not an idle daydreamer.
He shared his visions through speeches that
motivated others to join in his nonviolent effort
to lift themselves from poverty and isolation by
creating a new America where equal justice
and institutions were facts of life.
In the Declaration of Independence in 1776,
Thomas Jefferson wrote, ‘‘We hold these
truths to be self evident, that all Men are Cre-
ated Equal.’’
At that time and for centuries to come, Afri-
can-Americans were historically, culturally, and
legally excluded from inclusion in that declara-
tion.
Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King’s ‘‘I Have
a Dream’’ Speech, delivered 54 years ago, on
August 28, 1963, was a clarion call to each
citizen of this great nation that we still hear
today.
His request was simply and eloquently con-
veyed—he asked America to allow of its citi-
zens to live out the words written in its Dec-
laration of Independence and to have a place
in this nation’s Bill of Rights.
The 1960s were a time of great crisis and
conflict.
It was the decade of the Cuban Missile Cri-
sis, the Vietnam War, and the assassinations
of President John Fitzgerald Kennedy, Mal-
colm X, Presidential Candidate Robert Ken-
nedy, and the man we honor here today.
The dream expressed and shared by the
Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. helped win
major victories in the battle for civil rights.
It started when Dr. King led the Montgomery
Bus Boycott, with Rosa Parks and others,
which lasted for 381 days, and ended when
the United States Supreme Court outlawed ra-
cial segregation on all public transportation.
But the dream did not die there.
It continued with a peaceful march for suf-
frage that started in Selma, Alabama on
March 7, 1965, a day that was immediately
known and will always be remembered as
‘‘Bloody Sunday,’’ when a peaceful march for
voting rights ended in bloodshed and violence
at the hands of law enforcement officers as
the marchers crossed the Edmund Pettus
Bridge.
When the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King was stolen from us, he was a very young
39 years old.
People remember that Dr. King died in
Memphis, but few can remember why he was
there.
On that fateful day in 1968 Dr. King came
to Memphis to support a strike by the city’s
sanitation workers.
The garbage men there had recently formed
a chapter of the American Federation of State,
County and Municipal Employees to demand
better wages and working conditions.
But the city refused to recognize their union,
and when the 1,300 employees walked off
their jobs the police broke up the rally with
mace and Billy clubs.
It was then that union leaders invited Dr.
King to Memphis.
Despite the danger he might face entering
such a volatile situation, it was an invitation he
could not refuse.
Not because he longed for danger, but be-
cause the labor movement was intertwined
with the civil rights movement for which he
had given up so many years of his life.
The death of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., will never overshadow his life.
That is his legacy as a dreamer and a man
of action.
It is a legacy of hope, tempered with peace.
It is a legacy not quite yet fulfilled.
I hope that Dr. King’s vision of equality
under the law is never lost to us, because
without that vision—without that dream—we
can never continue to improve the human con-
dition.
The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. under-
stood that a life well lived, and all of the no-
blest virtues—courage, wisdom, grace, love—
were rooted in service to others.
And he memorably expressed this idea in
his last sermon, the one given at Mason Tem-
ple in Memphis on April 3, 1968, the evening
before he was felled by an assassin:
But then the Good Samaritan came by.
And he reversed the question: ‘‘If I do not
stop to help this man, what will happen to
him?’’
That’s the question before you tonight.
Not, ‘‘If I stop to help the sanitation work-
ers, what will happen to my job. Not, ‘‘If I
stop to help the sanitation workers what will
happen to all of the hours that I usually
spend in my office every day and every week
as a pastor?’’ The question is not, ‘‘If I stop
to help this man in need, what will happen to
me?’’ The question is, ‘‘If I do not stop to
help the sanitation workers, what will hap-
pen to them?’’ That’s the question.
Let us rise up tonight with a greater readi-
ness. Let us stand with a greater determina-
tion. And let us move on in these powerful
days, these days of challenge to make Amer-
ica what it ought to be. We have an oppor-
tunity to make America a better nation. And
I want to thank God, once more, for allowing
me to be here with you.
So in these difficult days of challenge, let us
remember and take inspiration from the re-
markable, extraordinary, and consequential life
of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and
move forward together, with greater readiness
and determination, to make America a place
where all of her people enjoy the blessings of
justice, equality, and human dignity.
Let us, the living, continue that struggle
today and forever, in the incandescent spirit of
the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
f
RECOGNIZING JUSTIN DOWNS OF
MOLT
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Justin Downs of Molt for res-
cuing a severely injured man amid harsh win-
ter conditions.
A rancher from northwest of Billings, Justin
is a volunteer firefighter with the Broadview
Fire Department. On a day in early March with
challenging winter weather, he was called
upon to aid a man injured in a ranching acci-
dent. The man was immobile, and because of
snow-drifted roads and fields, emergency vehi-
cles were unable to reach him.
As he has done countless times before,
Justin responded to the call. Using his farm
tractor, he and a medic began crossing the
fields of deep snow about two miles from
where conditions had forced emergency vehi-
cles to stop.
Upon arrival, the medic provided initial treat-
ment for the man’s injuries. Justin and the
medic then loaded the man into the cab of
Justin’s tractor. Justin drove through the snow-
covered fields to the rescue vehicles where he
left the man with emergency personnel. He
then crossed the fields again to get the medic,
who had stayed behind because of limited
space in the tractor’s cab.
‘‘I know people would help me out if I need-
ed it. We just do what needs to be done when
it needs to be done,’’ Justin said.
Winters in Montana can be harsh and
produce dangerous conditions, especially in
rural areas where travel can be disrupted for
days. It’s encouraging to know neighbors
stand ready to lend a hand in times of need.
Madam Speaker, for his selfless service to
his community and for coming to the aid of an
injured rancher without hesitation and amid
hostile winter conditions, I recognize Justin
Downs for his spirit of Montana.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE WYO-
MING SEMINARY FIELD HOCKEY
TEAM, 2018 PIAA STATE CHAM-
PIONS
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate the Wyoming Seminary
Field Hockey team on winning their state
championship in Pennsylvania. The Blue
Knights were named the Pennsylvania Inter-
scholastic Athletic Association’s Class 1A
Field Hockey State Champions on November
17, 2018, after they won the final game
against the Newport Buffalos by a final score
of 2–0. The team also earned the WVC Divi-
sion 1 and District 2 Class A Field Hockey
Championships.
Head Coach Karen Klassner, Assistant
Coach Kim Barbacci, and Assistant Coach
Margaret Kerrick led the team to victory during
the season. The state champions team roster
includes: Grace Aiello, Kate Barilla, Maggie
Barilla, Emma Bean, Ava Bufalino, Cristiana
Burcovschii, Reese Butcher, Shawna Casey,
Julia Christian, Ahna Dinsmore, Halle Kehl,
Bari Lefkowitz, Mia Magnotta, Hannah Max-
well, Tyra McCormick, Abby McDaniel, Quinn
Medico, Anna Mozeleski, Aubrey Mytych,
Grace Parsons, Coty Pinero, Dani Reiser,
Kelsey Reznick, Katie Ritsick, Abby Santo,
Elisabeth Seyfarth, Alex Wesneski, Emily Wil-
liams, Tyler Wood, and Tiana Wren.
Senior midfielder Kelsey Reznick scored the
initial point during a penalty stroke in the final
minutes of the first half. In the opening min-
utes of the second half, forward Hannah Max-
well scored the additional point for her team.
Keeper Mia Magnotta made two saves for Wy-
oming Seminary throughout the course of the
game.
It is an honor to recognize the outstanding
achievement of these young women and their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.003 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E405
April 4, 2019
coaches. It is with great pride that I congratu-
late them on their winning season. Go Blue
Knights.
f
BOB AND JACKIE HUNT’S 70TH
ANNIVERSARY
HON. DANIEL WEBSTER
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. WEBSTER of Florida. Madam Speaker,
I am honored to congratulate Bob and Jackie
Hunt of Leesburg, Florida on their 70th anni-
versary of marriage.
Bob and Jackie are lifelong residents of
Lake County Florida. Bob served in the Navy
during World War II. After the war, Bob re-
turned to Florida and joined the Citrus indus-
try. Jackie was a Licensed Practical Nurse
(LPN) and working together, they raised and
put their three children through college.
Marriage and strong families are indispen-
sable contributors to the prosperity of our na-
tion. Bob and Jackie, I am honored to recog-
nize your loyalty and faithfulness to one an-
other and your family. I offer my sincerest con-
gratulations for 70 years of marriage. May
God continue to bless them and their family in
the years to come.
f
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SE-
CURITY MORALE, RECOGNITION,
LEARNING AND ENGAGEMENT
ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 1433 the ‘‘DHS MO-
RALE Act’’, which would help improve morale
among the 240,00 employees of the Depart-
ment by creating and cataloguing leadership
development opportunities, identifying and ad-
dressing factors that impact employee en-
gagement, and recognizing employee con-
tributions through the many plans it offers
such as the employee effort recognition award
plan which recognizes employees for their ef-
forts over the year and through the DHS Rota-
tion Program to create opportunities for em-
ployees.
As a senior member of the Committee and
a former chair and ranking member of the
Homeland Security Committee and Transpor-
tation Security Subcommittee, I understand
how important this bill will be in enhancing
employee engagement.
H.R. 1433 addresses and is responsible to
the needs of DHS employees by developing
frameworks to create leadership opportunities
and by assessing the needs of the employees
in supervisory as well as non-supervisory
roles.
The DHS Rotation Program is one of the
many programs that this bill has helped steer
employees towards by having the Chief
Human Capital Officer maintain a catalogue of
development opportunities.
The bill also establishes an Employee En-
gagement Steering Committee—through which
factors are identified that affect employee mo-
rale comprised of representatives and individ-
uals throughout the department and labor or-
ganizations representing the DHS employees
and involvement and solutions sought to
counter-act those problems.
This process enhances employee morale as
it requires a Department wide Engagement
Action Plan to be implemented which comes
through the input from the Steering committee.
The bill directs that employees be recog-
nized for their efforts over the year by estab-
lishing an Employee Award Program which
help with the goals of the department.
This bill greatly helps DHS move in a posi-
tive direction when it comes to addressing its
longstanding problems of the morale concerns
of employees.
I strongly support this bill and urge all my
colleagues to join me in voting for its passage.
f
CELEBRATING THE CAREER OF
AMY DICKINSON AND FOR RE-
CEIVING THE HORATIO ALGER
AWARD
HON. TOM REED
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. REED. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the career of Amy Dickinson and for
receiving the Horatio Alger Award.
Amy exemplifies perseverance in the face of
adversity and provides an example of the
strength which can come from that adversity.
Overcoming the challenges of growing up with
a single parent, she received a scholarship
and worked her way through college to earn a
diploma from Georgetown University. Fol-
lowing her graduation in 1981, Amy worked as
a producer for NBC and then as a successful
writer. Her career represents her ability to
overcome the unexpected challenges of life
and to grow because of them. Amy has found
great success despite the challenges she has
faced from a young age and should serve as
a reminder of the importance of hard work and
dedication.
For nearly forty years, Amy’s work has ap-
peared in some of our nation’s leading publi-
cations, including the New York Times, the
Washington Post, and Time magazine. Since
2003, she has written the ‘‘Ask Amy’’ column
for the Chicago Tribune which is syndicated
throughout North America and reaches an es-
timated twenty million viewers a day. Her first
memoir reached the New York Times best
seller list within two weeks of publication. Her
work has consistently highlighted her compas-
sion and wisdom.
Amy has dedicated her time to several char-
itable organizations and initiatives. She has
worked tirelessly for library fundraising and lit-
eracy projects throughout the nation and has
created her own initiative, A Book on Every
Bed which encourages family to gift books
during the holiday season. She is involved in
community organizations such as the State
Theatre in Ithaca and has raised money to
help children from backgrounds similar to
hers. Amy should serve as an inspiration not
only to the Horatio Alger scholars, but to all
Americans.
Given the above, I ask that this Legislative
Body pause in its deliberations and join me to
celebrate Amy Dickinson and her extraor-
dinary career.
f
KAREN COWLING
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Karen Cowl-
ing for receiving the Arvada Chamber of Com-
merce’s Image Award.
Karen Cowling has been an active partici-
pant in the Arvada community for many years.
She works with Dental at Your Door and Ben-
efits in Action and is receiving this award for
her commitment to the Arvada community and
the positive image she displays for the city.
The involvement and generosity dem-
onstrated by Karen Cowling is exemplary of
the type of positive image that can be dis-
played for the City of Arvada. She provides
dental care to the Arvada homeless and as-
sists people in need with court hearings, hos-
pital visits and mental health services.
I extend my congratulations to Karen Cowl-
ing for this well-deserved recognition by the
Arvada Chamber of Commerce and deepest
appreciation for her contributions to our com-
munity.
f
COMMEMORATING THE 150TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE GREENVIEW
CHRISTIAN CHURCH
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, I would like
to recognize the Greenview Christian Church
of Greenview, Illinois, for celebrating their
150th anniversary.
In 1869, the Greenview Christian Church
was officially opened as a place of worship for
the residents of the city. Since then, the
church has grown immensely; it now provides
the community with far more than a place to
pray. This is where the residents of Greenview
come to make strides towards improving their
local area, as well as to help those less fortu-
nate than themselves abroad, through their
partner missionary program, Faith Promise
Rally.
The Greenview Community Church is
known throughout the area for the services
that it has provided for the community over the
last 150 years. Today, we celebrate the
church for their dedication to serving
Greenview. I extend my sincere congratula-
tions to the Greenview Christian Church for a
successful 150 years, and I wish them even
more success going forward.
f
TRIBUTE TO ZYGMUND
KOWALEWSKI
HON. DON YOUNG
OF ALASKA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. YOUNG. Madam Speaker, today I’d like
to congratulate Zygmund Kowalewski on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.004 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E406 April 4, 2019
occasion of his 99th birthday on April 7th, and
thank him for his service to the United States
Navy and to the United States of America.
Mr. Kowalewski enlisted as a gunner on a
twin-engine PBM flying boat in October of
1941, just two months before the ambush at
Pearl Harbor would launch the U.S. into World
War II. As a part of Torpedo Squadron Eight
present at the Battle of Midway, he and his
fellow crew members earned commendations
for bravery in engagements at Guadalcanal,
Midway, and the British Solomon Islands.
Attempting to fly a mail route off the coast
of the Fiji Islands, Mr. Kowalewski’s plane
stalled on takeoff and crashed into the Pacific
Ocean. He was forced to free himself from the
downed plane and paddle from the wreckage,
fearful the ship’s 500-pound depth charges
would detonate. Madam Speaker, even after
receiving combat honors twice for his heroics,
Mr. Kowalewski once again piloted a U.S.
Navy plane, instead hunting German sub-
marines in the North Atlantic Ocean.
Mr. Kowalewski moved out to Alaska in
1967 after fulfilling his Naval service, con-
tinuing to fly as an FAA Airway Systems In-
spection Pilot. But whether he was piloting a
torpedo bomber or a twin-engine Cessna, he
always conducted himself with valor and
should be considered among Alaska’s finest
Naval Aviators for his service.
An aviator needs quick decision-making and
a cool head to fly a plane in combat. Many of
us will not know the kind of mental toughness
required to see a mission to its conclusion,
even under the most dire flight conditions.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor
Zygmund Kowalewski, who now at the age of
99, will have spent nearly one quarter of his
life’s work in service to his country having
flown missions from Dutch Harbor to the Pan-
ama Canal. There are few people that can
claim to have sacrificed as much under our
flag, and he is owed the thanks and gratitude
of all of us here in Washington and in Alaska.
f
RECOGNIZING THE COUNCIL ROCK
HIGH SCHOOL SOUTH SYMPHONY
ORCHESTRA
HON. BRIAN K. FITZPATRICK
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Council Rock High
School South Symphony Orchestra. Beginning
April 10, 2019, the Council Rock High School
South Symphony Orchestra will be traveling
throughout Spain for a nine-day tour.
Notably, the symphony orchestra will per-
form in three public concerts: at the Teatro
Auditorio Riberas del Guadaira in Seville, the
Auditorio Manuel de Falla in Granada, and the
Plaza Ayuntamiento in Toledo.
These performances not only give these
young students the opportunity to perform in
historic venues, but allow them to immerse
themselves in Spanish music, culture, and his-
tory.
I would like to applaud Mr. Christopher
Simon, the Orchestra Director at Council Rock
High School South, for his visionary leader-
ship. I wish him and all the talented musicians
under his direction an eye-opening and re-
warding trip.
CONSTITUENTS OF THE MONTH
FOR APRIL
HON. MIKE LEVIN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize Eric and David Groos,
two constituents from San Juan Capistrano, as
my Constituents of the Month for April.
Each month, I recognize constituents who
have gone above and beyond to help their
neighbors, give back to their community, and
make the country stronger. As co-founders of
a non-profit that provides under-served and at-
risk youth with outdoor recreational activities,
there is no question that Eric and David are
deserving of this recognition.
The brothers’ non-profit, Great Opportuni-
ties, has served over 3000 young people in
my district, mainly coming from San Juan
Capistrano’s geographically identified gang in-
duction zones where kids are most at-risk of
being drawn toward gang activity. Organiza-
tions like theirs play a critical role in gener-
ating opportunity in socioeconomically dis-
advantaged communities, and I am extremely
grateful for the services they provide.
Eric and David provide kids in my district
with more than just recreational activities—
they are providing experiences that will help
kids develop leadership and problem-solving
skills, which will serve them well throughout
their lives. I believe we must do more at the
local, state, and federal levels to support orga-
nizations like theirs that provide under-served
youth with the skills they need to succeed in
life, and that will continue to be one of my pri-
orities.
I am proud to recognize Eric and David as
my constituents of the month for April, and I
am deeply grateful for everything they do to
give back to our community.
f
MARY JO GIDDINGS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Mary Jo
Giddings for receiving the Arvada Chamber of
Commerce Pioneer Award.
Mary Jo is a former Woman of the Year
Award recipient and has had a positive impact
on the Arvada community for nearly 50 years.
She is well-deserving of this award as she has
served as a leader in Arvada for many years
and has contributed in many unprecedented
ways.
The leadership demonstrated by Mary Jo is
exemplary of the type of positive impact that
can be made on the Arvada community with
hard work and dedication. She has volun-
teered at the Arvada Center since it opened in
1976 and sits on the Board of Directors for the
Arvada Historical Society and the Arvada Vi-
tality Alliance as well as organizes Arvada
Garden Tours.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Mary
Jo Giddings for this well-deserved recognition
by the Arvada Chamber of Commerce and ap-
preciate his ongoing contributions to our com-
munity.
INTRODUCTION OF A RESOLUTION
CELEBRATING THE HERITAGE OF
ROMANI AMERICANS
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, this body
has long recognized the accomplishments and
unique heritage of cultures that make up and
enrich the United States. Today, I, along with
my colleague Representative STEVE WATKINS
of Kansas, am proud to introduce a resolution
recognizing and celebrating the heritage of
Romani Americans.
Few cultures are as geographically diverse
as the Romani people. Tracing their ancestry
to the Indian subcontinent, the Romani people
migrated and settled throughout Europe over
the last millennia. Often, they faced scorn, ha-
tred, persecution and discrimination. Neverthe-
less, they maintained their unique language
and culture while enriching the culture and
economies of the countries in which they be-
came citizens. They have made distinct and
important contributions in many fields including
agriculture, art, crafts, literature, medicine,
military service, music, sports, and science.
In 2005, the European Parliament estimated
that there were 12 to 15 million Roma in Eu-
rope. Roma were among the many groups of
people that suffered at the hands of the Nazis
and their allies during World War II. It is esti-
mated that between 200,000 to 500,000
Romani people were killed in death camps
and elsewhere throughout Europe. In an at-
tempt to liquidate the so-called ‘‘Gypsy Family
Camp’’ at Auschwitz-Birkenau, on August 2 to
3, 1944, between 4,200 and 4,300 Romani
men, women, and children were murdered in
gas chambers in a single night. This year
marks the 75th anniversary of that tragic
event.
Roma have also been a part of every wave
of European migration to North and South
America. In the United States, there may be
as many as 1 million Americans with some
Romani ancestry, whether distant or more re-
cent.
Representative STENY HOYER was the first
Member of Congress to raise concern about
the situation of Roma, doing so in meetings
with Romanian government representatives
during a 1990 congressional visit to Romania
not long after the execution of Nicolae
Ceausescu. In 1994, the late Congressman
Tom Lantos, himself a Holocaust survivor,
convened Congress’s first hearing regarding
the situation of the Romani people. That hear-
ing, before the Subcommittee on International
Security, International Organizations and
Human Rights, received testimony from Dr.
Ian Hancock, Andrzej Mirga, Klara
Orgovanova, and Nicolae Gheorghe.
Though a great deal has changed since
then, sadly, Romani people still face wide-
spread human rights abuses and discrimina-
tion in employment, housing, and education.
However, there is greater urgency for Roma to
advance their causes today than ever before
as evidenced by organizations such as the
European Roma Rights Center and the still
new European Roma Institute for Arts and
Culture.
The Helsinki Commission has maintained
robust engagement on these issues and, as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.009 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E407
April 4, 2019
chairman during this Congress, I will build on
those practices.
The resolution I am introducing today does
four things. First, it celebrates Romani Amer-
ican Heritage. Second, it supports Inter-
national Roma Day and the Department of
State’s robust engagement in related activities.
April 8 marks ‘‘International Roma Day’’
around the world and is a day to celebrate
Romani culture and raise awareness of the
issues facing Romani people. Third, it com-
memorates the 75th anniversary of the de-
struction of the ‘‘Gypsy Family Camp’’ at
Auschwitz. Fourth, it commends the U.S. Hol-
ocaust Memorial Museum for its critically im-
portant role in promoting remembrance of the
Holocaust and educating about the genocide
of Roma.
Madam Speaker, I respectfully ask all Mem-
bers to support this resolution and for its time-
ly consideration on the House Floor.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I missed votes on Monday, April 1.
Had I been present, I would have voted as fol-
lows:
Roll Call Vote Number 137 (Passage of
H.R. 1593, the Coordinating and Leveraging
for School Security (CLASS) Act of 2019):
YES;
Roll Call Vote Number 138 (Passage of
H.R. 1590, the Terrorist and Foreign Fighter
Travel Exercise Act of 2019): YES; and
Roll Call Vote Number 139 (Approval of the
Journal): YES.
f
HONORING THE BIRTHDAY OF
SAMUEL S. LIONEL
HON. DINA TITUS
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, I am honored
to rise with Representative ERIC SWALWELL
today to offer our congratulations to Mr. Sam-
uel S. Lionel, a resident of Las Vegas, Ne-
vada, who is celebrating his 100th Birthday on
April 7, 2019.
The son of immigrants, Sam Lionel grew up
in the Bronx in New York City. He graduated
law school at St. John’s University in 1940.
Shortly after he finished law school, the United
States entered WWII, and Mr. Lionel joined
the war effort. He fought with the 5th Army in
the campaign to liberate Italy. After the war,
Mr. Lionel taught at the United States Military
Academy at West Point. He retired from the
reserves as a Lieutenant Colonel Judge Advo-
cate General.
Mr. Lionel passed the Nevada Bar exam in
1954. Together with the late former Nevada
Governor Grant Sawyer, he founded the Lio-
nel, Sawyer, and Collins Law Firm in 1967.
The firm quickly became one of the largest
and most prestigious in the state, and Mr. Lio-
nel represented many key gaming operators
and resorts on the Las Vegas Strip. Through-
out the course of his more than a half-century
career, Mr. Lionel has been widely considered
the ‘‘Dean of the Nevada Bar,’’ and he served
as the Chairman of the Board of Bar Exam-
iners for several years.
Mr. Lionel has accumulated numerous
awards and honors, including three honorary
doctorate degrees from St. John’s University,
the California Western School of Law, and the
University of Nevada, Las Vegas. He is the
first recipient of the Jurisprudence Award from
the Nevada Anti-Defamation League. He won
the 2012 Liberty Bell Award, and in 2013 he
was named Las Vegas Best Lawyers’ Lawyer
of the Year.
Samuel Lionel is a fellow with the American
College of Trial Lawyers, a member of the
American Bar Association, the State Bar of
Nevada, and the Clark County Bar Associa-
tion. He served as a member of the Ninth Cir-
cuit Senior Advisory Board from 1990 to 1996.
Remarkably, Mr. Lionel still practices law as
a Director at Fennemore Craig, and can be
found at the local courthouse waiting his turn
to argue a case before the judge. Mr. Lionel,
along with his wife Lexy, continue to be active
members of the Southern Nevada community.
On the occasion of this centennial birthday,
we wish him the very best.
f
COORDINATING AND LEVERAGING
ACTIVITIES FOR SCHOOL SECU-
RITY ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 1593, Class Act of
2019, which addresses the increasing risks of
security in schools.
As a senior member of the Homeland Secu-
rity Committee, I ensure you that this bill will
improve the safety plans and policies within
our schools as well as the communication be-
tween the homeland security and the Home-
land Security Committee.
This Class Act will ensure a council within
the Department of Homeland Security that co-
ordinates with school security departments of
their policies, plans, and activities in regards
to security, and require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to submit a report to Con-
gress on the council’s effort.
Between January and May 2018, school
shootings averaged one per week.
Schools need to be buildings of safety
where children can gain an education in
peace.
During Homeland Security Committee mark-
ups of H.R. 1593, the ‘‘Coordinating and
Leveraging Activities for School Security Act.’’
I want to thank and recognize Chairman
PAYNE for his tireless work to improve the De-
partment of Homeland Security’s capability
and capacity to provide services to our young-
est citizens.
His dedication to meeting the homeland se-
curity needs of children is greatly appreciated.
The amendment I offer to H.R. 1593, the
‘‘Coordinating and Leveraging Activities for
School Security Act,’’ directs that any engage-
ment with stakeholders should be reflected in
the final report provided by this bill.
There are many factors that contribute to
school security that we should acknowledge in
the bill’s report.
I am particularly interested in the work of
school architects who design schools and, for
decades, have worked successfully to address
difficult safety challenges in school design.
As a direct result of school architects,
schools are engineered to be resilient against
fires, and high winds caused by tornadoes.
School architects are taking on the chal-
lenge of addressing the threat of active shoot-
ers in schools by developing designs that cre-
ate visual blind spots in classrooms and hall-
ways as well as engineering features that
would delay an active shooter long enough to
allow first responders to arrive.
It is my hope that stakeholders will also in-
clude students and teachers who can provide
different perspectives on what constitutes
school safety.
For these reasons, I urge all my colleagues
to join me in voting for H.R. 1593.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. PETER J. VISCLOSKY
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. VISCLOSKY. Madam Speaker, on April
4, 2019, I missed Roll Call vote 153. Had I
been present for Roll Call 153, on passage of
S.J. Res. 7, a joint resolution to direct the re-
moval of United States Armed Forces from
hostilities in the Republic of Yemen that have
not been authorized by Congress, I would
have voted ‘‘Yes.’’
I am deeply dismayed and saddened by the
ongoing civil war in Yemen. According to the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refu-
gees, this conflict has resulted in almost 22
million Yemenis in need of humanitarian as-
sistance due to the worsening violence, includ-
ing over 2 million internally displaced persons,
as well as over 190,000 refugees that have
fled to neighboring countries, such as Saudi
Arabia, Djibouti, and Somalia. I firmly believe
that it is important for the U.S. to continue to
support an end to the worsening violence and
prevent further human suffering.
f
JEFFERSON COUNTY COMMUNICA-
TIONS CENTER AUTHORITY
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud the Jefferson
County Communications Center Authority on
their one-year anniversary of establishment.
Jeffcom 911 is an emergency dispatch cen-
ter that increased production, reduced over-
head cost, and created a more efficient public
safety system by regionalizing eight emer-
gency service agencies across Jefferson
County. The company has overcome obsta-
cles in staffing shortages, technology updates,
and changes to policies, procedures, and work
flow processes in order to eliminate delays
and accomplish their role in public safety.
A workforce of 136 qualified call-takers, dis-
patchers, and supervisors were required to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.011 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E408 April 4, 2019
manage the eight-member agencies, along
with an additional 15 user agencies from sur-
rounding areas. Jeffcom 911 staff persevered
through over 25,000 hours of overtime to pro-
vide additional training, lectured courses, and
individual observation to produce, cultivate,
and develop a qualified workforce capable of
providing professional support required by the
agencies Jeffcom 911 serves 24 hours a day.
Jeffcom 911 commenced operations on
April 4, 2018 and is now the single Public
Safety Answering Point in Jefferson County,
serving a community of 600,000 citizens and
covering 774 square miles that range from
densely populated metropolitan areas to
mountainous landscapes.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Jef-
ferson County Communications Center Author-
ity for this well-deserved recognition.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. CHRISTOPHER H. SMITH
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 1585) to reauthor-
ize the Violence Against Women Act of 1994,
and for other purposes:
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr. Chair, today
I will vote to reauthorize the Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA), historic landmark legisla-
tion with a proven track record of assisting
abused and battered women. VAWA must be
reauthorized.
As a matter of fact, I was the prime author
of the law that provided for the first reauthor-
ization of the VAWA in 2000—a five-year $3.3
billion comprehensive program that was part
of my anti-trafficking law, the Victims of Traf-
ficking and Violence Prevention Act (PL 106–
386/TVPA).
Today, I will vote to ensure that VAWA re-
authorization overcomes expected difficulties
in the Senate and moves to enactment. I will
vote to reauthorize, through 2020, critical
VAWA programs: legal assistance for victims;
addressing housing needs for victims of do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault and stalking; grants to combat violent
crimes on campuses; grants to encourage ar-
rest policies and enforcement of protection or-
ders; grants for enhanced training and serv-
ices to end abuse later in life.
I will also vote to extend: the critical STOP
grants to educate and train law enforcement
personnel to address sexual assault; the
CHOOSE grants, i.e. Creating Hope Through
Outreach, Options, Service, and Education for
Children and Youth; training and services to
end violence against people with disabilities;
the sexual assault services program; rural do-
mestic violence, dating violence, sexual as-
sault, stalking and child abuse enforcement
assistance; grants for strengthening the
healthcare system’s response to domestic vio-
lence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking; as well as extending other key pro-
grams.
This is consistent with my long record of
support for VAWA.
I strongly supported passage of VAWA
when it was first introduced in 1993, and again
in 1994, when this crucial legislation was
signed into law. I have supported multiple re-
authorizations of VAWA, and I continue to
strongly support this law as it was originally in-
tended.
As I said earlier, I was the prime author of
the law that provided for the first reauthoriza-
tion of the VAWA in 2000 when I included the
five-year $3.3 billion comprehensive program
in my Victims of Trafficking and Violence Pre-
vention Act (PL 106–386/ TVPA).
I also cosponsored the 2005 reauthorization,
fought to ensure these programs are fully
funded to assist the maximum number of vic-
tims, and voted for seven of the first seven
VAWA reauthorization bills offered through
2012.
Two versions of VAWA reauthorization are
under consideration by the House today. As I
noted, the version I will support extends the
VAWA until 2020. The other—H.R. 1585—
weakens several carefully crafted protections
for women and girls.
By granting biological men—who self-iden-
tify as women—access to women’s shelters,
H.R. 1585 removes the hard-fought gains to
protect women and girls from abuse and to
provide them with physical, emotional and
psychological security.
Under the current version of H.R. 1585,
women will no longer have a secure place of
their own as they flee from male-inflicted phys-
ical and emotional abuse and intimidation.
Rather, these heroic women will now have
to share their place of refuge, a shelter pre-
viously reserved for women seeking protection
from male abusers, with biological men who
self-identify as women.
Mr. Chair, these brave women and children
deserve a place where they can feel protected
and secure, so they can begin the difficult
process to heal as they deal with post-trau-
matic stress. Forcing them to share a shelter
and its facilities, including showers and sleep-
ing areas, with biological men who self-identify
as women will cause these women and chil-
dren to experience insecurity, discomfort, con-
fusion, and fear of additional assault.
VAWA has always prioritized the challenges
and unique needs of battered women and chil-
dren but this version, if passed, no longer will.
These women’s shelters—there are about
1,500 nationwide—offer a safe space where a
woman does not have to fear or worry about
violence and intimidation and instead allows
her to take steps toward rebuilding her life.
Mr. Chair, we must first and foremost pro-
tect victims of violence.
I oppose this provision of H.R. 1585 out of
genuine concern for the women and children
who are forced to flee to domestic abuse shel-
ters and base my concern on evidence from
California.
In late 2018, nine female victims residing in
a women’s shelter in Fresno, California—Nao-
mi’s House, operated by Poverello House—
filed a lawsuit against the shelter for admitting
a biological man because he had self-identi-
fied as a woman. These victims stated that
they had been sexually harassed by this bio-
logical man. They said that he had made
‘‘sexual advances’’ on them and would ‘‘stare
and leer’’ and make ‘‘sexually harassing com-
ments about their bodies’’ while they were
forced to undress in the same room with him.
After repeatedly confronting the staff of Nao-
mi’s House—both verbally and in writing—with
their extreme discomfort, these women were
told that they would be expelled from the shel-
ter if they refused to comply.
Mr, Chair, if we allow biological men who
self-identify as women to receive access to
these women-only shelters, abused women
and children will lose the ‘safe space’ they so
desperately need.
These victims deserve better. They deserve
our protection and support. We must work to
ensure the safety of women, girls, and chil-
dren.
Other shelters designed to help victims of
diverse sexual orientations and identities who
are victims of domestic abuse ought to be
considered by separate legislation.
We can, and we must create bipartisan leg-
islation which seeks to protect all women and
girls, as this law originally intended.
We can, and must, do better.
f
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN
REAUTHORIZATION ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. ANN WAGNER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, April 3, 2019
The House in Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union had under
consideration the bill (H.R. 1585) to reauthor-
ize the Violence Against Women Act of 1994,
and for other purposes:
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Chair, I rise today to
speak about the reauthorization of the Vio-
lence Against Women Act, or VAWA.
For the last several decades VAWA has
been a positive force in our nation for the pro-
tection of some of our most vulnerable popu-
lations. Providing grants to domestic violence
organizations, increasing access to housing
for survivors, supporting law enforcement, ad-
dressing the scourge of sex trafficking, and re-
ducing the rape kit backlog—these are just
some of the ways VAWA has helped victims
of violence in our communities.
While this should be a bipartisan effort to re-
authorize VAWA, the new Democratic majority
here in the House has decided to insert provi-
sions into the legislation that advance a polit-
ical agenda at the expense of sexual assault
and domestic violence survivors.
Because of the importance of reauthorizing
VAWA and protecting vulnerable women
across the nation, I will still be supporting final
passage of the Democrat-authored bill. The
National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence
Survey has found that over 43 percent of
women experience some form of sexual vio-
lence in their lifetime. Sexual and domestic vi-
olence are pervasive problems and reauthor-
izing VAWA is critical to the fight against these
crimes.
However, I wanted to take a minute to high-
light some of the provisions included in this
legislation that I remain firmly opposed to, and
would vote against if given the opportunity.
Fourth Amendment due process rights and
the protection of our Second Amendment
rights are inherent rights that should not be in-
fringed upon lightly. Ensuring that due process
rights are protected prior to removal of funda-
mental constitutional rights should not be up
for debate.
The majority, however, has done just that in
their version of VAWA before us today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K04AP8.004 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E409
April 4, 2019
We agree that victims of domestic violence,
sexual assault, stalking, and other types of
violent behavior should have protections under
the law from their abusers and stalkers. Many
states have enacted measures to codify limita-
tions on firearm possession following judicial
action as it relates to domestic violence and
stalking, oftentimes called red flag provisions.
Let me be clear, I support such red flag provi-
sions when the accused has the protections of
due process and judicial action. But this is an
effort that is best handled at the state, not fed-
eral, level.
Congress must address violence against
women and girls. Restricting constitutional due
process and Second Amendment protections,
however, is not the right way to legislate.
While I plan to vote for the underlying bill
before us today, I must reiterate my strong op-
position to these provisions. It is my hope that
the House majority’s partisan provisions—in-
cluding the firearm possession provisions and
other sections that may compromise the safety
of women’s prisons and shelters—will eventu-
ally be removed during conference committee
with the Senate and I can cast my vote for a
final version that protects women and girls and
maintains protections for our Fourth and Sec-
ond Amendment rights.
f
HONORING JOE BRAMAN
HON. MICHAEL CLOUD
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. CLOUD. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor and recognize Joe Braman, a
Refugio rancher, for his impressive accom-
plishments and dedication to the preservation
of law and order.
Joe Braman, the great-great-great grandson
of Thomas O’Connor, an Irish farmer who
moved to Refugio, Texas, in 1836, has re-
ceived international recognition for his commit-
ment to protecting endangered animals from
poachers, as well as aiding law enforcement
officers in protecting our border.
In 2018, Mr. Braman worked to assist South
African National Parks with the protection of
black and white rhinos. Because of the keratin
in their horns, poachers had been hunting
these South African rhinos to the verge of ex-
tinction.
Mr. Braman spent more than a year and a
half training dogs to track the poachers and
donated 20 free-running pack dogs to the
Southern African Wildlife College. The trained
dogs could track human scent several hours
old and take down hunters more than 20 miles
away.
Thanks to meticulous training, Mr. Braman’s
dogs successfully assisted with 27 arrests and
the recovery of 10 rifles in Kruger National
Park, leading South African National Parks to
recognize Mr. Braman’s substantial contribu-
tion to their efforts. Mr. Braman received two
letters of commendation, one from the Section
Rangers at Kruger National Park, and the
other from South African National Parks and
Southern African Wildlife College.
Mr. Braman’s dogs have proved immensely
valuable in Texas as well. His dogs often lo-
cate individuals with Alzheimer’s and Demen-
tia who have become lost.
They have also successfully assisted local
law enforcement in manhunts and border se-
curity. This past year, two of his dogs tracked
a group of illegal immigrants after the group
scattered into the brush. When the available
technology tools failed to get the job done, Mr.
Braman’s dogs led law enforcement to the im-
migrants, at least one of whom admitted to
being a gang member. The results speak for
themselves. Mr. Braman and his dogs have a
98 percent success rate with locating and cap-
turing targets, demonstrating their potential
usefulness in future border security efforts.
Joe Braman’s unique and incredible ability
to train dogs has made a positive difference
not just in Texas but around the world, and I
would like to extend to him my thanks and ap-
preciation for his excellent work and devotion
to justice.
f
JERRY MARKS
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jerry Marks
for receiving the Arvada Chamber of Com-
merce’s Man of the Year Award.
An Arvada native, Jerry Marks has served
his community as a volunteer firefighter and
board member of the Arvada Chamber of
Commerce, Arvada Vitality Alliance, Arvada
Economic Development Association, and Ar-
vada City Council.
The involvement and generosity dem-
onstrated by Jerry Marks is exemplary of the
type of positive impact that can be made on
the Arvada community. He has donated his
time, treasure, and talent and has consistently
supported local organizations including Com-
munity Table, The Arvada Colts, and many
more.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Jerry
Marks for this well-deserved recognition by the
Arvada Chamber of Commerce and appreciate
his ongoing contributions to our community.
f
RECOGNIZING DANIEL T. LYDON
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize the life of Daniel
Thomas Lydon, on the occasion of his passing
on Monday, March 18, 2019.
The son of two Irish immigrants, Daniel was
born in Oakland, California on October 30,
1941. His roots grew deep in our community
through his schooling in Oakland and Berkeley
as well as his work at the Oakland Tribune, all
occurring before he joined the Fremont Fire
Department in March 1963.
Almost immediately Daniel sought to make
a difference for his fellow firefighters. He
played an instrumental role in organizing his
department’s personnel to establish their labor
union, Fremont Firefighters Local 1689. Once
formed, Daniel rose to serve as the organiza-
tion’s first president.
Throughout the course of his career with the
Fremont Fire Department, Daniel held the rank
of firefighter, inspector, lieutenant, captain,
and battalion chief before being trusted to lead
the entire department as fire chief, where he
served until his well-deserved retirement in
2002.
Under his leadership, the Fremont Fire De-
partment grew to meet the needs of a large,
modern, and rapidly developing city. Chief
Lydon began to incorporate licensed para-
medics among the fire department staff. This
enabled them to begin to provide life-saving
treatment of patients if they were the first to
the scene of an emergency. Daniel expanded
the size of the department, in the most literal
sense, by adding four new stations to serve
the community. Additionally, he helped ensure
the safety of his personnel by assisting with
key bond measures, ensuring funds were
dedicated to retrofitting outdated infrastructure.
Chief Lydon’s public service did not end
with his retirement from the fire department.
He continued to help his community grow by
serving as a planning commissioner for the
City of Fremont. His legacy continues as the
projects he helped shape go on under con-
struction to meet the needs of our community.
Chief Lydon passed away at home, sur-
rounded by his loving family. He is survived by
his wife of 53 years, Patricia, as well as his
children, Bridget, Daniel, Kevin, Margaret, and
Michael. His legacy will live on through them,
his five grandchildren, and the everlasting im-
pact he made on our community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE CAPE
GIRARDEAU ROTARY CLUB’S
100TH YEAR OF SERVICE
HON. JASON SMITH
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor and congratulate the Cape
Girardeau Rotary Club as they celebrate their
100th year of service to the Cape Girardeau,
Missouri community.
The Cape Girardeau Rotary Club was orga-
nized on January 28, 1919 and received its
charter on March 1, 1919. For 100 years, the
Rotary club has promoted Cape Girardeau’s
history, culture, and quality of life in countless
ways, including its efforts to establish Cape
Rock Park, its city beautification drives, and its
historical marker projects.
The Rotary Club has devoted itself to the
youth of the community through its unflagging
support of the Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Boys
State, Girls State, the Crippled Children’s So-
ciety, the Civic Center, and numerous other
youth organizations. For the last 60 years, the
Rotary Club has held the Academic Excel-
lence Banquet which honors high school sen-
iors in the top ten percent of their academic
class.
The Rotary Club has expanded its reach in
the region through the establishment of the
Jackson Rotary Club and Cape Girardeau Ro-
tary Club-West. They have supported the mis-
sion of Rotary International through hundreds
of thousands of dollars in contributions to the
Rotary Foundation. They have also aided the
mission of Rotary International through partici-
pation in dozens of foreign exchange pro-
grams as well as medical, dental, and other
humanitarian relief missions.
The Rotary Club has been an incredible
force for good in Cape Girardeau. They un-
doubtedly foster the Rotary ideal of ‘‘Service
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.016 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E410 April 4, 2019
Above Self’’. I thank the members of the Cape
Girardeau Rotary Club for their tireless effort
and unwavering dedication to serving mem-
bers of their community.
f
IN MEMORY OF MAYOR SHIRLEY
SPELLERBERG
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the life and legacy of former
Mayor Shirley Cunyus Spellerberg, a dedi-
cated Texan who committed her life to serving
others.
Shirley Cunyus graduated from Waco High
School in 1945 and enrolled at Baylor Univer-
sity to study business administration. In 1949,
she married U.S. Air Force pilot Herman
Spellerberg, and together they raised two
sons.
The Spellerbergs were stationed in Miami,
Florida during Herman’s tenure as a PanAm
pilot. There, Mrs. Spellerberg became an en-
gaged member of the community, and she
hosted a talk radio program called ‘‘Speak Out
Miami’’ from 1974 to 1979 as well as co-
hosted the weekly television show ‘‘To the
Point’’ from 1977 to 1979.
In 1979, they returned to Texas, where Mrs.
Spellerberg continued to be an active partici-
pant in her community. In 1983, she was
elected Mayor of Corinth, a role in which she
served for 16 years. In addition to her official
capacities, Mayor Spellerberg served as presi-
dent of the Denton Republican Women’s Club,
as a member of the State Republican Execu-
tive Committee and Republican Party of Texas
Platform Committee, as president of Denton
County Republican Assembly, and as a found-
ing member of Phyllis Schlafly’s Eagle Forum
in 1972. For her efforts, she received numer-
ous awards for her political activities in Florida
and in Texas. In 2018, she was awarded the
‘‘Yellow Rose of Texas’’ award.
Mayor Spellerberg was a valued North
Texas leader for more than thirty years. I am
grateful for her steadfast service and appre-
ciate her many years of dedication to our re-
gion.
f
REINTRODUCTION OF THE WILD-
LIFE VETERINARIANS EMPLOY-
MENT AND TRAINING ACT OF
2019
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to reintroduce the Wildlife Veterinarians
Employment and Training Act of 2019. This
bill will provide incentives for students to pur-
sue wildlife and zoological medicine and in-
creases the number of positions available at
wildlife and zoological facilities.
Wildlife and zoo veterinarians are the pri-
mary source of essential health care and man-
agement that is required for animals in both
their natural habitat and in captivity. These
physicians preserve natural resources and the
lives of animals, while also protecting human
health by preventing, detecting and respond-
ing to exotic and dangerous diseases.
With the intensification of globalization and
climate change, along with the growing inter-
action among humans, livestock and wildlife,
the threat posed by emerging infectious dis-
eases to humans and wildlife continues to in-
crease. Controlling pandemic and large-scale
outbreaks of disease has become more chal-
lenging over the years, yet there has never
been a time where this is a more pertinent
issue.
We must take preventative measures to en-
sure the well-being of both animals and hu-
mans. In spite of these threats to public
health, the United States faces a shortage of
positions for wildlife and zoo veterinarians. Ac-
cording to the American Veterinary Medical
Association (AVMA), less than one percent of
AVMA members identify themselves as wildlife
or zoological veterinarians.
On average, veterinarian graduates owe
$143,000 in student loans. Relatedly, salaries
for wildlife and zoological professionals are
relatively low compared to those who practice
companion animal medicine, ranking second
to the bottom for salaries paid to veterinarians
as a whole. Lower salaries, combined with
high educational debt and the small number of
positions available, discourage students from
becoming wildlife or zoo veterinarians. The
number of internships, practical training pro-
grams, and formal education programs spe-
cializing in wildlife and zoological veterinary
medicine are also insufficient.
My bill directly addresses the aforemen-
tioned issues, by doing the following:
Create new positions for wildlife and zoo
veterinarians.
Limit the amount of educational debt for vet-
erinary medicine students, while providing in-
centives to study and practice wildlife and zoo
veterinary medicine through a scholarship pro-
gram and a loan repayment program.
Help schools of veterinary medicine develop
curricula and training programs specializing in
wildlife and zoo veterinary medicine.
Develop affordable and well qualified oppor-
tunities for individuals to become wildlife and
zoo veterinarians, spur job growth, and pro-
mote public health policy across the nation.
Madam Speaker, as you know, wild animals
play a very critical role in our natural re-
sources and contribute to maintaining a bal-
anced ecosystem. The number of endangered
species has only increased. Invasive non-na-
tive species and infectious disease threaten
our public health. Therefore, wildlife and zoo-
logical veterinarians must be prioritized and
given the resources and recognition necessary
to protect both animal and human lives.
I urge my colleagues to extend a helping
hand to America’s veterinarians by supporting
this important piece of legislation.
f
PATSY PFAFF
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Patsy Pfaff for
receiving the Arvada Chamber of Commerce
Woman of the Year Award.
Patsy has been an active participant in the
Arvada community for many years. She do-
nates to Mother’s Milk, serves on the PTA,
and tutors math students at Arvada West High
School. She served on the advisory board for
All Out Multisport and is active in the ET
Chapter of PEO, a group that provides edu-
cational opportunities for women through
scholarships.
The involvement and generosity dem-
onstrated by Patsy is exemplary of the type of
positive impact that can be made on the Ar-
vada community. Being an avid walker, she
spends a lot of time on the Ralston Creek
Trail, completing over 60 half marathons and
is well on her way to reaching her goal of 100
half marathons.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Patsy Pfaff for winning this well-deserved rec-
ognition by the Arvada Chamber of Commerce
and appreciate his ongoing contributions to
our community.
f
CBRN INTELLIGENCE AND INFOR-
MATION SHARING ACT OF 2019
SPEECH OF
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, April 1, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 1589 the ‘‘CBRN Intel-
ligence and Information Sharing Act of 2019’’
which amends the Homeland Security Act of
2002 to establish chemical sharing function of
the Office of Intelligence and require dissemi-
nation of information to responsible entities re-
lating to the homeland security.
As a Senior member of the Homeland Secu-
rity committee, I understand how important
this bill is in order to establish safety with
chemical use. This bill requires examination of
terrorist capabilities with these chemicals as
well as threats from global diseases.
Terrorist supporters often promote the use
of dangerous chemicals online and this bill
would help to counter-act that issue.
H.R. 1589 supports the analysis of all
chemicals used to ensure safety as well as
supporting the analysis of claims of terrorist
actors which enhances prevention and protec-
tion capabilities.
H.R. 1589 would allow more specific secu-
rity measures to be implemented to cater to
any threats to the State or any other entities.
The Office of Intelligence and Analysis will
be coordinating with other required agencies
in order to provide information to the depart-
ment to ensure optimum safety.
H.R. 1589 will be extremely important in
order to share information that is paramount
throughout the department.
I urge all my colleagues to join me in voting
to pass H.R. 1589.
f
AUDREY E. WILLIS CELEBRATES
100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. BONNIE WATSON COLEMAN
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Audrey E. Willis for
her 100th birthday.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K04AP8.014 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E411
April 4, 2019
Audrey was born on April 9, 1919 in Tren-
ton, New Jersey. She graduated from Trenton
Central High School and completed courses at
Mercer County Community College.
Audrey’s 100 years of life have been filled
with great success. She served 34 years with
General Motors before retiring; she went on to
work, and retire again, for Mercer County gov-
ernment as a Senior Citizen Program aide.
Audrey was also an active member of the
Neighborhood Civic Association for the Tren-
ton Housing Authority. Despite a busy life, Au-
drey has always found time to give back to
her community, frequently volunteering with
Meals on Wheels. Audrey continues to be an
active member at my church, Shiloh Baptist in
Trenton, and serves as a Trustee Aide Mem-
ber and Senior Ministry Member.
In 100 years, Audrey has been blessed to
see her family grow and prosper. With her
husband, the late Lloyd Willis, Sr., Audrey
raised two sons, the late Lloyd Willis, Jr. and
Forrest Willis. She also has four grandchildren
and three great grandchildren.
I have had the pleasure to know Audrey for
more than 50 years. As an integral part of our
church, she always shares her warmth and
caring personality with anyone she meets. Al-
though she has a quiet demeanor, Audrey is
a social butterfly who will find a way to go ev-
erywhere. I ask that my colleagues join me in
celebrating Audrey’s 100th birthday. We wish
you a wonderful and joyful birthday, and many
more blessings in the year ahead.
f
RECOGNIZING THE THAYER LADY
BOBCATS HIGH SCHOOL BASKET-
BALL TEAM
HON. JASON SMITH
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. SMITH of Missouri. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor the Thayer Lady Bobcats
Basketball team for winning the Class 2 State
Championship on March 9, 2019, the first
women’s basketball state championship in
school history.
In his third year, Coach Cecil Meyer led the
team to an overall record of 30–3, winning the
last 14 games of the year. The Lady Bobcats
were full of talented players, notably All-State
Seniors Julie Stone and Angela Sorrell along
with South Central All-Conference members,
Shelby Coursey and Maddy Kerely.
The Lady Bobcats swept through the
postseason on their way to a 52–35 win over
Mid-Buchanan High School in the champion-
ship game, capping the historic run. Their suc-
cess is a testament to the hard work and
preparation the coaches and players put in
during the preseason and throughout the year.
On behalf of the Eighth Congressional Dis-
trict of Missouri, it is my great privilege to con-
gratulate the Thayer Lady Bobcats on their
historic achievement. We look forward to their
continued success. Go Bobcats.
FIGHTING AGAINST SOCIALISM IS
A FIGHT WORTH HAVING
HON. PAUL A. GOSAR
OF ARIZONA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. GOSAR. Madam Speaker, as we watch
the human tragedy that is Venezuela, it should
be a stark reminder to everyone that socialism
does nothing but destroy the lives of the peo-
ple while enriching the elites. A recent report
out of Venezuela reminded me of a Milton
Friedman quote. The famed economist said,
‘‘If you put the federal government in charge
of the Sahara Desert, in five years there’d be
a shortage of sand.’’ These are the words
playing out in Venezuela right now.
Venezuela has the world’s largest proven
reserves of oil, yet the socialists in charge
cannot keep the lights on, nor supply the na-
tion with gasoline for their vehicles. It gets
worse for the people of Venezuela as there
are now potable water shortages. Keep in
mind, Venezuela has over 1,500 miles of
coastline and part of the country is a
rainforest. But the socialist rulers cannot seem
to build desalination plants nor transport its
vast water resources to the people that need
it.
Venezuela’s current crisis reinforces my
fight to make sure the United States has an all
of the above energy grid. To function properly,
a nation needs a variety of fuel sources, some
renewables, some nuclear, some hydro, some
carbon based. That is a reality for a mature
economy and civilization.
I fight against rabid environmentalists who
want to shut down every coal plant, every gas
plant, every nuclear plant and dismantle our
dams and hydro power. They accuse of me of
wanting to destroy the environment, which is a
defamatory lie. What is apparent is the leftists
in this country want to destroy our civilization,
our affordable energy and our prosperity. They
want to do to the United States what the same
environmentalists and leftists have done to
Venezuela—leave us without electricity, with-
out food, without water, without communica-
tions.
The emerging socialist movement in this
country is an imminent risk of harm to every-
thing that has made us the leader of the free
world. The socialists in this country present a
clear and present danger to our health and
well-being and should be fought at every op-
portunity.
Our fathers and grandfathers fought against
socialists. They fought and died to make sure
the United States remained free, capitalist and
prosperous. Let the lessons of Venezuela,
Cuba, the Soviet Union and other socialist
countries that have failed miserably, and inflict
death and harm to millions, teach us to
promptly reject U.S. socialists and their harm-
ful ideology, their useful idiocy, and their ma-
levolence.
f
DANIEL RYLEY
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Daniel Ryley
for receiving the Arvada Young Professional
Leadership Award.
Daniel Ryley has recently been named the
Executive Director of the Arvada Economic
Development Association and is receiving this
award for his innovation and entrepreneurship
in the Arvada community. He founded
Drynkware, a reusable drink stirrer that is both
functional and stylish and helps reduce the
use of plastic straws.
The professional accomplishments and
community leadership demonstrated by Daniel
Ryley is exemplary of the type of positive im-
pact that can be made on the City of Arvada.
He serves as Chair of the Community Leaders
of Hope Advisory Committee with Extended
Hands of Hope, a Human Rights organization
that houses and empowers survivors of
human sex trafficking.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Dan-
iel Ryley for winning the Arvada Young Pro-
fessional Leadership Award. I have no doubt
he will exhibit the same dedication and leader-
ship in his future accomplishments.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE NORTH
KANSAS CITY HORNETS STATE
CHAMPIONSHIP
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to commemorate the Missouri Class 5
State Championship won by the North Kansas
City High School Lady Hornets basketball
team. Such an achievement is the result of
strong leadership and years of dedication by
both players and coaches alike. It is truly an
honor to recognize this exemplary group of
athletes from the Fifth District of Missouri.
Claiming the State Title was the culmination
of years of discipline and hard work on the
part of the entire Lady Hornets team. For the
past three years the Lady Hornets were the
District Champions, and for the last four years
they were also the Suburban White-Division
Conference Champions, unfortunately falling
short in the State Playoffs. However, under
the leadership of Head Coach Jeffery Lacy,
this senior class was not content concluding
their high school careers with anything short of
a State Championship. The Lady Hornets’ tre-
mendous success this past season—with
twenty-nine victories compared to a mere two
losses—was the fruition of years of hard work
and a ‘‘never-give-up’’ attitude cultivated by
these remarkable athletes and coaching staff
during their time at North Kansas City High
School. It brings me great joy in saying that
their hard work paid off with a sound victory in
the State Championship on March 16, 2019.
Coming to Jefferson City this year, the Lady
Hornets were pegged as the underdogs to the
high-scoring and hometown Jefferson City
Lady Jays. Despite the doubts, the Hornets re-
mained focused on their ultimate goal. They
maintained a mindset of excelling, no matter
the obstacle, and marched through the State
Tournament with an ‘‘us-against-the-world’’ at-
titude. The Lady Hornets’ road to becoming
North Kansas City’s first female State Cham-
pions is a journey that has been followed by
the entire community, witnessing what is pos-
sible when a group of individuals come to-
gether and dedicate themselves in pursuit of a
common goal.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.022 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E412 April 4, 2019
But, the great thing about athletics is they
help to create opportunities in other aspects of
life. The Lady Hornets’ success has already
paid off in a multitude of ways, opening doors
for several players. A number of them will con-
tinue their basketball careers, and most impor-
tantly their education, at Division I universities
such as the University of Kansas. Whether
they know it or not, they will take with them
the life lessons learned throughout their time
at North Kansas City High School and as a
part of this team. With the North Kansas City
community, I look forward to seeing where
each of these players will go and how future
players will develop under the leadership of
coaches like Jeffery Lacy and John West.
Madam Speaker, please join with me in
celebrating the North Kansas City Lady Hor-
nets and the State Championship they have
brought home to Kansas City.
f
PASSING OF MS. BESSIE M.
SWINDLE
HON. AL GREEN
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
would like to honor the life and legacy of a
distinguished member of my Houston staff, a
constituent, and more importantly a dear friend
who passed away on Thursday, March 28,
2019 in Houston, Texas.
Ms. Bessie Swindle was born June 5, 1939
in Loreauville, Louisiana, relocating to Hous-
ton, Texas as a young adult where she went
on to become a pillar of the Sunnyside com-
munity.
Over the course of more than fifty years,
she used her skills as a community organizer
to make a difference in Houston. Prior to serv-
ing as an outreach coordinator in my Houston
office, she founded and served as president of
the Cloverland Civic Club, representing 400
homeowners in the neighborhood, sponsoring
fundraisers, aiding needy families, and raising
money for scholarships.
She was involved with several organizations
and used her voice to represent Sunnyside
residents as a Parent/Teacher Association
member, Troop Leader for Girl Scouts of
America San Jacinto Council, President of the
St. Francis Xavier Catholic Church ‘‘55 Plus’’
Club, Community Liaison for former Harris
County Precinct 7 Constable Michael Butler
and Constable Perry Wooten, member of
Mayor Bill White’s Phone Tower Commission,
and member of the City of Houston Police Of-
ficers Civil Service Commission. She also
served as president of Southeast Coalition of
Civic Clubs and Precinct Judge for Harris
County Voting Precinct 271.
During her distinguished lifetime of service,
she was the recipient of numerous awards
and recognitions, including Parent of the Year
from James H. Law Elementary in 1975, the
Mayor’s Award for Outstanding Volunteer
Service in 1996, the Texas Legislative Black
Caucus Award in 1999, the Sir Knight Dennis
Armelin Humanitarian Award in 2004, Mayor
Bill White’s proclamation of Bessie M. Swindle
Day in 2007, the naming of the Bessie Swin-
dle Community Center in Sunnyside, Houston,
Texas in 2009, as well as the street naming of
Bessie Swindle Way in 2010.
It is eminently clear that Ms. Bessie M.
Swindle was no ordinary community servant.
She used her influence to constantly stand up
for those who needed her assistance—and
she made a difference. Ms. Bessie Swindle
will be greatly missed for her wit, wisdom, and
willingness to work hard. Her contribution will
never be forgotten.
I would like to send my condolences to Ms.
Swindle’s family, friends, and all those who
will miss her dearly. I hope that, even in this
sad time, Ms. Swindle’s record of unselfish
dedication to her city and community will serve
as a bright light for those who dare to follow
in her footsteps.
Ms. Bessie M. Swindle is survived by one
daughter: Jackie Swindle. She is also survived
by four brothers, one sister, and many beloved
nieces and nephews.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ED
SPEAKMON
HON. MICHAEL C. BURGESS
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. BURGESS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Keller City Council-
man and Mayor Pro Tem, Mr. Charles Ed
Speakmon, who recently passed away at the
age of 71.
A retired Marine, Republican precinct chair-
man, and former auto repair businessman, Mr.
Speakmon spent his life serving both his
country and his community in many ways. He
was elected to the Keller City Council in 2016,
where he was known for his gentle and kind
nature as well as his willing participation and
resolve to get things done.
Mr. Speakmon also was widely known for
the elaborate and award-winning Christmas
display that adorned his house every year. He
was even given the nickname, ‘‘Mr. Christ-
mas’’ because of the unique gift he annually
shared with his community in his passion for
the holiday.
Always faithful, Mr. Speakmon was a man
of service who was deeply devoted to his
country, his community, and his family. To
those who knew him, the sense of loss felt in
his sudden departure is a tribute to the life he
lived. I am honored to have served alongside
Councilman Speakmon to represent the com-
munity for which he cared so deeply, and I ex-
tend my sincerest condolences to his wife,
Candy Speakmon, their family, and all who
knew and loved him.
f
JEN SPETTEL
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Jen Spettel
for receiving the Arvada Young Professional
Leadership Award.
Jen Spettel is the Executive Director of the
Susan M. Duncan YMCA and is receiving this
award for her innovation and entrepreneurship
in the Arvada community. Jen is dedicated to
healthy living in Arvada, working for the YMCA
for the past 15 years.
The professional accomplishments and
community leadership demonstrated by Jen
Spettel is exemplary of the type of positive im-
pact that can be made on the City of Arvada.
She serves on the 9 Health Fair Board of
Trustees, the Retention Committee for the Ar-
vada Economic Development Corporation as
well as the City of Arvada’s Healthy Places
Initiative.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Jen
Spettel for winning the Arvada Young Profes-
sional Leadership Award. I have no doubt she
will exhibit the same dedication and leadership
in her future accomplishments.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO AUSTIN
FULTON
HON. JOHN R. CURTIS
OF UTAH
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. CURTIS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to pay tribute to the service and work of Austin
Fulton. Austin has played an instrumental role
in setting up my Congressional office. He pre-
viously worked for Representative Jason
Chaffetz and helped through the successful
transition after I was elected to Congress. He
was later promoted from Staff Assistant to
Legislative Correspondent, where he worked
diligently on a variety of policy issues, includ-
ing housing, veterans, and space policy.
Austin had a positive attitude and was will-
ing to help with any task no matter the scope.
I am grateful for all his service, and I wish him
the best of luck in his next chapter. Despite
his departure, he will always be a member of
Team Curtis.
f
MICHAEL SUDAK
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Michael
Sudak for receiving the Arvada Chamber of
Commerce Image Award.
Michael is receiving this award for his com-
mitment to the Arvada community and the
positive image he displays for the city. Michael
owns and operates an Arvada-based business
which employs local residents at above min-
imum wage and provides local children with
healthy and nutritious school lunch meals,
serving many schools that participate in the
free and reduced lunch program. The meals
he offers are of higher quality and nutrition
than required to better care for the at-risk chil-
dren being served.
The involvement and generosity dem-
onstrated by Michael is exemplary of the type
of positive image that can be displayed for the
city of Arvada.
I extend my deepest congratulations to Mi-
chael Sudak for winning this well-deserved
recognition by the Arvada Chamber of Com-
merce and appreciate his ongoing contribu-
tions to our community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.023 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E413
April 4, 2019
RECOGNIZING JOHN NAVARRA
HON. THEODORE E. DEUTCH
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize my constituent, First Sergeant
John Navarra, who is retiring as the leader of
the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
(JROTC) at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High
School.
John V. Navarra is a retired U.S. Army First
Sergeant with 22 years of service to our coun-
try. During this time, he served in multiple lo-
cations including the United States and Ger-
many and primarily worked in the administra-
tion and logistics fields.
Coupled with his service, John has dem-
onstrated a life-long commitment to education
by earning an Associate’s degree in Business
and Computer Science, a bachelor’s degree in
Interpersonal and Group Communications, a
Master’s degree in Education with Concentra-
tions in Teaching and Evaluation and a MBA
in Leadership.
It is not just his own education that John
has been committed to. John has served as
the Army JROTC Instructor at Marjory
Stoneman Douglas High School for 12 years,
beginning in 2007. In this role, John educated,
provided guidance, and mentored the students
in the JROTC program. In doing so, he in-
stilled in them the values of citizenship, serv-
ice to the United States, personal responsi-
bility and a sense of accomplishment.
Madam Speaker, today I am pleased to
honor and thank Mr. John Navarra for his
service to his country and his community. I
congratulate John on his retirement.
f
REGARDING MY VOTE ON H.R. 1585
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, while I
voted today for H.R. 1585, the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act, I would
like to note that this reauthorization is imper-
fect. I remain strongly opposed to firearm-re-
lated provisions that were included, and I am
committed to ensuring the final bill protects the
Second Amendment rights of law-abiding
Americans. As a strong supporter of Second
Amendment rights for Americans, I look for-
ward to working in a bipartisan and bicameral
manner to resolve these outstanding issues
before this critical legislation to prevent vio-
lence and protect survivors is signed into law.
f
REGARDING MY VOTE ON H.R. 1585
HON. PETE OLSON
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, today I voted
‘‘Yes’’ on H.R. 1585 because we need to ad-
vance legislation designed to protect women
who are victims of domestic violence, sexual
assault, stalking and other crimes that are all
too common. While I voted ‘‘yes,’’ I have
grave concerns with some provisions of this
legislation involving Second Amendment rights
and due process. It is my hope these con-
cerns will be addressed in Senate negotia-
tions.
f
KATLYN THIEDE
HON. ED PERLMUTTER
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Mr. PERLMUTTER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize and applaud Katlyn Thiede
for receiving the Arvada Chamber of Com-
merce Rising Star Award.
Katlyn is a student at Arvada West High
School and received this award because of
her extraordinary skills in entrepreneurship, in-
novation, and community leadership. She is a
member of the National Art Honors Society,
owns her own photography business, and vol-
unteers with Foothills Animal Shelter.
The innovation and leadership demonstrated
by Katlyn is exemplary of the type of achieve-
ment that can be attained with hard work and
perseverance. She excels academically with a
4.33 GPA and is described by her teachers as
kind, welcoming, determined, and one-of-a-
kind.
I extend my deepest congratulations to
Katlyn Thiede for this well-deserved recogni-
tion by the Arvada Chamber of Commerce. I
have no doubt she will exhibit the same dedi-
cation and leadership in all of her future ac-
complishments.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:50 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04AP8.027 E04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D356
Thursday, April 4, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S2245–S2284
Measures Introduced: Thirty-one bills and eight
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
1026–1056, S.J. Res. 18, S. Res. 141–146, and S.
Con. Res. 13. Pages S2269–71
Measures Reported:
S. Res. 23, supporting the goals and ideals of
Countering International Parental Child Abduction
Month and expressing the sense of the Senate that
Congress should raise awareness of the harm caused
by international parental child abduction, and with
an amended preamble.
S. Res. 27, calling for a prompt multinational
freedom of navigation operation in the Black Sea and
urging the cancellation of the Nord Stream 2 pipe-
line.
S. Res. 35, supporting democratic principles and
standards in Bolivia and throughout Latin America,
and with an amended preamble.
S. Res. 67, expressing the sense of the Senate on
the importance and vitality of the United States alli-
ances with Japan and the Republic of Korea, and our
trilateral cooperation in the pursuit of shared inter-
ests, and with an amended preamble.
S. Res. 95, recognizing the 198th anniversary of
the independence of Greece and celebrating democ-
racy in Greece and the United States.
S. Res. 96, commending the Government of Can-
ada for upholding the rule of law and expressing
concern over actions by the Government of the Peo-
ple’s Republic of China in response to a request from
the United States Government to the Government of
Canada for the extradition of a Huawei Technologies
Co., Ltd. executive. Page S2269
Measures Passed:
NATO 70 Years: Senate agreed to S. Res. 123,
supporting the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
and recognizing its 70 years of accomplishments.
Page S2282
Central Conference of American Rabbis 130th
Anniversary: Senate agreed to S. Res. 145, com-
memorating the bicentennial of the birth of Rabbi
Isaac Mayer Wise and the 130th anniversary of the
founding of the Central Conference of American
Rabbis. Page S2282
Institute of International Education: Senate
agreed to S. Res. 146, recognizing the centennial of
the Institute of International Education. Page S2282
Domenico Nomination—Cloture: Senate began
consideration of nomination of Daniel Desmond
Domenico, of Colorado, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Colorado. Page S2262
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur on Tuesday,
April 9, 2019. Page S2262
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2262
Wyrick Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Patrick R. Wyrick,
of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Oklahoma. Page S2262
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Daniel Desmond Domenico, of
Colorado, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Colorado. Page S2262
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2262
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2262
Stanton Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of Cheryl Marie Stan-
ton, of South Carolina, to be Administrator of the
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor.
Page S2262
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04AP9.REC D04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D357
April 4, 2019
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Patrick R. Wyrick, of Okla-
homa, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Oklahoma. Page S2262
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2262
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2262
Abizaid Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of John P. Abizaid, of
Nevada, to be Ambassador to the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia. Page S2262
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South
Carolina, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division, Department of Labor. Page S2262
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2262
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2262
Brady Nomination—Cloture: Senate began consid-
eration of the nomination of Holly A. Brady, of In-
diana, to be United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Indiana. Page S2262
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of John P. Abizaid, of Nevada, to
be Ambassador to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Pages S2262–63
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2262
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2262
Morales Nomination—Cloture: Senate began con-
sideration of the nomination of David Steven Mo-
rales, of Texas, to be United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Texas. Page S2263
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the nomination, and, in accordance with the provi-
sions of Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, a vote on cloture will occur upon disposition
of the nomination of Holly A. Brady, of Indiana, to
be United States District Judge for the Northern
District of Indiana. Pages S2263
Prior to the consideration of this nomination, Sen-
ate took the following action:
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Legisla-
tive Session. Page S2263
Senate agreed to the motion to proceed to Execu-
tive Session to consider the nomination. Page S2263
Nominations Confirmed: Senate confirmed the fol-
lowing nominations:
By 66 yeas to 33 nays (Vote No. EX. 62), Roy
Kalman Altman, of Florida, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Southern District of Florida.
Pages S2249–50, S2284
By 52 yeas to 44 nays (Vote No. EX. 64), Mark
Anthony Calabria, of Virginia, to be Director of the
Federal Housing Finance Agency for a term of five
years. Pages S2246–49, S2250–58, S2284
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 46 nays (Vote No. EX. 63), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S2250
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Frank William Volk, of West Virginia, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of West Virginia.
Scott Soles, of Texas, to be Chief Financial Officer,
Department of Agriculture.
Michelle Bowman, of Kansas, to be a Member of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem for a term of fourteen years from February 1,
2020.
Allison Herren Lee, of Colorado, to be a Member
of the Securities and Exchange Commission for a
term expiring June 5, 2022.
Michael J.K. Kratsios, of South Carolina, to be an
Associate Director of the Office of Science and Tech-
nology Policy.
Alma L. Golden, of Texas, to be an Assistant Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development.
Richard B. Norland, of Iowa, to be Ambassador to
Libya.
Steven D. Grimberg, of Georgia, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of
Georgia.
Randall P. Huff, of Wyoming, to be United
States Marshal for the District of Wyoming for the
term of four years.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, and Navy.
Pages S2282–84
Nomination Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nomination:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 22:22 Jul 01, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\APRIL\D04AP9.REC D04AP9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D358 April 4, 2019
Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Homeland Security, which was sent to
the Senate on January 16, 2019. Page S2284
Messages from the House: Page S2269
Executive Reports of Committees: Page S2269
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S2271–72
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S2272–81
Additional Statements: Pages S2267–69
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S2281–82
Record Votes: Three record votes were taken today.
(Total—64) Pages S2249–50, S2258
Adjournment: Senate convened at 11 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:39 p.m., until 4 p.m. on Monday, April
8, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the remarks of
the Majority Leader in today’s Record on page
S2282.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
APPROPRIATIONS: DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Depart-
ments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and
Education, and Related Agencies concluded a hear-
ing to examine proposed budget estimates and jus-
tification for fiscal year 2020 for the Department of
Health and Human Services, after receiving testi-
mony from Alex Azar, Secretary of Health and
Human Services.
DEFENSE AUTHORIZATION REQUEST AND
FUTURE YEARS DEFENSE PROGRAM
Committee on Armed Services: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the posture of the Department of
the Air Force in review of the Defense Authorization
Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years
Defense Program, after receiving testimony from
Heather A. Wilson, Secretary of the Air Force, and
General David L. Goldfein, USAF, Chief of Staff of
the Air Force, both of the Department of Defense.
FEDERAL MARITIME AGENCIES
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Sub-
committee on Security concluded a hearing to exam-
ine Federal maritime agencies, focusing on ensuring
a safe, secure, and competitive future, after receiving
testimony from Mark H. Buzby, Administrator, De-
partment of Transportation; Michael A. Khouri,
Chairman, Federal Maritime Commission; and Ad-
miral Karl L. Schultz, Commandant, U.S. Coast
Guard, Department of Homeland Security.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: Committee
ordered favorably reported the nominations of David
Bernhardt, of Virginia, to be Secretary, and Susan
Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary, both
of the Department of the Interior, and Aimee Kath-
ryn Jorjani, of Wisconsin, to be Chairman of the
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
MIGRATION AT THE SOUTHERN BORDER
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs: Committee concluded a hearing to examine mi-
gration at the United States Southern border, after
receiving testimony from Mark Morgan, former
Chief of the Border Patrol, Customs and Border Pro-
tection, Department of Homeland Security; John
Daniel Davidson, Texas Public Policy Foundation,
Alexandria, Virginia; and Andrew Selee, Migration
Policy Institute, Washington, D.C.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee ordered favor-
ably reported the nominations of Daniel P. Collins,
and Kenneth Kiyul Lee, both of California, both to
be a United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Cir-
cuit, James Wesley Hendrix, and Mark T. Pittman,
both to be a United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Texas, Sean D. Jordan, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Texas, and Nick Edward Proffitt, of Virginia, to
be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of
Virginia, Department of Justice.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04AP9.REC D04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D359
April 4, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 34 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 2079–2112; and 3 resolutions, H.
Res. 290–292 were introduced. Pages H3099–H3100
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H3101–02
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 243, resolution of inquiry requesting the
President and directing the Attorney General to
transmit, respectively, certain documents to the
House of Representatives relating to the actions of
former Federal Bureau of Investigation Acting Direc-
tor Andrew McCabe, with an amendment (H. Rept.
116–33). Pages H3098–99
Recess: The House recessed at 10:18 a.m. and re-
convened at 10:45 a.m. Page H3080
Suspension—Proceedings Resumed: The House
agreed to suspend the rules and pass the following
measure. Consideration began Tuesday, April 2nd.
Designating the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 1450 Montauk Highway
in Mastic, New York, as the ‘‘Army Specialist
Thomas J. Wilwerth Post Office Building’’: H.R.
829, to designate the facility of the United States
Postal Service located at 1450 Montauk Highway in
Mastic, New York, as the ‘‘Army Specialist Thomas
J. Wilwerth Post Office Building’’, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-
nay vote of 423 yeas with none voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll
No. 151. Pages H3080–81
Directing the removal of United States Armed
Forces from hostilities in the Republic of Yemen
that have not been authorized by Congress: The
House passed S.J. Res. 7, to direct the removal of
United States Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been authorized by
Congress, by a recorded vote of 247 ayes to 175 noes
with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 153. Con-
sideration began Tuesday, April 2nd.
Pages H3075–80, H3081–83
Rejected the McCaul motion to commit the bill
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs with instruc-
tions to report the same back to the House forthwith
with an amendment, by a recorded vote of 194 ayes
to 228 noes with one answering ‘‘present’’, Roll No.
152. Pages H3081–83
H. Res. 274, the rule providing for consideration
of the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 7) and the resolu-
tion (H. Res. 271) was agreed to Tuesday, April
2nd.
Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of
2019: The House passed H.R. 1585, to reauthorize
the Violence Against Women Act of 1994, by a re-
corded vote of 263 ayes to 158 noes with one an-
swering ‘‘present’’, Roll No. 156. Consideration
began yesterday, April 3rd. Pages H3073–75, H3083–87
Rejected the Stefanik motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on the Judiciary with instructions
to report the same back to the House forthwith with
an amendment, by a recorded vote of 185 ayes to
237 noes, Roll No. 155. Pages H3084–86
Agreed to:
Axne amendment (No. 39 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–32) that increases STOP grants from $40
million to $60 million; and Pages H3073–74
Torres Small (NM) amendment (No. 40 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–32) that ensures all provi-
sions of the bill comply with immigration laws (by
a recorded vote of 425 ayes with none voting ‘‘no’’,
Roll No. 154). Pages H3074–75, H3083–84
H. Res. 281, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 1585) was agreed to yesterday,
April 3rd.
Agreed that in the engrossment of the bill, the
Clerk be authorized to correct section numbers,
punctuation, spelling, and cross-references, and to
make such other technical and conforming changes
as may be necessary to reflect the actions of the
House, including the changes placed at the desk.
Page H3087
Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institu-
tion—Appointment: The Chair announced the
Speaker’s appointment of the following Member on
the part of the House to the Board of Regents of the
Smithsonian Institution: Representative Shimkus.
Page H3088
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Monday, April 8th for Morning Hour
debate. Page H3090
United States Semiquincentennial Commission—
Appointment: Read a letter from Representative
McCarthy, Minority Leader, in which he appointed
the following Members to the United States
Semiquincentennial Commission: Representatives
Holding and Aderholt. Page H3090
Quorum Calls—Votes: One yea-and-nay vote and
five recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H3080–81,
H3082–83, H3083, H3083–84, H3086, and
H3087. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 9 a.m. and ad-
journed at 2:22 p.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04AP9.REC D04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D360 April 4, 2019
Committee Meetings
APPROPRIATIONS—FEDERAL BUREAU OF
INVESTIGATION
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion. Testimony was heard from Christopher Wray,
Director, Federal Bureau of Investigation.
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS—
BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT,
BUREAU OF OCEAN ENERGY
MANAGEMENT, BUREAU OF SAFETY AND
ENVIRONMENTAL ENFORCEMENT
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Inte-
rior, Environment, and Related Agencies held a
budget hearing on the Bureau of Land Management,
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, and Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement. Testimony
was heard from Scott Angelle, Director, Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement; Walter
Cruickshank, Acting Director, Bureau of Ocean En-
ergy Management; and Brian Steed, Acting Director,
Bureau of Land Management.
NAVY AND MARINE CORPS TACTICAL
AVIATION AND GROUND
MODERNIZATION
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Tac-
tical and Land Forces held a hearing entitled ‘‘Navy
and Marine Corps Tactical Aviation and Ground
Modernization’’. Testimony was heard from Vice Ad-
miral Mathias W. Winter, Program Executive Offi-
cer, F–35 Lightning II Program, Department of De-
fense; Rear Admiral Scott D. Conn, Director, Air
Warfare, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations,
U.S. Navy; Lieutenant General Steven R. Rudder,
Deputy Commandant of the Marine Corps for Avia-
tion, U.S. Marine Corps; Lieutenant General David
H. Berger, Commanding General, Marine Corps
Combat Development Command, and Deputy Com-
mandant for Combat Development and Integration,
U.S. Marine Corps; Daniel L. Nega, Deputy Assist-
ant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development
and Acquisition—Air, U.S. Navy; and Jimmy D.
Smith, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy for
Research, Development and Acquisition—Expedi-
tionary Programs and Logistics Management, U.S.
Navy.
MISMANAGED MILITARY FAMILY
HOUSING PROGRAMS: WHAT IS THE
RECOVERY PLAN?
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on Readi-
ness held a hearing entitled ‘‘Mismanaged Military
Family Housing Programs: What is the Recovery
Plan?’’. Testimony was heard from Thomas Modly,
Under Secretary of the Navy, U.S. Navy; Robert H.
McMahon, Assistant Secretary of Defense for
Sustainment, Department of Defense; John W. Hen-
derson, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for In-
stallations, Environment and Energy, U.S. Air Force;
and Alex A. Beehler, Assistant Secretary of the Army
for Installations, Energy and Environment, U.S.
Army.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Full Committee
concluded a markup on H.R. 1644, the ‘‘Save the
Internet Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1781, the ‘‘Payment
Commission Data Act of 2019’’; H.R. 938, the
‘‘BLOCKING Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1520, the ‘‘Purple
Book Continuity Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1503, the ‘‘Or-
ange Book Transparency Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1499,
the ‘‘Protecting Consumer Access to Generic Drugs
Act of 2019’’; H.R. 965, the ‘‘CREATES Act of
2019’’; H.R. 1385, the ‘‘SAVE Act’’; H.R. 1386,
the ‘‘ENROLL Act of 2019’’; H.R. 987, the ‘‘MORE
Health Education Act’’; H.R. 1010, a bill to provide
that the rule entitled ‘‘Short-Term, Limited Duration
Insurance’’ shall have no force or effect; H.R. 986,
the ‘‘Protecting Americans with Preexisting Condi-
tions Act of 2019’’; H.R. 1425, the ‘‘State Health
Care Premium Reduction Act’’; and H.R. 9, the
‘‘Climate Action Now Act’’. H.R. 1644, H.R. 1781,
H.R. 1520, H.R. 1503, H.R. 1499, H.R. 965, H.R.
1385, H.R. 1386, H.R. 987, and H.R. 1425 were
ordered reported, as amended. H.R. 938, H.R. 1010,
H.R. 986, and H.R. 9 were ordered reported, with-
out amendment.
LEGISLATIVE MEASURE
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a hearing on H.R. 1904, the ‘‘Indian Water Rights
Settlement Extension Act’’. Testimony was heard
from Alan Mikkelsen, Senior Advisor to the Sec-
retary for Water and Western Resource Issues, De-
partment of the Interior; and public witnesses.
GENERATION CLIMATE: YOUNG LEADERS
URGE CLIMATE ACTION NOW
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis: Full Committee
held a hearing entitled ‘‘Generation Climate: Young
Leaders Urge Climate Action Now’’. Testimony was
heard from Lindsay Cooper, Policy Analyst, Office of
Coastal Activities, Office of the Governor, Louisiana;
and public witnesses.
Joint Meetings
SLOVAKIA’S CHAIRMANSHIP OF THE OSCE
Commission on Security and Cooperation in Europe. On
Wednesday, April 3, 2019, Commission concluded a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04AP9.REC D04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D361
April 4, 2019
hearing to examine Slovakia’s chairmanship of the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Eu-
rope, focusing on priorities and challenges, after re-
ceiving testimony from Miroslav Lajcak, Slovakia
Minister of Foreign Affairs, Bratislava.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR MONDAY,
APRIL 8, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
Committee on Rules, Full Committee, hearing on H.R.
1644, the ‘‘Save the Internet Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2021,
the ‘‘Investing for the People Act of 2019’’, 5 p.m.,
H–313 Capitol.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04AP9.REC D04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D362 April 4, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
4 p.m., Monday, April 8
Senate Chamber
Program for Monday: Senate will be in a period of
morning business.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
4 p.m., Monday, April 8
House Chamber
Program for Monday: To be announced.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Burgess, Michael C., Tex., E410, E412
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E404
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E411
Cloud, Michael, Tex., E409
Cohen, Steve, Tenn., E403
Curtis, John R., Utah, E412
Deutch, Theodore E., Fla., E413
Fitzpatrick, Brian K., Pa., E406
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E404
Gosar, Paul, Ariz., E411
Green, Al, Tex., E412
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E406, E410
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E403, E405, E407, E410
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E405
Levin, Mike, Calif., E406
Olson, Pete, Tex., E413
Perlmutter, Ed, Colo., E403, E405, E406, E407, E409,
E410, E411, E412, E412, E413
Reed, Tom, N.Y., E405
Smith, Christopher H., N.J., E408
Smith, Jason, Mo., E409, E411
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E407, E409
Titus, Dina, Nev., E407
Trahan, Lori, Mass., E403
Visclosky, Peter J., Ind., E407
Wagner, Ann, Mo., E408
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E413
Watson Coleman, Bonnie, N.J., E410
Webster, Daniel, Fla., E405
Young, Don, Alaska, E405
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:01 Apr 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D04AP9.REC D04APPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
