Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H363
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 10, 2019 No. 5
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. SWALWELL of California).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 10, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ERIC
SWALWELL to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
HOW CLOTURE KILLED THE 115TH
CONGRESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. MCCLINTOCK) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, 2
weeks after the 2016 election, I warned
on this floor that the greatest obstacle
to the success of the Republican Con-
gress and the Trump Presidency was
the Senate’s cloture rule.
Cloture is the Senate rule that re-
quires 60 votes before a bill can be con-
sidered. It was originally designed to
protect the minority’s right to debate,
but it has now degenerated into a very
effective way for the minority to pre-
vent any debate. Today, it gives minor-
ity Democrats in the Senate the power
to summarily reject almost every
measure brought to the Senate.
In 2016, the American people elected
a Republican President and Republican
majorities in both houses of Congress
with a simple plea: Make America
Great Again. As a practical matter,
this meant reviving the economy, bal-
ancing the budget, securing our bor-
ders, and rescuing our healthcare sys-
tem. Having given us all the necessary
tools, it had every right to expect ac-
tion.
If the Republican Congress had prov-
en worthy of this trust, history would
have looked back on the last 2 years as
the turning point when America re-
claimed its greatness and entered a
new era of prosperity, solvency, and se-
curity. The new 116th Congress would
be taking office with a clear mandate
to build on that success.
Well, the American people got action
from the President. They also got ac-
tion from this House. We sent the Sen-
ate over 1,300 bills, fulfilling every
promise made to the American people.
The Senate acted on fewer than 300.
Now, did the Senate, which absurdly
boasts to be the greatest deliberative
body in the world, carefully and me-
ticulously deliberate over these meas-
ures and ultimately reject them? No.
The greatest deliberative body in the
world never took them up at all—all
for lack of cloture.
That is not the fault of Senate Demo-
crats, who radically abused this rule as
part of the resistance. It is the fault of
Senate Republicans who let them.
The only major accomplishments
were due to rare instances when clo-
ture could be bypassed. The appoint-
ments of Neil Gorsuch and Brett
Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court oc-
curred only after Senate Republicans
changed this rule, but only for Su-
preme Court nominations.
The landmark tax reform bill could
be taken up and passed in the Senate
only by misusing a budget process
called reconciliation, which avoids the
cloture rule.
Reconciliation is a once-a-year bill
designed to control spending. It isn’t
subject to the 60-vote requirement, but
it can only change laws to conform to
spending levels set by the budget.
Even then, this proved a mixed polit-
ical blessing for Republicans. The lim-
its on deducting State and local taxes
were all placed in the bill, solely to
conform to reconciliation require-
ments. Republicans got clobbered in
the high-tax States where these provi-
sions proved so unpopular.
The tax cuts triggered such dramatic
economic growth that Federal revenues
increased, yet the deficit continued to
widen. Why? Well, spending exploded,
in part because House leaders hijacked
reconciliation, the most potent tool to
control spending, in order to get
around the Senate’s cloture rule.
Cloture turned healthcare from a
winning to a losing issue for Repub-
licans. House Republicans had proposed
comprehensive healthcare reforms that
rescued Americans from the bureau-
cratic labyrinth of ObamaCare, re-
stored their freedom of choice, pro-
tected those with preexisting condi-
tions, and provided a supportive tax
system to guarantee an affordable
health plan for every family.
Yet cloture made a comprehensive
bill DOA in the Senate, forcing the
House to concoct a hodgepodge meas-
ure that could fit within the narrow
rules for budget reconciliation. This
mangled product that resulted couldn’t
even muster a Senate majority. Since
the replacement bill was never en-
acted, Democrats could portray it any
way they wanted. The same story can
be told of border security and funding
for the long-promised border wall.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.000 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H364 January 10, 2019
Though majorities in both houses fa-
vored funding, cloture gave Senate
Democrats the power to run out the
clock toward a government shutdown
and produce the impasse that we now
face today.
Ironically, the political demo-
graphics of Senate elections allowed
Senate Republicans to increase their
majority, while voter frustration deci-
mated their House colleagues.
The 115th Congress now passes into
history as Democrats take control of
the House and end any chance to fulfill
the hopes of 2016. All that is left is
Whittier’s sad lament: ‘‘Of all sad
words of tongue and pen, the saddest
are these, ‘It might have been.’ ’’
f
END THE SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Maryland (Mr. BROWN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Mr. Speak-
er, there is a crisis in our country, but
it is not at our southern border. There
is a crisis mounting at every airport,
every national park, in the homes of
furloughed Federal employees and
stop-work Federal contractors across
this country, from Los Angeles
through Kansas City to Baltimore. It is
a crisis that is hurting the lives of
countless Americans whose food won’t
be inspected, whose water may not be
clean, whose flight may not be safe,
and whose bills may not be paid. It is a
crisis of the President’s own making.
Right now, we are on the verge of the
longest government shutdown in our
Nation’s history, a shameful display of
what happens when the President gov-
erns solely to appeal to his political
base, rather than on behalf of all Amer-
icans.
Why are we here, Mr. Speaker? Be-
cause the President has committed
himself to a wall that many experts
say is ineffective. It is ineffective; it is
expensive; and it is downright absurd.
It has become a vanity project that
began as an applause line in a cam-
paign speech in which then-candidate
Trump deemed the entire migration of
people from the south rapists and
criminals.
It is clear, the wall is the only policy
objective that matters to the Presi-
dent, and he is willing to say or do any-
thing to get it. He will push hundreds
of thousands of American families into
suffering for his wall, and he has gone
so far as to threaten us with a declara-
tion of national emergency if he
doesn’t get his way, a declaration of
national emergency not because we are
in the middle of one, but, rather, as the
President put it, because he can’t make
a deal.
What is this national emergency on
the border that the President is so con-
cerned and afraid of? The past 2 years
have seen border crossings drop to a
historic low. Most undocumented im-
migrants in this country are visa
overstays.
Mr. Speaker, 0.1 percent of all Border
Patrol arrests in 2018 were members of
MS–13. Yes, that is a problem that we
are sadly and tragically familiar with
in Maryland, but that doesn’t make it
a national emergency.
Most drugs smuggled through the
southern border come through official
ports of entry, not between them. And
despite the President’s false claims,
there aren’t thousands of terrorists
coming across the border.
Customs and Border Protection, an
agency in which the President has con-
siderable confidence, said they encoun-
tered six people with names that are
like those on the terrorist watch list.
Last year, more suspected foreign ter-
rorists were apprehended at the north-
ern border than at our southern border.
Sure, we need strong border security,
and not just at our southern border.
But the President knows this isn’t a
national emergency but, perhaps, an
alarm to his own political future.
What will hurt our security and cre-
ate a real crisis is if he takes money
away from the Armed Forces to fund
the wall. If the President used funding
from the military construction budget,
facilities used by our men and women
in uniform—like shipyards and aircraft
hangars, ammunition supply points
and training ranges, and childcare cen-
ters and family housing—those would
continue to slide into disrepair. This
would impact military readiness and
the quality of life for our military fam-
ilies.
Or the President could decide to use
money from infrastructure projects
from the Army Corps of Engineers,
projects meant to protect cities like
Houston or Ellicott City in Maryland
from flooding and would threaten tens
of thousands of Americans who may
find themselves in a real emergency
during the next hurricane season.
The use of these authorities, like the
deployment of our troops to the border,
is irresponsible, unnecessary, and mis-
guided.
Mr. Speaker, we don’t have a crisis
on the border. We have a crisis in the
Oval Office. To President Trump, the
wall, his symbol of division, matters
more than substantial improvements
to border security and true comprehen-
sive immigration reform.
If President Trump wants to address
the real crisis in our country, let’s end
this shutdown and pay the people who
work for the people. Let’s reduce our
silent backlog, protect Dreamers, and
fix our dysfunctional immigration sys-
tem. We need real action and a bipar-
tisan solution.
f
EXPRESSING SUPPORT OF SMALL
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CEN-
TERS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support of
the small business development centers
located throughout my district and
throughout the country. These devel-
opment centers are Statewide, nation-
ally accredited programs that provide
one-on-one consulting, training, and
information resources to empower new
and existing small businesses.
They are a public-private partnership
between the Small Business Adminis-
tration, the Pennsylvania Department
of Commerce and Economic Develop-
ment, and universities and colleges
across the Commonwealth.
Clarion University and Penn State
both have fantastic small business de-
velopment centers whose mission is to
provide entrepreneurs with the knowl-
edge needed to make smart decisions
and to see their businesses grow and
prosper.
Over the past few months, I have re-
ceived many letters in support of small
business development centers from
constituents who have utilized these
services to start or maintain a small
business of their own.
Lisa from Smethport wrote that,
after growing up working in her fam-
ily’s restaurant, it had always been a
dream to operate her own restaurant.
Through the help of the Clarion Uni-
versity Small Business Development
Center, her dream became a reality.
Joseph from Punxsutawney worked
with the center to help manage his
business’s financial records and receive
a line of credit. He wrote that the in-
formation and advice they provided
helped him make critical business deci-
sions with confidence.
And Emily from Franklin recently
opened up a charming bed and break-
fast after working with the develop-
ment center staff to write up a busi-
ness plan and organize the financial as-
pects of her business. She hopes to con-
tinue working with the development
center and said she truly feels as
though they want her to succeed.
Mr. Speaker, these are just some of
the stories I have received, and I thank
all of my constituents that took the
time to share their stories with me.
The success stories of small business
owners that work with development
centers are endless. They have greatly
helped economic progress in my dis-
trict.
The Clarion University center helped
start up 55 new businesses in 2017 and
supported more than 500 constituents.
Nationally, small businesses make up
99.7 percent of U.S. employer firms. In
2018, there were more than 30 million
small businesses that employed 58 mil-
lion people.
The development center program, op-
erated through the Small Business Ad-
ministration, was allocated $130 mil-
lion for fiscal year 2018. Through the
continued funding of small business de-
velopment centers, paired with the pas-
sage of probusiness legislation like the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, entrepreneur-
ship can continue to thrive in Pennsyl-
vania and all across this country.
Mr. Speaker, that is something every
American can applaud and that we
should be proud of.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H365
January 10, 2019
END GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Oregon (Ms. BONAMICI) for 5 minutes.
Ms. BONAMICI. Mr. Speaker, a TSA
agent along with his wife had to sell
plasma to make ends meet.
A Federal law enforcement employee
just received an eviction notice after
trying to explain the shutdown to his
apartment manager. In a few days, he
and his family will be kicked out of
their apartment if they do not receive
a paycheck in time to pay their rent.
A counselor at a Federal prison is al-
ready working under stressful condi-
tions and not being paid. She and her
coworkers wonder how they can make
their Federal student loan payments
when they aren’t getting paychecks.
Members of the Coast Guard are
working hard every day in dangerous
conditions to keep our coastal commu-
nities safe, not knowing how they will
pay their rent or other bills without
their next paycheck.
Air traffic controllers work in a very
complex field that requires concentra-
tion and dedication to keep the skies
safe, and they are expected to do that
without getting paid.
b 1015
Mr. Speaker, I rise today because
these Oregonians and hundreds of thou-
sands of people across the country like
them are suffering as a result of Presi-
dent Trump’s government shutdown.
For 20 days, the President has held
the American people hostage over his
campaign slogan to build a wall along
the southern border, a wall that he
promised Mexico would pay for. In
those 20 days, I have seen firsthand
how harmful this shutdown has been
for Oregonians.
I have spoken with individuals from
Astoria, Sheridan, Portland, and be-
yond who are worried: How are they
going to pay their rent? How are they
going to afford childcare or continue to
pay their student loans if their pay-
check does not come through on Fri-
day?
Missing even one paycheck can have
catastrophic consequences. It is far too
high a cost for these dedicated Federal
employees to pay for a policy fight
that they did not start and have no
power to end. This is unconscionable.
Hardworking Oregonians should not
lose their homes or be forced to sell
plasma because the Federal Govern-
ment is shut down, especially when
they are continuing to report to work
and protect our country without pay.
Since taking the majority last week,
the House has taken swift action to re-
open the government. We have passed
bipartisan bills to fund government op-
erations and pay workers who have
been furloughed.
The American people have been held
hostage long enough. It is past time for
the President to abandon his ill-con-
ceived border wall and reopen the Fed-
eral Government before more people
are hurt.
U.S. POLICY IN SYRIA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
was delighted to read that President
Trump has reflected on his initial in-
stinct to pull our 2,000 soldiers out of
eastern Syria based on his conclusion
that ISIS is defeated, and, instead, he
is ordering a withdrawal at a proper
pace consistent with American objec-
tives.
To meet our goals of a safe American
homeland and progress towards re-
gional stability, America must first de-
velop a strategy to eliminate ISIS from
northeast Syria along the lower Eu-
phrates valley at the border of Syria
and Iraq.
This plan must include a productive
role for our partner and ally, the
Kurds. It is not in America’s interest
to abandon our long friends, the Kurds,
to Turkish treachery and annihilation.
Recent open-source data suggests
there are 30,000 ISIS-related fighters in
the lower Euphrates valley. With our
allies, we must press this villainous
band to its inglorious end.
Our leaving with no plan will squan-
der our immense success in cutting off
funding and winning back hard-fought
territorial gains from the occupation of
ISIS.
Second, America must block Iran. A
key here is a small base and
deconfliction zone at al-Tanf, a small
force of 200 anchors that base along the
key highway between Damascus and
Baghdad. Not only is this a strategic
imperative, Mr. Speaker, but 50,000 ref-
ugees are tenuously housed in this
deconfliction zone at Rukban. With-
draw, and death awaits them.
Neighboring Jordan can take no
more. We must ensure that an allied
force remains at al-Tanf, blocking the
Iranian-planned autobahn being consid-
ered from Tehran to Damascus. With-
draw, Mr. President, and you will leave
Israel fully encircled by its greatest
enemy, the Ayatollah in Tehran.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, America must
achieve peace and stability in Syria.
Our small elite presence, our supply
lines, and our air superiority offer pres-
sure on the murderous regime in Da-
mascus to reach a settlement to return
Syria to peace and return millions of
refugees to their towns and ancestral
homes.
Leave, Mr. President, and you will
squander the great moral victory of
your strategic strikes against Assad
from his illegal use of chemical weap-
ons and barrel bombs.
Your early decisive actions made our
friends, villagers huddling in fear and
from the Euphrates to Idlib, shout with
joy. ‘‘America is back,’’ they shouted.
Leave, Mr. President, with no plan
and no strategy, and they will hang
their heads as they did during Presi-
dent Obama’s shameful abandonment.
Mr. Speaker, this unfortunate chap-
ter unfolding in the tragedy known as
Syria foreshadows an unflattering
flashback to a time long ago when
Great Britain abandoned a role of sta-
bility in the Holy Land and India.
In 1948, Churchill rose in the House to
oppose Prime Minister Atlee’s own un-
planned precipitous withdrawal from
the Holy Land, saying:
A time limit imposed—a kind of guillo-
tine—will certainly prevent the full, fair,
and reasonable discussion of the great, com-
plicated issues that are involved.
Indeed, as Churchill foresaw, may-
hem, terror, and destruction were the
result of Britain’s precipitous with-
drawal.
It is said that history doesn’t repeat
itself, but it does rhyme. Mr. Presi-
dent, let’s not repeat this historical
mistake nor let our actions even result
in a rhyme.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO) for 5 minutes.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, we know
the President doesn’t like to read, but
I think perhaps his acting chief of staff
did.
There was something called the Ma-
ginot Line the French built between
World War I and World War II, an im-
penetrable defense against the German
invasion. Unfortunately, the Germans
went around it.
Here we are in the 21st century. The
President wants $5.7 billion to build a
wall along part of the Mexican border.
Now, his own acting chief of staff,
when he was a Member of Congress and
perhaps speaking more freely, said:
You go under, you go around, you go
through. What they need is more manpower
and more technology.
That is Mick Mulvaney, well, saying
something different now, I guess, be-
cause he wants to keep his job. But the
point is, he had an honest opinion then,
and that is the way it will work.
Here are a few things:
You can go over walls and fences—oh,
by the way, we just had a demonstra-
tion today that the steel slats the
President now wants can be cut with a
handsaw.
Tunnels, drugs come through that
way and people are smuggled in that
way.
Oh, they are using the squad copters.
You can buy those pretty cheap—oh,
and then some more primitive device
over here.
But, actually, the flood of drugs com-
ing into the United States comes in
right here, legal border crossings.
A couple of problems with that right
now:
First off, the people who are manning
the border crossings aren’t getting
paid.
Secondly, they don’t have enough
technology or the capability of inspect-
ing more than 10 percent of the vehi-
cles that come through. So for the car-
tels: ‘‘Hey, what the heck. We just lost
a semi.’’ What do they care? Pocket
change. ‘‘Couple of hundred thousand
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.004 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H366 January 10, 2019
bucks, million bucks—whatever. We
don’t care.’’ They just try all the time.
And we don’t have the defenses we
need. We could invest there, but, no,
the President wants the wall.
Now, there is another way that drugs
are coming into this country. Last
year, the Coast Guard intercepted $5.6
billion—sound familiar? $5.6 billion, al-
most as much as the President wants
for the wall—worth of illegal drugs
being shipped via the ocean into the
United States.
The Commandant of the Coast Guard
testified 2 years ago, they are only
intercepting 20 percent of the known
shipments because their medium en-
durance cutters are half a century old.
They don’t have enough helicopters.
They don’t have enough air support.
They don’t have enough fast-pursuit
boats.
But, no, we are going to invest in a
stupid static way. They can go around
it in the oceans. They can go around it
in the desert. They can go under it.
They can go over it.
And the people who are really doing
the job, like the Coast Guard, guess
what. They are not getting paid either.
The first line of defense, Customs and
Border Protection—not being paid. The
Coast Guard—not being paid.
There is a very long list of Federal
employees who are critical to national
security who are not being paid today
and don’t have the tools they need. But
the President wants to invest in a stu-
pid static wall because they promised
one.
And, oh, by the way, Mexico is going
to pay for it, which, of course, they
aren’t.
You know, yesterday the tip sheet
from the Coast Guard support group,
the Trump administration, had helpful
tips for coasties: you could hold a ga-
rage sale; you could perhaps dog walk;
you could register as a mystery shop-
per.
They actually posted this for people
who are the first line of defense in the
United States of America, instead of
saying: ‘‘Put them back to work and
pay them, pay them for defending
America.’’
Now, the President says he can relate
to this. He understands. Yes, when he
was in business, he stiffed a whole lot
of people, and he is stiffing 800,000 Fed-
eral employees right now.
f
RECOGNIZING DR. BUD PETERSON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize G.P. ‘‘Bud’’
Peterson, who will retire as president
of Georgia Tech in the summer of 2019.
After 10 years serving Georgia Tech,
President Peterson is certainly leaving
it in a better place than he found it:
Under his leadership, Georgia Tech
became the first university in a decade
to be invited to join the Association of
American Universities;
Research funding increased and near-
ly doubled;
The size of enrollment grew, includ-
ing the number of women enrolled at
the university.
And these are only a few of President
Peterson’s most notable impacts on
campus.
Thank you, President Peterson, for
your service to Georgia Tech as a pre-
mier research university that cul-
tivates innovative leaders in Georgia,
across the U.S., and throughout the
world. I wish you the best of luck in
your future endeavors.
And to Georgia Tech, I wish you the
best of luck in your search for a new
president.
NATIONAL PHARMACIST DAY 2019
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize National
Pharmacist Day 2019 on January 12.
According to Census data, there are
over 200,000 pharmacists across the
U.S., with another 25,000 pharmacy
aids. Each day, these pharmacists are
providing vaccines for a number of ill-
nesses and carefully counseling pa-
tients on prescriptions to help heal
sickness and reduce pain.
Through this work, pharmacists are
considered one of the top three most
trusted professions in America. Today,
and throughout the rest of the year, I
encourage everyone to visit your phar-
macist, ask questions about your pre-
scriptions, and get to know the people
who provide your medicine and work to
keep you healthy.
As the only pharmacist currently
serving in Congress, I am proud to rec-
ognize the work these individuals are
doing every day to serve their local
communities across the country.
f
ABBAS FAMILY MEMORIAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Mrs. DINGELL) for 5 minutes.
Mrs. DINGELL. Mr. Speaker, today, I
stand before this House heartbroken.
This past weekend, tragedy struck
our Dearborn community as we learned
of the death of all five members of the
Abbas family. They were killed by a
drunk driver while driving back from a
family vacation in Florida, and their
loss has devastated our community in
ways that you cannot imagine.
In every sense of the word, they were
our community. The parents were born
and raised there. Rima served many as
a respected doctor at Beaumont and
had just been promoted to head all of
the doctors at the hospital. And Issam
had a successful career as a lawyer and
real estate agent. Their children—Ali,
age 13; Isabelle, age 12; and Giselle, age
7—were gifts from God and the center
of their parents’ lives, and so many
other families in Dearborn.
Their family, their very extended
family was devoted to everything that
they did. Their absence stunned this
community and is felt deeply and emo-
tionally.
Thousands attended one of the me-
morial services this week and then the
funeral. Many in attendance chose to
remember the good memories—the
smiles, the laughs, their careers, their
deep connections to friends, neighbors,
coworkers, classmates, and friends—
but some came up to me and spoke
very honestly. I was struck by the chil-
dren and grown men who came up to
me in tears, asking me why we hadn’t
done something to stop drunk driving.
A young girl, a classmate, who will
never see her friend again, had chan-
neled her grief into research. She came
up to me and asked why, when the
technology exists, has Congress never
done anything to mandate interlock
breathalyzers to prevent this kind of
senseless accident from ever happening
again.
b 1030
She wasn’t alone.
Elders in the community had also re-
searched this subject, and the senior
men, in their very deep way, asked me
why nothing had been done, why
weren’t we using and mandating tech-
nology that would save lives. And I had
no good answer.
Too many lives across this country
are taken because of drunk driving. In
2016, 10,497 people died in alcohol-im-
paired driving crashes. That is 28 per-
cent of all traffic-related deaths.
The young girl was right and the el-
ders of the community were correct
that technology does exist to stop
drunk driving once and for all, and
Congress has never had the will to take
it on.
I have to go home tomorrow to a
community that is still grieving. I
can’t look them in the eye unless we
are really willing to try to do some-
thing.
This week I am introducing legisla-
tion in memory of the Abbas family
that would mandate all new vehicles be
equipped with interlock breathalyzer
devices. This will stop intoxicated driv-
ers from ever starting a vehicle and
keep them off the roads.
If we can keep one person from dying
on the roads and make people think
twice before getting behind the wheel
when they shouldn’t, even when they
are buzzed and think they will be okay,
then won’t we have been successful?
I know that some will say: ‘‘This is
too much of a burden. It won’t work.
Why should we have to do that?’’
Well, I am going to look them in the
eye and tell them why no community
should ever have to feel what our com-
munity is still feeling this week.
I will work with all my colleagues,
Democrats and Republicans, and the
auto industry to save lives. It is our
moral imperative.
Nothing will bring back the Abbas
family, but their lives were too impor-
tant to forget. Our community will
deeply miss them, but we need to make
sure that their death was not in vain.
We must dedicate ourselves in their
memory and those of others we know
to try to prevent another life being lost
this way senselessly.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.006 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H367
January 10, 2019
RECOGNIZING BILL SAMPLE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,
yesterday our Nation recognized Na-
tional Law Enforcement Appreciation
Day, and I am proud to stand here
today with my colleagues to express
our gratitude to the brave women and
men who sacrifice for our safety each
and every day.
I would like to recognize the memory
and legacy of one law enforcement offi-
cer who left an indelible mark on fami-
lies in Bucks County and beyond. Bill
Sample, a Chalfont resident who passed
away in 2014, was a Philadelphia police
officer who founded the Sunshine
Foundation in 1976.
Based in Southampton, the Sunshine
Foundation, which seeks to help chron-
ically ill, physically challenged, and
abused children from underserved fami-
lies, was inspired by Bill working pro-
tective duty at St. Christopher’s Chil-
dren’s Hospital. To date, the Sunshine
Foundation has answered over 40,000
dreams of deserving children.
Mr. Speaker, I speak on behalf of our
entire community when I say that I am
thankful and we are all thankful for
our law enforcement community and
for officers like Bill Sample. We want
to thank him and all law enforcement
officers for their service and applaud
the work of the Sunshine Foundation.
RECOGNIZING CALEB BYELICH
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize an outstanding
young citizen in Bucks County, Penn-
sylvania, who at only 8 years old is al-
ready making a substantial impact in
the lives of the underserved in our
community.
Caleb Byelich, a student at Neidig El-
ementary School in Quakertown, held
a hot cocoa stand last month with the
goal of raising $100 for the Upper Bucks
Code Blue Shelter, a program that ad-
vocates for the homeless in upper
Bucks County.
To say that Caleb’s stand was a suc-
cess, Mr. Speaker, would be an under-
statement. Through selling hot cocoa
and with the help of additional dona-
tions that came in days later, Caleb
was able to raise $1,715 for the Upper
Bucks Code Blue Shelter.
We applaud Caleb for his remarkable
work, and I look forward to seeing his
accomplishments in the years to come.
We would also like to thank his par-
ents, Loren and Alicia, for instilling in
him the values of service and compas-
sion.
We would also like to extend our
gratitude to Pastor David Heckler of
St. Paul’s Evangelical Lutheran
Church for his coordination of the
Upper Bucks Code Blue Shelter.
RECOGNIZING VINCENT KABASO
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize an individual in
Montgomery County, Pennsylvania,
who recently accomplished a major
feat in his industry.
Vincent Kabaso of Ambler has be-
come the first Professional Golf Asso-
ciation member from his home nation
of Zambia, a country of 17 million peo-
ple. Vinny currently works as a golf
professional at Talamore Country Club
in Ambler.
Vinny’s love of golf came at a very
young age. After graduating from high
school in 2004, he studied in England
and Scotland before becoming a coach
on the Zambia national golf team. He
later came to the United States where
he served as a golf professional in Con-
necticut before moving to Pennsyl-
vania.
In addition to his golf talent, Vinny
has also founded a nonprofit organiza-
tion and he is also an author. He estab-
lished the Raised by the World Founda-
tion, which assists students at the Uni-
versity of Zambia and provides used
equipment for young golfers.
Mr. Speaker, we applaud this major
professional achievement of Vincent
Kabaso, and wish his wife, Hannah, and
daughter, JoAnna, all the best. Our
community appreciates their service
and their accomplishments.
f
END THE SHUTDOWN AND REOPEN
GOVERNMENT NOW
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New Hampshire (Mr. PAPPAS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I am hon-
ored to say this is the first time that I
have addressed my constituents and
my colleagues from the floor of this
House.
Under normal circumstances, I would
be talking about creating new jobs and
new opportunities for my constituents
in New Hampshire. I would be talking
about plans to rebuild our roads and
bridges, to step up our response to the
opioid crisis. I would be sharing and
discussing ideas and proposals that can
improve people’s lives and move Amer-
ica forward. But today’s circumstances
in this brand-new Congress are any-
thing but normal.
Instead of talking about how we can
reform government, I am here to plead
with my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle to simply reopen government.
Mr. Speaker, today marks day 20 of
the shutdown. After nearly 3 weeks
without a paycheck, Federal employees
across the country are grappling with
how they will pay their rent, their
mortgage, and their utility bills. They
are anxious about putting food on the
table and providing for their kids.
With no end in sight, thousands of
workers in my State of New Hampshire
are facing tough questions. What if the
shutdown lasts months or even years,
as this President has threatened? What
will that mean for their savings, for
their jobs, and for their families? Will
they be forced to leave Federal service
simply to stay afloat?
The treatment of our dedicated Fed-
eral workers is completely unaccept-
able. As someone who operated a fam-
ily business with 230 workers, I can tell
you that shutting your doors and cut-
ting off pay for your employees is no
way to run a business. It is certainly
no way to run the greatest country on
Earth.
Mr. Speaker, this is the people’s
House, so today I am lifting up the sto-
ries of everyday Granite Staters, who
are suffering because of this senseless
shutdown.
I am here on behalf of a furloughed
IRS worker from Sandown. Her bank is
denying her the interest-free loan they
promised Federal workers, because the
furlough letter the IRS gave her was
too vague. And, of course, there is no
one around at the IRS to write her a
new one.
I am here on behalf of an air traffic
controller from Derry who just trans-
ferred airports and has been told she
may not get back pay because she was
furloughed prior to starting her new
assignment.
I am here on behalf of an FAA work-
er from Hampton who is being forced to
take unpaid leave to look after his wife
who is going through a health emer-
gency. He is worrying about how he can
possibly care for his spouse without
knowing when his next paycheck is
going to arrive.
These workers from my district de-
serve better from our Nation’s leaders,
and so do each and every one of the
American people.
This fall, voters sent an unmistak-
able message: the way Washington
works simply isn’t working for them.
They want less drama and dysfunction,
more compromise and more common
sense. They want leaders who will put
the national interest before their own
partisan political interest.
Instead of business as usual in Wash-
ington, it is time for Washington to
start operating more like a responsible
business that looks out for its workers.
That means ending the shutdown now
and making sure all of our outstanding
Federal employees and contractors are
fully compensated.
We have got to do better. For the
sake of the more than 2,400 Federal
workers in New Hampshire who are
currently furloughed or working with-
out pay and the more than 800,000
across this country, let’s close this
dark chapter by immediately reopen-
ing the doors of our government.
f
DESERT HEALTHCARE DISTRICT
EXPANSION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. RUIZ) for 5 minutes.
Mr. RUIZ. Mr. Speaker, I rise to cele-
brate a very special and personally
meaningful victory for residents in the
Coachella Valley in my district.
I rise to celebrate the passage of
Measure BB and the expansion of the
Desert Healthcare District.
You see, when I was a young boy
growing up in a farm-worker trailer
park in Coachella, I saw the dignity of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.008 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H368 January 10, 2019
good, humble people who loved God,
worked hard, and struggled to make a
better life for themselves and their
children.
I also saw their needless pain and suf-
fering due to their poverty and lack of
healthcare resources.
I vowed at the age of four to become
a doctor and serve them.
As a freshman pre-med student at
UCLA, I stayed awake at night on the
top bunk bed of my tiny dorm room
thinking about the difference I would
one day make.
After graduating from Harvard’s
medical, government, and public
health schools, I returned home as an
emergency medicine physician as
promised.
I rolled up my sleeves, organized, and
went to trailer parks, rural community
parks, and the poorest communities to
help.
I saw familiar faces with familiar
stories of suffering still living in pov-
erty and resource-poor communities.
That is why I founded the Coachella
Valley Healthcare Initiative in 2010,
along with my wife, Monica, and our
good friend Chauncey Veatch, to ad-
dress our local healthcare access crisis.
We produced a report and a strategic
improvement plan. Our most important
solution was the expansion of a
healthcare district.
Today, I am very happy to celebrate
the passage of Measure BB and the ex-
pansion of the Desert Healthcare Dis-
trict to cover all medically under-
served communities in the valley.
It is significant, because the district
has an annual multimillion dollar
budget that funds healthcare and pub-
lic health programs that improve the
public’s health.
That means more providers caring
for more patients and providing much-
needed services like pediatric specialty
care, mental health, veterans’ health,
senior services, and provider pipeline
programs.
It is proof that good things happen
when good people come together to do
good work.
I would like to thank California As-
semblyman Eduardo Garcia for answer-
ing the call and stepping up to be a
champion for the expansion of the dis-
trict.
He got the bill to put expansion on
the ballot passed into law, and to-
gether, we helped build local support
by putting out fires and persuading
others of the big idea.
I also want to thank Riverside Coun-
ty Supervisor Manuel Perez. When the
expansion of the healthcare district
was under threat, Supervisor Perez and
I worked closely to convince other
county supervisors how much our com-
munities would gain in both improved
health outcomes and increased eco-
nomic activity.
The Riverside County Board of Su-
pervisors voted unanimously in favor
of the expansion.
There were many other champions
who pulled their weight and got the job
done.
Thank you to the leadership of the
Desert Healthcare District itself, in-
cluding the President of the Board of
Directors, Dr. Les Zendle, previous
CEOs Kathy Greco and Herb Schultz,
and Interim CEO Chris Christensen.
Thank you to board members Dr.
Jennifer Wortham, Kay Hazen, and
Carole Rogers, who voted in favor of
expansion, and the many, many other
staff members who have helped ensure
this advocacy ran smoothly.
Several key healthcare organizations
were instrumental in this success.
As the largest provider for the east
valley, Tenet Healthcare has been
enormously supportive by prioritizing
the health of their patients above all
else.
Thank you to Borrego Community
Health Foundation for your generosity
and leadership to help create this vic-
tory.
Thank you to Planned Parenthood
for your tireless work, and thank you
to Building Healthy Communities,
Clinicas de Salud Del Pueblo, and Ei-
senhower Medical Center.
Thank you to James Williamson, who
led the campaign.
Thank you to Barbara Fields, Juan
Armenta, Mary English, Walter Clark,
Oscar Armijo, Richard Meyer, and Jack
Marco, whose generosity never wavered
throughout this journey.
Thank you to the voters who ap-
proved the expansion measure by an in-
credibly large margin.
Thank you for helping to make the
dream I had as a boy from a farm-
worker trailer park a reality.
Together, we are improving lives and
making a difference.
f
b 1045
NINETY YEARS A PREACHER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to pay tribute to a dear
friend and one of the most revered min-
isters of the gospel that the Chicago
metropolitan area has ever known.
Reverend James Bass was born on
May 7, 1920, to the late Frank and Hat-
tie Bell Bass in a rural Mississippi
town.
James began school at the age of 6 in
a little church house near Sunflower
River Road, where he attended with his
two brothers and one sister. His first
teacher, Mr. Lee, taught all of the
classes that were in session when the
farming seasons were not in force.
As a little boy, James loved playing
marbles, pitching horseshoes, and play-
ing church, with him preaching. He
also would preach the funeral for any
of the animals that died and became
known as the boy preacher.
Every Sunday, James attended
church with his family in their mule-
driven wagon. In 1929, he officially
joined church after sitting on the
mourners bench during a revival. He
continued to grow and develop, got a
job at the church as custodian, and at-
tended and graduated from the Booker
T. Washington High School in
Ruleville, Mississippi.
In 1938, James revealed his calling
and preached his first sermon as a full-
fledged minister at the age of 18.
On December 7, 1941, James was
drafted into the military and served 3
years in the U.S. Army during World
War II. He carried no weapon and con-
tinued his ministerial work.
After being discharged, he returned
home and enrolled at Tougaloo College
in 1948, majoring in history. He at-
tended the Mississippi seminary in
Jackson in 1951. He became pastor of
the Mt. Israel Baptist Church in
Clarksdale, Mississippi, where he spon-
sored a radio broadcast for senior citi-
zens and those who were sick and shut
in.
In December of 1955, James was in-
vited to Detroit to preach a revival at
Canaan Baptist Church. On the way
back, he stopped in Chicago to visit his
brother and sister and was honored to
preach at the Greater Open Door Bap-
tist Church.
In August of 1956, Reverend Bass or-
ganized a small mission. The mission
grew, and the Mt. Olive Missionary
Baptist Church was founded in Sep-
tember of 1956.
He returned to Chicago and com-
muted between Chicago and Mississippi
for 6 years, and, after fasting and pray-
ing, he decided that his type of min-
istry really needed to be in a large
urban city.
In 1967, Reverend Bass and Helyn
Maxine Julius were united in holy mat-
rimony and were blessed with two chil-
dren, Vincent in 1968 and Vikkeda in
1970.
Under Reverend Bass’ leadership, Mt.
Olive grew into a substantial Baptist
church, with significant influence in
the community.
When Dr. Martin Luther King came
to Chicago and lived on the West Side,
Reverend James Bass was there with
him and stood shoulder-to-shoulder
when others sleeked away or refused to
stand.
Reverend Bass was known as an ac-
tivist, independent-minded preacher
who used his pulpit effectively to foster
something called liberation theology.
He will be remembered as one who
knew that the doors of the church must
be open both ways: inside so that peo-
ple could come and be spiritually nur-
tured, but also outside so that they
could use the information for the ben-
efit of themselves and their commu-
nities.
For more than 90 years, Reverend
James Bass preached what he called
the gospel. He was an effective mes-
senger, and what a messenger he was.
May his soul rest in peace.
f
HONORING JANET WOLF
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:34 Jan 10, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.009 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H369
January 10, 2019
California (Mr. CARBAJAL) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. CARBAJAL. Mr. Speaker, today,
I rise to celebrate the prodigious 24-
year public service career of supervisor
Janet Wolf, and a good friend, in Santa
Barbara County of my district.
A southern California native, Janet
Wolf earned her bachelor of arts degree
from the University of California,
Santa Barbara, my alma mater as well.
She then went on to the University of
California, Los Angeles, to earn her
master’s degree and teaching creden-
tial.
In 1983, Janet began working in the
field of vocational rehabilitation. In
1987, she opened her own business, with
offices both in Santa Barbara and
Santa Maria, California. She continued
her work and leadership in that field
for over 20 years.
Janet Wolf began her service as an
elected official in 1993, when she was
first elected to the Goleta School
Board, where she served three terms,
equaling 12 years. She went on to be
elected to the Santa Barbara County
Board of Supervisors, where she also
served three terms.
During her tenure, her accomplish-
ments were numerous, including initi-
ating the Eastern Goleta Valley Plan-
ning Advisory Committee, steering
completion of the Eastern Goleta Val-
ley Community Plan, expanding li-
brary funding, and advocating for the
construction of a state-of-the-art emer-
gency operations center.
Mr. Speaker, I am honored to join my
former colleagues in Santa Barbara
County in celebrating the exemplary
24-year career of my former colleague,
supervisor Janet Wolf, in her public
service. Her leadership and commit-
ment to her constituents has been both
exceptional and unprecedented. I con-
gratulate and wish Janet and her fam-
ily the best in her well-deserved retire-
ment and all future endeavors.
f
REOPEN THE GOVERNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. JOHNSON) for 5 minutes.
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, on Tuesday night, there was a
prime-time television speech from the
Oval Office, which appealed to fear,
prejudice, and anger. The argument
was for a border wall by stereotyping
and demonizing people coming to
America seeking asylum, safety, and
refuge from the violence caused by the
war on drugs this administration is es-
calating in Central and South America.
With provocative anecdotes about vi-
olence and fear-mongering rhetoric, he
used the word ‘‘illegal’’ 12 times
throughout the entire speech, which
was undertaken amidst what is shaping
up to be the longest government shut-
down in the Nation’s history. Never
once did he mention the Federal work-
ers who won’t receive a paycheck this
week—not once.
His purpose was to create a state of
anxiety about our national security in
an effort to convince Republican Mem-
bers of Congress and the American peo-
ple to stay with him on his narcissistic
quest for billions of dollars to build his
big, beautiful wall that he promised
Mexico would pay for, but now he is de-
manding that the American people pay
for it. That doesn’t add up, ladies and
gentlemen.
What is not understood is that we are
not a country that cowers or bends in
dread to a hostage taker. To quote
President Truman: ‘‘America was not
built on fear. America was built on
courage, on imagination, and an un-
beatable determination to do the job at
hand.’’
The job at hand for this President
right now, and for this Congress, is to
reopen the government. Then we can
all go to work to address skyrocketing
drug prices and ensure affordable
healthcare.
For the people, we must go to work
creating high-wage jobs and fixing our
Nation’s decaying infrastructure. For
our children and our grandchildren, we
must build a greener economy and
prioritize protecting our planet. These
are meaningful and worthy goals. Our
job is not to waste billions on an inef-
fective border wall while spreading
xenophobic lies.
Numerous disingenuous statistics
were used the other night to back up
his claims of a crisis. Here are some
statistics, based on facts, to clarify the
falsehoods perpetuated on the Amer-
ican people in that Oval Office speech:
One, the truth is that immigration
from the southern border has signifi-
cantly decreased in the last 10 years,
disproving what was said. This gen-
tleman wants us to think that this Na-
tion is being overrun. In 2006, there
were more than 1 million unauthorized
immigrants apprehended at the south-
ern border, but, in 2018, there were less
than 400,000.
Two, immigration does not strain our
economy and public resources. In fact,
immigrants added an estimated $2 tril-
lion to the United States GDP in 2016.
Additionally, unauthorized immigrants
contributed significantly to Medicare
and Social Security. From 2000 to 2011,
they contributed $35.1 billion more to
Medicare than they withdrew.
Finally, of the 361,993 unauthorized
immigrants apprehended by September
of fiscal year 2018, less than 1 percent
had a violent criminal record. Studies
have also proven that immigrants do
not increase local crime rates, and
they are less likely to cause crime or
be incarcerated as our citizens.
President Trump’s border wall con-
cept was not created by law enforce-
ment specialists, and his justification
for wasting taxpayer money on a wall
is not based on sound argument. This
idea began where most of the Presi-
dent’s ideas are born, and that is on the
campaign trail. It is an idea unworthy
of consideration from Congress. Our
constituents and our country deserve
better.
Trump has built his political career
by demonizing and stereotyping many
different groups of people. His speech
Tuesday night was no different.
We, as Americans, cannot fall prey to
his fear-mongering, and we cannot
allow President Trump to hold Federal
workers hostage. Let’s go to work and
reopen this government now.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
COAST GUARD SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Oregon (Mr. SCHRADER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SCHRADER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today with some very, very sad news.
On Tuesday night, the Mary B II, a
crab boat out of Newport, Oregon, cap-
sized while crossing the Yaquina Bay
bar.
Members of the U.S. Coast Guard re-
sponded heroically to assist the boat,
battling seas that were 12 to 14 feet in
height. Unfortunately, the crew of
three died.
It was actually to be Josh Porter’s
last trip on that boat. He had a dif-
ferent job.
b 1100
Mr. Speaker, I want to convey my
deepest condolences to the crews, the
family, the friends, and, frankly, the
community for their immense loss. The
tragedy illustrates the courageous and
perilous work that our Coast Guard
members perform daily and how vital
their services are for these commu-
nities.
I am proud to lend my support to leg-
islative efforts that make sure these
men and women actually receive their
pay for this dangerous work that they
perform on our behalf.
As we enter almost 3 weeks under a
partial shutdown of the government, I
know, for many of our valuable public
servants, their resources are stretched
thin. They will start missing pay-
checks because of the failures of the
Federal Government. They continue to
admirably serve throughout this shut-
down, and we must ensure they don’t
suffer because of our failures.
Mr. Speaker, I implore the President
and Congress to take up the bills the
Senate and House have passed and re-
open the United States Government.
f
COMPREHENSIVE IMMIGRATION
REFORM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. ESCOBAR) for 5 minutes.
Ms. ESCOBAR. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to proudly deliver my first floor
speech as the new Representative for
Texas’ 16th Congressional District.
Born and raised in El Paso, Texas, a
resilient, beautiful community along
the U.S.-Mexico border, I am a proud
fronteriza and know firsthand the re-
alities of the border.
That is why I have been profoundly
disturbed by the rhetoric and policies
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.011 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H370 January 10, 2019
from this administration. I will use my
time to tell you the truth about the
border, the opportunity she represents,
and the need for comprehensive immi-
gration reform.
El Paso, like other border commu-
nities, is one of the safest communities
in the country, with a rich history
made strong by our bicultural, bina-
tional character. Our people are gen-
erous, compassionate, and kind.
We share a border with our sister
city, Ciudad Juarez, Chihuahua, Mex-
ico. This border unites our families and
our values, and it promotes commerce
and trade. The border has never been
safer or more secure.
El Paso already has a wall, but we
were safe long before it was con-
structed. The truth is that additional
border barriers will not address the
real challenges that we face. Instead, I
hope to work with my colleagues in
this Congress to achieve comprehensive
immigration reform, address the root
causes of migration, and value immi-
grants as critical to building our econ-
omy and our country.
According to the Pew Research Cen-
ter, there were an estimated 10.7 mil-
lion undocumented immigrants living
in the United States in 2016. Some
came when they were small children,
seeking refuge in our country, and,
today, have limited protection under
the Deferred Action for Childhood Ar-
rivals program. Others have been here
for decades under temporary protected
status, establishing businesses and cul-
tivating deep roots in communities
across the Nation.
It is unsafe for them to return home
because of ongoing strife in their home
countries, but this administration de-
cided to terminate protections for
them anyway. The majority of others
live in the shadows, afraid to avail
themselves to assistance because of our
current immigration climate.
Life for immigrants and asylum-
seeking families, unfortunately, has
gotten increasingly worse since Janu-
ary 20, 2017. This administration has
cruelly separated a reported 2,654 fami-
lies at the border, and these are only
the families that we know of.
It has built tent prisons for children;
teargassed immigrants near ports of
entry, including many women and chil-
dren; criminalized migration and
prioritized detention; and attempted to
drastically curtail the number of im-
migrants coming into our country.
Further, this administration’s unlaw-
ful asylum ban on migrants who do not
enter at ports of entry has strained our
border crossings. Due to metering at
ports, a practice that limits the num-
ber of people who may enter the U.S.
each day, families are sometimes
pushed out to more dangerous and
deadly crossings.
I hope we will investigate whether
metering contributed to the tragic
deaths of two young Guatemalan chil-
dren, Jakelin Caal Maquin and Felipe
Alonzo-Gomez. These policies and prac-
tices are inhumane and un-American.
Building walls and sowing hate divide
us as a nation. Instead, we must focus
on reforming our immigration system
to ensure a safe and humane process.
For example, we must create a path-
way to citizenship for DACA and TPS
recipients; make investments in addi-
tional personnel and infrastructure at
our ports of entry where most illegal
drugs flow; hire more immigration
judges and grant them Article I inde-
pendence in order to address the back-
log of cases and ensure due process;
overhaul training for CBP and ICE
agents that will boost safety and in-
crease oversight, transparency, and ac-
countability; and end the criminaliza-
tion of migration, especially that of
asylum-seeking families.
Above all, families belong together
and should not be detained, especially
when there are cost-effective, humane
alternatives.
Finally, for any of my colleagues who
think that the border is unsafe, I invite
you to my district to see it for your-
self.
f
END SHUTDOWN AND PAY COAST
GUARD MEMBERS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Pennsylvania (Ms. WILD) for 5 minutes.
Ms. WILD. Mr. Speaker, I am here
today to reintroduce my first bill,
which was introduced at the end of the
115th Congress, the Continuing Appro-
priations for the Coast Guard Act. I am
doing this on behalf of Janeen and her
family, constituents from Nazareth,
Pennsylvania.
Janeen is the mother of two children,
ages 10 and 12. Her husband of 15 years
is a Coast Guard member. Until re-
cently, they were focused on what most
families across our country focus on:
family time, work, balancing their
checkbook to pay their mortgage and
bills, enjoying the holidays together,
and hoping to celebrate a new year.
All of that changed this past Decem-
ber when a partisan fight in Wash-
ington, over which they had no control,
suddenly threw their family’s entire
existence into question.
Because the Coast Guard falls within
the Department of Homeland Security,
one of the agencies that has not been
funded, Janeen’s family and 42,000 oth-
ers, including 320 Pennsylvanians, have
been left to fend for themselves.
They received a one-time payment
from the Coast Guard’s emergency
fund, equivalent to half a paycheck.
But the Coast Guard doesn’t have any
additional funds on hand, so they have
been advised to hold garage sales and
take up dog walking for extra income.
My bill would fund the Coast Guard
until an agreement is reached to fully
fund the government, ensuring that
Coast Guard members receive their
paychecks during the entire shutdown.
I am proud to have the support of
some of my Republican colleagues, in-
cluding Mr. FITZPATRICK from Pennsyl-
vania, and I hope that a bipartisan coa-
lition of Members in both Chambers
can urgently pass this bill.
It is important to take a step back
and remind ourselves of what is at
stake for Janeen’s family and thou-
sands like them. As long as the govern-
ment is shut down, and until this bill is
passed by the House and Senate and
signed into law, Janeen’s husband
won’t get a paycheck on the 15th of
this month.
Already, their family has been forced
to dip into their savings and emer-
gency funds just to buy groceries and
keep the lights on. It is about a 70-mile
drive from home to the base each way,
so Janeen’s husband is not only not
getting paid, he is actually losing
money to go to work every day.
As the daughter of a man who spent
his entire career in the Air Force, I
must say, this is a shameful way to
treat men and women who have de-
voted their lives to serving our country
and the families who serve and sac-
rifice among them.
For their sake and for the sake of the
security of our country, we cannot let
toxic hyperpartisanship keep an entire
branch of the United States military
from receiving pay.
We should be talking about funding
more effective technology and infra-
structure to protect our country, not
about a border wall that will do noth-
ing to stop the incursion of illegal
drugs into our country. The Coast
Guard is our most effective method of
stopping drug runners.
In Janeen’s words: ‘‘If my husband
doesn’t show up for work, he is
AWOL.’’ That is the reality for our
men and women in uniform. The very
least they should be able to expect
from their elected representatives is
that we have their backs and that they
will get the support they need no mat-
ter what the politics are.
This is not about party or ideology.
It is not about scoring points in Wash-
ington or on cable news shows. Ulti-
mately, Janeen and her family, and ev-
eryone like them, just want to see
their government live up to its most
basic responsibilities, because as
Janeen tells her kids: ‘‘When you say
you are going to do something, you
make a promise.’’
Servicemembers like Janeen’s hus-
band made a promise to defend our Na-
tion when they took their oath. They
have never let us down. Every single
day, through every challenge and hard-
ship, they have kept their promise and
done everything expected of them and
more. But during this shutdown, their
government has failed to keep its
promise to them.
Janeen’s family and other Coast
Guard families need us right now.
Through our actions by getting this
bill through the House of Representa-
tives, the Senate, and to the Presi-
dent’s desk, we can show them that we
take care of our own and that we honor
selfless service in this country more
than partisanship.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.014 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H371
January 10, 2019
END THE SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arizona (Mr. O’HALLERAN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to talk about a crisis that is
gripping our Nation. This crisis is im-
pacting the livelihoods of hundreds of
thousands of hardworking men and
women, such as Border Patrol agents,
TSA agents, national park rangers,
janitors, machinists, and many more.
The crisis I am referring to, Mr.
Speaker, is the reckless government
shutdown that now has gone into its
third week.
We are the greatest country in the
world. This should never, ever happen
in this country. It has left Americans
without paychecks, forcing many of
them to seek donations from family,
friends, and strangers just to make
ends meet.
In Arizona, my constituents have
reached out to share their stories. One
Federal prison employee told my office
that she planned to take out a loan on
their retirement in order to pay for
groceries, bills, and health insurance.
Another, a scientist based in Arizona
and working for the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, wrote to me just yes-
terday to tell me that she would have
to take up dog walking, Uber driving,
and other part-time jobs just to cover
the cost of her rent.
Neither of these Arizonans know
what they will do if their paychecks
continue to be held hostage for polit-
ical games.
Mr. Speaker, the American people
don’t deserve this. It goes beyond the
furloughed government workers. Small
business owners and Arizona farmers
and ranchers, already hit hard by un-
certainty in their global trade partner-
ships, are being hurt by this.
There is agreement in this body and
in the Senate on bipartisan spending
measures that open up our government
and provide increased funding for
SMART, 21st century border security
technology that has been proven effec-
tive.
The administration has conjured up
this crisis and devastated the lives of
countless Americans in the process,
and it must end.
Mr. Speaker, these political games
are hurting Arizona and our country.
b 1115
HONORING SHERIFF KELLY ‘‘KC’’ CLARK
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to thank and honor Sheriff
Kelly ‘‘KC’’ Clark as he retires from
three decades of service to Navajo
County and the State of Arizona. From
his first post as a patrol deputy in
Winslow in 1989 to sheriff of Navajo
County, KC has always dedicated his
career to ensuring victims receive jus-
tice.
Throughout his life, KC has served
Arizona as the president of the Arizona
Narcotic Officers Association and three
terms as president of the Arizona
County Attorney/Sheriff’s Association.
Additionally, KC is a graduate of the
FBI Academy 220th Session and the
Drug Unit Commanders Academy. He
was named Sheriff of the Year by the
WETIP Foundation. On top of all of
this, Sheriff Clark served on the North-
ern Regional Advisory Committee for
Homeland Security and is a commis-
sioner on the Arizona Criminal Justice
Commission.
Mr. Speaker, it is an honor to call KC
a friend. His service to our great State
is an inspiration to all public servants.
I wish him and his wife, Brenda, the
very best as he retires from the police
force, and I know his commitment to
serve in his community will not end.
f
MR. PRESIDENT, YOUR WALL WILL
NOT WORK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR) for 21⁄2 minutes.
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, a wall is
not remotely capable of dealing with
the magnitude of our continental chal-
lenge to civil order. The forces of com-
merce, greed, addiction, and lawless
cartels and gangs are too insidious.
They will surmount any wall. They al-
ready have.
The President’s demand for $5 billion
for a wall, whether concrete or steel,
simply won’t work. Why? Because most
illegal narcotics are already shipped
here hidden in cross-border commercial
cargoes fueled by the flawed and under-
funded NAFTA and CAFTA continental
trade deals. Millions of trucks, autos,
ships, railcars, and planes carry mas-
sive and increasing shipments of cargo
traversing over our borders as conti-
nental trade increases exponentially.
Recall that NAFTA and CAFTA
sucked out millions of living-wage jobs
from our country, depositing them in
Mexico and Central America to exploit
penny-wage labor south of our border.
Finished goods were then U-turned
back north.
NAFTA and CAFTA negotiators
promised higher wages for all. Nothing
could be further from the truth. Even
laborers south of our border earn less
now than before NAFTA passed. There
is more poverty here and there as the
transnationals shipped our jobs out to
earn higher profits by gutting our
workforce and while exploiting workers
in Mexico and Central America. On
both sides of the border, workers lose
and investors win.
This is a map of the Laredo check-
point. There are 16 lanes of traffic just
at that one point on our border. The
problem is the drugs are often hidden
in those commercial cargoes. We need
more agents to check cargo, but we
also need technology to find the hidden
narcotics that are there.
In addition to that, we see China
shipping fentanyl and carfentanil into
our country, including through the
U.S. mails. We have no scientific way
of detecting those killer drugs.
So, if you really want to look at solv-
ing the problem, it is important for the
President to know that legal ports of
entry are the primary route through
which illicit drugs arrive here in our
country. There are 48 such crossing
points, plus 330 points of entry along
the U.S.-Mexico border, the most fre-
quently crossed border in the world.
Approximately 350 million documented
crossings occur there annually.
We need to regularize that entry into
the United States. We need more man-
power and technology. There is no way
we can solve this problem with a wall.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 18
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. JACKSON LEE) at noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Eternal God, we give You thanks for
giving us another day.
On this day, we ask Your blessing on
the men and women, citizens all, whose
votes have populated this people’s
House. Each Member of this House has
been given the sacred duty of rep-
resenting them.
We ask Your blessing as well on the
Members of this House, whose responsi-
bility lies also beyond the local inter-
ests of constituents while honoring
them. Give each Member the wisdom to
represent both local and national inter-
ests, a responsibility calling for the
wisdom of Solomon. Grant them, if
You will, a double portion of such wis-
dom.
Bless us this day and every day, and
may all that is done within the peo-
ple’s House be for Your greater honor
and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
THOMPSON) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania led
the Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.016 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H372 January 10, 2019
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
UNWANTED OFFSHORE DRILLING
(Mr. CUNNINGHAM asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Speaker,
today, I would like to call attention to
an issue that gravely impacts the lives
of South Carolinians and folks up and
down the Atlantic and Gulf Coasts: off-
shore drilling.
Most actions in Congress are viewed
through a partisan lens. The opposition
to offshore drilling and seismic airgun
blasting, however, crosses party lines.
In a time when Democrats and Repub-
licans cannot agree on much, that this
singular issue has gotten bipartisan
support is even that much more signifi-
cant.
H.R. 291, the Coastal Economies Pro-
tection Act, legislation that I intro-
duced earlier this week, places a 10-
year moratorium on oil and gas drill-
ing and seismic airgun blasting off the
Atlantic and the Gulf Coasts.
Our vibrant natural resources define
South Carolina, generating revenue
and jobs and creating our unique way
of life. Risking our thriving tourism,
recreation, and fishing industries to oil
exploration could have devastating
economic repercussions across the
State, and, frankly, these industries
are too important to the health of
South Carolina to risk.
f
PRIVATIZED ARMY LODGING
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, I was grateful last
month to visit one of the privatized ho-
tels of the Army at Fort Jackson, man-
aged by the InterContinental Hotels
Group.
IHG has worked to revitalize Army
lodging to provide improved facilities
for Army travelers and their families
by supporting 40 major installations
globally. Significant progress has been
made under the leadership of President
Donald Trump.
Many of the 370,000 guests and family
members of basic combat training
graduates who come to Fort Jackson
are served every year by these hotels.
More than 1 million guests have stayed
at the Holiday Inn Express at Fort
Jackson since 2013. This has saved $84
million and employs 100 personnel di-
rected by Chuck Sourbeer.
I support reforms for servicemembers
and their families to have the same
world-class hospitality experience that
Fort Jackson provides.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
DAY 20 OF TRUMP SHUTDOWN
(Mr. BUTTERFIELD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Madam Speak-
er, today, we enter day 20 of the Trump
shutdown. President Trump has spent
years as a reality television host, but,
unfortunately, reality is still not his
strong suit.
This week, President Trump abused
the backdrop of the Oval Office to feed
the American people divisive and dis-
torted rhetoric, while still ignoring the
reality that a wall is wasteful and it is
impractical and inconsistent with our
values.
President Trump has tried to con-
vince the American people that there is
a crisis at our border. The crisis,
Madam Speaker, here is one of Donald
Trump’s own making: a government
shutdown that has gone on too long.
This is affecting real lives. This is a
humanitarian crisis. Federal workers
and their families, 80 percent of whom
live outside of the metropolitan area of
D.C., will go without a paycheck this
Friday because of this shutdown.
Madam Speaker, 7,000 workers in
North Carolina are directly affected by
the shutdown. Hundreds of thousands
of public servants across the country
are worried to death.
Senate Republicans have a choice. Do
your constitutional duty, my fellow
Senators. Do your job as a Senate. Pass
the House bill that we have sent over
to you.
f
REMEMBERING THE LIFE OF DICK
KLINE
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor
the life of Dick Kline of Rimersburg,
Pennsylvania.
Dick passed away at the age of 94. He
leaves behind his daughters, Cathy and
Mary, and many grand- and great-
grandchildren.
He was a World War II Navy veteran
who served on the hospital ship the
USS Tranquility. During the war, he
and his crewmates were dispatched to
receive survivors of the sinking USS
Indianapolis, which led to the largest
loss of life at sea from a single ship in
the history of the Navy.
After the war, Dick married his lov-
ing wife of 67 years, Rosalyn Jean
Kline, and, together, they owned and
operated Kline Funeral Home.
Dick stayed active in the community
over the years. He was a member of the
VFW and the American Legion. He be-
longed to the Rimersburg United Meth-
odist Church, and he gave 55 years of
service as the secretary of Rimersburg
borough. In 1999, they named him Cit-
izen of the Year.
Madam Speaker, Dick Kline left a
lasting impression in his service to his
country, his community, and all those
who knew him. He will be missed.
f
IMPACT OF THE SHUTDOWN
(Ms. HOULAHAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise to speak on the impact of the shut-
down on Pennsylvania’s Sixth District.
My office has heard from small busi-
nesses that can’t pull permits, veterans
receiving food assistance who worry,
and Federal workers about paying
their bills.
Agriculture is a vital part of the
economy of my district, and the shut-
down is having an impact there already
as well. The last Congress passed a bi-
partisan farm bill, but the shutdown
has prevented its implementation. The
USDA farm loan program, a program
providing millions of dollars to the
Pennsylvania farmworkers, is no
longer in effect.
My district is the mushroom capital
of the world, and, yesterday, I heard
from the mushroom growers that the
lack of EPA inspections of drainage
ditches and other water runoff is im-
pacting the development of mushroom
houses and the expansion of their busi-
nesses.
We cannot afford 1 day more, 1 week
more, or 1 month more of this shut-
down. We cannot ignore the impact it
is having on so many Americans, in-
cluding farmers, ranchers, and growers
in Pennsylvania’s Sixth.
The House has passed legislation to
open our government, and I urge the
Senate to do the people’s work and to
pass the bill as well.
f
HONORING ASCENSION PARISH
SHERIFF JEFF WILEY
(Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Speaker, I rise to honor the career of
Ascension Parish Sheriff Jeff Wiley.
Sheriff Wiley joined the Marine
Corps in 1970. He became a sheriff’s
deputy in 1974. He served in patrol,
then detective, and then went on to the
school board, where he served as direc-
tor of student services from 1980 to
1988.
He came back to the sheriff’s office
and ultimately was elected sheriff in
1996, reelected for five terms. His ca-
reer, perhaps, is marked best by some
of the recognition: the recognition of
Outstanding Man of Gonzales, the Out-
standing Educator, the Louisiana Jus-
tice Hall of Fame, and the president of
Louisiana Sheriffs’ Association.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.018 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H373
January 10, 2019
He also spent much time creating
programs for kids: the Junior Deputy
Program, substance abuse programs,
D.A.R.E. program, and a narcotics
unit.
But perhaps his most important ac-
complishment is evolving this rural
sheriff’s office to a modern law enforce-
ment agency in one of the fastest grow-
ing parishes in the State of Louisiana.
With five decades of service, he has
maintained the immaturity of a teen-
ager. I am proud to call him a friend. I
want to honor his service to our State
and our Nation, and I commend his
daughters, Sara and Erin, and recog-
nize the 40 years of marriage to his
wife, Linda.
f
RISING IN SUPPORT OF FEDERAL
WORKERS
(Mr. VEASEY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. VEASEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of Federal workers
across the country.
Right now, in Dallas, Texas, the
American Federation of Government
Employees local chapter, or AFGE, is
organizing a rally to hold the President
accountable for this shutdown.
Today, the President is finally mak-
ing his first official visit to the Texas-
Mexico border. He will be visiting
McAllen, a town that I have visited on
numerous occasions and have many
friends, and I adore and love the town.
In 2018, McAllen saw their lowest
crime rate in 30 years. And let’s be
clear: Democrats care about border se-
curity. We care about stopping crime.
But we won’t roll over because the
President is getting frustrated that the
majority of Americans don’t want his
wall, plain and simple.
The President and Senate Repub-
licans are choosing political self-inter-
est over our families. The members of
the Dallas chapter of AFGE are real
people who are facing two real burdens
as a direct result of this shutdown.
They are struggling to pay for rent and
groceries.
The gut punch is that the President
is far more concerned with his base in
2020 than securing the well-being of
over 800,000 families.
f
HONORING THE UNITED STATES
NAVY’S NEWEST LITTORAL COM-
BAT SHIP
(Mr. ESTES asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the U.S. Navy’s latest littoral
combat ship christened the USS Wich-
ita.
On Saturday, the USS Wichita will be
commissioned in Mayport, Florida,
where she will begin her service to our
country. As the third USS Wichita in
U.S. Naval history, this ship will carry
on the proud legacy of representing
Kansas’ largest city around the globe.
Wichita will be represented on board
by Chief Petty Officer Isaac Davis, a
graduate of Wichita Heights High
School, who will serve as an operations
specialist, and Chief Petty Officer
Brian Tanner, a graduate of Derby
High School, who will serve as an infor-
mation systems technician.
I am grateful for Chief Petty Officers
Davis and Tanner, as well as the entire
crew of the USS Wichita. I am also
thankful for the efforts of so many peo-
ple in our community who have been
supportive of the work of the USS
Wichita Commissioning Committee.
Thanks in part to these efforts, I
know the USS Wichita will serve our
community and country with pride.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
to join me in wishing the men and
women of the USS Wichita fair winds
and following seas.
f
IMPLEMENTING UNIVERSAL
BACKGROUND CHECKS
(Mr. LEVIN of Michigan asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Speaker, I rise as a proud cosponsor of
H.R. 8, the Bipartisan Background
Checks Act, a bill to implement uni-
versal background checks as a critical
first step towards ending the public
health crisis of gun violence.
Today, I speak up in honor of the
Moms and Students Demand Action
leaders from Michigan’s Ninth District
who have inspired me. I speak up be-
cause it is unacceptable that far more
people per capita are shot and killed
annually in our country than in other
wealthy nations. And it is unaccept-
able that in 2016, more than 1,200
Michiganders died from firearms-re-
lated injuries.
I speak up because the American peo-
ple are counting on us to save lives,
and this bill is a commonsense way to
do that. I feel privileged to cosponsor
this bill as one of my first actions in
Congress. We owe it to families every-
where to get this done.
f
b 1215
HONORING THE LIFE OF JOE
AMBROSE
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to honor
the life of my friend and hobby radio
control industry legend, Joe Ambrose,
who passed away unexpectedly on Fri-
day.
Joe was a lifelong resident of central
Illinois and a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Illinois. He joined Horizon
Hobby in Champaign in 2005 as vice
president and in 2008 he became CEO,
where he successfully grew the busi-
ness over the next decade. This past
year he led the largest acquisition in
radio control industry history through
the purchase of crosstown competitor
Hobbico RC.
Joe and his company were leading
voices for establishing the micro UAS
regulations, hosting myself and other
stakeholders in June of 2016 for a
roundtable on the topic. Horizon Hobby
also participated in the FAA’s UAS
Aviation Rulemaking Committee. That
group ultimately developed rec-
ommendations for performance-based
regulations to allow certain unmanned
aircraft to operate over people.
Joe made things happen in this insti-
tution. His visionary leadership will be
missed, and I extend my deepest condo-
lences to his wife, Julie, their four chil-
dren, and eight grandchildren.
f
IT IS TIME TO REOPEN THE
GOVERNMENT
(Mr. HORSFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HORSFORD. Madam Speaker, I
stand here today on behalf of the hard-
working Nevadans hurt most by this
recent shutdown: The 3,512 Federal
workers in Nevada who are missing out
on paychecks; the 34,000 people in my
district who could lose their nutri-
tional assistance; the 1.1 million Ne-
vada families whose tax refunds could
be delayed; the air traffic controllers
and TSA agents at McCarran Inter-
national Airport who are forced to
work without pay.
It is time to reopen the government
and stop this shutdown from taking
even more money out of their pockets.
That is why I voted for bipartisan leg-
islation to end this shutdown on the
very first day of this new Congress.
It is time to reopen the government
and get back to work on behalf of the
American people and the people of Ne-
vada’s Fourth.
f
HONORING COLONEL ERICA
INGRAM
(Mr. HILL of Arkansas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the ac-
complishments of Colonel Erica
Ingram, who recently became the first
African-American female colonel in Ar-
kansas National Guard history.
Colonel Ingram is a native of Wilmar,
Arkansas, and a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Arkansas at Pine Bluff. She
began her military career as a second
lieutenant on Active Duty with the
United States Army in 1995.
Throughout her two decades in the
Army, Colonel Ingram has earned the
Meritorious Service Medal, the Joint
Service Commendation Medal, the
Army Commendation Medal, the Army
Achievement Medal, the Army Reserve
Components Achievement Medal, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.020 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H374 January 10, 2019
National Defense Service Medal, the
Army Service Ribbon, the Global War
on Terrorism Service Medal, the Ar-
kansas Emergency Service Ribbon, and
the Arkansas Service Ribbon.
She has served as the president of the
National Guard Association of Arkan-
sas, and she is a graduate of Leadership
Greater Little Rock.
My congratulations and best wishes
to Colonel Ingram and her family, and
I thank her for her service to our citi-
zens and her bright future as a defender
of our great Nation.
f
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT LAWSUIT
(Mr. MORELLE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MORELLE. Madam Speaker, this
is a frustrating time in Washington, in
which most of us have been focused on
the ongoing government shutdown. But
I want to take a moment to talk about
something positive the House is doing
to protect everyday Americans across
this country.
My colleagues and I have passed a
motion to intervene in the Texas vs.
United States lawsuit. If allowed to
stand, this lower court ruling would
pull the rug out from under millions of
Americans who rely on the Affordable
Care Act for health coverage, many of
whom were denied coverage in the past
for a preexisting condition.
133 million Americans are living with
chronic illness, serious medical condi-
tions, or even minor medical histories
that used to disqualify them from all
but the most expensive insurance cov-
erage. We cannot return to a time
when a cancer survivor or a child with
diabetes is rejected for coverage be-
cause of a preexisting condition.
Affordable, quality healthcare should
be a right for every American, and we
should be making it easier, not harder,
for everyone to get the insurance they
deserve. That is why I am proud that
the House has taken the action to in-
tervene in the lawsuit, demonstrating
our steadfast commitment to fighting
back against those who seek to dis-
mantle the fundamental protections no
person should be denied.
I will continue to work tirelessly
with my colleagues to uphold and pro-
tect access to American healthcare.
f
OUR COMMUNITIES NEED OUR
HELP
(Mr. RIGGLEMAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
his remarks.)
Mr. RIGGLEMAN. Madam Speaker,
we have talked a lot about border secu-
rity this week, but I rise today to talk
about a lot more than what goes on at
the border.
Tens of thousands of people die from
opioid addiction every year, including
hundreds in the Fifth District alone.
Yesterday, on Law Enforcement Ap-
preciation Day, I was reminded of the
many heroes I have met in law enforce-
ment who try to prevent some of these
tragedies; heroes who help people at
the end of their ropes, people who see
no way out; heroes like Sheriffs Bob
Mosier of Fauquier County and Mike
Taylor of Pittsylvania County.
This issue is important for my dis-
trict and close to my heart. My imme-
diate family has been affected by
opioids and its awful and persistent
hold. Localities across my district have
been ravaged by the crisis, from Fau-
quier County in the north, to
Pittsylvania County in the south.
They need our help. Our law enforce-
ment needs our help. Our communities
need our help. I call on Congress to act.
f
OPEN THE GOVERNMENT
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam
Speaker, we are entering the longest
government shutdown in the Nation’s
history and, ironically, most of the
Federal employees who are affected by
the shutdown are the very Federal
agents who we depend on to protect our
borders.
To a national audience 2 days ago,
the President repeatedly warned that
terrorists are pouring into the United
States from Mexico. This is the Presi-
dent’s central argument for a 25 to $40
billion border wall. He is now threat-
ening to declare a national emergency
to go around Congress to get that wall.
The President’s own counterterror-
ism officials and experts said there has
never been a case of a known terrorist
sneaking into the country through
open areas of the southern border. The
Department of Homeland Security’s
threat assessment rates the situation
at the southern border as a minimal
threat. Who are we to believe?
Mr. President, open the government
and prove that you can manage the sit-
uation at the border as Presidents
Obama, Bush, and Clinton did before
you.
f
PARADISE, CALIFORNIA FIRE
RELIEF
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to highlight the good work
that has been done by FEMA in my dis-
trict in California where we had the
devastating Camp fire affect and dev-
astate Paradise, California. The clean-
up and the recovery from this disaster
is going pretty well, with a coordinated
effort with FEMA, Army Corps of Engi-
neers, and State entities like the Cal
OES.
The response from the Federal Gov-
ernment after the President’s visit has
not been disappointing but, indeed,
going pretty well.
So far, more than $48 million has
been approved by FEMA to help re-
cover from wildfire losses in California,
including Butte County and Paradise.
FEMA has been on the ground helping
people get the assistance they need di-
rectly. Nearly 7,000 individual assist-
ance applications have already been
approved.
It is still extremely challenging for
people who have suffered losses and
who are, indeed, displaced from their
homes, having to live with friends, rel-
atives, motels, whatever that might be.
I get that. It is very difficult. But we
are all working in a coordinated way
together to move along the recovery ef-
forts as quickly as possible with State
entities and Federal entities and local
government. The outpouring of people
who support each other has been amaz-
ing.
The administration has made a com-
mitment from day 1 to help our people
recover, and they have been backing it
up to this point, and I expect this will
fully continue.
f
FEDERAL WORKERS ARE SUF-
FERING BECAUSE OF THE GOV-
ERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Mr. COX of California asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. COX of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in recognition of
the Federal workers in my district who
are suffering because of the govern-
ment shutdown.
I rise today for my constituent, Raj
Kaur, a single mother of two, a breast
cancer survivor, and a correctional of-
ficer at the Mendota Federal Prison.
Raj is currently on leave as she recov-
ers from surgery. She went on medical
leave believing she would be finan-
cially secure as she recuperates.
Now, not only is Raj worrying about
her health and recovery, but as a single
mother, she is faced with the burden of
trying to figure out how to provide for
her family on grit alone. Unfortu-
nately, Raj doesn’t have a rich father
to bail her out.
We say we are a Nation that values
work and workers, but today we are
forcing thousands of working men and
women to work without pay because
our colleagues in the Senate and the
White House won’t do their jobs.
Today, in solidarity with Raj and the
hundreds of thousands of unpaid Fed-
eral workers nationally, I am asking
the Chief Administrative Officer to
withhold my pay until our government
reopens.
This situation has gone on for far too
long. It is time to get back to work.
f
RELEASE KHALIL MAATOUK
(Mr. BUDD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BUDD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to speak about Khalil Maatouk,
who is the executive director of the
Syrian Center for Legal Studies and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.022 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H375
January 10, 2019
Research, and the head of the Syrian
Center for the Defense of Detainees.
On October 2 of 2012, 6 years ago, Mr.
Maatouk was being driven to work by a
friend, and that was the last time any-
one was able to reach him. It is very
possible that he was illegally detained
at a security checkpoint by the Syrian
Government. Even though a released
detainee at the State Security deten-
tion facility in Damascus said he saw
Khalil there, the Syrian general pros-
ecutor has still denied his whereabouts.
Six years is long enough, Madam
Speaker. It is time for the Syrian Gov-
ernment to release Khalil. He has dedi-
cated his life to the defense of human
rights, and it is past time that he gets
to return to his family.
f
THE TRUMP SHUTDOWN
(Mrs. BEATTY asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. BEATTY. Madam Speaker, I
rise today on the 20th day of the Trump
shutdown, and I can only shake my
head and ask why.
Why are 400,000 public servants being
denied the opportunity to do their
jobs?
Why are 420,000 more working with-
out pay, many of them who put them-
selves in harm’s way?
Why are 1.6 million Ohioans at risk
of losing their SNAP benefits?
Why are first-time home buyers
being kept from their new homes?
There is only one answer to those
questions: Because Trump insists on
wasting $5 billion of the people’s tax
dollars on a vanity wall, a wall that
will do little to address illegal immi-
gration.
Democrats are for the people. Demo-
crats want to protect our borders and
reopen our government and put govern-
ment workers back to work.
I urge the Senate to take up the bills
that the House has passed and put our
government back to work. Let’s end
this ridiculous shutdown.
f
b 1230
IMPORTANCE OF STEM
EDUCATION
(Mr. YOHO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to express and demonstrate the
importance of STEM education in the
lives of America’s youth.
STEM education is vital to the econ-
omy, with STEM-related jobs growing
faster than ever and the need for well-
educated and well-trained young STEM
professionals greater than ever.
STEM education also facilitates crit-
ical thinking skills, innovation, cre-
ativity, as well as cooperative learning.
Just one example of the impact that
STEM education has at an early age is
Janani Kumaran, an eighth grader
from Gainesville who placed second out
of over 2,000 entries in the Broadcom
Foundation MASTERS of STEM mid-
dle school competition.
Janani created a project using snails
to reduce the negative effects of the
invasive aquatic plant hydrilla found
in many bodies of freshwater in Flor-
ida.
Congratulations to Janani. I look
forward to everything you and the
other great youth of America will be
able to achieve because of STEM edu-
cation, to keep our country great.
f
TRUMP SHUTDOWN
(Mrs. LAWRENCE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. LAWRENCE. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to address the President’s
senseless shutdown.
Over 5,000 Federal employees are af-
fected in Michigan alone. These dedi-
cated Michiganders are confronted
with: How do I put food on my table?
What bills will I pay? Which car or
home payment can I afford? Which pre-
scription do I fill?
These are real questions my constitu-
ents are now asking themselves.
Throwing a temper tantrum and
threatening to keep the government
shut down only reflects the President’s
lack of compassion for the citizens of
this great country.
In Michigan, programs that provide
home heating assistance or nutritional
support for 1.5 million Michiganders
are being held hostage by this Presi-
dent.
Federal support for small businesses
is on the line.
One in ten workers in Michigan relies
on SNAP to put food on their table.
Also, our highly esteemed veterans
are waiting for us to do our job.
Every Democrat is devoted and com-
mitted to border safety. I will not vote
for and I will not fund an ineffective
wall. I want real border security.
I do support us doing our job. I just
hope the President comes to his senses
and stops hurting our country and our
constituents.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
HONORING NIKOS MOUYIARIS
(Ms. TITUS asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
honor the life of an entrepreneur, inno-
vator, and philanthropist who truly
lived the American Dream.
In 1975, Nikos Mouyiaris received a
$6,000 grant from his brother. He turned
that small loan into a company that
would become one of the world’s most
prestigious cosmetic manufacturers
and developers.
A proud Greek American, Nikos dedi-
cated his life to giving back to his
community, and his spirit dem-
onstrates that we all benefit when we
open our doors to hardworking immi-
grants who believe in the promise of
America.
Nikos said: ‘‘We are successful not
because we are smart; not because we
worked hard; not because we were
lucky; but because we had the good for-
tune of being able to stand on the
shoulders of others.’’
As his loved ones mourn this dev-
astating loss, we can take comfort in
knowing that an entire community
will be standing on his shoulders.
f
SAUDI ARABIA’S GENOCIDAL WAR
IN YEMEN
(Ms. GABBARD asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. GABBARD. Madam Speaker, 100
days ago today, the Saudi regime or-
dered the assassination of a journalist
named Jamal Khashoggi.
This atrocity brought the world’s at-
tention to Saudi Arabia, a radical
Wahhabi theocracy where the oppres-
sion of women and the persecution of
Christians, Hindus, atheists, and other
religious minorities, as well as the
LGBT community, is a norm.
Since 2015, the United States has sup-
ported Saudi Arabia’s genocidal war in
Yemen that has killed tens of thou-
sands of civilians, causing millions of
Yemeni people to suffer, starve, and
get sick, creating the worst humani-
tarian crisis in the world.
They spend billions of dollars spread-
ing the extreme Wahhabi-Salafist ide-
ology that fuels terrorist groups like
ISIS and al-Qaida around the world.
Contrary to what President Trump
believes, Saudi Arabia is not our
friend.
Here we are, 100 days later, and this
Congress still refuses to take action to
stop U.S. support for Saudi Arabia, to
stop arms sales to Saudi Arabia. Con-
gress must act now to end its support
for Saudi Arabia’s genocidal war in
Yemen, exercise our constitutional au-
thority over matters of war, and stop
putting the profits of the military-in-
dustrial complex before the lives of the
American people and people in the
world.
f
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution
28, I call up the bill (H.R. 265) making
appropriations for Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies pro-
grams for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 28, the bill is
considered read.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.025 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H376 January 10, 2019
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 265
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the following sums
are appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for Ag-
riculture, Rural Development, Food and
Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
programs for fiscal year ending September
30, 2019, and for other purposes, namely:
TITLE I
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH, AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary, $46,532,000, of which not to exceed
$5,051,000 shall be available for the imme-
diate Office of the Secretary; not to exceed
$800,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Assistant to the Secretary for Rural De-
velopment: Provided, That funds made avail-
able by this Act to an agency in the Rural
Development mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office; not
to exceed $1,496,000 shall be available for the
Office of Homeland Security; not to exceed
$4,711,000 shall be available for the Office of
Partnerships and Public Engagement; not to
exceed $23,105,000 shall be available for the
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Admin-
istration, of which $22,301,000 shall be avail-
able for Departmental Administration to
provide for necessary expenses for manage-
ment support services to offices of the De-
partment and for general administration, se-
curity, repairs and alterations, and other
miscellaneous supplies and expenses not oth-
erwise provided for and necessary for the
practical and efficient work of the Depart-
ment: Provided further, That funds made
available by this Act to an agency in the Ad-
ministration mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office; not
to exceed $3,869,000 shall be available for the
Office of Assistant Secretary for Congres-
sional Relations to carry out the programs
funded by this Act, including programs in-
volving intergovernmental affairs and liai-
son within the executive branch; and not to
exceed $7,500,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of Communications: Provided further,
That the Secretary of Agriculture is author-
ized to transfer funds appropriated for any
office of the Office of the Secretary to any
other office of the Office of the Secretary:
Provided further, That no appropriation for
any office shall be increased or decreased by
more than 5 percent: Provided further, That
not to exceed $11,000 of the amount made
available under this paragraph for the imme-
diate Office of the Secretary shall be avail-
able for official reception and representation
expenses, not otherwise provided for, as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the amount made available under this
heading for Departmental Administration
shall be reimbursed from applicable appro-
priations in this Act for travel expenses inci-
dent to the holding of hearings as required
by 5 U.S.C. 551–558: Provided further, That
funds made available under this heading for
the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Con-
gressional Relations may be transferred to
agencies of the Department of Agriculture
funded by this Act to maintain personnel at
the agency level: Provided further, That no
funds made available under this heading for
the Office of Assistant Secretary for Con-
gressional Relations may be obligated after
30 days from the date of enactment of this
Act, unless the Secretary has notified the
Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress on the allocation of these
funds by USDA agency.
EXECUTIVE OPERATIONS
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF ECONOMIST
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Economist, $19,786,000, of which
$4,000,000 shall be for grants or cooperative
agreements for policy research under 7
U.S.C. 3155.
OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Hearings and Appeals, $15,222,000.
OFFICE OF BUDGET AND PROGRAM ANALYSIS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Budget and Program Analysis, $9,525,000.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Information Officer, $63,950,000, of
which not less than $38,000,000 is for cyberse-
curity requirements of the department.
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Chief Financial Officer, $6,028,000.
OFFICE OF THE ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR
CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, $901,000:
Provided, That funds made available by this
Act to an agency in the Civil Rights mission
area for salaries and expenses are available
to fund up to one administrative support
staff for the Office.
OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Civil Rights, $24,206,000.
AGRICULTURE BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For payment of space rental and related
costs pursuant to Public Law 92–313, includ-
ing authorities pursuant to the 1984 delega-
tion of authority from the Administrator of
General Services to the Department of Agri-
culture under 40 U.S.C. 121, for programs and
activities of the Department which are in-
cluded in this Act, and for alterations and
other actions needed for the Department and
its agencies to consolidate unneeded space
into configurations suitable for release to
the Administrator of General Services, and
for the operation, maintenance, improve-
ment, and repair of Agriculture buildings
and facilities, and for related costs,
$58,330,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Department
of Agriculture, to comply with the Com-
prehensive Environmental Response, Com-
pensation, and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601
et seq.) and the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.),
$3,503,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That appropriations and
funds available herein to the Department for
Hazardous Materials Management may be
transferred to any agency of the Department
for its use in meeting all requirements pur-
suant to the above Acts on Federal and non-
Federal lands.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General, including employment pur-
suant to the Inspector General Act of 1978
(Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.), $98,208,000,
including such sums as may be necessary for
contracting and other arrangements with
public agencies and private persons pursuant
to section 6(a)(9) of the Inspector General
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.),
and including not to exceed $125,000 for cer-
tain confidential operational expenses, in-
cluding the payment of informants, to be ex-
pended under the direction of the Inspector
General pursuant to the Inspector General
Act of 1978 (Public Law 95–452; 5 U.S.C. App.)
and section 1337 of the Agriculture and Food
Act of 1981 (Public Law 97–98).
OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
General Counsel, $45,146,000.
OFFICE OF ETHICS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Ethics, $4,136,000.
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND ECONOMICS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Research, Education,
and Economics, $800,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to an agency in
the Research, Education, and Economics
mission area for salaries and expenses are
available to fund up to one administrative
support staff for the Office.
ECONOMIC RESEARCH SERVICE
For necessary expenses of the Economic
Research Service, $86,757,000.
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS SERVICE
For necessary expenses of the National Ag-
ricultural Statistics Service, $174,767,000, of
which up to $45,300,000 shall be available
until expended for the Census of Agriculture:
Provided, That amounts made available for
the Census of Agriculture may be used to
conduct Current Industrial Report surveys
subject to 7 U.S.C. 2204g(d) and (f).
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Agricultural
Research Service and for acquisition of lands
by donation, exchange, or purchase at a
nominal cost not to exceed $100, and for land
exchanges where the lands exchanged shall
be of equal value or shall be equalized by a
payment of money to the grantor which
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total value
of the land or interests transferred out of
Federal ownership, $1,300,966,000, of which
$10,600,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be used to carry out the science
program at the National Bio- and Agro-de-
fense Facility located in Manhattan, Kansas;
of which not less than $2,000,000 shall be
available to carry out the dryland agri-
culture research program; and of which not
less than $7,000,000 shall be available for pur-
poses of entering into a management, oper-
ations, and research support contract to ex-
pedite the hiring of a capable workforce for
the commissioning of the Central Utility
Plant and in support of operations and man-
agement of the National Bio- and Agro-de-
fense Facility: Provided, That appropriations
hereunder shall be available for the oper-
ation and maintenance of aircraft and the
purchase of not to exceed one for replace-
ment only: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available pursuant
to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for the construction, alter-
ation, and repair of buildings and improve-
ments, but unless otherwise provided, the
cost of constructing any one building shall
not exceed $500,000, except for headhouses or
greenhouses which shall each be limited to
$1,800,000, except for 10 buildings to be con-
structed or improved at a cost not to exceed
$1,100,000 each, and except for two buildings
to be constructed at a cost not to exceed
$3,000,000 each, and the cost of altering any
one building during the fiscal year shall not
exceed 10 percent of the current replacement
value of the building or $500,000, whichever is
greater: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available for enter-
ing into lease agreements at any Agricul-
tural Research Service location for the con-
struction of a research facility by a non-Fed-
eral entity for use by the Agricultural Re-
search Service and a condition of the lease
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.027 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H377
January 10, 2019
shall be that any facility shall be owned, op-
erated, and maintained by the non-Federal
entity and shall be removed upon the expira-
tion or termination of the lease agreement:
Provided further, That the limitations on al-
terations contained in this Act shall not
apply to modernization or replacement of ex-
isting facilities at Beltsville, Maryland: Pro-
vided further, That appropriations hereunder
shall be available for granting easements at
the Beltsville Agricultural Research Center:
Provided further, That the foregoing limita-
tions shall not apply to replacement of build-
ings needed to carry out the Act of April 24,
1948 (21 U.S.C. 113a): Provided further, That
appropriations hereunder shall be available
for granting easements at any Agricultural
Research Service location for the construc-
tion of a research facility by a non-Federal
entity for use by, and acceptable to, the Ag-
ricultural Research Service and a condition
of the easements shall be that upon comple-
tion the facility shall be accepted by the
Secretary, subject to the availability of
funds herein, if the Secretary finds that ac-
ceptance of the facility is in the interest of
the United States: Provided further, That
funds may be received from any State, other
political subdivision, organization, or indi-
vidual for the purpose of establishing or op-
erating any research facility or research
project of the Agricultural Research Service,
as authorized by law.
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE
RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ACTIVITIES
For payments to agricultural experiment
stations, for cooperative forestry and other
research, for facilities, and for other ex-
penses, $898,535,000, which shall be for the
purposes, and in the amounts, specified in
the table titled ‘‘National Institute of Food
and Agriculture, Research and Education Ac-
tivities’’ in the explanatory statement de-
scribed in section 769 of this Act: Provided,
That funds for research grants for 1994 insti-
tutions, education grants for 1890 institu-
tions, capacity building for non-land-grant
colleges of agriculture, the agriculture and
food research initiative, veterinary medicine
loan repayment, multicultural scholars,
graduate fellowship and institution chal-
lenge grants, and grants management sys-
tems shall remain available until expended:
Provided further, That each institution eligi-
ble to receive funds under the Evans-Allen
program receives no less than $1,000,000: Pro-
vided further, That funds for education grants
for Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian-serv-
ing institutions be made available to indi-
vidual eligible institutions or consortia of el-
igible institutions with funds awarded equal-
ly to each of the States of Alaska and Ha-
waii: Provided further, That funds for edu-
cation grants for 1890 institutions shall be
made available to institutions eligible to re-
ceive funds under 7 U.S.C. 3221 and 3222: Pro-
vided further, That not more than 5 percent
of the amounts made available by this or any
other Act to carry out the Agriculture and
Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C.
450i(b) may be retained by the Secretary of
Agriculture to pay administrative costs in-
curred by the Secretary in carrying out that
authority.
NATIVE AMERICAN INSTITUTIONS ENDOWMENT
FUND
For the Native American Institutions En-
dowment Fund authorized by Public Law
103–382 (7 U.S.C. 301 note), $11,880,000, to re-
main available until expended.
EXTENSION ACTIVITIES
For payments to States, the District of Co-
lumbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Is-
lands, Micronesia, the Northern Marianas,
and American Samoa, $486,692,000, which
shall be for the purposes, and in the
amounts, specified in the table titled ‘‘Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture, Ex-
tension Activities’’ in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 769 of this Act:
Provided, That funds for facility improve-
ments at 1890 institutions shall remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
institutions eligible to receive funds under 7
U.S.C. 3221 for cooperative extension receive
no less than $1,000,000: Provided further, That
funds for cooperative extension under sec-
tions 3(b) and (c) of the Smith-Lever Act (7
U.S.C. 343(b) and (c)) and section 208(c) of
Public Law 93–471 shall be available for re-
tirement and employees’ compensation costs
for extension agents.
INTEGRATED ACTIVITIES
For the integrated research, education,
and extension grants programs, including
necessary administrative expenses,
$38,000,000, which shall be for the purposes,
and in the amounts, specified in the table ti-
tled ‘‘National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture, Integrated Activities’’ in the explan-
atory statement described in section 769 of
this Act: Provided, That funds for the Food
and Agriculture Defense Initiative shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, indirect costs shall
not be charged against any Extension Imple-
mentation Program Area grant awarded
under the Crop Protection/Pest Management
Program (7 U.S.C. 7626).
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR
MARKETING AND REGULATORY PROGRAMS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Marketing and Regu-
latory Programs, $901,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Marketing and Regulatory Pro-
grams mission area for salaries and expenses
are available to fund up to one administra-
tive support staff for the Office.
ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION
SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Animal and
Plant Health Inspection Service, including
up to $30,000 for representation allowances
and for expenses pursuant to the Foreign
Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4085),
$1,000,493,000, of which $470,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be available
for the control of outbreaks of insects, plant
diseases, animal diseases and for control of
pest animals and birds (‘‘contingency fund’’)
to the extent necessary to meet emergency
conditions; of which $11,520,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be used for
the cotton pests program for cost share pur-
poses or for debt retirement for active eradi-
cation zones; of which $37,857,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for Animal
Health Technical Services; of which $705,000
shall be for activities under the authority of
the Horse Protection Act of 1970, as amended
(15 U.S.C. 1831); of which $62,840,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be used
to support avian health; of which $4,251,000,
to remain available until expended, shall be
for information technology infrastructure; of
which $178,170,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for specialty crop pests; of
which, $11,826,000, to remain available until
expended, shall be for field crop and range-
land ecosystem pests; of which $16,523,000, to
remain available until expended, shall be for
zoonotic disease management; of which
$41,466,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for emergency preparedness
and response; of which $60,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for tree
and wood pests; of which $5,725,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the Na-
tional Veterinary Stockpile; of which up to
$1,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for the scrapie program for
indemnities; of which $2,500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for the
wildlife damage management program for
aviation safety: Provided, That of amounts
available under this heading for wildlife
services methods development, $1,000,000
shall remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That of amounts available
under this heading for the screwworm pro-
gram, $4,990,000 shall remain available until
expended; of which $13,600,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be used to
carry out the science program at the Na-
tional Bio- and Agro-defense Facility located
in Manhattan, Kansas: Provided further, That
no funds shall be used to formulate or ad-
minister a brucellosis eradication program
for the current fiscal year that does not re-
quire minimum matching by the States of at
least 40 percent: Provided further, That this
appropriation shall be available for the oper-
ation and maintenance of aircraft and the
purchase of not to exceed five, of which two
shall be for replacement only: Provided fur-
ther, That in addition, in emergencies which
threaten any segment of the agricultural
production industry of the United States,
the Secretary may transfer from other ap-
propriations or funds available to the agen-
cies or corporations of the Department such
sums as may be deemed necessary, to be
available only in such emergencies for the
arrest and eradication of contagious or infec-
tious disease or pests of animals, poultry, or
plants, and for expenses in accordance with
sections 10411 and 10417 of the Animal Health
Protection Act (7 U.S.C. 8310 and 8316) and
sections 431 and 442 of the Plant Protection
Act (7 U.S.C. 7751 and 7772), and any unex-
pended balances of funds transferred for such
emergency purposes in the preceding fiscal
year shall be merged with such transferred
amounts: Provided further, That appropria-
tions hereunder shall be available pursuant
to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the repair and alter-
ation of leased buildings and improvements,
but unless otherwise provided the cost of al-
tering any one building during the fiscal
year shall not exceed 10 percent of the cur-
rent replacement value of the building.
In fiscal year 2019, the agency is authorized
to collect fees to cover the total costs of pro-
viding technical assistance, goods, or serv-
ices requested by States, other political sub-
divisions, domestic and international organi-
zations, foreign governments, or individuals,
provided that such fees are structured such
that any entity’s liability for such fees is
reasonably based on the technical assistance,
goods, or services provided to the entity by
the agency, and such fees shall be reim-
bursed to this account, to remain available
until expended, without further appropria-
tion, for providing such assistance, goods, or
services.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For plans, construction, repair, preventive
maintenance, environmental support, im-
provement, extension, alteration, and pur-
chase of fixed equipment or facilities, as au-
thorized by 7 U.S.C. 2250, and acquisition of
land as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 428a, $3,175,000,
to remain available until expended.
AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE
MARKETING SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Agricultural
Marketing Service, $155,845,000, of which
$4,000,000 shall be available for the purposes
of section 12306 of Public Law 113–79; and of
which $7,000,000 shall be available for mar-
keting activities authorized under section
204(b) of the Agricultural Marketing Act of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H378 January 10, 2019
1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)) to provide to State de-
partments of agriculture, State cooperative
extension services, institutions of higher
education, and nonprofit organizations
grants to carry out programs and provide
technical assistance to promote innovation,
process improvement, and marketing relat-
ing to dairy products: Provided, That this ap-
propriation shall be available pursuant to
law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alteration and re-
pair of buildings and improvements, but the
cost of altering any one building during the
fiscal year shall not exceed 10 percent of the
current replacement value of the building.
Fees may be collected for the cost of stand-
ardization activities, as established by regu-
lation pursuant to law (31 U.S.C. 9701).
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Not to exceed $60,982,000 (from fees col-
lected) shall be obligated during the current
fiscal year for administrative expenses: Pro-
vided, That if crop size is understated and/or
other uncontrollable events occur, the agen-
cy may exceed this limitation by up to 10
percent with notification to the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress.
FUNDS FOR STRENGTHENING MARKETS, INCOME,
AND SUPPLY (SECTION 32)
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Funds available under section 32 of the Act
of August 24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c), shall be
used only for commodity program expenses
as authorized therein, and other related op-
erating expenses, except for: (1) transfers to
the Department of Commerce as authorized
by the Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956 (16 U.S.C.
742a et seq.); (2) transfers otherwise provided
in this Act; and (3) not more than $20,489,000
for formulation and administration of mar-
keting agreements and orders pursuant to
the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act
of 1937 and the Agricultural Act of 1961 (Pub-
lic Law 87–128).
PAYMENTS TO STATES AND POSSESSIONS
For payments to departments of agri-
culture, bureaus and departments of mar-
kets, and similar agencies for marketing ac-
tivities under section 204(b) of the Agricul-
tural Marketing Act of 1946 (7 U.S.C. 1623(b)),
$1,235,000.
LIMITATION ON INSPECTION AND WEIGHING
SERVICES EXPENSES
Not to exceed $55,000,000 (from fees col-
lected) shall be obligated during the current
fiscal year for inspection and weighing serv-
ices: Provided, That if grain export activities
require additional supervision and oversight,
or other uncontrollable factors occur, this
limitation may be exceeded by up to 10 per-
cent with notification to the Committees on
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress.
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD
SAFETY
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Food Safety, $800,000:
Provided, That funds made available by this
Act to an agency in the Food Safety mission
area for salaries and expenses are available
to fund up to one administrative support
staff for the Office.
FOOD SAFETY AND INSPECTION SERVICE
For necessary expenses to carry out serv-
ices authorized by the Federal Meat Inspec-
tion Act, the Poultry Products Inspection
Act, and the Egg Products Inspection Act,
including not to exceed $10,000 for represen-
tation allowances and for expenses pursuant
to section 8 of the Act approved August 3,
1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766), $1,049,344,000; and in addi-
tion, $1,000,000 may be credited to this ac-
count from fees collected for the cost of lab-
oratory accreditation as authorized by sec-
tion 1327 of the Food, Agriculture, Conserva-
tion and Trade Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 138f): Pro-
vided, That funds provided for the Public
Health Data Communication Infrastructure
system shall remain available until ex-
pended: Provided further, That no fewer than
148 full-time equivalent positions shall be
employed during fiscal year 2019 for purposes
dedicated solely to inspections and enforce-
ment related to the Humane Methods of
Slaughter Act (7 U.S.C. 1901 et seq.): Provided
further, That the Food Safety and Inspection
Service shall continue implementation of
section 11016 of Public Law 110–246 as further
clarified by the amendments made in section
12106 of Public Law 113–79: Provided further,
That this appropriation shall be available
pursuant to law (7 U.S.C. 2250) for the alter-
ation and repair of buildings and improve-
ments, but the cost of altering any one
building during the fiscal year shall not ex-
ceed 10 percent of the current replacement
value of the building.
TITLE II
FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FARM
PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Farm Production and
Conservation, $901,000: Provided, That funds
made available by this Act to an agency in
the Farm Production and Conservation mis-
sion area for salaries and expenses are avail-
able to fund up to one administrative sup-
port staff for the Office.
FARM PRODUCTION AND CONSERVATION
BUSINESS CENTER
For necessary expenses of the Farm Pro-
duction and Conservation Business Center,
$1,028,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $149,000 of amounts
appropriated for the current fiscal year pur-
suant to section 1241(a) of the Farm Security
and Rural Investment Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C.
3841(a)) shall be transferred to and merged
with this account.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Farm Serv-
ice Agency, $1,202,146,000: Provided, That not
more than 50 percent of the $44,691,000 made
available under this heading for information
technology related to farm program deliv-
ery, including the Modernize and Innovate
the Delivery of Agricultural Systems and
other farm program delivery systems, may
be obligated until the Secretary submits to
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress, and receives written or
electronic notification of receipt from such
Committees of, a plan for expenditure that
(1) identifies for each project/investment
over $25,000 (a) the functional and perform-
ance capabilities to be delivered and the mis-
sion benefits to be realized, (b) the estimated
lifecycle cost, including estimates for devel-
opment as well as maintenance and oper-
ations, and (c) key milestones to be met; (2)
demonstrates that each project/investment
is, (a) consistent with the Farm Service
Agency Information Technology Roadmap,
(b) being managed in accordance with appli-
cable lifecycle management policies and
guidance, and (c) subject to the applicable
Department’s capital planning and invest-
ment control requirements; and (3) has been
reviewed by the Government Accountability
Office and approved by the Committees on
Appropriations of both Houses of Congress:
Provided further, That the agency shall sub-
mit a report by the end of the fourth quarter
of fiscal year 2019 to the Committees on Ap-
propriations and the Government Account-
ability Office, that identifies for each
project/investment that is operational (a)
current performance against key indicators
of customer satisfaction, (b) current per-
formance of service level agreements or
other technical metrics, (c) current perform-
ance against a pre-established cost baseline,
(d) a detailed breakdown of current and
planned spending on operational enhance-
ments or upgrades, and (e) an assessment of
whether the investment continues to meet
business needs as intended as well as alter-
natives to the investment: Provided further,
That the Secretary is authorized to use the
services, facilities, and authorities (but not
the funds) of the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion to make program payments for all pro-
grams administered by the Agency: Provided
further, That other funds made available to
the Agency for authorized activities may be
advanced to and merged with this account:
Provided further, That funds made available
to county committees shall remain available
until expended: Provided further, That none
of the funds available to the Farm Service
Agency shall be used to close Farm Service
Agency county offices: Provided further, That
none of the funds available to the Farm
Service Agency shall be used to permanently
relocate county based employees that would
result in an office with two or fewer employ-
ees without prior notification and approval
of the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress.
STATE MEDIATION GRANTS
For grants pursuant to section 502(b) of the
Agricultural Credit Act of 1987, as amended
(7 U.S.C. 5101–5106), $3,904,000.
GRASSROOTS SOURCE WATER PROTECTION
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out well-
head or groundwater protection activities
under section 1240O of the Food Security Act
of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3839bb–2), $6,500,000, to re-
main available until expended.
DAIRY INDEMNITY PROGRAM
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses involved in making
indemnity payments to dairy farmers and
manufacturers of dairy products under a
dairy indemnity program, such sums as may
be necessary, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That such program is car-
ried out by the Secretary in the same man-
ner as the dairy indemnity program de-
scribed in the Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001
(Public Law 106–387, 114 Stat. 1549A–12).
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT INSURANCE FUND
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed farm own-
ership (7 U.S.C. 1922 et seq.) and operating (7
U.S.C. 1941 et seq.) loans, emergency loans (7
U.S.C. 1961 et seq.), Indian tribe land acquisi-
tion loans (25 U.S.C. 488), boll weevil loans (7
U.S.C. 1989), guaranteed conservation loans
(7 U.S.C. 1924 et seq.), and Indian highly
fractionated land loans (25 U.S.C. 488) to be
available from funds in the Agricultural
Credit Insurance Fund, as follows:
$2,750,000,000 for guaranteed farm ownership
loans and $1,500,000,000 for farm ownership di-
rect loans; $1,960,000,000 for unsubsidized
guaranteed operating loans and $1,530,000,000
for direct operating loans; emergency loans,
$37,668,000; Indian tribe land acquisition
loans, $20,000,000; guaranteed conservation
loans, $150,000,000; Indian highly fractionated
land loans, $10,000,000; and for boll weevil
eradication program loans, $60,000,000: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary shall deem the
pink bollworm to be a boll weevil for the
purpose of boll weevil eradication program
loans.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H379
January 10, 2019
For the cost of direct and guaranteed loans
and grants, including the cost of modifying
loans as defined in section 502 of the Con-
gressional Budget Act of 1974, as follows:
farm operating loans, $59,670,000 for direct
operating loans, $21,168,000 for unsubsidized
guaranteed operating loans, emergency
loans, $1,567,000 and $2,134,000 for Indian high-
ly fractionated land loans to remain avail-
able until expended.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $325,068,000: Provided,
That of this amount, $314,998,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, Salaries
and Expenses’’, of which $8,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2020.
Funds appropriated by this Act to the Ag-
ricultural Credit Insurance Program Ac-
count for farm ownership, operating and con-
servation direct loans and guaranteed loans
may be transferred among these programs:
Provided, That the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress are notified
at least 15 days in advance of any transfer.
RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Risk Man-
agement Agency, $74,829,000: Provided, That
not to exceed $1,000 shall be available for of-
ficial reception and representation expenses,
as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 1506(i).
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
CONSERVATION OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the provisions of the Act of April 27, 1935 (16
U.S.C. 590a–f), including preparation of con-
servation plans and establishment of meas-
ures to conserve soil and water (including
farm irrigation and land drainage and such
special measures for soil and water manage-
ment as may be necessary to prevent floods
and the siltation of reservoirs and to control
agricultural related pollutants); operation of
conservation plant materials centers; classi-
fication and mapping of soil; dissemination
of information; acquisition of lands, water,
and interests therein for use in the plant ma-
terials program by donation, exchange, or
purchase at a nominal cost not to exceed $100
pursuant to the Act of August 3, 1956 (7
U.S.C. 428a); purchase and erection or alter-
ation or improvement of permanent and tem-
porary buildings; and operation and mainte-
nance of aircraft, $879,107,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That appropriations hereunder shall be
available pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 2250 for con-
struction and improvement of buildings and
public improvements at plant materials cen-
ters, except that the cost of alterations and
improvements to other buildings and other
public improvements shall not exceed
$250,000: Provided further, That when build-
ings or other structures are erected on non-
Federal land, that the right to use such land
is obtained as provided in 7 U.S.C. 2250a: Pro-
vided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading, $5,600,000, shall
remain available until expended for the au-
thorities under 16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 and 1007–
1009 for authorized ongoing watershed
projects with a primary purpose of providing
water to rural communities.
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION
OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses to carry out pre-
ventive measures, including but not limited
to surveys and investigations, engineering
operations, works of improvement, and
changes in use of land, in accordance with
the Watershed Protection and Flood Preven-
tion Act (16 U.S.C. 1001–1005 and 1007–1009)
and in accordance with the provisions of
laws relating to the activities of the Depart-
ment, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That for funds provided
by this Act or any other prior Act, the limi-
tation regarding the size of the watershed or
subwatershed exceeding two hundred and
fifty thousand acres in which such activities
can be undertaken shall only apply for ac-
tivities undertaken for the primary purpose
of flood prevention (including structural and
land treatment measures): Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $50,000,000 shall be allocated to
projects and activities that can commence
promptly following enactment; that address
regional priorities for flood prevention, agri-
cultural water management, inefficient irri-
gation systems, fish and wildlife habitat, or
watershed protection; or that address au-
thorized ongoing projects under the authori-
ties of section 13 of the Flood Control Act of
December 22, 1944 (Public Law 78–534) with a
primary purpose of watershed protection by
preventing floodwater damage and stabi-
lizing stream channels, tributaries, and
banks to reduce erosion and sediment trans-
port.
CORPORATIONS
The following corporations and agencies
are hereby authorized to make expenditures,
within the limits of funds and borrowing au-
thority available to each such corporation or
agency and in accord with law, and to make
contracts and commitments without regard
to fiscal year limitations as provided by sec-
tion 104 of the Government Corporation Con-
trol Act as may be necessary in carrying out
the programs set forth in the budget for the
current fiscal year for such corporation or
agency, except as hereinafter provided.
FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORPORATION FUND
For payments as authorized by section 516
of the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C.
1516), such sums as may be necessary, to re-
main available until expended.
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION FUND
REIMBURSEMENT FOR NET REALIZED LOSSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the current fiscal year, such sums as
may be necessary to reimburse the Com-
modity Credit Corporation for net realized
losses sustained, but not previously reim-
bursed, pursuant to section 2 of the Act of
August 17, 1961 (15 U.S.C. 713a–11): Provided,
That of the funds available to the Com-
modity Credit Corporation under section 11
of the Commodity Credit Corporation Char-
ter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i) for the conduct of its
business with the Foreign Agricultural Serv-
ice, up to $5,000,000 may be transferred to and
used by the Foreign Agricultural Service for
information resource management activities
of the Foreign Agricultural Service that are
not related to Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion business.
HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT
(LIMITATION ON EXPENSES)
For the current fiscal year, the Commodity
Credit Corporation shall not expend more
than $5,000,000 for site investigation and
cleanup expenses, and operations and main-
tenance expenses to comply with the require-
ment of section 107(g) of the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and
Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9607(g)), and section
6001 of the Resource Conservation and Recov-
ery Act (42 U.S.C. 6961).
TITLE III
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses for carrying out
the administration and implementation of
Rural Development programs, including ac-
tivities with institutions concerning the de-
velopment and operation of agricultural co-
operatives; and for cooperative agreements;
$232,835,000: Provided, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, funds appro-
priated under this heading may be used for
advertising and promotional activities that
support Rural Development programs: Pro-
vided further, That in addition to any other
funds appropriated for purposes authorized
by section 502(i) of the Housing Act of 1949
(42 U.S.C. 1472(i)), any amounts collected
under such section will immediately be cred-
ited to this account and will remain avail-
able until expended for such purposes.
RURAL HOUSING SERVICE
RURAL HOUSING INSURANCE FUND PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as au-
thorized by title V of the Housing Act of
1949, to be available from funds in the rural
housing insurance fund, as follows:
$1,100,000,000 shall be for direct loans and
$24,000,000,000 shall be for unsubsidized guar-
anteed loans; $28,000,000 for section 504 hous-
ing repair loans; $40,000,000 for section 515
rental housing; $230,000,000 for section 538
guaranteed multi-family housing loans;
$10,000,000 for credit sales of single family
housing acquired property; $5,000,000 for sec-
tion 523 self-help housing land development
loans; and $5,000,000 for section 524 site devel-
opment loans.
For the cost of direct and guaranteed
loans, including the cost of modifying loans,
as defined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, as follows: section 502
loans, $53,900,000 shall be for direct loans;
section 504 housing repair loans, $3,419,000;
section 523 self-help housing land develop-
ment loans, $431,000; section 524 site develop-
ment loans, $176,000; and repair, rehabilita-
tion, and new construction of section 515
rental housing, $9,484,000: Provided, That to
support the loan program level for section
538 guaranteed loans made available under
this heading the Secretary may charge or ad-
just any fees to cover the projected cost of
such loan guarantees pursuant to the provi-
sions of the Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2
U.S.C. 661 et seq.), and the interest on such
loans may not be subsidized: Provided further,
That applicants in communities that have a
current rural area waiver under section 541
of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1490q)
shall be treated as living in a rural area for
purposes of section 502 guaranteed loans pro-
vided under this heading: Provided further,
That of the amounts available under this
paragraph for section 502 direct loans, no less
than $5,000,000 shall be available for direct
loans for individuals whose homes will be
built pursuant to a program funded with a
mutual and self-help housing grant author-
ized by section 523 of the Housing Act of 1949
until June 1, 2019: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall implement provisions to pro-
vide incentives to nonprofit organizations
and public housing authorities to facilitate
the acquisition of Rural Housing Service
(RHS) multifamily housing properties by
such nonprofit organizations and public
housing authorities that commit to keep
such properties in the RHS multifamily
housing program for a period of time as de-
termined by the Secretary, with such incen-
tives to include, but not be limited to, the
following: allow such nonprofit entities and
public housing authorities to earn a Return
on Investment on their own resources to in-
clude proceeds from low income housing tax
credit syndication, own contributions,
grants, and developer loans at favorable
rates and terms, invested in a deal; and allow
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H380 January 10, 2019
reimbursement of organizational costs asso-
ciated with owner’s oversight of asset re-
ferred to as ‘‘Asset Management Fee’’ of up
to $7,500 per property.
In addition, for the cost of direct loans,
grants, and contracts, as authorized by sec-
tions 514 and 516 of the Housing Act of 1949
(42 U.S.C. 1484, 1486), $14,281,000, to remain
available until expended, for direct farm
labor housing loans and domestic farm labor
housing grants and contracts: Provided, That
any balances available for the Farm Labor
Program Account shall be transferred to and
merged with this account.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $412,254,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Rural Development, Salaries
and Expenses’’.
RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
For rental assistance agreements entered
into or renewed pursuant to the authority
under section 521(a)(2) of the Housing Act of
1949 or agreements entered into in lieu of
debt forgiveness or payments for eligible
households as authorized by section
502(c)(5)(D) of the Housing Act of 1949,
$1,331,400,000, of which $40,000,000 shall be
available until September 30, 2020; and in ad-
dition such sums as may be necessary, as au-
thorized by section 521(c) of the Act, to liq-
uidate debt incurred prior to fiscal year 1992
to carry out the rental assistance program
under section 521(a)(2) of the Act: Provided,
That rental assistance agreements entered
into or renewed during the current fiscal
year shall be funded for a one-year period:
Provided further, That any unexpended bal-
ances remaining at the end of such one-year
agreements may be transferred and used for
purposes of any debt reduction; mainte-
nance, repair, or rehabilitation of any exist-
ing projects; preservation; and rental assist-
ance activities authorized under title V of
the Act: Provided further, That rental assist-
ance provided under agreements entered into
prior to fiscal year 2019 for a farm labor
multi-family housing project financed under
section 514 or 516 of the Act may not be re-
captured for use in another project until
such assistance has remained unused for a
period of 12 consecutive months, if such
project has a waiting list of tenants seeking
such assistance or the project has rental as-
sistance eligible tenants who are not receiv-
ing such assistance: Provided further, That
such recaptured rental assistance shall, to
the extent practicable, be applied to another
farm labor multi-family housing project fi-
nanced under section 514 or 516 of the Act:
Provided further, That except as provided in
the third proviso under this heading and not-
withstanding any other provision of the Act,
the Secretary may recapture rental assist-
ance provided under agreements entered into
prior to fiscal year 2019 for a project that the
Secretary determines no longer needs rental
assistance and use such recaptured funds for
current needs.
MULTI-FAMILY HOUSING REVITALIZATION
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the rural housing voucher program as
authorized under section 542 of the Housing
Act of 1949, but notwithstanding subsection
(b) of such section, and for additional costs
to conduct a demonstration program for the
preservation and revitalization of multi-fam-
ily rental housing properties described in
this paragraph, $50,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of the
funds made available under this heading,
$26,000,000, shall be available for rural hous-
ing vouchers to any low-income household
(including those not receiving rental assist-
ance) residing in a property financed with a
section 515 loan which has been prepaid after
September 30, 2005: Provided further, That the
amount of such voucher shall be the dif-
ference between comparable market rent for
the section 515 unit and the tenant paid rent
for such unit: Provided further, That funds
made available for such vouchers shall be
subject to the availability of annual appro-
priations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall, to the maximum extent prac-
ticable, administer such vouchers with cur-
rent regulations and administrative guid-
ance applicable to section 8 housing vouchers
administered by the Secretary of the Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development:
Provided further, That if the Secretary deter-
mines that the amount made available for
vouchers in this or any other Act is not
needed for vouchers, the Secretary may use
such funds for the demonstration program
for the preservation and revitalization of
multi-family rental housing properties de-
scribed in this paragraph: Provided further,
That of the funds made available under this
heading, $24,000,000 shall be available for a
demonstration program for the preservation
and revitalization of the sections 514, 515,
and 516 multi-family rental housing prop-
erties to restructure existing USDA multi-
family housing loans, as the Secretary deems
appropriate, expressly for the purposes of en-
suring the project has sufficient resources to
preserve the project for the purpose of pro-
viding safe and affordable housing for low-in-
come residents and farm laborers including
reducing or eliminating interest; deferring
loan payments, subordinating, reducing or
reamortizing loan debt; and other financial
assistance including advances, payments and
incentives (including the ability of owners to
obtain reasonable returns on investment) re-
quired by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall as part of the pres-
ervation and revitalization agreement obtain
a restrictive use agreement consistent with
the terms of the restructuring: Provided fur-
ther, That if the Secretary determines that
additional funds for vouchers described in
this paragraph are needed, funds for the pres-
ervation and revitalization demonstration
program may be used for such vouchers: Pro-
vided further, That if Congress enacts legisla-
tion to permanently authorize a multi-fam-
ily rental housing loan restructuring pro-
gram similar to the demonstration program
described herein, the Secretary may use
funds made available for the demonstration
program under this heading to carry out
such legislation with the prior approval of
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress: Provided further, That in
addition to any other available funds, the
Secretary may expend not more than
$1,000,000 total, from the program funds made
available under this heading, for administra-
tive expenses for activities funded under this
heading.
MUTUAL AND SELF-HELP HOUSING GRANTS
For grants and contracts pursuant to sec-
tion 523(b)(1)(A) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1490c), $30,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
RURAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For grants for very low-income housing re-
pair and rural housing preservation made by
the Rural Housing Service, as authorized by
42 U.S.C. 1474, and 1490m, $40,000,000, to re-
main available until expended.
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For gross obligations for the principal
amount of direct and guaranteed loans as au-
thorized by section 306 and described in sec-
tion 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, $3,000,000,000 for di-
rect loans and $148,287,000 for guaranteed
loans.
For the cost of guaranteed loans, including
the cost of modifying loans, as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974, $4,285,000, to remain available until
expended.
For the cost of grants for rural community
facilities programs as authorized by section
306 and described in section 381E(d)(1) of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act, $47,778,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That $6,000,000 of the
amount appropriated under this heading
shall be available for a Rural Community
Development Initiative: Provided further,
That such funds shall be used solely to de-
velop the capacity and ability of private,
nonprofit community-based housing and
community development organizations, low-
income rural communities, and Federally
Recognized Native American Tribes to un-
dertake projects to improve housing, com-
munity facilities, community and economic
development projects in rural areas: Provided
further, That such funds shall be made avail-
able to qualified private, nonprofit and pub-
lic intermediary organizations proposing to
carry out a program of financial and tech-
nical assistance: Provided further, That such
intermediary organizations shall provide
matching funds from other sources, includ-
ing Federal funds for related activities, in an
amount not less than funds provided: Pro-
vided further, That $5,778,000 of the amount
appropriated under this heading shall be to
provide grants for facilities in rural commu-
nities with extreme unemployment and se-
vere economic depression (Public Law 106–
387), with up to 5 percent for administration
and capacity building in the State rural de-
velopment offices: Provided further, That
$4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be available for commu-
nity facilities grants to tribal colleges, as
authorized by section 306(a)(19) of such Act:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading.
RURAL BUSINESS—COOPERATIVE SERVICE
RURAL BUSINESS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the cost of loan guarantees and grants,
for the rural business development programs
authorized by section 310B and described in
subsections (a), (c), (f) and (g) of section 310B
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act, $69,619,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of the amount
appropriated under this heading, not to ex-
ceed $500,000 shall be made available for one
grant to a qualified national organization to
provide technical assistance for rural trans-
portation in order to promote economic de-
velopment and $8,000,000 shall be for grants
to the Delta Regional Authority (7 U.S.C.
2009aa et seq.), the Northern Border Regional
Commission (40 U.S.C. 15101 et seq.), and the
Appalachian Regional Commission (40 U.S.C.
14101 et seq.) for any Rural Community Ad-
vancement Program purpose as described in
section 381E(d) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, of which not more
than 5 percent may be used for administra-
tive expenses: Provided further, That
$4,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for business grants to
benefit Federally Recognized Native Amer-
ican Tribes, including $250,000 for a grant to
a qualified national organization to provide
technical assistance for rural transportation
in order to promote economic development:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to funds
made available under this heading.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H381
January 10, 2019
INTERMEDIARY RELENDING PROGRAM FUND
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the principal amount of direct loans,
as authorized by the Intermediary Relending
Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b),
$18,889,000.
For the cost of direct loans, $4,157,000, as
authorized by the Intermediary Relending
Program Fund Account (7 U.S.C. 1936b), of
which $557,000 shall be available through
June 30, 2019, for Federally Recognized Na-
tive American Tribes; and of which $1,072,000
shall be available through June 30, 2019, for
Mississippi Delta Region counties (as deter-
mined in accordance with Public Law 100–
460): Provided, That such costs, including the
cost of modifying such loans, shall be as de-
fined in section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
In addition, for administrative expenses to
carry out the direct loan programs, $4,468,000
shall be transferred to and merged with the
appropriation for ‘‘Rural Development, Sala-
ries and Expenses’’.
RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LOANS
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the principal amount of direct loans,
as authorized under section 313 of the Rural
Electrification Act, for the purpose of pro-
moting rural economic development and job
creation projects, $45,000,000.
The cost of grants authorized under sec-
tion 313 of the Rural Electrification Act, for
the purpose of promoting rural economic de-
velopment and job creation projects shall
not exceed $10,000,000.
RURAL COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT GRANTS
For rural cooperative development grants
authorized under section 310B(e) of the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
(7 U.S.C. 1932), $30,050,000, of which $3,750,000
shall be for cooperative agreements for the
appropriate technology transfer for rural
areas program: Provided, That not to exceed
$3,000,000 shall be for grants for cooperative
development centers, individual coopera-
tives, or groups of cooperatives that serve
socially disadvantaged groups and a major-
ity of the boards of directors or governing
boards of which are comprised of individuals
who are members of socially disadvantaged
groups; and of which $17,500,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be for value-
added agricultural product market develop-
ment grants, as authorized by section 231 of
the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000
(7 U.S.C. 1632a), of which $2,500,000 shall be
for Agriculture Innovation Centers author-
ized pursuant to section 6402 of Public Law
107–171.
RURAL ENERGY FOR AMERICA PROGRAM
For the cost of a program of loan guaran-
tees, under the same terms and conditions as
authorized by section 9007 of the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8107), $338,000: Provided, That the cost
of loan guarantees, including the cost of
modifying such loans, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974.
RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE
RURAL WATER AND WASTE DISPOSAL PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For the cost of direct loans, loan guaran-
tees, and grants for the rural water, waste
water, waste disposal, and solid waste man-
agement programs authorized by sections
306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B and de-
scribed in sections 306C(a)(2), 306D, 306E, and
381E(d)(2) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, $558,183,000, to re-
main available until expended, of which not
to exceed $1,000,000 shall be available for the
rural utilities program described in section
306(a)(2)(B) of such Act, and of which not to
exceed $993,000 shall be available for the
rural utilities program described in section
306E of such Act: Provided, That not to ex-
ceed $15,000,000 of the amount appropriated
under this heading shall be for grants au-
thorized by section 306A(i)(2) of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act in
addition to funding authorized by section
306A(i)(1) of such Act and such grants may
not exceed $1,000,000 notwithstanding section
306A(f)(1) of such Act: Provided further, That
$68,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for loans and grants in-
cluding water and waste disposal systems
grants authorized by section 306C(a)(2)(B)
and section 306D of the Consolidated Farm
and Rural Development Act, and Federally
Recognized Native American Tribes author-
ized by 306C(a)(1) of such Act: Provided fur-
ther, That funding provided for section 306D
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act may be provided to a consortium
formed pursuant to section 325 of Public Law
105–83: Provided further, That not more than 2
percent of the funding provided for section
306D of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act may be used by the State of
Alaska for training and technical assistance
programs and not more than 2 percent of the
funding provided for section 306D of the Con-
solidated Farm and Rural Development Act
may be used by a consortium formed pursu-
ant to section 325 of Public Law 105–83 for
training and technical assistance programs:
Provided further, That not to exceed
$40,000,000 of the amount appropriated under
this heading shall be for technical assistance
grants for rural water and waste systems
pursuant to section 306(a)(14) of such Act, un-
less the Secretary makes a determination of
extreme need, of which $8,000,000 shall be
made available for a grant to a qualified
nonprofit multi-State regional technical as-
sistance organization, with experience in
working with small communities on water
and waste water problems, the principal pur-
pose of such grant shall be to assist rural
communities with populations of 3,300 or
less, in improving the planning, financing,
development, operation, and management of
water and waste water systems, and of which
not less than $800,000 shall be for a qualified
national Native American organization to
provide technical assistance for rural water
systems for tribal communities: Provided fur-
ther, That not to exceed $19,000,000 of the
amount appropriated under this heading
shall be for contracting with qualified na-
tional organizations for a circuit rider pro-
gram to provide technical assistance for
rural water systems: Provided further, That
not to exceed $4,000,000 shall be for solid
waste management grants: Provided further,
That $10,000,000 of the amount appropriated
under this heading shall be transferred to,
and merged with, the Rural Utilities Service,
High Energy Cost Grants Account to provide
grants authorized under section 19 of the
Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C.
918a): Provided further, That any prior year
balances for high-energy cost grants author-
ized by section 19 of the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 918a) shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the Rural Utilities
Service, High Energy Cost Grants Account:
Provided further, That sections 381E–H and
381N of the Consolidated Farm and Rural De-
velopment Act are not applicable to the
funds made available under this heading.
RURAL ELECTRIFICATION AND TELECOMMUNI-
CATIONS LOANS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
The principal amount of direct and guaran-
teed loans as authorized by sections 305, 306,
and 317 of the Rural Electrification Act of
1936 (7 U.S.C. 935, 936, and 940g) shall be made
as follows: loans made pursuant to sections
305, 306, and 317, notwithstanding 317(c), of
that Act, rural electric, $5,500,000,000; guar-
anteed underwriting loans pursuant to sec-
tion 313A, $750,000,000; 5 percent rural tele-
communications loans, cost of money rural
telecommunications loans, and for loans
made pursuant to section 306 of that Act,
rural telecommunications loans, $690,000,000:
Provided, That up to $2,000,000,000 shall be
used for the construction, acquisition, design
and engineering or improvement of fossil-
fueled electric generating plants (whether
new or existing) that utilize carbon sub-
surface utilization and storage systems.
For the cost of direct loans as authorized
by section 305 of the Rural Electrification
Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 935), including the cost
of modifying loans, as defined in section 502
of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974, cost
of money rural telecommunications loans,
$1,725,000.
In addition, for administrative expenses
necessary to carry out the direct and guar-
anteed loan programs, $33,270,000, which shall
be transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Rural Development, Salaries
and Expenses’’.
DISTANCE LEARNING, TELEMEDICINE, AND
BROADBAND PROGRAM
For the principal amount of broadband
telecommunication loans, $29,851,000.
For grants for telemedicine and distance
learning services in rural areas, as author-
ized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa et seq., $33,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
That $3,000,000 shall be made available for
grants authorized by 379G of the Consoli-
dated Farm and Rural Development Act: Pro-
vided further, That funding provided under
this heading for grants under 379G of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development
Act may only be provided to entities that
meet all of the eligibility criteria for a con-
sortium as established by this section.
For the cost of broadband loans, as author-
ized by section 601 of the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act, $5,830,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the cost of direct
loans shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
In addition, $30,000,000, to remain available
until expended, for a grant program to fi-
nance broadband transmission in rural areas
eligible for Distance Learning and Telemedi-
cine Program benefits authorized by 7 U.S.C.
950aaa.
RURAL HEALTH AND SAFETY EDUCATION
PROGRAMS
Any funds provided by this Act for rural
health and safety education programs au-
thorized under section 502(i) of the Rural De-
velopment Act of 1972 (7 U.S.C. 2662(i)) may
be used under those programs to address the
opioid abuse epidemic and to combat opioid
abuse in rural communities.
TITLE IV
DOMESTIC FOOD PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR FOOD,
NUTRITION, AND CONSUMER SERVICES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition, and
Consumer Services, $800,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to an agen-
cy in the Food, Nutrition and Consumer
Services mission area for salaries and ex-
penses are available to fund up to one admin-
istrative support staff for the Office.
FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE
CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Richard B. Russell National School Lunch
Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), except section 21,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H382 January 10, 2019
and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C.
1771 et seq.), except sections 17 and 21;
$23,184,012,000 to remain available through
September 30, 2020, of which such sums as are
made available under section 14222(b)(1) of
the Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of
2008 (Public Law 110–246), as amended by this
Act, shall be merged with and available for
the same time period and purposes as pro-
vided herein: Provided, That of the total
amount available, $17,004,000 shall be avail-
able to carry out section 19 of the Child Nu-
trition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1771 et seq.):
Provided further, That of the total amount
available, $30,000,000 shall be available to
provide competitive grants to State agencies
for subgrants to local educational agencies
and schools to purchase the equipment, with
a value of greater than $1,000, needed to
serve healthier meals, improve food safety,
and to help support the establishment, main-
tenance, or expansion of the school breakfast
program: Provided further, That of the total
amount available, $28,000,000 shall remain
available until expended to carry out section
749(g) of the Agriculture Appropriations Act
of 2010 (Public Law 111–80): Provided further,
That section 26(d) of the Richard B. Russell
National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C.
1769g(d)) is amended in the first sentence by
striking ‘‘2010 through 2018’’ and inserting
‘‘2010 through 2019’’: Provided further, That
section 9(h)(3) of the Richard B. Russell Na-
tional School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(3))
is amended in the first sentence by striking
‘‘for fiscal year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘for fis-
cal year 2019’’: Provided further, That section
9(h)(4) of the Richard B. Russell National
School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1758(h)(4)) is
amended in the first sentence by striking
‘‘for fiscal year 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘for fis-
cal year 2019’’.
SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM
FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN (WIC)
For necessary expenses to carry out the
special supplemental nutrition program as
authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786), $6,150,000,000,
to remain available through September 30,
2020, of which $25,000,000 shall be placed in re-
serve, to remain available until expended, to
be allocated as the Secretary deemed nec-
essary, notwithstanding section 17(i) of such
Act, to support participation should cost or
participation exceed budget estimates: Pro-
vided, That notwithstanding section 17(h)(10)
of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C.
1786(h)(10)), not less than $67,500,000 shall be
used for breastfeeding peer counselors and
other related activities, and $19,000,000 shall
be used for infrastructure, of which $5,000,000
shall be for competitive grants to promote
breastfeeding and improved nutritional
health through technologies and services, in-
cluding telemedicine: Provided further, That
none of the funds provided in this account
shall be available for the purchase of infant
formula except in accordance with the cost
containment and competitive bidding re-
quirements specified in section 17 of such
Act: Provided further, That none of the funds
provided shall be available for activities that
are not fully reimbursed by other Federal
Government departments or agencies unless
authorized by section 17 of such Act: Pro-
vided further, That upon termination of a fed-
erally mandated vendor moratorium and
subject to terms and conditions established
by the Secretary, the Secretary may waive
the requirement at 7 CFR 246.12(g)(6) at the
request of a State agency.
SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out the
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.), $73,219,274,000, of which $3,000,000,000,
to remain available through December 31,
2020, shall be placed in reserve for use only in
such amounts and at such times as may be-
come necessary to carry out program oper-
ations: Provided, That funds provided herein
shall be expended in accordance with section
16 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008: Pro-
vided further, That of the funds made avail-
able under this heading, $998,000 may be used
to provide nutrition education services to
State agencies and Federally Recognized
Tribes participating in the Food Distribution
Program on Indian Reservations: Provided
further, That this appropriation shall be sub-
ject to any work registration or workfare re-
quirements as may be required by law: Pro-
vided further, That funds made available for
Employment and Training under this head-
ing shall remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That funds
made available under this heading for sec-
tion 28(d)(1), section 4(b), and section 27(a) of
the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall re-
main available through September 30, 2020:
Provided further, That none of the funds made
available under this heading may be obli-
gated or expended in contravention of sec-
tion 213A of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1183A): Provided further,
That funds made available under this head-
ing may be used to enter into contracts and
employ staff to conduct studies, evaluations,
or to conduct activities related to program
integrity provided that such activities are
authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008.
COMMODITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to carry out dis-
aster assistance and the Commodity Supple-
mental Food Program as authorized by sec-
tion 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer
Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note);
the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983;
special assistance for the nuclear affected is-
lands, as authorized by section 103(f)(2) of the
Compact of Free Association Amendments
Act of 2003 (Public Law 108–188); and the
Farmers’ Market Nutrition Program, as au-
thorized by section 17(m) of the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966, $322,139,000, to remain avail-
able through September 30, 2020: Provided,
That none of these funds shall be available
to reimburse the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion for commodities donated to the pro-
gram: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, effective with
funds made available in fiscal year 2019 to
support the Seniors Farmers’ Market Nutri-
tion Program, as authorized by section 4402
of the Farm Security and Rural Investment
Act of 2002, such funds shall remain available
through September 30, 2020: Provided further,
That of the funds made available under sec-
tion 27(a) of the Food and Nutrition Act of
2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036(a)), the Secretary may use
up to 15 percent for costs associated with the
distribution of commodities.
NUTRITION PROGRAMS ADMINISTRATION
For necessary administrative expenses of
the Food and Nutrition Service for carrying
out any domestic nutrition assistance pro-
gram, $164,688,000: Provided, That of the funds
provided herein, $2,000,000 shall be used for
the purposes of section 4404 of Public Law
107–171, as amended by section 4401 of Public
Law 110–246.
TITLE V
FOREIGN ASSISTANCE AND RELATED
PROGRAMS
OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY FOR TRADE
AND FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL AFFAIRS
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Under Secretary for Trade and Foreign Agri-
cultural Affairs, $875,000: Provided, That
funds made available by this Act to any
agency in the Trade and Foreign Agricul-
tural Affairs mission area for salaries and
expenses are available to fund up to one ad-
ministrative support staff for the Office.
OFFICE OF CODEX ALIMENTARIUS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Codex Alimentarius, $3,976,000, including not
to exceed $40,000 for official reception and
representation expenses.
FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of the Foreign Ag-
ricultural Service, including not to exceed
$250,000 for representation allowances and for
expenses pursuant to section 8 of the Act ap-
proved August 3, 1956 (7 U.S.C. 1766),
$212,230,000, of which no more than 6 percent
shall remain available until September 30,
2020, for overseas operations to include the
payment of locally employed staff: Provided,
That the Service may utilize advances of
funds, or reimburse this appropriation for ex-
penditures made on behalf of Federal agen-
cies, public and private organizations and in-
stitutions under agreements executed pursu-
ant to the agricultural food production as-
sistance programs (7 U.S.C. 1737) and the for-
eign assistance programs of the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment: Provided further, That funds made
available for middle-income country training
programs, funds made available for the
Borlaug International Agricultural Science
and Technology Fellowship program, and up
to $2,000,000 of the Foreign Agricultural
Service appropriation solely for the purpose
of offsetting fluctuations in international
currency exchange rates, subject to docu-
mentation by the Foreign Agricultural Serv-
ice, shall remain available until expended.
FOOD FOR PEACE TITLE I DIRECT CREDIT AND
FOOD FOR PROGRESS PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the credit program of title I, Food for Peace
Act (Public Law 83–480) and the Food for
Progress Act of 1985, $142,000, shall be trans-
ferred to and merged with the appropriation
for ‘‘Farm Service Agency, Salaries and Ex-
penses’’.
FOOD FOR PEACE TITLE II GRANTS
For expenses during the current fiscal
year, not otherwise recoverable, and unre-
covered prior years’ costs, including interest
thereon, under the Food for Peace Act (Pub-
lic Law 83–480), for commodities supplied in
connection with dispositions abroad under
title II of said Act, $1,716,000,000, to remain
available until expended.
MCGOVERN-DOLE INTERNATIONAL FOOD FOR
EDUCATION AND CHILD NUTRITION PROGRAM
GRANTS
For necessary expenses to carry out the
provisions of section 3107 of the Farm Secu-
rity and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 1736o–1), $210,255,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That the Com-
modity Credit Corporation is authorized to
provide the services, facilities, and authori-
ties for the purpose of implementing such
section, subject to reimbursement from
amounts provided herein: Provided further,
That of the amount made available under
this heading, $15,000,000, shall remain avail-
able until expended for necessary expenses to
carry out the provisions of section 3207 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 1726c).
COMMODITY CREDIT CORPORATION EXPORT
(LOANS) CREDIT GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the Commodity Credit Corporation’s Export
Guarantee Program, GSM 102 and GSM 103,
$8,845,000; to cover common overhead ex-
penses as permitted by section 11 of the Com-
modity Credit Corporation Charter Act and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H383
January 10, 2019
in conformity with the Federal Credit Re-
form Act of 1990, of which $6,382,000 shall be
transferred to and merged with the appro-
priation for ‘‘Foreign Agricultural Service,
Salaries and Expenses’’, and of which
$2,463,000 shall be transferred to and merged
with the appropriation for ‘‘Farm Service
Agency, Salaries and Expenses’’.
TITLE VI
RELATED AGENCY AND FOOD AND DRUG
ADMINISTRATION
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Food and
Drug Administration, including hire and pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles; for pay-
ment of space rental and related costs pursu-
ant to Public Law 92–313 for programs and
activities of the Food and Drug Administra-
tion which are included in this Act; for rent-
al of special purpose space in the District of
Columbia or elsewhere; in addition to
amounts appropriated to the FDA Innova-
tion Account, for carrying out the activities
described in section 1002(b)(4) of the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act (Public Law 114–255); for mis-
cellaneous and emergency expenses of en-
forcement activities, authorized and ap-
proved by the Secretary and to be accounted
for solely on the Secretary’s certificate, not
to exceed $25,000; and notwithstanding sec-
tion 521 of Public Law 107–188; $5,419,299,000:
Provided, That of the amount provided under
this heading, $960,568,000 shall be derived
from prescription drug user fees authorized
by 21 U.S.C. 379h, and shall be credited to
this account and remain available until ex-
pended; $196,668,000 shall be derived from
medical device user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 379j, and shall be credited to this ac-
count and remain available until expended;
$501,396,000 shall be derived from human ge-
neric drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–42, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$40,922,000 shall be derived from biosimilar
biological product user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 379j–52, and shall be credited to this
account and remain available until ex-
pended; $30,331,000 shall be derived from ani-
mal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–12, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$18,336,000 shall be derived from generic new
animal drug user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
379j–21, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended;
$712,000,000 shall be derived from tobacco
product user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
387s, and shall be credited to this account
and remain available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That in addition to and not-
withstanding any other provision under this
heading, amounts collected for prescription
drug user fees, medical device user fees,
human generic drug user fees, biosimilar bio-
logical product user fees, animal drug user
fees, and generic new animal drug user fees
that exceed the respective fiscal year 2019
limitations are appropriated and shall be
credited to this account and remain avail-
able until expended: Provided further, That
fees derived from prescription drug, medical
device, human generic drug, biosimilar bio-
logical product, animal drug, and generic
new animal drug assessments for fiscal year
2019, including any such fees collected prior
to fiscal year 2019 but credited for fiscal year
2019, shall be subject to the fiscal year 2019
limitations: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may accept payment during fiscal
year 2019 of user fees specified under this
heading and authorized for fiscal year 2020,
prior to the due date for such fees, and that
amounts of such fees assessed for fiscal year
2020 for which the Secretary accepts pay-
ment in fiscal year 2019 shall not be included
in amounts under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That none of these funds shall be used
to develop, establish, or operate any program
of user fees authorized by 31 U.S.C. 9701: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount ap-
propriated: (1) $1,052,315,000 shall be for the
Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutri-
tion and related field activities in the Office
of Regulatory Affairs, of which no less than
$15,000,000 shall be used for inspections of for-
eign seafood manufacturers and field exami-
nations of imported seafood; (2) $1,720,807,000
shall be for the Center for Drug Evaluation
and Research and related field activities in
the Office of Regulatory Affairs; (3)
$369,857,000 shall be for the Center for Bio-
logics Evaluation and Research and for re-
lated field activities in the Office of Regu-
latory Affairs; (4) $216,914,000 shall be for the
Center for Veterinary Medicine and for re-
lated field activities in the Office of Regu-
latory Affairs; (5) $495,988,000 shall be for the
Center for Devices and Radiological Health
and for related field activities in the Office
of Regulatory Affairs; (6) $65,531,000 shall be
for the National Center for Toxicological Re-
search; (7) $662,043,000 shall be for the Center
for Tobacco Products and for related field
activities in the Office of Regulatory Affairs;
(8) not to exceed $174,751,000 shall be for Rent
and Related activities, of which $50,987,000 is
for White Oak Consolidation, other than the
amounts paid to the General Services Ad-
ministration for rent; (9) not to exceed
$240,887,000 shall be for payments to the Gen-
eral Services Administration for rent; and
(10) $420,206,000 shall be for other activities,
including the Office of the Commissioner of
Food and Drugs, the Office of Foods and Vet-
erinary Medicine, the Office of Medical and
Tobacco Products, the Office of Global and
Regulatory Policy, the Office of Operations,
the Office of the Chief Scientist, and central
services for these offices: Provided further,
That not to exceed $25,000 of this amount
shall be for official reception and representa-
tion expenses, not otherwise provided for, as
determined by the Commissioner: Provided
further, That any transfer of funds pursuant
to section 770(n) of the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 379dd(n)) shall
only be from amounts made available under
this heading for other activities: Provided
further, That of the amounts that are made
available under this heading for ‘‘other ac-
tivities’’, and that are not derived from user
fees, $1,500,000 shall be transferred to and
merged with the appropriation for ‘‘Depart-
ment of Health and Human Services—Office
of Inspector General’’ for oversight of the
programs and operations of the Food and
Drug Administration and shall be in addition
to funds otherwise made available for over-
sight of the Food and Drug Administration:
Provided further, That funds may be trans-
ferred from one specified activity to another
with the prior approval of the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress.
In addition, mammography user fees au-
thorized by 42 U.S.C. 263b, export certifi-
cation user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 381,
priority review user fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 360n and 360ff, food and feed recall
fees, food reinspection fees, and voluntary
qualified importer program fees authorized
by 21 U.S.C. 379j–31, outsourcing facility fees
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 379j–62, prescription
drug wholesale distributor licensing and in-
spection fees authorized by 21 U.S.C.
353(e)(3), third-party logistics provider li-
censing and inspection fees authorized by 21
U.S.C. 360eee–3(c)(1), third-party auditor fees
authorized by 21 U.S.C. 384d(c)(8), and med-
ical countermeasure priority review voucher
user fees authorized by 21 U.S.C. 360bbb–4a,
shall be credited to this account, to remain
available until expended.
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For plans, construction, repair, improve-
ment, extension, alteration, demolition, and
purchase of fixed equipment or facilities of
or used by the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, where not otherwise provided,
$11,788,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
FDA INNOVATION ACCOUNT, CURES ACT
For necessary expenses to carry out the
purposes described under section 1002(b)(4) of
the 21st Century Cures Act, in addition to
amounts available for such purposes under
the heading ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’,
$70,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That amounts appropriated
in this paragraph are appropriated pursuant
to section 1002(b)(3) of the 21st Century Cures
Act, are to be derived from amounts trans-
ferred under section 1002(b)(2)(A) of such Act,
and may be transferred by the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs to the appropriation for
‘‘Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices—Food and Drug Administration—Sala-
ries and Expenses’’ solely for the purposes
provided in such Act: Provided further, That
upon a determination by the Commissioner
that funds transferred pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso are not necessary for the pur-
poses provided, such amounts may be trans-
ferred back to the account: Provided further,
That such transfer authority is in addition
to any other transfer authority provided by
law.
INDEPENDENT AGENCY
FARM CREDIT ADMINISTRATION
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
Not to exceed $74,600,000 (from assessments
collected from farm credit institutions, in-
cluding the Federal Agricultural Mortgage
Corporation) shall be obligated during the
current fiscal year for administrative ex-
penses as authorized under 12 U.S.C. 2249:
Provided, That this limitation shall not
apply to expenses associated with receiver-
ships: Provided further, That the agency may
exceed this limitation by up to 10 percent
with notification to the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress.
TITLE VII
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS AND TRANSFERS OF
FUNDS)
SEC. 701. Within the unit limit of cost fixed
by law, appropriations and authorizations
made for the Department of Agriculture for
the current fiscal year under this Act shall
be available for the purchase, in addition to
those specifically provided for, of not to ex-
ceed 71 passenger motor vehicles of which 68
shall be for replacement only, and for the
hire of such vehicles: Provided, That notwith-
standing this section, the only purchase of
new passenger vehicles shall be for those de-
termined by the Secretary to be necessary
for transportation safety, to reduce oper-
ational costs, and for the protection of life,
property, and public safety.
SEC. 702. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture
may transfer unobligated balances of discre-
tionary funds appropriated by this Act or
any other available unobligated discre-
tionary balances that are remaining avail-
able of the Department of Agriculture to the
Working Capital Fund for the acquisition of
plant and capital equipment necessary for
the delivery of financial, administrative, and
information technology services of primary
benefit to the agencies of the Department of
Agriculture, such transferred funds to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H384 January 10, 2019
That none of the funds made available by
this Act or any other Act shall be trans-
ferred to the Working Capital Fund without
the prior approval of the agency adminis-
trator: Provided further, That none of the
funds transferred to the Working Capital
Fund pursuant to this section shall be avail-
able for obligation without written notifica-
tion to and the prior approval of the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of both Houses of
Congress: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated by this Act or made
available to the Department’s Working Cap-
ital Fund shall be available for obligation or
expenditure to make any changes to the De-
partment’s National Finance Center without
written notification to and prior approval of
the Committees on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress as required by section 717
of this Act: Provided further, That none of the
funds appropriated by this Act or made
available to the Department’s Working Cap-
ital Fund shall be available for obligation or
expenditure to initiate, plan, develop, imple-
ment, or make any changes to remove or re-
locate any systems, missions, or functions of
the offices of the Chief Financial Officer or
any personnel from the National Finance
Center prior to written notification to and
prior approval of the Committee on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress and in
accordance with the requirements of section
717 of this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary of Agriculture and the offices of
the Chief Financial Officer shall actively
market to existing and new Departments and
other government agencies National Finance
Center shared services including, but not
limited to, payroll, financial management,
and human capital shared services and allow
the National Finance Center to perform
technology upgrades: Provided further, That
of annual income amounts in the Working
Capital Fund of the Department of Agri-
culture attributable to the amounts in ex-
cess of the true costs of the shared services
provided by the National Finance Center and
budgeted for the National Finance Center,
the Secretary shall reserve not more than 4
percent for the replacement or acquisition of
capital equipment, including equipment for
the improvement, delivery, and implementa-
tion of financial, administrative, and infor-
mation technology services, and other sys-
tems of the National Finance Center or to
pay any unforeseen, extraordinary cost of
the National Finance Center: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the amounts reserved
shall be available for obligation unless the
Secretary submits written notification of
the obligation to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided further, That the limitations on the ob-
ligation of funds pending notification to
Congressional Committees shall not apply to
any obligation that, as determined by the
Secretary, is necessary to respond to a de-
clared state of emergency that significantly
impacts the operations of the National Fi-
nance Center; or to evacuate employees of
the National Finance Center to a safe haven
to continue operations of the National Fi-
nance Center.
SEC. 703. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall remain available for
obligation beyond the current fiscal year un-
less expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 704. No funds appropriated by this Act
may be used to pay negotiated indirect cost
rates on cooperative agreements or similar
arrangements between the United States De-
partment of Agriculture and nonprofit insti-
tutions in excess of 10 percent of the total di-
rect cost of the agreement when the purpose
of such cooperative arrangements is to carry
out programs of mutual interest between the
two parties. This does not preclude appro-
priate payment of indirect costs on grants
and contracts with such institutions when
such indirect costs are computed on a simi-
lar basis for all agencies for which appropria-
tions are provided in this Act.
SEC. 705. Appropriations to the Department
of Agriculture for the cost of direct and
guaranteed loans made available in the cur-
rent fiscal year shall remain available until
expended to disburse obligations made in the
current fiscal year for the following ac-
counts: the Rural Development Loan Fund
program account, the Rural Electrification
and Telecommunication Loans program ac-
count, and the Rural Housing Insurance
Fund program account.
SEC. 706. None of the funds made available
to the Department of Agriculture by this Act
may be used to acquire new information
technology systems or significant upgrades,
as determined by the Office of the Chief In-
formation Officer, without the approval of
the Chief Information Officer and the con-
currence of the Executive Information Tech-
nology Investment Review Board: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, none of the funds appropriated or other-
wise made available by this Act may be
transferred to the Office of the Chief Infor-
mation Officer without written notification
to and the prior approval of the Committees
on Appropriations of both Houses of Con-
gress: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing section 11319 of title 40, United
States Code, none of the funds available to
the Department of Agriculture for informa-
tion technology shall be obligated for
projects, contracts, or other agreements over
$25,000 prior to receipt of written approval by
the Chief Information Officer: Provided fur-
ther, That the Chief Information Officer may
authorize an agency to obligate funds with-
out written approval from the Chief Informa-
tion Officer for projects, contracts, or other
agreements up to $250,000 based upon the per-
formance of an agency measured against the
performance plan requirements described in
the explanatory statement accompanying
Public Law 113–235.
SEC. 707. Funds made available under sec-
tion 524(b) of the Federal Crop Insurance Act
(7 U.S.C. 1524(b)) in the current fiscal year
shall remain available until expended to dis-
burse obligations made in the current fiscal
year.
SEC. 708. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any former RUS borrower that
has repaid or prepaid an insured, direct or
guaranteed loan under the Rural Electrifica-
tion Act of 1936, or any not-for-profit utility
that is eligible to receive an insured or di-
rect loan under such Act, shall be eligible for
assistance under section 313(b)(2)(B) of such
Act in the same manner as a borrower under
such Act.
SEC. 709. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not more than $20,000,000 in
unobligated balances from appropriations
made available for salaries and expenses in
this Act for the Farm Service Agency shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for information technology expenses: Pro-
vided, That except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, unobligated balances from
appropriations made available for salaries
and expenses in this Act for the Rural Devel-
opment mission area shall remain available
through September 30, 2020, for information
technology expenses.
SEC. 710. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used for first-class travel by the employees
of agencies funded by this Act in contraven-
tion of sections 301–10.122 through 301–10.124
of title 41, Code of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 711. In the case of each program estab-
lished or amended by the Agricultural Act of
2014 (Public Law 113–79), other than by title
I or subtitle A of title III of such Act, or pro-
grams for which indefinite amounts were
provided in that Act, that is authorized or
required to be carried out using funds of the
Commodity Credit Corporation—
(1) such funds shall be available for salaries
and related administrative expenses, includ-
ing technical assistance, associated with the
implementation of the program, without re-
gard to the limitation on the total amount
of allotments and fund transfers contained in
section 11 of the Commodity Credit Corpora-
tion Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714i); and
(2) the use of such funds for such purpose
shall not be considered to be a fund transfer
or allotment for purposes of applying the
limitation on the total amount of allotments
and fund transfers contained in such section.
SEC. 712. Of the funds made available by
this Act, not more than $2,900,000 shall be
used to cover necessary expenses of activi-
ties related to all advisory committees, pan-
els, commissions, and task forces of the De-
partment of Agriculture, except for panels
used to comply with negotiated rule makings
and panels used to evaluate competitively
awarded grants.
SEC. 713. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available to pay indirect costs charged
against any agricultural research, education,
or extension grant awards issued by the Na-
tional Institute of Food and Agriculture that
exceed 30 percent of total Federal funds pro-
vided under each award: Provided, That not-
withstanding section 1462 of the National Ag-
ricultural Research, Extension, and Teach-
ing Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3310), funds
provided by this Act for grants awarded com-
petitively by the National Institute of Food
and Agriculture shall be available to pay full
allowable indirect costs for each grant
awarded under section 9 of the Small Busi-
ness Act (15 U.S.C. 638).
SEC. 714. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 715. Notwithstanding subsection (b) of
section 14222 of Public Law 110–246 (7 U.S.C.
612c–6; in this section referred to as ‘‘section
14222’’), none of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this or any
other Act shall be used to pay the salaries
and expenses of personnel to carry out a pro-
gram under section 32 of the Act of August
24, 1935 (7 U.S.C. 612c; in this section referred
to as ‘‘section 32’’) in excess of $1,299,600,000
(exclusive of carryover appropriations from
prior fiscal years), as follows: Child Nutri-
tion Programs Entitlement Commodities—
$485,000,000; State Option Contracts—
$5,000,000; Removal of Defective Commod-
ities—$2,500,000; Administration of Section 32
Commodity Purchases—$35,853,000: Provided,
That of the total funds made available in the
matter preceding this proviso that remain
unobligated on October 1, 2019, such unobli-
gated balances shall carryover into fiscal
year 2020 and shall remain available until ex-
pended for any of the purposes of section 32,
except that any such carryover funds used in
accordance with clause (3) of section 32 may
not exceed $350,000,000 and may not be obli-
gated until the Secretary of Agriculture pro-
vides written notification of the expendi-
tures to the Committees on Appropriations
of both Houses of Congress at least two
weeks in advance: Provided further, That,
with the exception of any available carry-
over funds authorized in any prior appropria-
tions Act to be used for the purposes of
clause (3) of section 32, none of the funds ap-
propriated or otherwise made available by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H385
January 10, 2019
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the
salaries or expenses of any employee of the
Department of Agriculture to carry out
clause (3) of section 32.
SEC. 716. None of the funds appropriated by
this or any other Act shall be used to pay the
salaries and expenses of personnel who pre-
pare or submit appropriations language as
part of the President’s budget submission to
the Congress for programs under the juris-
diction of the Appropriations Subcommit-
tees on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies that assumes revenues or reflects a
reduction from the previous year due to user
fees proposals that have not been enacted
into law prior to the submission of the budg-
et unless such budget submission identifies
which additional spending reductions should
occur in the event the user fees proposals are
not enacted prior to the date of the con-
vening of a committee of conference for the
fiscal year 2020 appropriations Act.
SEC. 717. (a) None of the funds provided by
this Act, or provided by previous appropria-
tions Acts to the agencies funded by this Act
that remain available for obligation or ex-
penditure in the current fiscal year, or pro-
vided from any accounts in the Treasury de-
rived by the collection of fees available to
the agencies funded by this Act, shall be
available for obligation or expenditure
through a reprogramming, transfer of funds,
or reimbursements as authorized by the
Economy Act, or in the case of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, through use of the au-
thority provided by section 702(b) of the De-
partment of Agriculture Organic Act of 1944
(7 U.S.C. 2257) or section 8 of Public Law 89–
106 (7 U.S.C. 2263), that—
(1) creates new programs;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or activ-
ity;
(3) increases funds or personnel by any
means for any project or activity for which
funds have been denied or restricted;
(4) relocates an office or employees;
(5) reorganizes offices, programs, or activi-
ties; or
(6) contracts out or privatizes any func-
tions or activities presently performed by
Federal employees;
unless the Secretary of Agriculture, or the
Secretary of Health and Human Services (as
the case may be) notifies in writing and re-
ceives approval from the Committees on Ap-
propriations of both Houses of Congress at
least 30 days in advance of the reprogram-
ming of such funds or the use of such author-
ity.
(b) None of the funds provided by this Act,
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts
to the agencies funded by this Act that re-
main available for obligation or expenditure
in the current fiscal year, or provided from
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the
collection of fees available to the agencies
funded by this Act, shall be available for ob-
ligation or expenditure for activities, pro-
grams, or projects through a reprogramming
or use of the authorities referred to in sub-
section (a) involving funds in excess of
$500,000 or 10 percent, whichever is less,
that—
(1) augments existing programs, projects,
or activities;
(2) reduces by 10 percent funding for any
existing program, project, or activity, or
numbers of personnel by 10 percent as ap-
proved by Congress; or
(3) results from any general savings from a
reduction in personnel which would result in
a change in existing programs, activities, or
projects as approved by Congress; unless the
Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of
Health and Human Services (as the case may
be) notifies in writing and receives approval
from the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress at least 30 days in
advance of the reprogramming or transfer of
such funds or the use of such authority.
(c) The Secretary of Agriculture or the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall notify in writing and receive approval
from the Committees on Appropriations of
both Houses of Congress before imple-
menting any program or activity not carried
out during the previous fiscal year unless the
program or activity is funded by this Act or
specifically funded by any other Act.
(d) None of the funds provided by this Act,
or provided by previous Appropriations Acts
to the agencies funded by this Act that re-
main available for obligation or expenditure
in the current fiscal year, or provided from
any accounts in the Treasury derived by the
collection of fees available to the agencies
funded by this Act, shall be available for—
(1) modifying major capital investments
funding levels, including information tech-
nology systems, that involves increasing or
decreasing funds in the current fiscal year
for the individual investment in excess of
$500,000 or 10 percent of the total cost, which-
ever is less;
(2) realigning or reorganizing new, current,
or vacant positions or agency activities or
functions to establish a center, office,
branch, or similar entity with five or more
personnel; or
(3) carrying out activities or functions that
were not described in the budget request; un-
less the agencies funded by this Act notify,
in writing, the Committees on Appropria-
tions of both Houses of Congress at least 30
days in advance of using the funds for these
purposes.
(e) As described in this section, no funds
may be used for any activities unless the
Secretary of Agriculture or the Secretary of
Health and Human Services receives from
the Committee on Appropriations of both
Houses of Congress written or electronic
mail confirmation of receipt of the notifica-
tion as required in this section.
SEC. 718. Notwithstanding section
310B(g)(5) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1932(g)(5)),
the Secretary may assess a one-time fee for
any guaranteed business and industry loan
in an amount that does not exceed 3 percent
of the guaranteed principal portion of the
loan.
SEC. 719. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Department
of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, or the Farm Credit Administration
shall be used to transmit or otherwise make
available reports, questions, or responses to
questions that are a result of information re-
quested for the appropriations hearing proc-
ess to any non-Department of Agriculture,
non-Department of Health and Human Serv-
ices, or non-Farm Credit Administration em-
ployee.
SEC. 720. Unless otherwise authorized by
existing law, none of the funds provided in
this Act, may be used by an executive branch
agency to produce any prepackaged news
story intended for broadcast or distribution
in the United States unless the story in-
cludes a clear notification within the text or
audio of the prepackaged news story that the
prepackaged news story was prepared or
funded by that executive branch agency.
SEC. 721. No employee of the Department of
Agriculture may be detailed or assigned
from an agency or office funded by this Act
or any other Act to any other agency or of-
fice of the Department for more than 60 days
in a fiscal year unless the individual’s em-
ploying agency or office is fully reimbursed
by the receiving agency or office for the sal-
ary and expenses of the employee for the pe-
riod of assignment.
SEC. 722. There is hereby appropriated
$2,000,000 for a pilot program to provide com-
petitive grants to State departments of agri-
culture, State cooperative extension serv-
ices, and nonprofit organizations to carry
out programs to address farmer stress and
suicide.
SEC. 723. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Agriculture, the Commissioner of the
Food and Drug Administration, and the
Chairman of the Farm Credit Administration
shall submit to the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress a de-
tailed spending plan by program, project,
and activity for all the funds made available
under this Act including appropriated user
fees, as defined in Senate Report 115-259.
SEC. 724. Of the unobligated balances from
amounts made available for the supple-
mental nutrition program as authorized by
section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966
(42 U.S.C. 1786), $501,000,000 are hereby re-
scinded.
SEC. 725. The Secretary shall continue an
intermediary loan packaging program based
on the pilot program in effect for fiscal year
2013 for packaging and reviewing section 502
single family direct loans. The Secretary
shall continue agreements with current
intermediary organizations and with addi-
tional qualified intermediary organizations.
The Secretary shall work with these organi-
zations to increase effectiveness of the sec-
tion 502 single family direct loan program in
rural communities and shall set aside and
make available from the national reserve
section 502 loans an amount necessary to
support the work of such intermediaries and
provide a priority for review of such loans.
SEC. 726. For loans and loan guarantees
that do not require budget authority and the
program level has been established in this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture may in-
crease the program level for such loans and
loan guarantees by not more than 25 percent:
Provided, That prior to the Secretary imple-
menting such an increase, the Secretary no-
tifies, in writing, the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress at least
15 days in advance.
SEC. 727. None of the credit card refunds or
rebates transferred to the Working Capital
Fund pursuant to section 729 of the Agri-
culture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Act, 2002 (7 U.S.C. 2235a; Public
Law 107–76) shall be available for obligation
without written notification to, and the
prior approval of, the Committees on Appro-
priations of both Houses of Congress: Pro-
vided, That the refunds or rebates so trans-
ferred shall be available for obligation only
for the acquisition of plant and capital
equipment necessary for the delivery of fi-
nancial, administrative, and information
technology services of primary benefit to the
agencies of the Department of Agriculture.
SEC. 728. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to implement, ad-
minister, or enforce the ‘‘variety’’ require-
ments of the final rule entitled ‘‘Enhancing
Retailer Standards in the Supplemental Nu-
trition Assistance Program (SNAP)’’ pub-
lished by the Department of Agriculture in
the Federal Register on December 15, 2016 (81
Fed. Reg. 90675) until the Secretary of Agri-
culture amends the definition of the term
‘‘variety’’ as de fined in section
278.1(b)(1)(ii)(C) of title 7, Code of Federal
Regulations, and ‘‘variety’’ as applied in the
definition of the term ‘‘staple food’’ as de-
fined in section 271.2 of title 7, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, to increase the number of
items that qualify as acceptable varieties in
each staple food category so that the total
number of such items in each staple food cat-
egory exceeds the number of such items in
each staple food category included in the
final rule as published on December 15, 2016:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H386 January 10, 2019
Provided, That until the Secretary promul-
gates such regulatory amendments, the Sec-
retary shall apply the requirements regard-
ing acceptable varieties and breadth of stock
to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram retailers that were in effect on the day
before the date of the enactment of the Agri-
cultural Act of 2014 (Public Law 113–79).
SEC. 729. None of the funds made available
by this Act or any other Act may be used—
(1) in contravention of section 7606 of the
Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 5940); or
(2) to prohibit the transportation, proc-
essing, sale, or use of industrial hemp, or
seeds of such plant, that is grown or cul-
tivated in accordance with subsection sec-
tion 7606 of the Agricultural Act of 2014,
within or outside the State in which the in-
dustrial hemp is grown or cultivated.
SEC. 730. Funds provided by this or any
prior Appropriations Act for the Agriculture
and Food Research Initiative under 7 U.S.C.
450i(b) shall be made available without re-
gard to section 7128 of the Agricultural Act
of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 3371 note), under the match-
ing requirements in laws in effect on the
date before the date of enactment of such
section: Provided, That the requirements of 7
U.S.C. 450i(b)(9) shall continue to apply.
SEC. 731. In carrying out subsection (h) of
section 502 of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1472), the Secretary of Agriculture
shall have the same authority with respect
to loans guaranteed under such section and
eligible lenders for such loans as the Sec-
retary has under subsections (h) and (j) of
section 538 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1490p–2)
with respect to loans guaranteed under such
section 538 and eligible lenders for such
loans.
SEC. 732. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to propose, promul-
gate, or implement any rule, or take any
other action with respect to, allowing or re-
quiring information intended for a pre-
scribing health care professional, in the case
of a drug or biological product subject to sec-
tion 503(b)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 353(b)(1)), to be dis-
tributed to such professional electronically
(in lieu of in paper form) unless and until a
Federal law is enacted to allow or require
such distribution.
SEC. 733. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to notify a sponsor
or otherwise acknowledge receipt of a sub-
mission for an exemption for investigational
use of a drug or biological product under sec-
tion 505(i) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355(i)) or section
351(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42
U.S.C. 262(a)(3)) in research in which a
human embryo is intentionally created or
modified to include a heritable genetic modi-
fication. Any such submission shall be
deemed to have not been received by the Sec-
retary, and the exemption may not go into
effect.
SEC. 734. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to
carry out the final rule promulgated by the
Food and Drug Administration and put into
effect November 16, 2015, in regards to the
hazard analysis and risk-based preventive
control requirements of the current good
manufacturing practice, hazard analysis, and
risk-based preventive controls for food for
animals rule with respect to the regulation
of the production, distribution, sale, or re-
ceipt of dried spent grain byproducts of the
alcoholic beverage production process.
SEC. 735. There is hereby appropriated
$1,996,000 to carry out section 1621 of Public
Law 110–246.
SEC. 736. No partially hydrogenated oils as
defined in the order published by the Food
and Drug Administration in the Federal Reg-
ister on June 17, 2015 (80 Fed. Reg. 34650 et
seq.) shall be deemed unsafe within the
meaning of section 409(a) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
348(a)) and no food that is introduced or de-
livered for introduction into interstate com-
merce that bears or contains a partially hy-
drogenated oil shall be deemed adulterated
under sections 402(a)(1) or 402(a)(2)(C)(i) of
this Act by virtue of bearing or containing a
partially hydrogenated oil until the compli-
ance date as specified in such order (June 18,
2018).
SEC. 737. There is hereby appropriated
$10,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to carry out section 6407 of the Farm
Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (7
U.S.C. 8107a): Provided, That the Secretary
may allow eligible entities to offer loans to
customers in any part of their service terri-
tory and to offer loans to replace a manufac-
tured housing unit with another manufac-
tured housing unit, if replacement would be
more cost effective in saving energy.
SEC. 738. For fiscal years 2019 through 2025,
the Administrators of the Agricultural Re-
search Service and the Animal and Plant
Health Inspection Service may make not to
exceed 50 appointments in any fiscal year for
employees of such agencies at the National
Bio- and Agro-defense Facility (NBAF) in
Manhattan, Kansas: Provided, That such ap-
pointments may be made in the manner pro-
vided by 7 U.S.C. 7657(b)(4)(A)(i–v): Provided
further, That such appointments may be
made at a rate of basic pay that exceeds the
rate payable for such positions under the
General Schedule or the Executive Schedule,
or other applicable schedule, as appropriate.
SEC. 739. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000 for the Secretary to carry out a
pilot program that provides forestry inven-
tory analysis, forest management and eco-
nomic outcomes modelling for certain cur-
rently enrolled Conservation Reserve Pro-
gram participants. The Secretary shall allow
the Commodity Credit Corporation to enter
into agreements with and provide grants to
qualified non-profit organizations dedicated
to conservation, forestry and wildlife habi-
tats, that also have experience in conducting
accurate forest inventory analysis through
the use of advanced, cost-effective tech-
nology. The Secretary shall focus the anal-
ysis on lands enrolled for at least eight years
and located in areas with a substantial con-
centration of acres enrolled under conserva-
tion practices devoted to multiple bottom-
land hardwood tree species including CP03,
CP03A, CP11, CP22, CP31 and CP40.
SEC. 740. During fiscal year 2019, the Food
and Drug Administration shall not allow the
introduction or delivery for introduction
into interstate commerce of any food that
contains genetically engineered salmon until
the FDA publishes final labeling guidelines
for informing consumers of such content.
SEC. 741. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available by this Act and notwith-
standing the last sentence of 16 U.S.C. 1310,
there is appropriated $4,000,000, to remain
available until expended, to implement non-
renewable agreements on eligible lands, in-
cluding flooded agricultural lands, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, under the Water
Bank Act (16 U.S.C. 1301–1311).
SEC. 742. (a)(1) No Federal funds made
available for this fiscal year for the rural
water, waste water, waste disposal, and solid
waste management programs authorized by
sections 306, 306A, 306C, 306D, 306E, and 310B
of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Develop-
ment Act (7 U.S.C. 1926 et seq.) shall be used
for a project for the construction, alteration,
maintenance, or repair of a public water or
wastewater system unless all of the iron and
steel products used in the project are pro-
duced in the United States.
(2) In this section, the term ‘‘iron and steel
products’’ means the following products
made primarily of iron or steel: lined or un-
lined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and
other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks,
flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves,
structural steel, reinforced precast concrete,
and construction materials.
(b) Subsection (a) shall not apply in any
case or category of cases in which the Sec-
retary of Agriculture (in this section re-
ferred to as the ‘‘Secretary’’) or the designee
of the Secretary finds that—
(1) applying subsection (a) would be incon-
sistent with the public interest;
(2) iron and steel products are not produced
in the United States in sufficient and reason-
ably available quantities or of a satisfactory
quality; or
(3) inclusion of iron and steel products pro-
duced in the United States will increase the
cost of the overall project by more than 25
percent.
(c) If the Secretary or the designee re-
ceives a request for a waiver under this sec-
tion, the Secretary or the designee shall
make available to the public on an informal
basis a copy of the request and information
available to the Secretary or the designee
concerning the request, and shall allow for
informal public input on the request for at
least 15 days prior to making a finding based
on the request. The Secretary or the des-
ignee shall make the request and accom-
panying information available by electronic
means, including on the official public Inter-
net Web site of the Department.
(d) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with United States obliga-
tions under international agreements.
(e) The Secretary may retain up to 0.25
percent of the funds appropriated in this Act
for ‘‘Rural Utilities Service—Rural Water
and Waste Disposal Program Account’’ for
carrying out the provisions described in sub-
section (a)(1) for management and oversight
of the requirements of this section.
(f) Subsection (a) shall not apply with re-
spect to a project for which the engineering
plans and specifications include use of iron
and steel products otherwise prohibited by
such subsection if the plans and specifica-
tions have received required approvals from
State agencies prior to the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(g) For purposes of this section, the terms
‘‘United States’’ and ‘‘State’’ shall include
each of the several States, the District of Co-
lumbia, and each federally recognized Indian
tribe.
SEC. 743. The Secretary shall set aside for
Rural Economic Area Partnership (REAP)
Zones, until August 15, 2019, an amount of
funds made available in title III under the
headings of Rural Housing Insurance Fund
Program Account, Mutual and Self-Help
Housing Grants, Rural Housing Assistance
Grants, Rural Community Facilities Pro-
gram Account, Rural Business Program Ac-
count, Rural Development Loan Fund Pro-
gram Account, and Rural Water and Waste
Disposal Program Account, equal to the
amount obligated in REAP Zones with re-
spect to funds provided under such headings
in the most recent fiscal year any such funds
were obligated under such headings for
REAP Zones.
SEC. 744. For the purposes of determining
eligibility or level of program assistance for
Rural Development programs the Secretary
shall not include incarcerated prison popu-
lations.
SEC. 745. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for a pilot program for the Secretary
to provide grants to qualified non-profit or-
ganizations and public housing authorities
to provide technical assistance, including fi-
nancial and legal services, to RHS multi-
family housing borrowers to facilitate the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H387
January 10, 2019
acquisition of RHS multi-family housing
properties in areas where the Secretary de-
termines a risk of loss of affordable housing,
by non-profit housing organizations and pub-
lic housing authorities as authorized by law
that commit to keep such properties in the
RHS multi-family housing program for a pe-
riod of time as determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 746. None of the funds appropriated by
this Act may be used in any way, directly or
indirectly, to influence congressional action
on any legislation or appropriation matters
pending before Congress, other than to com-
municate to Members of Congress as de-
scribed in 18 U.S.C. 1913.
SEC. 747. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture
(referred to in this section as the ‘‘Sec-
retary’’) shall carry out a pilot program dur-
ing fiscal year 2019 with respect to the 2018
crop year for county-level agriculture risk
coverage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9017(b)(1)), that provides all or some of the
State Farm Service Agency offices in each
State the opportunity to provide agricul-
tural producers in the State a supplemental
payment described in subsection (c) based on
the alternate calculation method described
in subsection (b) for 1 or more counties in a
State if the office for that State determines
that the alternate calculation method is nec-
essary to ensure that, to the maximum ex-
tent practicable, there are not significant
yield calculation disparities between com-
parable counties in the State.
(b) The alternate calculation method re-
ferred to in subsection (a) is a method of cal-
culating the actual yield for the 2018 crop
year for county-level agriculture risk cov-
erage payments under section 1117(b)(1) of
the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C.
9017(b)(1)), under which—
(1) county data of the National Agricul-
tural Statistics Service (referred to in this
section as ‘‘NASS data’’) is used for the cal-
culations;
(2) if there is insufficient NASS data for a
county (as determined under standards of
the Secretary in effect as of the date of en-
actment of this Act) or the available NASS
data produces a substantially disparate re-
sult, the calculation of the county yield is
determined using comparable contiguous
county NASS data as determined by the
Farm Service Agency office in the applicable
State; and
(3) if there is insufficient NASS data for a
comparable contiguous county (as deter-
mined under standards of the Secretary in
effect as of the date of enactment of this
Act), the calculation of the county yield is
determined using reliable yield data from
other sources, such as Risk Management
Agency data, National Agricultural Statis-
tics Service district data, National Agricul-
tural Statistics Service State yield data, or
other data as determined by the Farm Serv-
ice Agency office in the applicable State.
(c)(1) A supplemental payment made under
the pilot program established under this sec-
tion may be made to an agricultural pro-
ducer who is subject to the alternate calcula-
tion method described in subsection (b) if
that agricultural producer would otherwise
receive a county-level agriculture risk cov-
erage payment for the 2018 crop year in an
amount that is less than the payment that
the agricultural producer would receive
under the alternate calculation method.
(2) The amount of a supplemental payment
to an agricultural producer under this sec-
tion may not exceed the difference between—
(A) the payment that the agricultural pro-
ducer would have received without the alter-
nate calculation method described in sub-
section (b); and
(B) the payment that the agricultural pro-
ducer would receive using the alternate cal-
culation method.
(d)(1) There is appropriated to the Sec-
retary, out of funds of the Treasury not oth-
erwise appropriated, $5,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, to carry
out the pilot program described in this sec-
tion.
(2) Of the funds appropriated, the Sec-
retary shall use not more than $5,000,000 to
carry out the pilot program described in this
section.
(e)(1) To the maximum extent practicable,
the Secretary shall select States to partici-
pate in the pilot program under this section
so the cost of the pilot program equals the
amount provided under subsection (d).
(2) To the extent that the cost of the pilot
program exceeds the amount made available,
the Secretary shall reduce all payments
under the pilot program on a pro rata basis.
(f) Nothing in this section affects the cal-
culation of actual yield for purposes of coun-
ty-level agriculture risk coverage payments
under section 1117(b)(1) of the Agricultural
Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017(b)(1)) other than
payments made in accordance with the pilot
program under this section.
(g) A calculation of actual yield made
using the alternate calculation method de-
scribed in subsection (b) shall not be used as
a basis for any agriculture risk coverage
payment determinations under section 1117
of the Agricultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9017)
other than for purposes of the pilot program
under this section.
SEC. 748. The Secretary of Agriculture and
the Secretary’s designees are hereby granted
the same access to information and subject
to the same requirements applicable to the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment as provided in section 453 of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653) and section
6103(1)(7)(D)(ix) of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 1603(1)(7)(D)(ix)) to verify
the income for individuals participating in
sections 502, 504, 521, and 542 of the Housing
Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1472, 1474, 1490a, and
1490r), notwithstanding section 453(l)(1) of
the Social Security Act.
SEC. 749. In addition to any other funds
made available in this Act or any other Act,
there is appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out
section 18(g)(8) of the Richard B. Russell Na-
tional School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1769(g)),
to remain available until expended.
SEC. 750. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Food and
Drug Administration to develop, issue, pro-
mote, or advance any regulations applicable
to food manufacturers for population-wide
sodium reduction actions or to develop,
issue, promote or advance final guidance ap-
plicable to food manufacturers for long term
population-wide sodium reduction actions
until the date on which a dietary reference
intake report with respect to sodium is com-
pleted.
SEC. 751. There is hereby appropriated
$1,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the cost of loans and
grants that is consistent with section 4206 of
the Agricultural Act of 2014, for necessary
expenses of the Secretary to support projects
that provide access to healthy food in under-
served areas, to create and preserve quality
jobs, and to revitalize low-income commu-
nities.
SEC. 752. For an additional amount for
‘‘Animal and Plant Health Inspection Serv-
ice—Salaries and Expenses’’, $7,500,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020, for
one-time control and management and asso-
ciated activities directly related to the mul-
tiple-agency response to citrus greening.
SEC. 753. None of the funds made available
by this or any other Act may be used to en-
force the final rule promulgated by the Food
and Drug Administration entitled ‘‘Stand-
ards for the Growing, Harvesting, Packing,
and Holding of Produce for Human Consump-
tion,’’ and published on November 27, 2015,
with respect to the regulation of the produc-
tion, distribution, sale, or receipt of grape
varietals that are grown, harvested and used
solely for wine and receive commercial proc-
essing that adequately reduces the presence
of microorganisms of public health signifi-
cance.
SEC. 754. There is hereby appropriated
$20,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for an additional amount for tele-
medicine and distance learning services in
rural areas, as authorized by 7 U.S.C. 950aaa
et seq., to help address the opioid epidemic
in rural America.
SEC. 755. There is hereby appropriated
$5,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for a pilot program for the
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
to provide grants to nonprofit organizations
for programs and services to establish and
enhance farming and ranching opportunities
for military veterans.
SEC. 756. There is hereby appropriated
$425,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for an additional amount for Sec. 779
of Public Law 115–141.
SEC. 757. For an additional amount for the
cost of direct loans and grants made under
the ‘‘Rural Water and Waste Disposal Pro-
gram Account’’, $400,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended.
SEC. 758. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to pay the salaries
or expenses of personnel—
(1) to inspect horses under section 3 of the
Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 603);
(2) to inspect horses under section 903 of
the Federal Agriculture Improvement and
Reform Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 1901 note; Public
Law 104–127); or
(3) to implement or enforce section 352.19
of title 9, Code of Federal Regulations (or a
successor regulation).
SEC. 759. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to revoke an excep-
tion made—
(1) pursuant to the final rule of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture entitled ‘‘Exceptions to
Geographic Areas for Official Agencies Under
the USGSA’’ (68 Fed. Reg. 19137 (April 18,
2003)); and
(2) on a date before April 14, 2017.
SEC. 760. The Secretary of Agriculture
shall provide to any State or county im-
pacted by a volcanic eruption covered by a
major disaster declared by the President in
calendar year 2018 in accordance with section
401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C.
5170) technical assistance—
(1) to assess damage to agricultural pro-
duction and rural infrastructure; and
(2) to develop recovery plans for impacted
farmers, ranchers, and rural communities.
RESEARCH ON OCEAN AGRICULTURE
SEC. 761. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture,
in coordination with the Administrator of
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Ad-
ministration, shall establish a working
group (referred to in this section as the
‘‘working group’’)—
(1) to study how mangroves, kelp forests,
tidal marshes, and seagrass meadows could
help deacidify the oceans;
(2) to study emerging ocean farming prac-
tices that use kelp and seagrass to deacidify
the oceans while providing feedstock for ag-
riculture and other commercial and indus-
trial inputs; and
(3) to coordinate and conduct research to
develop and enhance pilot-scale research for
farming of kelp and seagrass in order—
(A) to deacidify ocean environments;
(B) to produce a feedstock for agriculture;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:26 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H388 January 10, 2019
(C) to develop other scalable commercial
applications for kelp, seagrass, or products
derived from kelp or seagrass.
(b) The working group shall include—
(1) the Secretary of Agriculture;
(2) the Administrator of the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration;
(3) representatives of any relevant offices
within the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration; and
(4) the Assistant Secretary of Energy for
Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy.
(c) Not later than 2 years after the date of
enactment of this Act, the working group
shall submit to Congress a report that in-
cludes—
(1) the findings of the research described in
subsection (a);
(2) the results of the pilot-scale research
described in subsection (a)(3); and
(3) any policy recommendations based on
those findings and results.
SEC. 762. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Agriculture shall submit to Congress a re-
port describing the ways in which conserva-
tion programs administered by the Natural
Resources Conservation Service may be bet-
ter used for the conservation of ocelots
(Leopardus pardalis) and any action taken
by the Chief of the Natural Resources Con-
servation Service relating to the conserva-
tion of ocelots.
SEC. 763. Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Rural
Housing Service of the Department of Agri-
culture shall submit to Congress a report in-
cluding—
(1) a description of—
(A) the number of properties assisted under
title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C.
1471 et seq.) that are reaching the end of
their loan term;
(B) the location of each property described
in subparagraph (A);
(C) the number of units in each property
described in subparagraph (A); and
(D) the date on which each the loan for
each property described in subparagraph (A)
is expected to reach maturity;
(2) the strategy of the Rural Housing Serv-
ice to preserve the long-term affordability of
the properties described in paragraph (1)(A)
when the loan matures; and
(3) a description of the resources and tools
that the Rural Housing Service needs from
Congress in order to preserve the long-term
affordability of the properties described in
paragraph (1) (A).
SEC. 764. Out of amounts appropriated to
the Food and Drug Administration under
title VI, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, acting through the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs, shall, not later than July
1, 2019, and following the review required
under Executive Order 12866 (5 U.S.C. 601
note; relating to regulatory planning and re-
view), issue advice revising the advice pro-
vided in the notice of availability entitled
‘‘Advice About Eating Fish, From the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency and Food and
Drug Administration; Revised Fish Advice;
Availability’’ (82 Fed. Reg. 6571 (January 19,
2017)), in a manner that is consistent with
nutrition science recognized by the Food and
Drug Administration on the net effects of
seafood consumption.
SEC. 765. In administering the pilot pro-
gram established by section 779 of division A
of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018
(Public Law 115–141), the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall—
(1) ensure that applicants that are deter-
mined to be ineligible for the pilot program
have a means of appealing or otherwise chal-
lenging that determination in a timely fash-
ion; and
(2) in determining whether an entity may
overbuild or duplicate broadband expansion
efforts made by any entity that has received
a broadband loan from the Rural Utilities
Service, not consider loans that were re-
scinded or defaulted on, or loans the terms
and conditions of which were not met, if the
entity under consideration has not pre-
viously defaulted on, or failed to meet the
terms and conditions of, a Rural Utilities
Service loan or had a Rural Utilities Service
loan rescinded.
1890 LAND-GRANT COLLEGES, INCLUDING
TUSKEGEE UNIVERSITY
SEC. 767. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amounts made
available by this Act to carry out sections
1444 and 1445, respectively, of the National
Agricultural Research, Extension, and
Teaching Policy Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 3221,
3222) shall each be increased by $3,000,000.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount made available under
the heading ‘‘(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF
FUNDS)’’ under the heading ‘‘AGRICULTURE
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES’’ under the head-
ing ‘‘AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS’’ in title
I shall be decreased by $6,000,000.
SEC. 768. None of the funds made available
by this Act shall be used to enforce the re-
quirement in the final rule entitled ‘‘Food
Labeling: Revision of the Nutrition and Sup-
plement Facts Labels’’, published in the Fed-
eral Register on May 27, 2016 (81 Fed. Reg.
33742), that any single ingredient sugar,
honey, agave, or syrup (including maple
syrup) that is packaged and offered for sale
as a single ingredient food bear the declara-
tion ‘‘Includes ‘X’g Added Sugars’’.
SEC. 769. The explanatory statement re-
garding division C of H.R. 21, printed in the
Congressional Record on January 3, 2019, and
submitted by the Chair of the Committee on
Appropriations, shall have the same effect
with respect to allocation of funds and im-
plementation of this Act as if it were a joint
explanatory statement of a committee of
conference.
SEC. 770. (a) Employees furloughed as a re-
sult of any lapse in appropriations beginning
on or about December 22, 2018 and ending on
the date of enactment of this Act shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation, for the period of such lapse in ap-
propriations, as soon as practicable after
such lapse in appropriations ends.
(b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘employ-
ees’’ means any Federal employees whose
salaries and expenses are provided in this
Act.
(c) All obligations incurred in anticipation
of the appropriations made and authority
granted by this Act for the purposes of main-
taining the essential level of activity to pro-
tect life and property and bringing about or-
derly termination of Government functions,
and for purposes as otherwise authorized by
law, are hereby ratified and approved if oth-
erwise in accord with the provisions of this
Act.
SEC. 771. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘State’’ and the term ‘‘grantee,’’ including
United States territories and possessions,
shall have the meaning given such terms
under the applicable Federal program under
subsection (a). In addition, ‘‘to continue car-
rying out a Federal program’’ means the
continued performance by a State or other
Federal grantee, during the period of a lapse
in appropriations, of a Federal program that
the State or such other grantee had been
carrying out prior to the period of the lapse
in appropriations.
(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government receiv-
ing funding in this Act which, but for such
lapse in appropriations, would have paid, or
made reimbursement relating to, any of the
expenses referred to in this section with re-
spect to the program involved. Payments
and reimbursements under this authority
shall be made only to the extent and in
amounts provided in advance in appropria-
tions Acts.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies Appropria-
tions Act, 2019’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill
shall be debatable for 1 hour, equally
divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations or their re-
spective designees.
The gentleman from Georgia (Mr.
BISHOP) and the gentleman from Ala-
bama (Mr. ADERHOLT) each will control
30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members have 5 legislative days to
revise and extend their remarks and to
include extraneous material on the bill
under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Georgia?
There was no objection.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, today marks the
20th day of the partial government
shutdown. Each day pushes many of
our government’s vital services to the
breaking point, further jeopardizing
the 800,000 Federal employees who are
furloughed and the countless other
Americans feeling the shutdown’s im-
pact.
The Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act is
a critically important piece of legisla-
tion for our Nation. From the food we
eat to the medications we depend on,
this bill touches the lives of every
American.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.002 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H389
January 10, 2019
It must be passed now, and the fur-
loughed employees at these vital Fed-
eral agencies, our farmers, our agri-
businesses, and the other Americans
who are depending on their livelihoods
must be brought back to work.
Because of the shutdown, USDA has
stopped making loans and grants for
rural development programs such as
housing, water and wastewater facili-
ties, and community facilities. New
grants to our universities for agri-
culture research can’t be made.
Across the Nation, Farm Service
Agency county offices have been closed
since December 28. Farmers applying
for relief from retaliatory tariffs are in
limbo, waiting for the shutdown to end.
Nearly 33,000 USDA employees who are
funded by this bill are currently fur-
loughed.
At the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, more than 10,000 employees are
working without pay, while another
7,000 have been furloughed, which is
impacting everything from user fee
collections to the reduction of food
safety inspections, jeopardizing the
food we eat. According to USDA, near-
ly 9,000 people are working without pay
to inspect our meat, poultry, and egg
products.
This bill would fund the Food Safety
and Inspection Service at over $1 bil-
lion and restore our safety.
I will be the first person to admit
that this bill is not perfect, but no bill
ever is. However, this is about opening
the government and putting it back to
work for the American people.
This bill has passed the Senate by a
vote of 92–6. There is no reason why we
should not pass this bill since it has al-
ready been adopted by the leadership of
the Senate and the Members of the
Senate overwhelmingly, so that we can
put American workers back on the job.
Specifically, this legislation provides
over $23 billion in discretionary fund-
ing for USDA and FDA. That is $225
million above the 2018 enacted level.
It provides $2.73 billion for agri-
culture research conducted by the Ag-
ricultural Research Service and NIFA,
an increase of $114 million from fiscal
year 2018. These increases will help to
ensure American agriculture remains
competitive with other nations.
The Farm Service Agency, whose
county offices were shuttered on De-
cember 28, is funded at $1.6 billion. In
my district, all the county offices are
now closed. These offices are the pri-
mary line of communication for our
farmers and our ranchers, providing
critical data, processing loans, and an-
swering questions. Without this assist-
ance and information, they are left in
the dark when it comes to planning for
next year’s harvest.
Peanut sellers and cotton growers,
who suffered from Hurricane Michael
recently, are at a loss. They have prod-
uct that is stored in warehouses that
they need to sell in order to get in-
come, but they can’t get those sales ac-
complished without an okay from the
Farm Service Agency. Those offices are
closed. Nobody is there.
This legislation also makes signifi-
cant investments in rural development
by providing $3.8 billion. It takes a bal-
anced approach with investments in
water and wastewater facilities,
broadband, housing, and rural busi-
nesses.
Again, right now, as a result of the
shutdown, loans and grants that help
small towns and rural communities all
across the country are not being made.
This legislation rejects the Presi-
dent’s proposed elimination of the
Food for Peace program and instead
funds it at $1.716 billion, which is $216
million above the House bill. The
McGovern-Dole program, which was
also proposed for elimination by the
President, is funded at $210 million,
slightly above the House level. I might
note that the House funded both of
these, contrary to the President’s wish-
es.
Finally, this legislation funds the
Food and Drug Administration at $2.97
billion, which is $159 million above the
fiscal year 2018 enacted level, a 6 per-
cent increase.
I would also like to point out that
this bill does better than the House in
addressing the opioid crisis that is hit-
ting every single district in the coun-
try.
It also provides more funding for food
safety than the House bill.
After nearly 3 weeks of uncertainty,
it looks like the nearly 40 million peo-
ple who are receiving Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance Program benefits
will be able to keep their benefits at
least through February. However, the
funds for SNAP beneficiaries, for a sin-
gle mother or a small shopkeeper, will
run dry in March.
This bill, which provides $73.2 billion
in mandatory funding for SNAP, will
end any doubt about this, and it will
give these recipients the peace of mind
that they deserve.
Through a diverse urban-rural coali-
tion, this legislation includes our farm-
er safety net, our food and nutrition
programs.
Families, farmers, ranchers, and pro-
ducers go to work every morning; so
should their government.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this bill.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition
to the bill that is before us. I not only
oppose the bill that is before us, but I
also have to oppose the process by
which the remaining fiscal year 2019
bills are being dealt with by the new
majority.
Anything but a full open rule on ap-
propriations bills was absolutely con-
demned by the Democrats for the past
8 years. However, the new majority, as
one of their first actions, has proposed
a closed rule for all four appropriations
bills this week.
b 1245
I, along with my colleagues, am dis-
mayed at the prospect of adopting the
Senate-passed Agriculture appropria-
tions bill to represent the House’s posi-
tion on funding and policy matters for
our farmers, ranchers, producers, con-
sumers, and nearly all the citizens im-
pacted by the great work that has been
done by USDA, FDA, and the CFTC.
The priorities of literally hundreds of
Members were part of the original FY19
Republican-led legislation.
Around 10 months ago, we began the
process of developing a House bill with
House priorities. We drafted H.R. 5961
after holding five oversight hearings,
after receiving and reviewing nearly
6,000 bills and report requests that were
submitted by over 350 Members of Con-
gress, after we incorporated bipartisan
House Member requests covering House
priorities from every corner of the Na-
tion and from all demographics, after
we held a subcommittee markup with
full participation by the Agriculture
Subcommittee members, and after we
held a full committee markup that
lasted several hours and was an open
process by which all the members of
the committee, Democrats and Repub-
licans, could offer amendments.
The House Members invested hun-
dreds of hours to produce a spending
bill that is best for the needs and the
priorities of the constituents back
home, whether they came from rural,
whether they came from suburban, or
whether they come from urban commu-
nities.
Starting this past summer, we start-
ed the process of negotiating the House
and Senate bills and reports to arrive
at a four-corner agreement between the
House and the Senate. The House and
the Senate majority and minority par-
ties made tremendous progress in com-
ing along with a negotiated agreement.
After all of that time and effort that
was invested in the process, why would
we throw it all away today?
I want to point out that over the
course of the past 10 months and during
my 6 years that I have served as chair-
man of the Appropriations Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee, it has been an honor to
work beside my friend and my col-
league and now the incoming chair-
man, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, as we de-
velop the bills to meet the needs of our
fellow citizens.
But now we have an Agriculture ap-
propriations bill in front of us today
which totals $23.1 billion and $101 mil-
lion below the Senate-passed Agri-
culture appropriations bill. And I will
point out that the $101 million rep-
resents a change to the Senate bill
made by the House majority to reduce
funding for the Special Supplemental
Feeding Program for Women, Infants,
and Children.
Let me provide this Chamber with a
few of the examples where this current
bill fails to fund House Member prior-
ities:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.028 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H390 January 10, 2019
Regarding public health, the House
Republican bill included $3.1 billion for
the Food and Drug Administration,
while the new Democratic proposal
that is before us includes only $2.9 bil-
lion for the Food and Drug Administra-
tion. The higher levels in the Repub-
lican bill are critical to helping indus-
try advance their medical product in-
novations to the marketplace sooner,
safer, and with greater efficiency. The
ultimate beneficiary is the American
consumer or the patient.
Also, compared to the House Repub-
lican bill, the Democratic bill fails to
include two provisions that place lim-
its on chicken imported from China.
The Republican bill includes an out-
right ban on Chinese chicken in school
meals, while the Democratic bill fails
to include this protection for our chil-
dren.
Regarding rural broadband, in FY
2018, we established a pilot program to
expand broadband infrastructure to
rural communities. One of the greatest
needs that I have heard when talking
to my constituents in rural Alabama—
and I know this is the same from other
Members whom I have talked to across
the Nation—this bill provides $125 mil-
lion less than what we provided in the
House bill.
When it comes to agriculture re-
search, our Republican bill included
nearly $30 million more for National
Institute of Food and Agriculture for
research priorities of House Members
who are not included in the Democratic
proposal.
When it comes to rural infrastruc-
ture, the Republican bill included lan-
guage to secure set-aside funds for per-
sistent poverty counties in rural areas.
This provision is vital to rural commu-
nities across the country that face
challenges escaping poverty. This lan-
guage is not included in the Demo-
cratic bill, and so the new majority
chose to dismiss this protection for the
rural poor.
These are just a few examples of why
the new House majority’s adoption of a
Senate-passed bill is not going in the
right direction.
The other side wants to claim that
these bills are bipartisan, but they are
clearly not bicameral, and they have
no input from the 435 House Members.
Some of the great House appropri-
ators of our time on both sides of the
aisle would probably be rolling over in
their graves right now if they knew of
such a move to take up Senate spend-
ing bills without any House input.
So I urge my fellow Members to
stand up for the House priorities for
public health and for rural develop-
ment and reject a strategy of passing
the Senate bills, which at the end of
the day is not going to bring us any
closer to resolving the partial govern-
ment shutdown.
To paraphrase the President’s re-
marks two nights ago: In order for us
to resolve this funding dispute, we need
to invest in border security not be-
cause we hate the people on the outside
of our borders, but because we love the
people within our borders. The only
thing that is immoral is for politicians
to stand by and do nothing.
So I would encourage my colleagues
to vote ‘‘no’’ on this bill, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Mrs.
LOWEY), who is the first female chair of
the United States House Committee on
Appropriations.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, the
Trump shutdown is now in its 20th day.
More than 800,000 Federal employees
are going without pay, many while
they are still working and the Amer-
ican people are being denied vital serv-
ices.
Due to President Trump’s shutdown
over his demands for a wasteful border
wall, the Food and Drug Administra-
tion cannot conduct routine inspec-
tions for food safety and has slowed
evaluation of new drugs and medical
products.
USDA is no longer able to provide
farmers and rural communities with
loans and grants to assist housing, util-
ities, or economic development. And
approximately 40 million Americans
who depend on SNAP for food assist-
ance, including more than 3 million
New Yorkers, have faced unnecessary
fear and uncertainty about whether
they are weeks away from going hun-
gry.
House Democrats have passed bills to
open the government, but the Presi-
dent and Senate Republicans continue
to obstruct instead of working with us
to get the people’s business done.
In my judgment, the solution to this
crisis is simple: Let’s pass the bills
where we can agree, where there is bi-
partisan support, and let’s extend fund-
ing for Homeland Security for 30 days—
1 month—to allow time for negotiation
on border security and immigration
policy. This seems to me, in my judg-
ment, to be fair, to be thoughtful, and
to be the way for us to get together and
open this government. I do hope that
my colleagues across the Capitol come
to their senses and stop this ridiculous
Trump shutdown.
We can begin this bipartisan path by
passing the bill before us. This bill
passed the Senate in September with a
vote of 92–6. This bill would open the
Department of Agriculture and the
Food and Drug Administration and
adequately fund these services through
the end of the fiscal year.
Sadly, to date, my Republican col-
leagues have followed the President’s
blind lead all while jeopardizing these
vital services upon which American
families and businesses rely.
Let’s pass the bill today and put
USDA and FDA back to work for the
American people.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. YOHO), who serves on the
authorizing committee, the Agri-
culture Committee.
Mr. YOHO. Madam Speaker, the
President has shown his willingness to
negotiate and has negotiated. The
President has proposed various dollar
amounts he is willing to accept for bor-
der security, has said he is ready to
discuss DACA, and has listened to the
other side’s request for materials other
than concrete to be considered for a
structure on our southern border.
The crisis at the southern border
should not be a partisan issue. It is an
American and immigrant crisis. The
solution should be one that is best for
America and not a party; for if it is
best for America, we all benefit from
that. Yet the Democrats continue to
dig in their heels and not budge. Re-
publicans have shown time and again
that they are willing to talk.
The House should oppose this bill
that will not bring our country any
closer to a border security solution or
resolve the partial government shut-
down.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I am delighted to yield 2 min-
utes to the gentlewoman from Con-
necticut (Ms. DELAURO), a member of
the Committee on Appropriations and
chair of the Subcommittee on Labor,
Health and Human Services, Edu-
cation, and Related Agencies, and is
the former chair of the Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee of Appropriations.
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Speaker, the
President is holding the country hos-
tage, putting hundreds of thousands of
families at great risk.
The President has manufactured a
crisis at the border that has no basis in
fact and has used the wall to incite
fear. Vital agriculture programs, which
millions of families and farmers depend
on, are at risk.
At the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture, farm service loans are stalled,
family farmers need the capital to buy
seed and equipment for the approach-
ing planting season. Rural development
programs are at risk.
Food stamps, food banks, and food
programs are down to their last dol-
lars. School lunch programs and other
nutrition programs are at risk. Forty-
seven million Americans could go hun-
gry.
Let’s take a look at the Food and
Drug Administration, because our food
supply is at risk. When you go to the
grocery store, you can’t be sure that
the product you are buying is safe be-
cause almost all food safety inspectors
have been furloughed. The FDA re-
mains understaffed for food surveil-
lance and food recall operations.
The Commissioner of the FDA, Scott
Gottlieb, said routine food safety in-
spections are not taking place. The
FDA has stopped posting warning let-
ters. Routine inspections of food facili-
ties are not taking place, and FDA’s
work finalizing guidance and imple-
menting rules related to the Food Safe-
ty Modernization Act is in limbo.
Foodborne illness kills 3,000 Ameri-
cans every year, and because of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.030 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H391
January 10, 2019
President’s manufactured crisis, the
safety of every American is in ques-
tion. We have a duty to our constitu-
ents and their safety. We cannot stand
by while this President holds the coun-
try hostage. Their physical and their
financial well-being is at stake.
Let’s pass this bipartisan bill so that
hungry families can eat, consumers can
be safe, and farmers can do their job.
b 1300
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I
yield 2 minutes to the gentleman from
Mississippi (Mr. PALAZZO), who serves
on the Agriculture, Rural Develop-
ment, Food and Drug Administration,
and Related Agencies Appropriations
Subcommittee. He has been a vital part
of that subcommittee.
Mr. PALAZZO. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, there is a host of
things wrong with bringing this bill to
the floor. By bringing forth the Senate
version of this bill, it completely ig-
nores all of the work this sub-
committee has done over the past year.
It ignores Members’ priorities, and all
of the testimony that we received that
served as the basis of the House version
of the Agriculture bill.
I will name a few examples of what
this looks like. First, for the Food and
Drug Administration, Madam Speaker,
the House bill included $3.1 billion for
the FDA. The Senate bill before us
today includes $2.9 billion.
The additional $149 million in the
original House bill supported a number
of medical product initiatives above
the level in the Senate bill, including
initiatives like the promotion of do-
mestic manufacturing, the new domes-
tic drug industry, and the new medical
data enterprise initiative.
Madam Speaker, the higher levels in
the Republican bill are critical to help-
ing industry advance medical products
to the marketplace sooner, safer, and
with greater efficiency. The ultimate
beneficiary is the American consumer
or patient.
Lastly, an issue that is very impor-
tant to my home State of Mississippi
and the Nation at large: rural
broadband. The House Republican bill
made a major investment in a
broadband pilot program for rural
America. We included $550 million to
expand broadband infrastructure for
some of our country’s most under-
served communities.
The appropriation in this bill before
us today falls short of meeting this
critical priority. Madam Speaker, ulti-
mately bringing the Senate version of
this bill to the floor is just plain lazy,
as it ignores the will of this House and
all of the hard work Members from
both sides of the aisle have put into
this process.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote
on the legislation.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Let me just say that, as we said be-
fore, this bill is not perfect, but we
should not let the perfect be the enemy
of the good. Chief among the funding in
this bill is funding that is included to
combat one of the biggest public health
risks today which is opioids. The bill
provides strong support for the FDA to
combat this opioid epidemic.
In addition to funds provided last
year, it provides $59 million to con-
tinue the activities involved in inspect-
ing, investigating, and screening of
opioids. As the agency that oversees
these drugs, the FDA has a vital re-
sponsibility, I agree, to make sure that
the public health impacts of opioid
abuse is mitigated, but this funding is
just one part of a broad strategy to ad-
dress opioids.
The committee strongly supports the
FDA’s role in intergovernmental ef-
forts to confront the crisis, but since
we must move forward and open the
government, we urge adoption of this
bill.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
LEE), a member of the Committee on
Appropriations, co-chair of the House
Democratic Steering and Policy Com-
mittee, and a long-time advocate for
the elimination of persistent poverty
in America and across the world.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam
Speaker, let me thank Chairman
BISHOP for bringing forth this bill and
for his tremendous leadership.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of the fiscal 2019 Agriculture ap-
propriations bill, which provides more
than $23 billion to partially reopen the
government. This critical bill would
ensure that struggling families do not
go hungry.
Madam Speaker, there are 38 million
families who rely on SNAP food stamps
to help put food on the table. And
while USDA has said they will pay for
SNAP and WIC in February, there is no
guarantee for families in March. Let’s
be clear. We are talking about 38 mil-
lion Americans going hungry.
Already, SNAP benefits are woefully
insufficient to feed a family. No one
can make a meal off of $1.40 a meal,
and now families may be left with
nothing.
Madam Speaker, contrary to what
President Trump says, food banks and
charities cannot make up the dif-
ference. They are already struggling
with the volume of need in our commu-
nities throughout the country. This is
simply immoral.
I am reminded of a very difficult pe-
riod when I was a young, single mother
raising two little boys and had to rely
on food stamps to get my family
through some very difficult, tough
times. It was a bridge over troubled
water. That lifeline should be there for
all families all of the time.
Our billionaire President may not
know what it is like to choose between
putting food on the table or gas in the
car, but I tell you, I do.
And forcing the choice on families
because of a manufactured showdown is
unconscionable. So let’s pass the bill to
reopen the government. Let’s get Fed-
eral employees back to work, and get
them the paychecks they need.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘yes’’ on this bill, and
‘‘yes’’ to reopen the government. The
American people deserve no less.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, at
this time I yield such time as she may
consume to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. GRANGER), the new ranking
member of the Appropriations Com-
mittee.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in opposition to H.R. 265.
Unfortunately, moving this bill
across the House floor will not resolve
the partial government shutdown. As
the President has said, he will not sign
this bill into law.
It is the job and responsibility of the
Congress to appropriate funds, who
must come together to find a solution
that will reopen the government and
fund border security. We need a com-
promise that represents the will of
both Chambers and the American peo-
ple.
By considering the Senate-passed
versions of the appropriations bills, we
are eliminating House Members’ in-
volvement in the process. When it
comes to investment in agriculture,
rural development, and public health
programs that are important to Ameri-
cans across the country, H.R. 265 funds
Senate priorities by shortchanging
House priorities.
For example, this bill provides less
funding for food and drug safety and
public health. For the average Amer-
ican, this means decreased access to
medical products because there are less
resources to bring those products to
market in a safe and efficient manner.
This bill also leaves behind funding
to address persistent poverty in rural
areas. This is a vital resource as rural
communities across the country seek
to break the cycle of poverty. We can
and we must do better.
Madam Speaker, Republicans stand
ready and willing to negotiate with our
friends on the other side of the aisle on
legislation that includes priorities of
both Houses, and both Chambers. This
is how this legislative body and our
system of government are designed to
work.
I want to thank my colleague from
Alabama (Mr. ADERHOLT) for his efforts
today and over the last several months
to ensure that the House’s voice is
heard in this debate.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
It has been said many times that we
shouldn’t pass this bill which has pre-
viously been adopted by the Senate be-
cause the President will not sign it.
Well, I believe that we have three
branches of government, and it is our
obligation as the legislative branch to
pass the laws. If we do our job, then we
will let the President be held respon-
sible for his failure to do his. We must
keep this government open for the
American people.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.031 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H392 January 10, 2019
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Maine (Ms. PIN-
GREE), a member of the Committee on
Appropriations and a member of the
Subcommittee for Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies.
Ms. PINGREE. Madam Speaker, I
thank Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, our fu-
ture chair, for yielding me the time. I
rise in support of H.R. 265, the fiscal
year 2019 Agriculture appropriations
bill.
There is no reason we cannot pass
these individual appropriations bills
that have nothing to do with border se-
curity and have strong bipartisan sup-
port.
The fiscal year 2019 Agriculture ap-
propriations bill includes robust fund-
ing for the USDA and the FDA, two
Federal agencies that touch the lives of
every American.
President Trump’s obsession with the
wall should not jeopardize Americans’
access to important food, housing, and
farm programs at USDA and FDA.
The shutdown is having real impacts
back in my home State of Maine: for
the farmer who would lose their family
farm before refinancing of their FSA
mortgage can be approved; for the sin-
gle parent trying to make ends meet
and not knowing whether their SNAP
benefits will be there next month; and
for the couple who won’t be able to
close on their dream home because
they can’t access a rural housing loan.
These are just a few examples of how
disruptive this shutdown has been in
my district. Just last month we final-
ized the 2018 farm bill, finally giving
farmers and families certainty about
these important USDA programs. That
certainty was ripped away from them
because the USDA can’t start imple-
menting the new farm bill until the
shutdown ends.
Additionally, recent reports that the
FDA is no longer conducting routine
food safety inspections are alarming
and totally unacceptable. The fiscal
year 2019 Agriculture appropriations
bill will provide the funding necessary
for the USDA and FDA to once again
fulfill their regulatory duties and pro-
vide resources to Americans who are
counting on them.
Let’s reopen our local USDA offices.
Let’s restart routine inspections to en-
sure safety of our food system, and
let’s keep nutrition assistance pro-
grams going to make sure hungry fami-
lies have food on their tables.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support the fiscal year 2019
Agriculture appropriations bill and end
the shutdown.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, at
this time I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. MITCHELL),
who serves on the Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee, and also the
Armed Services Committee.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker,
you may wonder why I am down here.
It is because agriculture is huge in
Michigan’s 10th Congressional District.
Earlier this week, I spoke with most of
the agriculture leaders in my district
about these bills.
I would be supporting these bills
under other conditions. It supports
farm safety net programs as have been
described. It provides support for rural
development, including rural infra-
structure and broadband access, which
is sorely needed in the 10th Congres-
sional District of Michigan.
It provides food and drug safety in-
spections for the FDA and USDA, and
nutrition assistance programs that my
colleague discussed.
However, I cannot support these bills
because it is being brought up in bad
faith. Let’s be honest. It is a charade.
It is not a serious attempt to fund agri-
culture or any other programs in my
district or throughout this country.
This vote is dead on arrival.
It is a messaging point by the Demo-
crat majority. It is an attempt to delay
and distract from the real problem.
The real problem is securing our bor-
ders, a comprehensive package to se-
cure our borders that the President,
the administration, has provided to the
Democrat majority.
We have spent hours on the floor here
talking about various bills to fund the
majority. Yet, somehow, rather than
negotiate, the Democrat majority will
go to the White House and say nothing
for the wall; nothing for border secu-
rity to put a barrier up. We will simply
talk about, nope, we are not going to
do that. We want to put the squeeze on
the American people.
They are squeezing the people in
multiple ways. People won’t get their
paychecks tomorrow. I am sorry. Real-
ly, guys? Come on. We have farmers
that are struggling, waiting to get
loans so that they can plant. We are
not securing our border.
We had a humanitarian crisis. Thirty
percent of the women that are arriving
at the border—Doctors Without Bor-
ders data, not anybody else’s—have
been sexually assaulted on the way to
the border. This proposal includes
money to provide for applying for asy-
lum in their home countries. Why are
we not doing this?
Why are we not addressing a com-
prehensive border security package and
passing all of these appropriations bills
and moving on to other priorities? We
may disagree about those.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 30 seconds to the
gentleman from Michigan.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, we
may disagree about what some of those
priorities are, but why are we spending
2 weeks rather than spend 2 hours ne-
gotiating an outcome and getting done
with this problem? Let’s grow up. Let’s
be adults and solve the problems in-
stead of bickering.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair reminds Members to address
their remarks to the Chair.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Speaker, at this point I
would just like to say that it is uncon-
scionable that we will hold the Amer-
ican people hostage in denying them
the services and the protections of
their government, the much-needed
paychecks for the workers employed by
these agencies, simply to satisfy the
ego of someone at the end of Pennsyl-
vania Avenue.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
PALLONE), who is the chairman of the
authorizing Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
b 1315
Mr. PALLONE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman of the sub-
committee for yielding me the time.
Madam Speaker, this bill is really
important. It would provide funding for
our critical food, nutrition, and rural
development agencies, including the
Food and Drug Administration.
What we are really asking is to keep
the government open. There may be
disagreement about the wall and some
aspects of border security, but that
shouldn’t hold hostage these important
spending bills that keep the govern-
ment going.
I wanted to talk about the FDA. The
FDA is one of our most critical public
health agencies overseeing food, med-
ical products, cosmetics, and tobacco,
products that account for 20 cents of
every dollar spent by U.S. consumers.
As a result of the Trump government
shutdown, the FDA has had to cease a
number of important activities that
keep our Nation’s food and drugs safe
for all Americans.
For example, the FDA has stopped
conducting nearly two-thirds of the do-
mestic food inspections that the agen-
cy typically conducts, putting our Na-
tion’s food supply and food safety sys-
tem at risk. This comes on the heels of
a multi-State national recall of ro-
maine lettuce in November and Decem-
ber. This stoppage should be alarming
to all of us.
The FDA has halted routine inspec-
tions at food, drug, device, and
compounding facilities. It stopped ac-
cepting any new medical product appli-
cations unless the application is within
a small subset that did not require a
user fee. This includes applications for
new generic drugs that may bring fur-
ther competition to the pharma-
ceutical market.
The FDA has ceased any activities
related to over-the-counter products.
It put on hold any enforcement ac-
tivities related to medical products or
facilities that have been found to be in
violation of the law.
What we are seeing are no inspec-
tions, no enforcement activities. And,
today, more than 6,000 FDA employees
are furloughed, and another 1,000 are
working without pay.
This Trump shutdown has had a dra-
matic effect on our economy, our Fed-
eral employees, and the functioning of
our government. Agency heads are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.033 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H393
January 10, 2019
being forced to plan without knowledge
of whether the shutdown will last an-
other day, another week, or another
month. These are real lives that are
being impacted.
Madam Speaker, I urge the Senate
majority leader and the President to
support this bill so we can restore
funding to the FDA so that consumers
continue to have safe food and medical
supplies.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I
yield 5 minutes to the gentleman from
the State of Washington (Mr.
NEWHOUSE), who serves on the Appro-
priations Committee.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I
would like to thank the ranking mem-
ber on the House Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee, Mr. ADERHOLT, for yield-
ing, as well as for his strong leadership
on behalf of our agricultural commu-
nity.
Madam Speaker, I rise in opposition
to the bill before us today. Throughout
last year, the House Appropriations
Committee worked on a bipartisan
basis to find common ground for fiscal
year 2019 appropriations bills, includ-
ing the vitally important Agriculture
appropriations legislation.
Unfortunately, the bill before us
today does not reflect those bipartisan
efforts. As I have been sharing with my
constituents, the bill before us has
never had a hearing in this body, has
never had a markup in this body, and
now has no opportunity for amend-
ments to be offered.
By taking up this bill, unfortunately,
House Democrats are effectively writ-
ing off the people’s House and shirking
our responsibilities by deferring to the
U.S. Senate. My constituents’ prior-
ities—and I would submit those of con-
stituents of my colleagues across the
aisle—deserve to be heard.
I offered two important amendments
to the Agriculture appropriations bill
in the Rules Committee this week.
Both amendments previously passed
unanimously in the Appropriations
Committee and, rightfully, should be in
the bill before us.
The first was a bipartisan amend-
ment I offered with my colleague, SAN-
FORD BISHOP, who was the then-ranking
member of the Agriculture, Rural De-
velopment, Food and Drug Administra-
tion, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee. The amendment would
have upheld the longstanding prohibi-
tion of releasing proprietary SNAP
sales data of food retailers.
Due to a decision last year in the
Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals, USDA
will be required to release the SNAP
redemption data of all retail stores
across the United States. The result
will be irreparable harm to competi-
tion in the food retail marketplace. My
amendment sought to prevent the clo-
sure of grocery stores in both rural and
urban areas by upholding this long-
standing USDA practice.
The second bipartisan amendment
passed unanimously in the Appropria-
tions Committee directed USDA to
work with H–2A agency partners to
modernize, develop, and implement an
online application system for the H–2A
program.
I constantly hear from farmers in
central Washington about how ineffi-
cient the H–2A program operates due to
the continued use of paper-only appli-
cations. Many farmers have had to deal
with lost applications and other
logistical inefficiencies, making the H–
2A program inconsistent and all too
often an unreliable program for farm-
ers.
This amendment supported the ad-
ministration’s regulatory task force re-
form efforts to modernize that program
with technological advancements that
would make the program more user-
friendly. It demonstrated an important
step to providing relief for farmers fac-
ing a broken bureaucratic maze when
trying to access a reliable workforce.
Madam Speaker, these are just two of
the many reasons that I am not sup-
porting the bill before us. But there are
other issues that must be pointed out,
like the fact that the House bill made
a major investment in the new
broadband pilot program for rural
America by adding an additional $550
million in infrastructure for the
unserved and underserved. This bill un-
dercuts that by $125 million.
In regard to the important matter of
food and drug safety, our House bill in-
cluded higher levels of funding for the
FDA, which is critical to helping indus-
try advance their medical products to
the marketplace sooner, safer, and
with greater efficiency.
The House bill included language to
secure set-aside funds for persistent
poverty counties in rural areas. This
provision was vital to rural commu-
nities across the country that face
challenges escaping poverty. Unfortu-
nately, that is not included in this bill.
Lastly, the House bill included near-
ly $30 million more for the National In-
stitute of Food and Agriculture for re-
search that is vital to our Nation’s
food security priorities. Again, that is
not included in this bill.
Madam Speaker, as a proud member
of the Appropriations Committee, I
urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on
this legislation. The bipartisan work
conducted by House appropriators
must be honored. We should not abdi-
cate our responsibility and the voices
of our constituents to the Senate.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume to just say that the gen-
tleman from Washington makes some
salient points. I agree with the gen-
tleman that the Freedom of Informa-
tion Act and the SNAP retail sales lan-
guage is something that we would love
to have and should be in this legisla-
tion.
Also, I look forward to working with
the gentleman to take care of that as
we move forward in the 116th Congress,
as well as our work on the H–2A pro-
gram, which is in bad need of repair.
And persistent poverty, the 10–20–30
program, we are happy that the gen-
tleman is supportive and that the com-
mittee has been supportive. We look
forward to making sure that that is
implemented fully as we move forward.
But, right now, we have to open the
government. We cannot afford to let
this government remain closed to con-
tinue to hurt the American people.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
SCOTT), who is my classmate and the
chair of the Committee on Education
and Labor.
Mr. SCOTT of Virginia. Madam
Speaker, I thank Chairman BISHOP for
his distinguished leadership, and I
thank the gentleman for the oppor-
tunity to mention several of the issues
relevant to the jurisdiction of the Edu-
cation and Labor Committee.
Madam Speaker, this legislation
funds critical nutrition assistance pro-
grams that serve children and families.
Nutrition programs are among the
most important and cost-effective in-
vestments in the Federal budget.
Study after study demonstrates that
freedom from hunger is the foundation
that children and families need to lift
themselves out of poverty. Beyond the
tragedy of any child going to school on
an empty stomach, we cannot expect
hungry children to reach their full po-
tential at school or to grow up into
healthy adults unless they have proper
nutrition.
This reckless shutdown has left our
constituents with uncertainty and anx-
iety about their access to programs
they rely on, such as WIC, SNAP, or
school meals. Now, while these pro-
grams are still available and USDA is
temporarily paying benefits, it is im-
perative that we secure funding for
these vital programs to ensure that
children and families are not left be-
hind.
This should not be a controversial
bill. But the shutdown has created a
crisis, so we are not going to go back
and forth over the details. We are going
to pass a bill.
The Republican Senate passed this
exact language with overwhelming sup-
port last year, and we have to pass
something. Some have said we
shouldn’t pass this bill, but they have
not said we should pass anything. We
have to pass a bill to reopen the gov-
ernment.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support this legislation.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. COSTA),
who is a member of the authorizing
House Committee on Agriculture. He
represents an area in California that is
called the salad bowl of our country.
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, this legislation,
along with the other bills that we have
been voting on, is about doing our job.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.035 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H394 January 10, 2019
It is about reopening government. It is
about reestablishing Congress as a co-
equal branch of government.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
this bipartisan funding bill for the De-
partment of Agriculture and the Food
and Drug Administration.
The day before the government shut-
down began, the President signed into
law the 2018 farm bill, after much de-
bate and work. As a member of the
conference committee, we negotiated
the farm bill in good faith. Therefore,
it has been incredibly disappointing to
see the shutdown prevent key pieces of
the legislation from taking effect. Ex-
amples of the impacts in my district
are the following.
One such program allows a company
in my district to deliver fresh Cali-
fornia produce to our local school dis-
tricts to improve the quality of food
for the children. This contractor now is
not allowed to be paid.
They are among many of the sub-
contractors who do business with gov-
ernmental entities. Because of the
shutdown, the USDA cannot pay them
to provide services, putting in jeopardy
the future of their businesses and peo-
ple who work for them, and the deliv-
ery, in this case, of healthy fruits and
vegetables to our local schools.
Additionally, if the shutdown lingers
into March, it is uncertain how mil-
lions of Americans, including one-quar-
ter of my constituents, will receive
SNAP benefits. These are young peo-
ple; these are elderly; and these are
part of the working poor. The future
funding for the Women, Infants and
Children’s Nutrition Program is also at
risk.
Without passing the bill before us
today, valley dairymen and almond
farmers in my district, and many other
producers across the Nation, will not
be able to sign up for retaliatory tariff
relief payments, and the impacts of
these tariff wars have been significant
throughout the country.
In addition, farmers cannot sign up
for newly revamped conservation pro-
grams that I helped pass in the farm
bill. These programs are vital for Cali-
fornia agriculture, where farmers work
through drought years and continue
their responsible stewardship of the
land.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield the gentleman from
California an additional 20 seconds.
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, farmers
cannot sign up for new crop insurance
as well to help them manage risks as
we approach the planting season, and
farming is a risky business.
What is more, food safety is put at
risk while food inspectors are forced to
work without pay.
Madam Speaker, it is time to pass
this bill so that the USDA and the FDA
can go back to work for Americans. We
should do our job. It is irresponsible to
shut down government and leverage
American citizens in this fashion.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, may I inquire how much time
remains.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Georgia has 51⁄4 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Ala-
bama has 101⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. KILDEE),
who is a member of the House Com-
mittee on Ways and Means and who is
also the chief deputy whip.
Mr. KILDEE. Madam Speaker, I
thank the chairman for yielding and
for his leadership in bringing this legis-
lation, which I support, to the floor,
legislation that would fund the Depart-
ment of Agriculture for the rest of the
year.
This bill would end part of the shut-
down that this President has orches-
trated and fund the Department of Ag-
riculture, which helps people from
going hungry and supports our farmers.
b 1330
With the shutdown of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, we are not imple-
menting the farm bill that we passed
here, which means we are not helping
increase access to fruits and vegetables
through programs like the Double Up
Food Bucks program in Michigan. We
are not helping struggling farmers sign
up for crop insurance, our best risk
mitigation tool. The agriculture indus-
try is already being hurt by President
Trump’s poor trade practices. This is
just another attack on them.
Also, programs cannot proceed to ad-
dress drinking water needs in our rural
communities. We have places like
Oscoda in my home district experi-
encing a drinking water emergency
from PFAS. They have relied on the
Department of Agriculture for help.
That help won’t be available.
By passing this bill, we put thou-
sands of Michigan workers back to
work. We ensure families who rely on
food nutrition assistance will get the
help they need. Right now, they are
only guaranteed that help through the
end of February.
Additionally, there are contractors
who are essentially doing much of the
same work as government employees
but are not getting paid and will not
see a paycheck when all of this is over.
During this Trump shutdown, these
hardworking employees don’t know
where their next paycheck is coming
from. They can’t turn to their parents
like some can when they run out of
money to pay their bills. They need
help for healthcare. They need help to
pay for childcare. They need to be able
to cover their housing costs. They need
to be able to buy food for their fami-
lies. They can’t plan for their own fu-
ture when they don’t know what they
are going to be able to do next week.
President Trump is using these fami-
lies and farmers who work or depend on
the Department of Agriculture as
pawns in a political game. We may
have disagreements, but we should
never, ever shut the government down
in order to achieve something that the
President and his party are unwilling
to submit to the legislative process.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
As I noted earlier, the Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and Related Agencies Ap-
propriations Subcommittee received
over 350 Members who came before our
subcommittee and submitted requests.
Many of those requests included sup-
port for animal disease and for plant
pests destroying agriculture products.
Let me just give an example of some
that we heard.
The House bill included $15 million to
fight the pest from China called the
spotted lanternfly. This pest is de-
stroying fruits, vegetables, and
ornamentals in the mid-Atlantic
States.
The House bill included $5 million
more for the oriental fruit fly that rav-
aged south Florida.
The House bill and also the House re-
port included higher amounts for the
citrus greening disease killing the or-
ange groves across Florida.
I can give numerous examples of
other House priorities and directives
included in the House bill and report
by the majority that have been dis-
missed by the Senate bill. Like I said,
these are just some examples that our
Members have requested. It has been
important to their districts. They
thought it was very important for agri-
culture in their regions.
Again, by us adopting the bill today,
we would be doing this for nothing.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield 2 minutes to the gentlewoman
from Florida (Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ), the chair-designate of Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs,
and Related Agencies Subcommittee of
the Appropriations Committee.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to urge
Congress to pass this bill, which would
fund agricultural and nutrition pro-
grams that are vital to our Nation’s
farmers and well-being. I also rise to
ask that my colleagues refrain from
turning millions of hardworking SNAP
recipients into pawns in a shutdown
fight over a feckless border wall.
While the President continues to in-
sist on shutting down key agencies like
the USDA, our Nation’s farmers are
facing uncertainty. Every month,
USDA releases the World Agricultural
Supply and Demand Estimates report,
which provides important information
about the size of crop harvests. How-
ever, due to the shutdown, the USDA is
unable to send out this highly antici-
pated report, casting doubt on the agri-
cultural commodities markets.
Even worse, the shutdown has forced
USDA to stop providing assistance to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.036 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H395
January 10, 2019
the thousands of farmers feeling in-
tense pressure from President Trump’s
ridiculous trade war. Agriculture is the
number two economic driver of Flor-
ida’s economy.
This shutdown could also potentially
affect our public health. The FDA can-
not accept any new regulatory submis-
sions during the shutdown. This means
that food and drug manufacturers can’t
provide documentation to the agency
to verify compliance with safety regu-
lations.
The FDA has also been forced to cut
back inspections of food processing fa-
cilities, putting public health at risk.
Essential inspectors are working with-
out pay. The FDA sets targets for in-
spections, and the shutdown will pre-
vent the agency from meeting those
targets.
Finally, we must pass this bill to
avoid potentially disastrous effects on
Americans suffering from food insecu-
rity. SNAP, also known as food stamps,
is a crucial program that helps these
Americans put food on the table, but
SNAP is estimated to have only
enough funding to last until February.
After that, Federal law requires USDA
to ration any available funding among
SNAP recipients.
If President Trump continues to
refuse to reopen the government, al-
most 3.7 million people in Florida may
lose the assistance that helps feed their
families. That would be a shameful sit-
uation for the wealthiest nation on
Earth.
The longer the shutdown goes on, the
bigger the impact will be on our Na-
tion’s food safety and health. I urge my
colleagues to vote for this bill because
people’s livelihoods and well-being are
on the line.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. DIAZ-BALART), who is another
member of the Appropriations Com-
mittee. He, of course, chaired the
Transportation, Housing and Urban De-
velopment, and Related Agencies Sub-
committee in the 115th Congress.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker,
here is the sad truth which, by the
way, everybody knows, unfortunately:
This bill, if passed, will not reopen the
Federal Government.
By the way, how do I know that? Be-
cause this bill already passed last
week. It is sitting in the Senate. It has
not reopened the Federal Government.
This is another false attempt to fool
the American people.
Some of the great Appropriations
members of our time would be rolling
in their graves right now if they knew
that the House is taking up a Senate
bill with zero input and zero amend-
ments from any Member of the House—
not one Member of the House. So, obvi-
ously, we should reject this flawed
strategy.
But I want to thank the ranking
member, Mr. ADERHOLT, for speaking
about some of the specifics. I want to
just talk about a couple of specifics in
this bill where it falls, frankly, very,
very, very, very short. Let me talk
about a couple issues that are very im-
portant to Florida.
Citrus is a key, critical industry for
Florida. This bill does not adequately
fund citrus greening research. It falls
seriously short on funding something
that is so important for the survival of
our farmers and the industry in Flor-
ida.
Also, Mr. Speaker, it falls short on
combating the oriental fruit fly, an-
other critical issue for our farmers in
Florida.
We have to recall that Florida is still
recovering from the devastation caused
by recent hurricanes. This bill falls
short in helping the farmers in the
State of Florida.
But as I said at the beginning, Mr.
Speaker, if that wasn’t enough, this is
all a charade.
By the way, do you know what the
sad part is, Mr. Speaker? I am going to
be proven right.
Last week, a lot of us said that about
those bills that our friends on the
other side of the aisle said were going
to reopen the government. Do you
know who was proven right and who
was proven wrong? We are going to be
proven right again.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
JEFFRIES). The time of the gentleman
has expired.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from Florida an addi-
tional 30 seconds.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. This is a sham. I
would ask, respectfully, to defeat this
bill, which is a charade, a sham, and
will not open the Federal Government.
Everybody knows that. Everybody
knows that it will not reopen the Fed-
eral Government. It doesn’t have any
input from the House and falls shorts
for Florida farmers and other farmers
around the country.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
Mr. Speaker, I would like to say, as
it has already been said by many of my
colleagues here on the Republican side,
that this bill serves only to give a false
impression that the new majority is
trying to resolve our funding dif-
ferences.
The American people want and need
both enhanced border security and
funding of remaining government agen-
cies that are operating on limited staff
currently, as we speak. This bill is
really an affront to the House of Rep-
resentatives and to the citizens who
elected them to serve them because, as
has been said over and over this after-
noon, there has been no input from any
of the 435 House Members into this leg-
islation.
Therefore, in closing, Mr. Speaker, I
would urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’
on this legislation that is before us this
afternoon, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield such time as he may consume to
the gentleman from California (Mr. PA-
NETTA), as I prepare to close and urge
my colleagues to open the Department
of Agriculture, the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and all the agencies. He
is a member of the House Committee
on Agriculture and Committee on Ways
and Means. He also represents the
salad bowl of this country.
Mr. PANETTA. Mr. Speaker, today,
we, unfortunately, are enduring our
government’s second longest govern-
ment shutdown since 1981.
I realize that some call it a partial
government shutdown, but let me tell
you, there is nothing partial about the
lost wages that our Federal workers
are encountering, there is nothing par-
tial about the lost income that our
small business owners are enduring,
and there is nothing partial about the
lost services that my farmers in the
salad bowl of the world will experience
during this shutdown.
That is why it has fallen on all of us
in this Congress to make whole the vic-
tims of the shutdown. And it starts
today by passing this Agriculture Ap-
propriations act.
As a member of the House Agri-
culture Committee, I was proud to
have passed and have signed into law
the 2018 farm bill. But if this shutdown
doesn’t end soon, there are many provi-
sions of that farm bill that will not be
implemented.
Why? The USDA is closed, the Farm
Service Agency is shuttered, agricul-
tural research is suspended, organic
certification programs are stopped, and
families may not get their benefits
through the Supplemental Nutrition
Assistance Program.
Those are just part of the problems
with this partial government shut-
down, a shutdown in which all of our
farmers will be affected. That is why
all of us in this government must do
our job and live up to our responsi-
bility to govern. Some may call it a
charade. We call it governing. That is
why I ask my colleagues to pass this
Agriculture Appropriations Act.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. MOORE. Mr. Speaker, I join with my
colleagues in supporting House passage today
of the long overdue FY 2019 Department of
Agriculture, Food and Drug Administration,
and Related Agencies funding bill which will
help bring an end to the reckless shutdown for
the agencies, programs, and federal employ-
ees that are covered by this measure.
We need to pass this bill today, and the
Senate needs to follow suit, to help stave off
some of the worst consequences that face
some of the most vulnerable as a result of the
President’s reckless decision.
If the partial government shutdown, which
the President is so proud to have caused,
continues there may not be sufficient appro-
priations for food assistance under the Supple-
mental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP)
to provide full benefits or any benefits. USDA
recently announced it was making moves to
try and delay the inevitable for these pro-
grams. But that is just a stall—one of the
many desperate actions by an Administration
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.038 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H396 January 10, 2019
apparently just now starting to realize the
damage it is inflicting across America.
To make his case, the President held a na-
tional press conference earlier this week to
sell his made up ‘‘crisis’’ along the Southern
border. A ‘‘crisis’’ that experts say is not hap-
pening. Border apprehensions are at lows not
seen in nearly two decades. The ‘‘crisis,’’ if
any exists, is his policy of denying asylum
seekers their legal right to make their claims.
President Trump inflicted this chaotic shut-
down on the American people to try and bully
the nation into building his vanity wall.
Well, let me tell you about the real crisis
that he is creating in millions of households
across the country from the dedicated federal
employees who have been sent home without
pay or those working without pay who are
wondering how they will pay rent or their mort-
gage and their bills now that the federal gov-
ernment has broken faith with them.
Or the real crisis this Administration is cre-
ating for the millions of families and individuals
who depend on SNAP and WIC to help keep
food on the table. In my home state, that in-
cludes hundreds of thousands of women, chil-
dren, seniors, low-income military veterans,
and the disabled who are already struggling.
These harms aren’t hypothetical, folks. Hunger
is real in our country and millions of Ameri-
cans are struggling to put food on the table.
And the Trump Shutdown is only making it
harder to do.
One estimate is that if USDA does not have
enough funding on hand to pay full benefits
and provide partial funding spread evenly
across all SNAP households, it would result in
an average benefit cut per household of at
least $90 or close to 40 percent.
Similarly, benefits available through the
Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for
Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) are at
risk. WIC is such an important program that
helps provide targeted nutrition and other
services to at-risk women. This program has
helped improve breastfeeding rates among its
target population and saves lives and money
for the taxpayer. Over 7 million mothers, preg-
nant women, and children rely on WIC.
WIC clinics are currently open and operating
normally but that funding will run out if the
shutdown continues. If the shutdown continues
as long as the President wants it to, WIC
agencies may be forced to start waiting lists
for benefits, freeze new applications, furlough
staff, or close clinics in the face of declining or
no funding.
And even with doors open, the uncertainty
created by the shutdown may be discouraging
eligible individuals from reaching out to WIC
for support, undermining the program’s pur-
pose.
And we will all pay in the end if taxpayers
have to bear health care expenses and other
costs for individuals that could have been
avoided.
The bill before us, that the Senate Appro-
priations Committee unanimously approved
last year, will ensure that these critical benefits
continue to be paid and that families can con-
tinue to put food on the table.
I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of this special order to speak against
the devastating cuts being proposed for the
Farm Bill’s Supplemental Nutrition Assistant
Program (SNAP).
The $20.5 billion cuts would remove 2 mil-
lion Americans from the food assistance pro-
gram, and 210,000 children would lose access
to free school meals.
The House Democrats’ bill, is virtually iden-
tical to legislation that has already passed the
Senate on a 92–6 vote, will reopen these
agencies and stop some the worst impacts of
the Trump Shutdown on families, businesses,
and communities.
It provides $23.235 billion in discretionary
funding, $225 million above the FY2018 en-
acted level. In addition, it provides the latest
estimates for mandatory programs required by
law—including the Supplemental Nutrition As-
sistance Program and Child Nutrition Pro-
grams. It will ensure that the Department of
Agriculture and the FDA are both able to oper-
ate through September 30.
This bill rejects President Trump’s proposed
budget cuts to agriculture, rural development,
and conservation programs. It includes funding
for rural broadband that President Trump had
proposed eliminating.
Finally, the bill rejects President Trump’s
proposed elimination of Food for Peace and
the McGovern-Dole International Food for
Education and Child Nutrition Program, both
which provide lifesaving food assistance over-
seas.
For one in six Americans hunger is real and
far too many people assume that problems
with hunger are isolated in small pockets of
the country. That is not the case—hunger is
persistent and the impacts real for millions of
people who struggle to find enough to eat.
According to Feeding America:
In 2016, 46.2 million people were in poverty,
1.1 million people are food insecure in the
Houston area, 2.4 million rural households
face hunger;
Three-quarters of the counties with the high-
est rates of food insecurity are in rural areas;
86% of the counties with the highest rates
of child food insecurity are rural;
In 2017, there were 39.7 million people in
poverty.
There are 3.7 million Texans at risk of los-
ing Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram (SNAP) benefits if the Trump Shutdown
does not end.
The more important statistic is how many
other Americans will have their local grocery
store put at risk of closing or having reduced
supplies of groceries to serve their customers
because of the economic chaos that will
ensue if SNAP benefits across the nation are
ended due to the shutdown.
Most Americans have no idea how SNAP,
Women, Infants and Children’s (WIC) Food
and Nutrition Service and other federal food
subsidy programs contribute to the affordability
of food found in grocery stores.
For grocers, convenience stores and other
food retailers, the suspension of funding for
the food-stamp program, or SNAP, comes at
a time when they cannot afford to lose sales.
Over 3,500 grocery and convenience stores
operate on a 1% profit margin, with the pro-
posed cuts to the SNAP program, these stores
will experience a large decrease in profit.
There is no feasible way to absorb any kind
of decrease in sales.
The abrupt end of SNAP, WIC and other
Federal food subsidy program funding that is
spent at local grocers would be devastating to
all large grocery store chains.
In 2016, more than 52% of SNAP dollars, or
$33 billion, were redeemed at big-box stores
such as Walmart Inc. and Target Corp., up
from 47% in 2015, U.S. Department of Agri-
culture data show.
Big retailers routinely notice a bump in sales
around the time states disperse SNAP money
to recipients each month.
Walmart generates roughly $13 billion in an-
nual sales from SNAP transactions, account-
ing for around 18% of the money spent
through the program nationwide.
Some retailers serve regions where more
than one-third of shoppers buy groceries with
food stamps, without this money most of these
stores will not be able to maintain the diverse
food choices that are usually available to their
consumers.
The retailer with the highest risk of lost
sales is Walmart which receives roughly 56%
of its food sales.
Dollar General, gets about 5 percent of its
sales from SNAP benefits and their traffic
slowed tremendously during the last govern-
ment shutdown, they can’t afford the same
outcome this year.
President Trump has previously dem-
onstrated a hostility towards the SNAP pro-
gram in his proposal that retailers pay a fee
for authorization to accept food stamps.
The government’s overall SNAP spending
declines when the economy improves and
fewer people rely on the program and this
means that grocery store customers are in-
stead using funds from employment or other
sources instead.
A government shutdown will have a de-
pressing effect on grocery store sales and
compounding this will be a cut in SNAP and
WIC funds.
Government low wage workers will be seek-
ing SNAP and WIC assistance as they work to
cope with not being paid.
Dean said cutting benefits when people’s fi-
nancial situations are not improving could
mean they use money they otherwise would
have spent on needs like clothing or even
medicine to make up for the gaps in their food
budget. So there’s still an impact to the overall
economy, she said.
A report by the USDA in 2010 also said that
boosting SNAP benefits during economic
downturns starts a ‘‘multiplier process’’ in
transactions and consumption. It found that
boosting SNAP expenditures by $1 billion was
estimated to increase economic activity by
$1.79 billion.
Unfortunately, benefits cannot be increased
as a direct consequence of the shutdown.
SNAP offers nutrition assistance to millions
of low income individuals and families. SNAP
is the largest program in the American domes-
tic hunger safety net.
If the Trump Shutdown extends for weeks or
months, the damage to the food economy may
not be easily repaired.
The Child Nutrition Programs, including
School Lunch, School Breakfast, Child and
Adult Care Feeding, Summer Food Service
and Special Milk will continue operations into
February according to the Department of Agri-
culture.
We cannot afford to create food deserts and
greater hunger in our country.
While prices for agricultural products are not
expected to be significantly altered in the short
term, an extended shutdown coupled with on-
going trade tensions could impact the ability
for farmers to operate in the domestic and
international marketplace.
The following USDA activities have been
shut down during the government funding
lapse:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.004 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H397
January 10, 2019
Provision of new rural development loans
and grants for housing, community facilities,
utilities and businesses.
All recreation sites across the U.S. National
Forest System, unless they are operated by
external parties under a recreational special
use permit.
New timber sales.
Most forest fuels reduction activities in and
around communities.
National Agricultural Statistics Service
(NASS) statistics, World Agricultural Supply
and Demand Estimates report, and other agri-
cultural economic and statistical reports and
projections. Investigation of packers and
stockyards related to fraudulent and anti-com-
petitive activities.
Assistance for the control of most plant and
animal pests and diseases unless funded by
cooperators or other non-appropriated
sources.
Research facilities except for the care for
animals, plants and associated infrastructure
to preserve agricultural research. Provision of
new grants or processing of payments for ex-
isting grants to support research, education,
and extension.
ERS Commodity Outlook Reports, Data
Products, research reports, staff analysis, and
projections. The ERS public website has been
taken offline.
Most departmental management, adminis-
trative and oversight functions, including civil
rights, human resources, financial manage-
ment, audit, investigative, legal and informa-
tion technology activities.
Mandatory Audits (Financial Statements,
FISMA, and potentially Improper Payments)
will be suspended and may not be completed
and released on the date mandated by law.
Farm loans and some farm payments (in-
cluding direct payments, market assistance
loans, market facilitation payments for those
producers who have not certified production,
and disaster assistance programs).
The Agriculture Industry has been harmed
by the tariff battles that President Trump start-
ed and continues to wage.
Funding was put in the Farm Bill that
passed in December to offer some relief that
will not come until the shutdown ends.
I ask my Colleagues to join me in voting for
the passage of this bill.
President Trump needs to end this shut-
down now.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. All time
for debate has expired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 28, the
previous question is ordered on the bill.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, I have
a motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. ADERHOLT. I am, in its current
form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Aderholt moves to recommit the bill
H.R. 265 to the Committee on Appropriations
with instructions to report the same back to
the House forthwith with the following
amendments:
Page 2, line 7, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $19,000,000)’’.
Page 2, line 18, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $12,000,000)’’.
Page 2, line 19, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $12,000,000)’’.
Page 3, line 5, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 3, line 9, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $5,000,000)’’.
Page 4, line 15, after the first dollar
amount, insert ‘‘(reduced by $6,000,000)’’.
Page 5, line 3, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $34,000,000)’’.
Page 5, line 4, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $10,000,000)’’.
Page 5, line 8, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 6, line 8, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(reduced by $58,000,000)’’.
Page 17, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $3,000,000)’’.
Page 66, line 12, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $2,000,000)’’.
Page 100, line 22, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $125,000,000)’’.
Mr. ADERHOLT (during the reading).
Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous consent
to dispense with the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Alabama?
There was no objection.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I reserve a point of order on the gentle-
man’s motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. A point
of order is reserved.
Pursuant to the rule, the gentleman
from Alabama (Mr. ADERHOLT) is recog-
nized for 5 minutes in support of his
motion.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, this
motion to recommit restores a House
priority that had overwhelming sup-
port when we put together the FY 2019
Agriculture bill during the last Con-
gress.
As I mentioned in my opening state-
ment, our House bill last year placed a
high priority on delivery of broadband
to the unserved and underserved popu-
lations in rural America. Eighty per-
cent of the 24 million American house-
holds that do not have reliable, afford-
able, high-speed internet, are in rural
areas.
b 1345
That is according to the most recent
report by the Federal Communications
Commission. Again, 80 percent are in
rural areas.
Reliable and affordable internet
connectivity is fundamental for eco-
nomic activity throughout the United
States. It is also a fundamental need
for rural American households, for
schools, and for healthcare centers.
The National Agriculture and Rural
Prosperity Task Force recommended
connectivity for all rural Americans
because it has become a modern-day
necessity. It is not simply an amenity
anymore. In today’s information age
and where we live today, it is driving
our global economy.
Our House appropriation bill last
year included $550 million for this new
pilot program. This motion that is now
before us will simply add an additional
$125 million to the $440 million in the
bill before us today.
This higher level will not fully ad-
dress the multi-billion-dollar require-
ment to address rural broadband inter-
net needs, but it is a wise and nec-
essary investment.
The new rural broadband program
that was designed by USDA this year
takes into account lessons learned
from prior-year broadband initiatives.
The new pilot program is a good bal-
ance between grants to the neediest
communities and low-cost loans to
those communities and citizens that
can afford the loans.
Mr. Speaker, you might not find a
great deal of agreement between the
priorities of President Trump and
former President Obama, but the vital
need for rural broadband is one of those
things. This motion is a modest pro-
posal that all of us feel obligated to
support, regardless of your politics.
Therefore, Mr. Speaker, I urge a
‘‘yes’’ vote on the motion, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I withdraw my reservation of a point of
order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
ervation of a point of order is with-
drawn.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
I rise in opposition to the motion to re-
commit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Georgia is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker,
as many know, I have been and will
continue to be an advocate and a sup-
porter of rural broadband expansion. I
view it as an obligation to provide ade-
quate service for everyone, as it is vital
to health, safety, the economy, and the
welfare of all of our rural communities.
The $425 million that is provided in
this bill will complement the $600 mil-
lion that was provided in the FY 2018
bill, which has not yet been spent.
USDA recently completed the pro-
gram design, and it can now begin im-
plementing and, if this bill is enacted,
awarding over $1 billion in broadband
expansion funding to the communities
that need it the most.
This funding is in addition to the
other programs that assist commu-
nities in getting broadband services,
including the Community Connect Pro-
gram, the Broadband Loan Program,
and the Distance Learning and Tele-
communication Program.
We have funding in the works to ac-
complish the needs for rural
broadband. We need to pass this bill be-
cause we need to open the government.
We need to make sure that USDA and
the Food and Drug Administration and
all of the agencies that are shut down
will open, and open quickly, to support
the needs of the American people.
Mr. Speaker, I urge that this motion
to recommit be rejected, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.008 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H398 January 10, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mr. ADERHOLT. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RE-
LATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, pursuant to House Resolution
28, I call up the bill (H.R. 267) making
appropriations for the Department of
Transportation, and Housing and
Urban Development, and related agen-
cies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes,
and ask for its immediate consider-
ation.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 28, the bill is
considered read.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 267
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, That the following sums
are appropriated, out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the
Departments of Transportation, and Housing
and Urban Development, and related agen-
cies for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes, namely:
TITLE I—DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Secretary, $113,535,000, of which not to ex-
ceed $3,001,000 shall be available for the im-
mediate Office of the Secretary; not to ex-
ceed $1,040,000 shall be available for the im-
mediate Office of the Deputy Secretary; not
to exceed $20,428,000 shall be available for the
Office of the General Counsel; not to exceed
$10,265,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Under Secretary of Transportation for
Policy; not to exceed $14,019,000 shall be
available for the Office of the Assistant Sec-
retary for Budget and Programs; not to ex-
ceed $2,550,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Govern-
mental Affairs; not to exceed $29,244,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Assistant
Secretary for Administration; not to exceed
$2,142,000 shall be available for the Office of
Public Affairs; not to exceed $1,835,000 shall
be available for the Office of the Executive
Secretariat; not to exceed $12,325,000 shall be
available for the Office of Intelligence, Secu-
rity, and Emergency Response; and not to
exceed $16,686,000 shall be available for the
Office of the Chief Information Officer: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Transportation
is authorized to transfer funds appropriated
for any office of the Office of the Secretary
to any other office of the Office of the Sec-
retary: Provided further, That no appropria-
tion for any office shall be increased or de-
creased by more than 5 percent by all such
transfers: Provided further, That notice of
any change in funding greater than 5 percent
shall be submitted for approval to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations:
Provided further, That not to exceed $60,000
shall be for allocation within the Depart-
ment for official reception and representa-
tion expenses as the Secretary may deter-
mine: Provided further, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, excluding fees au-
thorized in Public Law 107–71, there may be
credited to this appropriation up to $2,500,000
in funds received in user fees: Provided fur-
ther, That none of the funds provided in this
Act shall be available for the position of As-
sistant Secretary for Public Affairs.
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
For necessary expenses related to the Of-
fice of the Assistant Secretary for Research
and Technology, $8,471,000, of which $2,218,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021: Provided, That there may be credited to
this appropriation, to be available until ex-
pended, funds received from States, counties,
municipalities, other public authorities, and
private sources for expenses incurred for
training: Provided further, That any reference
in law, regulation, judicial proceedings, or
elsewhere to the Research and Innovative
Technology Administration shall continue to
be deemed to be a reference to the Office of
the Assistant Secretary for Research and
Technology of the Department of Transpor-
tation.
NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
For capital investments in surface trans-
portation infrastructure, $1,000,000,000, to re-
main available through September 30, 2021:
Provided, That the Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall distribute funds provided under
this heading as discretionary grants to be
awarded to a State, local government, tran-
sit agency, port authority, or a collaboration
among such entities on a competitive basis
for projects that will have a significant local
or regional impact: Provided further, That
projects eligible for funding provided under
this heading shall include, but not be limited
to, highway or bridge projects eligible under
title 23, United States Code; public transpor-
tation projects eligible under chapter 53 of
title 49, United States Code; passenger and
freight rail transportation projects; and port
infrastructure investments (including inland
port infrastructure and land ports of entry):
Provided further, That of the amount made
available under this heading, the Secretary
may use an amount not to exceed $15,000,000
for the planning, preparation or design of
projects eligible for funding under this head-
ing: Provided further, That grants awarded
under the previous proviso shall not be sub-
ject to a minimum grant size: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary may use up to 20
percent of the funds made available under
this heading for the purpose of paying the
subsidy and administrative costs of projects
eligible for Federal credit assistance under
chapter 6 of title 23, United States Code, or
sections 501 through 504 of the Railroad Revi-
talization and Regulatory Reform Act of 1976
(Public Law 94–210), as amended, if the Sec-
retary finds that such use of the funds would
advance the purposes of this paragraph: Pro-
vided further, That in distributing funds pro-
vided under this heading, the Secretary shall
take such measures so as to ensure an equi-
table geographic distribution of funds, an ap-
propriate balance in addressing the needs of
urban and rural areas, and the investment in
a variety of transportation modes: Provided
further, That a grant funded under this head-
ing shall be not less than $5,000,000 and not
greater than $25,000,000: Provided further,
That not more than 10 percent of the funds
made available under this heading may be
awarded to projects in a single State: Pro-
vided further, That the Federal share of the
costs for which an expenditure is made under
this heading shall be, at the option of the re-
cipient, up to 80 percent: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall give priority to
projects that require a contribution of Fed-
eral funds in order to complete an overall fi-
nancing package: Provided further, That not
less than 30 percent of the funds provided
under this heading shall be for projects lo-
cated in rural areas: Provided further, That
for projects located in rural areas, the min-
imum grant size shall be $1,000,000 and the
Secretary may increase the Federal share of
costs above 80 percent: Provided further, That
projects conducted using funds provided
under this heading must comply with the re-
quirements of subchapter IV of chapter 31 of
title 40, United States Code: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall conduct a new com-
petition to select the grants and credit as-
sistance awarded under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary may retain
up to $25,000,000 of the funds provided under
this heading, and may transfer portions of
those funds to the Administrators of the
Federal Highway Administration, the Fed-
eral Transit Administration, the Federal
Railroad Administration, and the Maritime
Administration to fund the award and over-
sight of grants and credit assistance made
under the National Infrastructure Invest-
ments program: Provided further, That none
of the funds provided in the previous proviso
may be used to hire additional personnel:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
consider and award projects based solely on
the selection criteria from the fiscal year
2016 Notice of Funding Opportunity: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall not use the
Federal share or an applicant’s ability to
generate non-Federal revenue as a selection
criteria in awarding projects: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall issue the No-
tice of Funding Opportunity no later than 60
days after enactment of this Act: Provided
further, That the Notice of Funding Oppor-
tunity shall require application submissions
90 days after the publishing of such Notice:
Provided further, That of the applications
submitted under the previous two provisos,
the Secretary shall make grants no later
than 270 days after enactment of this Act in
such amounts that the Secretary deter-
mines: Provided further, That such sums pro-
vided for national infrastructure invest-
ments for passenger rail transportation
projects under title I of division C of the
Consolidated and Further Continuing Appro-
priations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112–55; 125
Stat. 641), shall remain available for expendi-
ture through fiscal year 2019 for the liquida-
tion of valid obligations of active grants in-
curred in fiscal year 2012: Provided further,
That such sums provided for national infra-
structure investments for port infrastruc-
ture projects under title VIII of division F of
the Consolidated and Further Continuing
Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113–6;
127 Stat. 432) shall remain available through
fiscal year 2020 for the liquidation of valid
obligations of active grants incurred in fiscal
year 2013: Provided further, That the 2 pre-
ceding provisos shall be applied as if they
were in effect on September 30, 2018: Provided
further, That after calculating the distribu-
tion of obligation limitation for Federal-aid
highways for fiscal year 2019 under section
120(a), the obligation limitation shall be re-
duced by $52,000,000 to a total of
$45,216,596,000: Provided further, That the re-
duction in the preceding proviso shall be ap-
plied to the obligation limitation determined
under section 120(a)(4) for the TIFIA program
(as defined in section 601(a) of title 23, United
States Code).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.043 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H399
January 10, 2019
NATIONAL SURFACE TRANSPORTATION AND
INNOVATIVE FINANCE BUREAU
For necessary expenses of the National
Surface Transportation and Innovative Fi-
nance Bureau as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 116,
$2,987,000, to remain available until ex-
pended.
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT CAPITAL
For necessary expenses for upgrading and
enhancing the Department of Transpor-
tation’s financial systems and re-engineering
business processes, $2,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2020.
CYBER SECURITY INITIATIVES
For necessary expenses for cyber security
initiatives, including necessary upgrades to
wide area network and information tech-
nology infrastructure, improvement of net-
work perimeter controls and identity man-
agement, testing and assessment of informa-
tion technology against business, security,
and other requirements, implementation of
Federal cyber security initiatives and infor-
mation infrastructure enhancements, and
implementation of enhanced security con-
trols on network devices, $15,000,000, to re-
main available through September 30, 2020.
OFFICE OF CIVIL RIGHTS
For necessary expenses of the Office of
Civil Rights, $9,470,000.
TRANSPORTATION PLANNING, RESEARCH, AND
DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses for conducting
transportation planning, research, systems
development, development activities, and
making grants, $7,879,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That of such
amount, $1,000,000 shall be for necessary ex-
penses for the Interagency Infrastructure
Permitting Improvement Center (IIPIC): Pro-
vided further, That there may be transferred
to this appropriation, to remain available
until expended, amounts transferred from
other Federal agencies for expenses incurred
under this heading for IIPIC activities not
related to transportation infrastructure: Pro-
vided further, That the tools and analysis de-
veloped by the IIPIC shall be available to
other Federal agencies for the permitting
and review of major infrastructure projects
not related to transportation only to the ex-
tent that other Federal agencies provide
funding to the Department as provided for
under the previous proviso.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
For necessary expenses for operating costs
and capital outlays of the Working Capital
Fund, not to exceed $203,883,000, shall be paid
from appropriations made available to the
Department of Transportation: Provided,
That such services shall be provided on a
competitive basis to entities within the De-
partment of Transportation: Provided further,
That the above limitation on operating ex-
penses shall not apply to non-DOT entities:
Provided further, That no funds appropriated
in this Act to an agency of the Department
shall be transferred to the Working Capital
Fund without majority approval of the
Working Capital Fund Steering Committee
and approval of the Secretary: Provided fur-
ther, That no assessments may be levied
against any program, budget activity, sub-
activity or project funded by this Act unless
notice of such assessments and the basis
therefor are presented to the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations and are
approved by such Committees.
MINORITY BUSINESS RESOURCE CENTER
PROGRAM
For necessary expenses of the Minority
Business Resource Center, the provision of
financial education outreach activities to el-
igible transportation-related small busi-
nesses, the monitoring of existing loans in
the guaranteed loan program, and the modi-
fication of such loans of the Minority Busi-
ness Resource Center, $249,000, as authorized
by 49 U.S.C. 332: Provided, That notwith-
standing that section, these funds may be for
business opportunities related to any mode
of transportation.
SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS
UTILIZATION AND OUTREACH
For necessary expenses for small and dis-
advantaged business utilization and outreach
activities, $3,488,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2020: Provided, That not-
withstanding 49 U.S.C. 332, these funds may
be used for business opportunities related to
any mode of transportation.
PAYMENTS TO AIR CARRIERS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
In addition to funds made available from
any other source to carry out the essential
air service program under 49 U.S.C. 41731
through 41742, $175,000,000, to be derived from
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That in determining between or among car-
riers competing to provide service to a com-
munity, the Secretary may consider the rel-
ative subsidy requirements of the carriers:
Provided further, That basic essential air
service minimum requirements shall not in-
clude the 15-passenger capacity requirement
under subsection 41732(b)(3) of title 49,
United States Code: Provided further, That
none of the funds in this Act or any other
Act shall be used to enter into a new con-
tract with a community located less than 40
miles from the nearest small hub airport be-
fore the Secretary has negotiated with the
community over a local cost share: Provided
further, That amounts authorized to be dis-
tributed for the essential air service program
under subsection 41742(b) of title 49, United
States Code, shall be made available imme-
diately from amounts otherwise provided to
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration: Provided further, That the
Administrator may reimburse such amounts
from fees credited to the account established
under section 45303 of title 49, United States
Code.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—OFFICE OF THE
SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION
SEC. 101. None of the funds made available
in this Act to the Department of Transpor-
tation may be obligated for the Office of the
Secretary of Transportation to approve as-
sessments or reimbursable agreements per-
taining to funds appropriated to the modal
administrations in this Act, except for ac-
tivities underway on the date of enactment
of this Act, unless such assessments or
agreements have completed the normal re-
programming process for Congressional noti-
fication.
SEC. 102. The Secretary shall post on the
Web site of the Department of Transpor-
tation a schedule of all meetings of the
Council on Credit and Finance, including the
agenda for each meeting, and require the
Council on Credit and Finance to record the
decisions and actions of each meeting.
SEC. 103. In addition to authority provided
by section 327 of title 49, United States Code,
the Department’s Working Capital Fund is
hereby authorized to provide partial or full
payments in advance and accept subsequent
reimbursements from all Federal agencies
from available funds for transit benefit dis-
tribution services that are necessary to
carry out the Federal transit pass transpor-
tation fringe benefit program under Execu-
tive Order No. 13150 and section 3049 of Pub-
lic Law 109–59: Provided, That the Depart-
ment shall maintain a reasonable operating
reserve in the Working Capital Fund, to be
expended in advance to provide uninter-
rupted transit benefits to Government em-
ployees: Provided further, That such reserve
will not exceed one month of benefits pay-
able and may be used only for the purpose of
providing for the continuation of transit
benefits: Provided further, That the Working
Capital Fund will be fully reimbursed by
each customer agency from available funds
for the actual cost of the transit benefit.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses of the Federal
Aviation Administration, not otherwise pro-
vided for, including operations and research
activities related to commercial space trans-
portation, administrative expenses for re-
search and development, establishment of
air navigation facilities, the operation (in-
cluding leasing) and maintenance of aircraft,
subsidizing the cost of aeronautical charts
and maps sold to the public, the lease or pur-
chase of passenger motor vehicles for re-
placement only, in addition to amounts
made available by Public Law 112–95,
$10,410,758,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, of which $9,833,400,000 shall
be derived from the Airport and Airway
Trust Fund, of which not to exceed
$7,843,427,000 shall be available for air traffic
organization activities; not to exceed
$1,334,377,000 shall be available for aviation
safety activities; not to exceed $24,981,000
shall be available for commercial space
transportation activities; not to exceed
$816,562,000 shall be available for finance and
management activities; not to exceed
$61,796,000 shall be available for NextGen and
operations planning activities; not to exceed
$114,312,000 shall be available for security and
hazardous materials safety; and not to ex-
ceed $215,303,000 shall be available for staff
offices: Provided, That not to exceed 5 per-
cent of any budget activity, except for avia-
tion safety budget activity, may be trans-
ferred to any budget activity under this
heading: Provided further, That no transfer
may increase or decrease any appropriation
by more than 5 percent: Provided further,
That any transfer in excess of 5 percent shall
be treated as a reprogramming of funds
under section 405 of this Act and shall not be
available for obligation or expenditure ex-
cept in compliance with the procedures set
forth in that section: Provided further, That
not later than March 31 of each fiscal year
hereafter, the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration shall transmit to
Congress an annual update to the report sub-
mitted to Congress in December 2004 pursu-
ant to section 221 of Public Law 108–176: Pro-
vided further, That the amount herein appro-
priated shall be reduced by $100,000 for each
day after March 31 that such report has not
been submitted to the Congress: Provided fur-
ther, That not later than March 31 of each
fiscal year hereafter, the Administrator shall
transmit to Congress a companion report
that describes a comprehensive strategy for
staffing, hiring, and training flight standards
and aircraft certification staff in a format
similar to the one utilized for the controller
staffing plan, including stated attrition esti-
mates and numerical hiring goals by fiscal
year: Provided further, That the amount here-
in appropriated shall be reduced by $100,000
per day for each day after March 31 that such
report has not been submitted to Congress:
Provided further, That funds may be used to
enter into a grant agreement with a non-
profit standard-setting organization to assist
in the development of aviation safety stand-
ards: Provided further, That none of the funds
in this Act shall be available for new appli-
cants for the second career training pro-
gram: Provided further, That none of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H400 January 10, 2019
funds in this Act shall be available for the
Federal Aviation Administration to finalize
or implement any regulation that would pro-
mulgate new aviation user fees not specifi-
cally authorized by law after the date of the
enactment of this Act: Provided further, That
there may be credited to this appropriation,
as offsetting collections, funds received from
States, counties, municipalities, foreign au-
thorities, other public authorities, and pri-
vate sources for expenses incurred in the pro-
vision of agency services, including receipts
for the maintenance and operation of air
navigation facilities, and for issuance, re-
newal or modification of certificates, includ-
ing airman, aircraft, and repair station cer-
tificates, or for tests related thereto, or for
processing major repair or alteration forms:
Provided further, That of the funds appro-
priated under this heading, not less than
$168,000,000 shall be used to fund direct oper-
ations of the current 254 air traffic control
towers in the contract tower program, in-
cluding the contract tower cost share pro-
gram, and any airport that is currently
qualified or that will qualify for the program
during the fiscal year: Provided further, That
none of the funds in this Act for aeronautical
charting and cartography are available for
activities conducted by, or coordinated
through, the Working Capital Fund: Provided
further, That none of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this Act or
any other Act may be used to eliminate the
Contract Weather Observers program at any
airport: Provided further, That of the amount
appropriated under this heading, up to
$6,000,000 shall be used for providing match-
ing funds to qualified commercial entities
seeking to demonstrate or validate tech-
nologies that the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration considers essential to the safe inte-
gration of unmanned aircraft systems (UAS)
in the National Airspace System at Federal
Aviation Administration designated UAS
test sites: Provided further, That not later
than 60 days after the date of enactment of
this Act, the Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration shall identify es-
sential integration technologies that could
be demonstrated or validated at test sites
designated in accordance with the preceding
proviso.
FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for acquisition, establishment,
technical support services, improvement by
contract or purchase, and hire of national
airspace systems and experimental facilities
and equipment, as authorized under part A of
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code,
including initial acquisition of necessary
sites by lease or grant; engineering and serv-
ice testing, including construction of test fa-
cilities and acquisition of necessary sites by
lease or grant; construction and furnishing
of quarters and related accommodations for
officers and employees of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration stationed at remote lo-
calities where such accommodations are not
available; and the purchase, lease, or trans-
fer of aircraft from funds available under
this heading, including aircraft for aviation
regulation and certification; to be derived
from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund,
$3,000,000,000, of which $512,823,000 shall re-
main available until September 30, 2020,
$2,362,977,000 shall remain available until
September 30, 2021, and $124,200,000 shall re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That there may be credited to this appro-
priation funds received from States, coun-
ties, municipalities, other public authorities,
and private sources, for expenses incurred in
the establishment, improvement, and mod-
ernization of national airspace systems: Pro-
vided further, That no later than March 31,
the Secretary of Transportation shall trans-
mit to the Congress an investment plan for
the Federal Aviation Administration which
includes funding for each budget line item
for fiscal years 2020 through 2024, with total
funding for each year of the plan constrained
to the funding targets for those years as esti-
mated and approved by the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget.
RESEARCH, ENGINEERING, AND DEVELOPMENT
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses, not otherwise pro-
vided for, for research, engineering, and de-
velopment, as authorized under part A of
subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code,
including construction of experimental fa-
cilities and acquisition of necessary sites by
lease or grant, $191,000,000, to be derived from
the Airport and Airway Trust Fund and to
remain available until September 30, 2021:
Provided, That there may be credited to this
appropriation as offsetting collections, funds
received from States, counties, municipali-
ties, other public authorities, and private
sources, which shall be available for ex-
penses incurred for research, engineering,
and development.
GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For liquidation of obligations incurred for
grants-in-aid for airport planning and devel-
opment, and noise compatibility planning
and programs as authorized under sub-
chapter I of chapter 471 and subchapter I of
chapter 475 of title 49, United States Code,
and under other law authorizing such obliga-
tions; for procurement, installation, and
commissioning of runway incursion preven-
tion devices and systems at airports of such
title; for grants authorized under section
41743 of title 49, United States Code; and for
inspection activities and administration of
airport safety programs, including those re-
lated to airport operating certificates under
section 44706 of title 49, United States Code,
$3,000,000,000, to be derived from the Airport
and Airway Trust Fund and to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That none of
the funds under this heading shall be avail-
able for the planning or execution of pro-
grams the obligations for which are in excess
of $3,350,000,000 in fiscal year 2019, notwith-
standing section 47117(g) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That none of
the funds under this heading shall be avail-
able for the replacement of baggage con-
veyor systems, reconfiguration of terminal
baggage areas, or other airport improve-
ments that are necessary to install bulk ex-
plosive detection systems: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 47109(a) of
title 49, United States Code, the Govern-
ment’s share of allowable project costs under
paragraph (2) for subgrants or paragraph (3)
of that section shall be 95 percent for a
project at other than a large or medium hub
airport that is a successive phase of a multi-
phased construction project for which the
project sponsor received a grant in fiscal
year 2011 for the construction project: Pro-
vided further, That notwithstanding any
other provision of law, of funds limited under
this heading, not more than $112,600,000 shall
be available for administration, not less than
$15,000,000 shall be available for the Airport
Cooperative Research Program, not less than
$33,210,000 shall be available for Airport
Technology Research, and $10,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, shall be
available and transferred to ‘‘Office of the
Secretary, Salaries and Expenses’’ to carry
out the Small Community Air Service Devel-
opment Program: Provided further, That in
addition to airports eligible under section
41743 of title 49, United States Code, such
program may include the participation of an
airport that serves a community or consor-
tium that is not larger than a small hub air-
port, according to FAA hub classifications
effective at the time the Office of the Sec-
retary issues a request for proposals.
GRANTS-IN-AID FOR AIRPORTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Grants-In-
Aid for Airports’’, to enable the Secretary of
Transportation to make grants for projects
as authorized by subchapter 1 of chapter 471
and subchapter 1 of chapter 475 of title 49,
United States Code, $750,000,000, to remain
available through September 30, 2021: Pro-
vided, That amounts made available under
this heading shall be derived from the gen-
eral fund, and such funds shall not be subject
to apportionment formulas, special appor-
tionment categories, or minimum percent-
ages under chapter 471: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall distribute funds provided
under this heading as discretionary grants to
airports: Provided further, That the amount
made available under this heading shall not
be subject to any limitation on obligations
for the Grants-in-Aid for Airports program
set forth in any Act: Provided further, That
the Administrator of the Federal Aviation
Administration may retain up to 0.5 percent
of the funds provided under this heading to
fund the award and oversight by the Admin-
istrator of grants made under this heading.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 110. None of the funds in this Act may
be used to compensate in excess of 600 tech-
nical staff-years under the federally funded
research and development center contract
between the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion and the Center for Advanced Aviation
Systems Development during fiscal year
2019.
SEC. 111. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used to pursue or adopt guidelines or reg-
ulations requiring airport sponsors to pro-
vide to the Federal Aviation Administration
without cost building construction, mainte-
nance, utilities and expenses, or space in air-
port sponsor-owned buildings for services re-
lating to air traffic control, air navigation,
or weather reporting: Provided, That the pro-
hibition of funds in this section does not
apply to negotiations between the agency
and airport sponsors to achieve agreement
on ‘‘below-market’’ rates for these items or
to grant assurances that require airport
sponsors to provide land without cost to the
Federal Aviation Administration for air traf-
fic control facilities.
SEC. 112. The Administrator of the Federal
Aviation Administration may reimburse
amounts made available to satisfy 49 U.S.C.
41742(a)(1) from fees credited under 49 U.S.C.
45303 and any amount remaining in such ac-
count at the close of that fiscal year may be
made available to satisfy section 41742(a)(1)
for the subsequent fiscal year.
SEC. 113. Amounts collected under section
40113(e) of title 49, United States Code, shall
be credited to the appropriation current at
the time of collection, to be merged with and
available for the same purposes of such ap-
propriation.
SEC. 114. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for paying premium pay under
subsection 5546(a) of title 5, United States
Code, to any Federal Aviation Administra-
tion employee unless such employee actually
performed work during the time cor-
responding to such premium pay.
SEC. 115. None of the funds in this Act may
be obligated or expended for an employee of
the Federal Aviation Administration to pur-
chase a store gift card or gift certificate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H401
January 10, 2019
through use of a Government-issued credit
card.
SEC. 116. None of the funds in this Act may
be obligated or expended for retention bo-
nuses for an employee of the Federal Avia-
tion Administration without the prior writ-
ten approval of the Assistant Secretary for
Administration of the Department of Trans-
portation.
SEC. 117. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, none of the funds made available
under this Act or any prior Act may be used
to implement or to continue to implement
any limitation on the ability of any owner or
operator of a private aircraft to obtain, upon
a request to the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration, a blocking of
that owner’s or operator’s aircraft registra-
tion number from any display of the Federal
Aviation Administration’s Aircraft Situa-
tional Display to Industry data that is made
available to the public, except data made
available to a Government agency, for the
noncommercial flights of that owner or oper-
ator.
SEC. 118. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for salaries and expenses of
more than eight political and Presidential
appointees in the Federal Aviation Adminis-
tration.
SEC. 119. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used to increase fees
pursuant to section 44721 of title 49, United
States Code, until the Federal Aviation Ad-
ministration provides to the House and Sen-
ate Committees on Appropriations a report
that justifies all fees related to aeronautical
navigation products and explains how such
fees are consistent with Executive Order
13642.
SEC. 119A. None of the funds in this Act
may be used to close a regional operations
center of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion or reduce its services unless the Admin-
istrator notifies the House and Senate Com-
mittees on Appropriations not less than 90
full business days in advance.
SEC. 119B. None of the funds appropriated
or limited by this Act may be used to change
weight restrictions or prior permission rules
at Teterboro airport in Teterboro, New Jer-
sey.
SEC. 119C. None of the funds provided under
this Act may be used by the Administrator
of the Federal Aviation Administration to
withhold from consideration and approval
any new application for participation in the
Contract Tower Program, or for reevaluation
of Cost-share Program participants, as long
as the Federal Aviation Administration has
received an application from the airport, and
as long as the Administrator determines
such tower is eligible using the factors set
forth in the Federal Aviation Administration
report, Establishment and Discontinuance
Criteria for Airport Traffic Control Towers
(FAA–APO–90–7 as of August, 1990).
SEC. 119D. Notwithstanding any other pro-
vision of law, none of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be obligated or ex-
pended to limit the use of an Organization
Designation Authorization’s (ODA) delegated
functions documented in its procedures man-
ual on a type certification project unless the
Administrator documents a systemic air-
worthiness noncompliance performance issue
as a result of inspection or oversight that
the safety of air commerce requires a limita-
tion with regard to a specific authorization
or where an ODA’s capability has not been
previously established in terms of a new
compliance method or design feature: Pro-
vided, That in such cases the Federal Avia-
tion Administration shall work with the
ODA holder if requested to develop the capa-
bility to execute that function safely, effi-
ciently and effectively.
SEC. 119E. (a) TERMINAL AERODROME FORE-
CAST.—The Administrator shall permit an
air carrier operation under part 121 of title
14, Code of Federal Regulations, to operate
to a destination determined to be under vis-
ual flight rules without a Terminal Aero-
drome Forecast or Meteorological Aero-
drome Report if a current Area Forecast,
supplemented by other local weather obser-
vations or reports, is available, and an alter-
nate airport that has an available Terminal
Aerodrome Forecast and weather report is
specified. The air carrier shall have approved
procedures for dispatch and en route weather
evaluation and shall operate under instru-
ment flight rules en route to the destination.
(b) LIMITATION.—Without a written finding
of necessity, based on objective and histor-
ical evidence of imminent threat to safety,
the Administrator shall not promulgate any
operation specification, policy, or guidance
document that is more restrictive than, or
requires procedures that are not expressly
stated in, the regulations.
SEC. 119F. Of the funds provided under the
heading ‘‘Grants-in-aid for Airports’’, up to
$3,500,000 shall be for necessary expenses, in-
cluding an independent verification regime,
to provide reimbursement to airport spon-
sors that do not provide gateway operations
and providers of general aviation ground sup-
port services located at those airports closed
during a temporary flight restriction (TFR)
for any residence of the President that is
designated or identified to be secured by the
United States Secret Service, and for direct
and incremental financial losses incurred
while such airports are closed solely due to
the actions of the Federal Government: Pro-
vided, That no funds shall be obligated or dis-
tributed to airport sponsors that do not pro-
vide gateway operations and providers of
general aviation ground support services
until an independent audit is completed: Pro-
vided further, That losses incurred as a result
of violations of law, or through fault or neg-
ligence, of such operators and service pro-
viders or of third parties (including airports)
are not eligible for reimbursements: Provided
further, That obligation and expenditure of
funds are conditional upon full release of the
United States Government for all claims for
financial losses resulting from such actions.
REPORT ON NEXTGEN IMPLEMENTATION
SEC. 119G. (a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Administrator shall submit to Con-
gress a report on the implementation of
NextGen at commercial service airports in
the United States.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall include the following:
(1) The number and percentage of commer-
cial service airports in the United States
that have fully implemented NextGen.
(2) The percentage completion of NextGen
implementation at each commercial service
airport in the United States.
(c) DEVELOPMENT OF STANDARD TO DETER-
MINE PERCENTAGE IMPLEMENTATION OF
NEXTGEN.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
develop a standard for determining under
subsection (b)(2) the percentage completion
of NextGen implementation at commercial
service airports in the United States based
on factors that may include an accounting of
efficiency benefits achieved, the degree of
NextGen technology and infrastructure in-
stalled, and the extent of controller training
on NextGen.
(2) INCLUSION IN REPORT.—The Adminis-
trator shall include in the report submitted
under subsection (a) the standard developed
under paragraph (1).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ means the Administrator of the Fed-
eral Aviation Administration.
(2) NEXTGEN.—The term ‘‘NextGen’’ means
the Next Generation Air Transportation Sys-
tem.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
Not to exceed $446,444,304, together with
advances and reimbursements received by
the Federal Highway Administration, shall
be obligated for necessary expenses for ad-
ministration and operation of the Federal
Highway Administration. In addition,
$3,248,000 shall be transferred to the Appa-
lachian Regional Commission in accordance
with section 104(a) of title 23, United States
Code.
FEDERAL-AID HIGHWAYS
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
Funds available for the implementation or
execution of Federal-aid highway and high-
way safety construction programs author-
ized under titles 23 and 49, United States
Code, and the provisions of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act shall not
exceed total obligations of $45,268,596,000 for
fiscal year 2019: Provided, That the Secretary
may collect and spend fees, as authorized by
title 23, United States Code, to cover the
costs of services of expert firms, including
counsel, in the field of municipal and project
finance to assist in the underwriting and
servicing of Federal credit instruments and
all or a portion of the costs to the Federal
Government of servicing such credit instru-
ments: Provided further, That such fees are
available until expended to pay for such
costs: Provided further, That such amounts
are in addition to administrative expenses
that are also available for such purpose, and
are not subject to any obligation limitation
or the limitation on administrative expenses
under section 608 of title 23, United States
Code.
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For the payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out Federal-aid highway and high-
way safety construction programs author-
ized under title 23, United States Code,
$46,007,596,000 derived from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count), to remain available until expended.
HIGHWAY INFRASTRUCTURE PROGRAMS
There is hereby appropriated to the Sec-
retary of Transportation $3,300,000,000: Pro-
vided, That the amounts made available
under this heading shall be derived from the
general fund, shall be in addition to any
funds provided for fiscal year 2019 in this or
any other Act for ‘‘Federal-aid Highways’’
under chapter 1 of title 23, United States
Code, and shall not affect the distribution or
amount of funds provided in any other Act:
Provided further, That section 1101(b) of Pub-
lic Law 114–94 shall apply to funds made
available under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That of the funds made available under
this heading, $2,389,200,000 shall be set aside
for activities eligible under section
133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code,
$15,800,000 shall be set aside for activities eli-
gible under the Puerto Rico Highway Pro-
gram as described in section 165(b)(2)(C) of
such title, $5,000,000 shall be set aside for ac-
tivities eligible under the Territorial High-
way Program, as described in section
165(c)(6) of such title, $90,000,000 shall be set
aside for the elimination of hazards and in-
stallation of protective devices at railway-
highway crossings, as described in section
130(e)(1)(A) of such title, and $800,000,000 shall
be set aside for a bridge replacement and re-
habilitation program for States: Provided
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H402 January 10, 2019
further, That for purposes of this heading,
the term ‘‘State’’ means any of the 50 States
or the District of Columbia: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading for activities eligible under section
133(b)(1)(A) of title 23, United States Code,
shall be suballocated in the manner de-
scribed in section 133(d) of such title, except
that the set-aside described in section 133(h)
of such title shall not apply to funds made
available under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That the funds made available under
this heading for (1) activities eligible under
section 133(b)(1)(A) of such title (2) the elimi-
nation of hazards and installation of protec-
tive devices at railway-highway crossings,
and (3) a bridge replacement and rehabilita-
tion program shall be administered as if ap-
portioned under chapter 1 of such title and
shall remain available through September
30, 2022: Provided further, That the funds
made available under this heading for activi-
ties eligible under section 133(b)(1)(A) of title
23, United States Code, shall be apportioned
to the States in the same ratio as the obliga-
tion limitation for fiscal year 2019 is distrib-
uted among the States in section 120(a)(5) of
this Act: Provided further, That, except as
provided in the following proviso, the funds
made available under this heading for activi-
ties eligible under the Puerto Rico Highway
Program and activities eligible under the
Territorial Highway Program shall be ad-
ministered as if allocated under sections
165(b) and 165(c), respectively, of such title
and shall remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2022: Provided further, That the
funds made available under this heading for
activities eligible under the Puerto Rico
Highway Program shall not be subject to the
requirements of sections 165(b)(2)(A) or
165(b)(2)(B) of such title: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading for the elimination of hazards and
installation of protective devices at railway-
highway crossings shall be apportioned to
the States as described in sections 130(f)(1)
and (f)(2) of such title: Provided further, That
at least one-half of the funds made available
to a State under this heading for the elimi-
nation of hazards and installation of protec-
tive devices at railway-highway crossings
shall be available for the installation of pro-
tective devices at railway-highway cross-
ings: Provided further, That the funds made
available under this heading for the elimi-
nation of hazards and installation of protec-
tive devices at railway-highway crossings
shall be subject to the special rule described
in section 130(e)(2) of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That projects carried out with funds
made available under this heading for the
elimination of hazards and installation of
protective devices at railway-highway cross-
ings shall be (1) subject to sections 130(b), (c),
and (j) of such title, (2) included in the an-
nual report described in section 130(g) of
such title, and (3) subject to the Federal
share requirement described in section
130(f)(3) of such title: Provided further, That
the funds made available under this heading
for the elimination of hazards and installa-
tion of protective devices at railway-high-
way crossings shall be (1) available for
matching, as described in section 130(h) of
such title, subject to the requirements of
such section, (2) available for incentive pay-
ments, as described in section 130(i) of such
title, subject to the requirements of such
section, and (3) subject to the limitation in
section 130(k) of such title: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading for a bridge replacement and reha-
bilitation program shall be used for highway
bridge replacement or rehabilitation projects
on public roads: Provided further, That except
as provided in the following proviso the
funds made available under this heading for
a bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram shall be used in areas of a State that
have a population of 200,000 or fewer individ-
uals: Provided further, That if a State has no
bridges located in areas with a population of
200,000 or fewer individuals, or if a State has
no bridge replacement or rehabilitation
needs in areas of the State with a population
of 200,000 or fewer individuals, the funds
made available under this heading for a
bridge replacement and rehabilitation pro-
gram may be used for highway bridge re-
placement or rehabilitation projects on pub-
lic roads in any area of the State: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall distribute
funds made available under this heading for
the bridge replacement and rehabilitation
program to each State by the proportion
that the percentage of total deck area of
bridges classified as in poor condition in
each State bears to the sum of the percent-
ages of total deck area of bridges classified
as in poor condition in all States: Provided
further, That for purposes of this heading for
the bridge replacement and rehabilitation
program, the Secretary shall (1) calculate
population based on the latest available data
from the decennial census conducted under
section 141(a) of title 13, United States Code,
and (2) calculate the percentages of total
deck area of bridges classified as in poor con-
dition based on the National Bridge Inven-
tory as of December 31, 2017.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 120. (a) For fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary of Transportation shall—
(1) not distribute from the obligation limi-
tation for Federal-aid highways—
(A) amounts authorized for administrative
expenses and programs by section 104(a) of
title 23, United States Code; and
(B) amounts authorized for the Bureau of
Transportation Statistics;
(2) not distribute an amount from the obli-
gation limitation for Federal-aid highways
that is equal to the unobligated balance of
amounts—
(A) made available from the Highway
Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Ac-
count) for Federal-aid highway and highway
safety construction programs for previous
fiscal years the funds for which are allocated
by the Secretary (or apportioned by the Sec-
retary under sections 202 or 204 of title 23,
United States Code); and
(B) for which obligation limitation was
provided in a previous fiscal year;
(3) determine the proportion that—
(A) the obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways, less the aggregate of amounts
not distributed under paragraphs (1) and (2)
of this subsection; bears to
(B) the total of the sums authorized to be
appropriated for the Federal-aid highway
and highway safety construction programs
(other than sums authorized to be appro-
priated for provisions of law described in
paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection (b)
and sums authorized to be appropriated for
section 119 of title 23, United States Code,
equal to the amount referred to in sub-
section (b)(12) for such fiscal year), less the
aggregate of the amounts not distributed
under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this sub-
section;
(4) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2), for each of the programs (other
than programs to which paragraph (1) ap-
plies) that are allocated by the Secretary
under the Fixing America’s Surface Trans-
portation Act and title 23, United States
Code, or apportioned by the Secretary under
sections 202 or 204 of that title, by multi-
plying—
(A) the proportion determined under para-
graph (3); by
(B) the amounts authorized to be appro-
priated for each such program for such fiscal
year; and
(5) distribute the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways, less the aggregate
amounts not distributed under paragraphs
(1) and (2) and the amounts distributed under
paragraph (4), for Federal-aid highway and
highway safety construction programs that
are apportioned by the Secretary under title
23, United States Code, (other than the
amounts apportioned for the National High-
way Performance Program in section 119 of
title 23, United States Code, that are exempt
from the limitation under subsection (b)(12)
and the amounts apportioned under sections
202 and 204 of that title) in the proportion
that—
(A) amounts authorized to be appropriated
for the programs that are apportioned under
title 23, United States Code, to each State
for such fiscal year; bears to
(B) the total of the amounts authorized to
be appropriated for the programs that are
apportioned under title 23, United States
Code, to all States for such fiscal year.
(b) EXCEPTIONS FROM OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TION.—The obligation limitation for Federal-
aid highways shall not apply to obligations
under or for—
(1) section 125 of title 23, United States
Code;
(2) section 147 of the Surface Transpor-
tation Assistance Act of 1978 (23 U.S.C. 144
note; 92 Stat. 2714);
(3) section 9 of the Federal-Aid Highway
Act of 1981 (95 Stat. 1701);
(4) subsections (b) and (j) of section 131 of
the Surface Transportation Assistance Act
of 1982 (96 Stat. 2119);
(5) subsections (b) and (c) of section 149 of
the Surface Transportation and Uniform Re-
location Assistance Act of 1987 (101 Stat. 198);
(6) sections 1103 through 1108 of the Inter-
modal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act
of 1991 (105 Stat. 2027);
(7) section 157 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect on June 8, 1998);
(8) section 105 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect for fiscal years 1998
through 2004, but only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
(9) Federal-aid highway programs for
which obligation authority was made avail-
able under the Transportation Equity Act
for the 21st Century (112 Stat. 107) or subse-
quent Acts for multiple years or to remain
available until expended, but only to the ex-
tent that the obligation authority has not
lapsed or been used;
(10) section 105 of title 23, United States
Code (as in effect for fiscal years 2005
through 2012, but only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000 for each of those fiscal years);
(11) section 1603 of SAFETEA–LU (23 U.S.C.
118 note; 119 Stat. 1248), to the extent that
funds obligated in accordance with that sec-
tion were not subject to a limitation on obli-
gations at the time at which the funds were
initially made available for obligation; and
(12) section 119 of title 23, United States
Code (but, for each of fiscal years 2013
through 2019, only in an amount equal to
$639,000,000).
(c) REDISTRIBUTION OF UNUSED OBLIGATION
AUTHORITY.—Notwithstanding subsection (a),
the Secretary shall, after August 1 of such
fiscal year—
(1) revise a distribution of the obligation
limitation made available under subsection
(a) if an amount distributed cannot be obli-
gated during that fiscal year; and
(2) redistribute sufficient amounts to those
States able to obligate amounts in addition
to those previously distributed during that
fiscal year, giving priority to those States
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H403
January 10, 2019
having large unobligated balances of funds
apportioned under sections 144 (as in effect
on the day before the date of enactment of
Public Law 112–141) and 104 of title 23, United
States Code.
(d) APPLICABILITY OF OBLIGATION LIMITA-
TIONS TO TRANSPORTATION RESEARCH PRO-
GRAMS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
paragraph (2), the obligation limitation for
Federal-aid highways shall apply to contract
authority for transportation research pro-
grams carried out under—
(A) chapter 5 of title 23, United States
Code; and
(B) title VI of the Fixing America’s Sur-
face Transportation Act.
(2) EXCEPTION.—Obligation authority made
available under paragraph (1) shall—
(A) remain available for a period of 4 fiscal
years; and
(B) be in addition to the amount of any
limitation imposed on obligations for Fed-
eral-aid highway and highway safety con-
struction programs for future fiscal years.
(e) REDISTRIBUTION OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZED
FUNDS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 30 days
after the date of distribution of obligation
limitation under subsection (a), the Sec-
retary shall distribute to the States any
funds (excluding funds authorized for the
program under section 202 of title 23, United
States Code) that—
(A) are authorized to be appropriated for
such fiscal year for Federal-aid highway pro-
grams; and
(B) the Secretary determines will not be
allocated to the States (or will not be appor-
tioned to the States under section 204 of title
23, United States Code), and will not be
available for obligation, for such fiscal year
because of the imposition of any obligation
limitation for such fiscal year.
(2) RATIO.—Funds shall be distributed
under paragraph (1) in the same proportion
as the distribution of obligation authority
under subsection (a)(5).
(3) AVAILABILITY.—Funds distributed to
each State under paragraph (1) shall be
available for any purpose described in sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23, United States Code.
SEC. 121. Notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302,
funds received by the Bureau of Transpor-
tation Statistics from the sale of data prod-
ucts, for necessary expenses incurred pursu-
ant to chapter 63 of title 49, United States
Code, may be credited to the Federal-aid
highways account for the purpose of reim-
bursing the Bureau for such expenses: Pro-
vided, That such funds shall be subject to the
obligation limitation for Federal-aid high-
way and highway safety construction pro-
grams.
SEC. 122. Not less than 15 days prior to
waiving, under his or her statutory author-
ity, any Buy America requirement for Fed-
eral-aid highways projects, the Secretary of
Transportation shall make an informal pub-
lic notice and comment opportunity on the
intent to issue such waiver and the reasons
therefor: Provided, That the Secretary shall
provide an annual report to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations on
any waivers granted under the Buy America
requirements.
SEC. 123. None of the funds provided in this
Act to the Department of Transportation
may be used to provide credit assistance un-
less not less than 3 days before any applica-
tion approval to provide credit assistance
under sections 603 and 604 of title 23, United
States Code, the Secretary of Transportation
provides notification in writing to the fol-
lowing committees: the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations; the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works
and the Committee on Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs of the Senate; and the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastructure
of the House of Representatives: Provided,
That such notification shall include, but not
be limited to, the name of the project spon-
sor; a description of the project; whether
credit assistance will be provided as a direct
loan, loan guarantee, or line of credit; and
the amount of credit assistance.
SEC. 124. None of the funds in this Act may
be used to make a grant for a project under
section 117 of title 23, United States Code,
unless the Secretary, at least 60 days before
making a grant under that section, provides
written notification to the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations of the pro-
posed grant, including an evaluation and jus-
tification for the project and the amount of
the proposed grant award: Provided, That the
written notification required in the previous
proviso shall be made no later than 180 days
after enactment of this Act.
SEC. 125. (a) A State or territory, as defined
in section 165 of title 23, United States Code,
may use for any project eligible under sec-
tion 133(b) of title 23 or section 165 of title 23
and located within the boundary of the State
or territory any earmarked amount, and any
associated obligation limitation: Provided,
That the Department of Transportation for
the State or territory for which the ear-
marked amount was originally designated or
directed notifies the Secretary of Transpor-
tation of its intent to use its authority under
this section and submits a quarterly report
to the Secretary identifying the projects to
which the funding would be applied. Not-
withstanding the original period of avail-
ability of funds to be obligated under this
section, such funds and associated obligation
limitation shall remain available for obliga-
tion for a period of 3 fiscal years after the
fiscal year in which the Secretary of Trans-
portation is notified. The Federal share of
the cost of a project carried out with funds
made available under this section shall be
the same as associated with the earmark.
(b) In this section, the term ‘‘earmarked
amount’’ means—
(1) congressionally directed spending, as
defined in rule XLIV of the Standing Rules
of the Senate, identified in a prior law, re-
port, or joint explanatory statement, which
was authorized to be appropriated or appro-
priated more than 10 fiscal years prior to the
current fiscal year, and administered by the
Federal Highway Administration; or
(2) a congressional earmark, as defined in
rule XXI of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives identified in a prior law, report,
or joint explanatory statement, which was
authorized to be appropriated or appro-
priated more than 10 fiscal years prior to the
current fiscal year, and administered by the
Federal Highway Administration.
(c) The authority under subsection (a) may
be exercised only for those projects or activi-
ties that have obligated less than 10 percent
of the amount made available for obligation
as of October 1 of the current fiscal year, and
shall be applied to projects within the same
general geographic area within 50 miles for
which the funding was designated, except
that a State or territory may apply such au-
thority to unexpended balances of funds from
projects or activities the State or territory
certifies have been closed and for which pay-
ments have been made under a final voucher.
(d) The Secretary shall submit consoli-
dated reports of the information provided by
the States and territories each quarter to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations.
FEDERAL MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY OPERATIONS AND
PROGRAMS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in the
implementation, execution and administra-
tion of motor carrier safety operations and
programs pursuant to section 31110 of title
49, United States Code, as amended by the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act, $284,000,000, to be derived from the High-
way Trust Fund (other than the Mass Tran-
sit Account), together with advances and re-
imbursements received by the Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration, the sum of
which shall remain available until expended:
Provided, That funds available for implemen-
tation, execution or administration of motor
carrier safety operations and programs au-
thorized under title 49, United States Code,
shall not exceed total obligations of
$284,000,000 for ‘‘Motor Carrier Safety Oper-
ations and Programs’’ for fiscal year 2019, of
which $9,073,000, to remain available for obli-
gation until September 30, 2021, is for the re-
search and technology program, and of which
$34,824,000, to remain available for obligation
until September 30, 2021, is for information
management.
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out sections 31102, 31103, 31104, and
31313 of title 49, United States Code, as
amended by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, $382,800,000, to be de-
rived from the Highway Trust Fund (other
than the Mass Transit Account) and to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That funds available for the implementation
or execution of motor carrier safety pro-
grams shall not exceed total obligations of
$382,800,000 in fiscal year 2019 for ‘‘Motor Car-
rier Safety Grants’’; of which $304,300,000
shall be available for the motor carrier safe-
ty assistance program, $32,500,000 shall be
available for the commercial driver’s license
program implementation program, $44,000,000
shall be available for the high priority ac-
tivities program, and $2,000,000 shall be made
available for commercial motor vehicle oper-
ators grants, of which $1,000,000 is to be made
available from prior year unobligated con-
tract authority provided for Motor Carrier
Safety grants in the Transportation Equity
Act for the 21st Century (Public Law 105–178),
SAFETEA–LU (Public Law 109–59), or other
appropriations or authorization acts.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL MOTOR
CARRIER SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 130. Funds appropriated or limited in
this Act shall be subject to the terms and
conditions stipulated in section 350 of Public
Law 107–87 and section 6901 of Public Law
110–28.
SEC. 131. The Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration shall send notice of 49 CFR
section 385.308 violations by certified mail,
registered mail, or another manner of deliv-
ery, which records the receipt of the notice
by the persons responsible for the violations.
SEC. 132. To the maximum extent prac-
ticable, the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration shall ensure the safe and
timely completion of the flexible sleeper
berth pilot program of the Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H404 January 10, 2019
NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH
For expenses necessary to discharge the
functions of the Secretary, with respect to
traffic and highway safety authorized under
chapter 301 and part C of subtitle VI of title
49, United States Code, $190,000,000, of which
$40,000,000 shall remain available through
September 30, 2020.
OPERATIONS AND RESEARCH
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out the provisions of 23 U.S.C. 403,
section 4011 of the FAST Act (Public Law
114–94), and chapter 303 of title 49, United
States Code, $152,100,000, to be derived from
the Highway Trust Fund (other than the
Mass Transit Account) and to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That none of
the funds in this Act shall be available for
the planning or execution of programs the
total obligations for which, in fiscal year
2019, are in excess of $152,100,000, of which
$146,700,000 shall be for programs authorized
under 23 U.S.C. 403 and $5,400,000 shall be for
the National Driver Register authorized
under chapter 303 of title 49, United States
Code: Provided further, That within the
$152,100,000 obligation limitation for oper-
ations and research, $20,000,000 shall remain
available until September 30, 2020, and shall
be in addition to the amount of any limita-
tion imposed on obligations for future years.
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in
carrying out provisions of 23 U.S.C. 402, 404,
and 405, and section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act, to re-
main available until expended, $610,208,000,
to be derived from the Highway Trust Fund
(other than the Mass Transit Account): Pro-
vided, That none of the funds in this Act
shall be available for the planning or execu-
tion of programs the total obligations for
which, in fiscal year 2019, are in excess of
$610,208,000 for programs authorized under 23
U.S.C. 402, 404, and 405, and section 4001(a)(6)
of the Fixing America’s Surface Transpor-
tation Act, of which $270,400,000 shall be for
‘‘Highway Safety Programs’’ under 23 U.S.C.
402; $283,000,000 shall be for ‘‘National Pri-
ority Safety Programs’’ under 23 U.S.C. 405;
$30,200,000 shall be for ‘‘High Visibility En-
forcement Program’’ under 23 U.S.C. 404; and
$26,608,000 shall be for ‘‘Administrative Ex-
penses’’ under section 4001(a)(6) of the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act: Pro-
vided further, That none of these funds shall
be used for construction, rehabilitation, or
remodeling costs, or for office furnishings
and fixtures for State, local or private build-
ings or structures: Provided further, That not
to exceed $500,000 of the funds made available
for ‘‘National Priority Safety Programs’’
under 23 U.S.C. 405 for ‘‘Impaired Driving
Countermeasures’’ (as described in sub-
section (d) of that section) shall be available
for technical assistance to the States: Pro-
vided further, That with respect to the
‘‘Transfers’’ provision under 23 U.S.C.
405(a)(8), any amounts transferred to in-
crease the amounts made available under
section 402 shall include the obligation au-
thority for such amounts: Provided further,
That the Administrator shall notify the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions of any exercise of the authority grant-
ed under the previous proviso or under 23
U.S.C. 405(a)(8) within 5 days.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—NATIONAL
HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 140. An additional $130,000 shall be
made available to the National Highway
Traffic Safety Administration, out of the
amount limited for section 402 of title 23,
United States Code, to pay for travel and re-
lated expenses for State management re-
views and to pay for core competency devel-
opment training and related expenses for
highway safety staff.
SEC. 141. The limitations on obligations for
the programs of the National Highway Traf-
fic Safety Administration set in this Act
shall not apply to obligations for which obli-
gation authority was made available in pre-
vious public laws but only to the extent that
the obligation authority has not lapsed or
been used.
SEC. 142. In addition to the amounts made
available under the heading, ‘‘Operations and
Research (Liquidation of Contract Author-
ization) (Limitation on Obligations) (High-
way Trust Fund)’’ for carrying out the provi-
sions of section 403 of title 23, United States
Code, $4,000,000 shall be available to continue
a high visibility enforcement paid-media
campaign regarding highway-rail grade
crossing safety in collaboration with the
Federal Railroad Administration.
FEDERAL RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
SAFETY AND OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of the Federal Rail-
road Administration, not otherwise provided
for, $221,698,000, of which $15,900,000 shall re-
main available until expended.
RAILROAD RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary expenses for railroad re-
search and development, $40,600,000, to re-
main available until expended.
RAILROAD REHABILITATION AND IMPROVEMENT
FINANCING PROGRAM
The Secretary of Transportation is author-
ized to issue direct loans and loan guaran-
tees pursuant to sections 501 through 504 of
the Railroad Revitalization and Regulatory
Reform Act of 1976 (Public Law 94–210), as
amended, such authority shall exist as long
as any such direct loan or loan guarantee is
outstanding.
FEDERAL-STATE PARTNERSHIP FOR STATE OF
GOOD REPAIR
For necessary expenses related to Federal-
State Partnership for State of Good Repair
Grants as authorized by section 24911 of title
49, United States Code, $300,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That the
Secretary may withhold up to one percent of
the amount provided under this heading for
the costs of award and project management
oversight of grants carried out under section
24911 of title 49, United States Code: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue the
Notice of Funding Opportunity that encom-
passes funds provided under this heading in
this Act and previously unawarded funds
provided under this heading in fiscal year
2017 by Public Law 115–31 and fiscal year 2018
by Public Law 115–141, no later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall announce the selec-
tion of projects to receive awards for the
funds in the previous proviso no later than
180 days after enactment of this Act.
CONSOLIDATED RAIL INFRASTRUCTURE AND
SAFETY IMPROVEMENTS
For necessary expenses related to Consoli-
dated Rail Infrastructure and Safety Im-
provements Grants, as authorized by section
24407 of title 49, United States Code,
$255,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That section 24405(f) of
title 49, United States Code, shall not apply
to projects for the implementation of posi-
tive train control systems otherwise eligible
under section 24407(c)(1) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That amounts
available under this heading for projects se-
lected for commuter rail passenger transpor-
tation may be transferred by the Secretary,
after selection, to the appropriate agencies
to be administered in accordance with chap-
ter 53 of title 49, United States Code: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall not
limit eligible projects from consideration for
funding for planning, engineering, environ-
mental, construction, and design elements of
the same project in the same application:
Provided further, That unobligated balances
remaining after 4 years from the date of en-
actment may be used for any eligible project
under section 24407(c) of title 49, United
States Code: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary may withhold up to one percent of the
amount provided under this heading for the
costs of award and project management over-
sight of grants carried out under section
24407 of title 49, United States Code: Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue the
Notice of Funding Opportunity that encom-
passes previously unawarded funds provided
under this heading in fiscal year 2018 by Pub-
lic Law 115–141 and funds provided under this
heading in this Act no later than 30 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall announce the selec-
tion of projects to receive awards for the
funds in the previous proviso no later than
120 days after enactment of this Act.
RESTORATION AND ENHANCEMENT
For necessary expenses related to Restora-
tion and Enhancement Grants, as authorized
by section 24408 of title 49, United States
Code, $10,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the Secretary may
withhold up to one percent of the funds pro-
vided under this heading to fund the costs of
award and project management and over-
sight: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall issue the Notice of Funding Oppor-
tunity for funds provided under this heading
no later than 30 days after enactment of this
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall announce the selection of projects to
receive awards for the funds in the previous
proviso no later than 120 days after enact-
ment of this Act.
NORTHEAST CORRIDOR GRANTS TO THE
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
To enable the Secretary of Transportation
to make grants to the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for activities associ-
ated with the Northeast Corridor as author-
ized by section 11101(a) of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act (division A
of Public Law 114–94), $650,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That the
Secretary may retain up to one-half of 1 per-
cent of the funds provided under both this
heading and the ‘‘National Network Grants
to the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion’’ heading to fund the costs of project
management and oversight of activities au-
thorized by section 11101(c) of division A of
Public Law 114–94: Provided further, That in
addition to the project management over-
sight funds authorized under section 11101(c)
of division A of Public Law 114–94, the Sec-
retary may retain up to an additional
$5,000,000 of the funds provided under this
heading to fund expenses associated with the
Northeast Corridor Commission established
under section 24905 of title 49, United States
Code: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this heading and the
‘‘National Network Grants to the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation’’ heading,
not less than $50,000,000 shall be made avail-
able to bring Amtrak-served facilities and
stations into compliance with the Americans
with Disabilities Act: Provided further, That
of the amounts made available under this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H405
January 10, 2019
heading and the heading ‘‘National Network
Grants to the National Railroad Passenger
Corporation’’, not more than $500,000 may be
made available to provide a discount of not
less than 15 percent on passenger fares to
veterans (as defined in section 101 of title 38,
United States Code).
NATIONAL NETWORK GRANTS TO THE NATIONAL
RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
To enable the Secretary of Transportation
to make grants to the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation for activities associ-
ated with the National Network as author-
ized by section 11101(b) of the Fixing Amer-
ica’s Surface Transportation Act (division A
of Public Law 114–94), $1,291,600,000, to re-
main available until expended: Provided,
That the Secretary may retain up to an addi-
tional $2,000,000 of the funds provided under
this heading to fund expenses associated
with the State-Supported Route Committee
established under section 24712 of title 49,
United States Code: Provided further, That at
least $50,000,000 of the amount provided
under this heading shall be available for the
development, installation and operation of
railroad safety technology, including the im-
plementation of a positive train control sys-
tem, on State-supported routes as defined
under section 24102(13) of title 49, United
States Code, on which positive train control
systems are not required by law or regula-
tion: Provided further, That not less than
$50,000,000 of the amount provided under this
heading shall be for capital expenses related
to safety improvements, maintenance, and
the non-Federal match for discretionary
Federal grant programs to enable continued
passenger rail operations on long-distance
routes (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code) on which Amtrak is the
sole tenant of the host railroad and positive
train control systems are not required by
law (including regulations): Provided further,
That none of the funds provided under this
heading shall be used by Amtrak to give no-
tice under subsection (a) or (b) of section
24706 of title 49, United States Code, with re-
spect to long-distance routes (as defined in
section 24102 of title 49, United States Code)
on which Amtrak is the sole tenant of the
host railroad and positive train control sys-
tems are not required by law (including regu-
lations), or otherwise initiate discontinu-
ance of, reduce the frequency of, suspend, or
substantially alter the schedule or route of
rail service on any portion of such route op-
erated in fiscal year 2018, including imple-
mentation of service permitted by section
24305(a)(3)(A) of title 49, United States Code,
in lieu of rail service.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 150. None of the funds provided to the
National Railroad Passenger Corporation
may be used to fund any overtime costs in
excess of $35,000 for any individual employee:
Provided, That the President of Amtrak may
waive the cap set in the previous proviso for
specific employees when the President of
Amtrak determines such a cap poses a risk
to the safety and operational efficiency of
the system: Provided further, That the Presi-
dent of Amtrak shall report to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations with-
in 60 days of enactment of this Act, a sum-
mary of all overtime payments incurred by
the Corporation for 2018 and the three prior
calendar years: Provided further, That such
summary shall include the total number of
employees that received waivers and the
total overtime payments the Corporation
paid to those employees receiving waivers
for each month for 2018 and for the three
prior calendar years.
SEC. 151. It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) long-distance passenger rail routes pro-
vide much-needed transportation access for
4,700,000 riders in 325 communities in 40
States and are particularly important in
rural areas; and
(2) long-distance passenger rail routes and
services should be sustained to ensure
connectivity throughout the National Net-
work (as defined in section 24102 of title 49,
United States Code).
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES
For necessary administrative expenses of
the Federal Transit Administration’s pro-
grams authorized by chapter 53 of title 49,
United States Code, $113,165,000: Provided,
That none of the funds provided or limited in
this Act may be used to create a permanent
office of transit security under this heading:
Provided further, That upon submission to
the Congress of the fiscal year 2020 Presi-
dent’s budget, the Secretary of Transpor-
tation shall transmit to Congress the annual
report on New Starts, including proposed al-
locations for fiscal year 2020.
TRANSIT FORMULA GRANTS
(LIQUIDATION OF CONTRACT AUTHORIZATION)
(LIMITATION ON OBLIGATIONS)
(HIGHWAY TRUST FUND)
For payment of obligations incurred in the
Federal Public Transportation Assistance
Program in this account, and for payment of
obligations incurred in carrying out the pro-
visions of 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307, 5310, 5311, 5312,
5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337, 5339, and 5340,
as amended by the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, section 20005(b) of Pub-
lic Law 112–141, and section 3006(b) of the
Fixing America’s Surface Transportation
Act, $9,900,000,000, to be derived from the
Mass Transit Account of the Highway Trust
Fund and to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided, That funds available for
the implementation or execution of pro-
grams authorized under 49 U.S.C. 5305, 5307,
5310, 5311, 5312, 5314, 5318, 5329(e)(6), 5335, 5337,
5339, and 5340, as amended by the Fixing
America’s Surface Transportation Act, sec-
tion 20005(b) of Public Law 112–141, and sec-
tion 3006(b) of the Fixing America’s Surface
Transportation Act, shall not exceed total
obligations of $9,939,380,030 in fiscal year
2019: Provided further, That the Federal share
of the cost of activities carried out under 49
U.S.C. section 5312 shall not exceed 80 per-
cent, except that if there is substantial pub-
lic interest or benefit, the Secretary may ap-
prove a greater Federal share.
TRANSIT INFRASTRUCTURE GRANTS
For an additional amount for buses and bus
facilities grants under section 5339 of title 49,
United States Code, state of good repair
grants under section 5337 of such title, high
density state apportionments under section
5340(d) of such title, and the bus testing fa-
cilities under sections 5312 and 5318 of such
title, $800,000,000 to remain available until
expended: Provided, That $400,000,000 shall be
available for grants as authorized under sec-
tion 5339 of such title, of which $209,104,000
shall be available for the buses and bus fa-
cilities formula grants as authorized under
section 5339(a) of such title, $161,446,000 shall
be available for the buses and bus facilities
competitive grants as authorized under sec-
tion 5339(b) of such title, and $29,450,000 shall
be available for the low or no emission
grants as authorized under section 5339(c) of
such title: Provided further, That $362,000,000
shall be available for the state of good repair
grants as authorized under section 5337 of
such title: Provided further, That $30,000,000
shall be available for the high density state
apportionments as authorized under section
5340(d) of such title: Provided further, That
$2,000,000 shall be available for the bus test-
ing facility as authorized under section 5318
of such title: Provided further, That notwith-
standing section 5318(a) of such title,
$6,000,000 shall be available for the operation
and maintenance of bus testing facilities by
institutions of higher education selected pur-
suant to section 5312(h) of such title: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall enter
into a contract or cooperative agreement
with, or make a grant to, each institution of
higher education selected pursuant to sec-
tion 5312(h) of such title, to operate and
maintain a facility to conduct the testing of
low or no emission vehicle new bus models
using the standards established pursuant to
section 5318(e)(2) of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That the term ‘‘low or no emission ve-
hicle’’ has the meaning given the term in
section 5312(e)(6) of such title: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall pay 80 percent
of the cost of testing a low or no emission
vehicle new bus model at each selected insti-
tution of higher education: Provided further,
That the entity having the vehicle tested
shall pay 20 percent of the cost of testing:
Provided further, That a low or no emission
vehicle new bus model tested that receives a
passing aggregate test score in accordance
with the standards established under section
5318(e)(2) of such title, shall be deemed to be
in compliance with the requirements of sec-
tion 5318(e) of such title: Provided further,
That amounts made available by this head-
ing shall be derived from the general fund:
Provided further, That the amounts made
available under this heading shall not be
subject to any limitation on obligations for
transit programs set forth in any Act.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
For necessary expenses to carry out 49
U.S.C. 5314, $5,000,000, of which up to
$1,500,000 shall be for a cooperative agree-
ment through which the Federal Transit Ad-
ministration assists small-urban, rural and
tribal public transit recipients and planning
organizations with applied innovation and
capacity-building: Provided, That the assist-
ance provided under this heading not dupli-
cate the activities of 49 U.S.C. 5311(b) or 49
U.S.C. 5312.
CAPITAL INVESTMENT GRANTS
For necessary expenses to carry out fixed
guideway capital investment grants under
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code,
and section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act, $2,552,687,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2022:
Provided, That of the amounts made avail-
able under this heading, $1,315,670,000 shall be
available for projects authorized under sec-
tion 5309(d) of title 49, United States Code,
$543,500,000 shall be available for projects au-
thorized under section 5309(e) of title 49,
United States Code, $568,000,000 shall be
available for projects authorized under sec-
tion 5309(h) of title 49, United States Code,
and $100,000,000 shall be available for projects
authorized under section 3005(b) of the Fix-
ing America’s Surface Transportation Act:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
continue to administer the capital invest-
ment grants program in accordance with the
procedural and substantive requirements of
section 5309 of title 49, United States Code,
and of section 3005(b) of the Fixing America’s
Surface Transportation Act.
GRANTS TO THE WASHINGTON METROPOLITAN
AREA TRANSIT AUTHORITY
For grants to the Washington Metropoli-
tan Area Transit Authority as authorized
under section 601 of division B of Public Law
110–432, $150,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That the Secretary of
Transportation shall approve grants for cap-
ital and preventive maintenance expendi-
tures for the Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority only after receiving and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H406 January 10, 2019
reviewing a request for each specific project:
Provided further, That prior to approving
such grants, the Secretary shall certify that
the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit
Authority is making progress to improve its
safety management system in response to
the Federal Transit Administration’s 2015
safety management inspection: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall determine
that the Washington Metropolitan Area
Transit Authority has placed the highest pri-
ority on those investments that will improve
the safety of the system before approving
such grants: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary, in order to ensure safety throughout
the rail system, may waive the requirements
of section 601(e)(1) of division B of Public
Law 110–432.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—FEDERAL
TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
(INCLUDING RESCISSION)
SEC. 160. The limitations on obligations for
the programs of the Federal Transit Admin-
istration shall not apply to any authority
under 49 U.S.C. 5338, previously made avail-
able for obligation, or to any other authority
previously made available for obligation.
SEC. 161. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, any funds appropriated before
October 1, 2018, under any section of chapter
53 of title 49, United States Code, that re-
main available for expenditure, may be
transferred to and administered under the
most recent appropriation heading for any
such section.
SEC. 162. Of the unobligated amounts made
available for fiscal years 2005 or prior fiscal
years to ‘‘Transit Formula Grants’’, a total
of $46,560,000 is hereby permanently re-
scinded.
SEC. 163. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used for the imple-
mentation or furtherance of new policies de-
tailed in the ‘‘Dear Colleague’’ letter distrib-
uted by the Federal Transit Administration
to capital investment grant program project
sponsors on June 29, 2018.
SAINT LAWRENCE SEAWAY DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION
The Saint Lawrence Seaway Development
Corporation is hereby authorized to make
such expenditures, within the limits of funds
and borrowing authority available to the
Corporation, and in accord with law, and to
make such contracts and commitments with-
out regard to fiscal year limitations, as pro-
vided by section 104 of the Government Cor-
poration Control Act, as amended, as may be
necessary in carrying out the programs set
forth in the Corporation’s budget for the cur-
rent fiscal year.
OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
(HARBOR MAINTENANCE TRUST FUND)
For necessary expenses to conduct the op-
erations, maintenance, and capital asset re-
newal activities on those portions of the
Saint Lawrence Seaway owned, operated,
and maintained by the Saint Lawrence Sea-
way Development Corporation, $36,000,000, to
be derived from the Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund, pursuant to Public Law 99–662:
Provided, That of the amounts made avail-
able under this heading, not less than
$16,000,000 shall be used on capital asset re-
newal activities.
MARITIME ADMINISTRATION
MARITIME SECURITY PROGRAM
For necessary expenses to maintain and
preserve a U.S.-flag merchant fleet to serve
the national security needs of the United
States, $300,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
OPERATIONS AND TRAINING
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For necessary expenses of operations and
training activities authorized by law,
$149,442,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020, of which $71,000,000 shall be
for the operations of the United States Mer-
chant Marine Academy, and of which
$18,000,000 shall remain available until ex-
pended for the maintenance and repair,
equipment, and capital improvements at the
United States Merchant Marine Academy:
Provided, That not later than January 12,
2020, the Administrator of the Maritime Ad-
ministration shall transmit to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations the
annual report on sexual assault and sexual
harassment at the United States Merchant
Marine Academy as required pursuant to sec-
tion 3507 of Public Law 110–417: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, $3,000,000 shall be for the
Maritime Environment and Technology As-
sistance program authorized under section
50307 of title 46, United States Code: Provided
further, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, $7,000,000, shall remain
available until expended for the Short Sea
Transportation Program (America’s Marine
Highways) to make grants for the purposes
authorized under sections 55601(b)(1) and (3)
of title 46, United States Code: Provided fur-
ther, That available balances under this
heading for the Short Sea Transportation
Program (America’s Marine Highways) from
prior year recoveries shall be available to
carry out activities authorized under sec-
tions 55601(b)(1) and (3) of title 46, United
States Code: Provided further, That from
funds provided under the previous two pro-
visos, the Secretary of Transportation shall
make grants no later than 180 days after en-
actment of this Act in such amounts as the
Secretary determines: Provided further, That
any unobligated balances available from pre-
vious appropriations for programs and ac-
tivities supporting State Maritime Acad-
emies shall be transferred to and merged
with the appropriations for ‘‘Maritime Ad-
ministration, State Maritime Academy Op-
erations’’ and shall be made available for the
same purposes.
STATE MARITIME ACADEMY OPERATIONS
For necessary expenses of operations, sup-
port and training activities for State Mari-
time Academies, $340,200,000, of which
$30,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be for maintenance, repair, life
extension, and capacity improvement of Na-
tional Defense Reserve Fleet training ships
in support of State Maritime Academies, as
well as other expenses related to training
mariners, as determined by the Secretary, of
which $300,000,000, to remain available until
expended shall be for the National Security
Multi-Mission Vessel Program, including
funds for construction, planning, administra-
tion, and design of school ships, of which
$2,400,000 shall remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020, for the Student Incentive
Program, of which $1,800,000 shall remain
available until expended for training ship
fuel assistance, and of which $6,000,000 shall
remain available until September 30, 2020, for
direct payments for State Maritime Acad-
emies.
ASSISTANCE TO SMALL SHIPYARDS
To make grants to qualified shipyards as
authorized under section 54101 of title 46,
United States Code, as amended by Public
Law 113–281, $20,000,000, to remain available
until expended.
SHIP DISPOSAL
For necessary expenses related to the dis-
posal of obsolete vessels in the National De-
fense Reserve Fleet of the Maritime Admin-
istration, $5,000,000, to remain available until
expended.
MARITIME GUARANTEED LOAN (TITLE XI)
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For administrative expenses to carry out
the guaranteed loan program, $3,000,000,
which shall be transferred to and merged
with the appropriations for ‘‘Operations and
Training’’, Maritime Administration.
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS—MARITIME
ADMINISTRATION
SEC. 170. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this Act, in addition to any existing
authority, the Maritime Administration is
authorized to furnish utilities and services
and make necessary repairs in connection
with any lease, contract, or occupancy in-
volving Government property under control
of the Maritime Administration: Provided,
That payments received therefor shall be
credited to the appropriation charged with
the cost thereof and shall remain available
until expended: Provided further, That rental
payments under any such lease, contract, or
occupancy for items other than such utili-
ties, services, or repairs shall be covered into
the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
PIPELINE AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONAL EXPENSES
For necessary operational expenses of the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, $23,710,000: Provided, That the
Secretary of Transportation shall issue a
final rule to expand the applicability of com-
prehensive oil spill response plans within 45
days of enactment of this Act: Provided fur-
ther, That the amounts appropriated under
this heading shall be reduced by $100,000 per
day for each day that such rule has not been
issued following the expiration of the period
set forth in the previous proviso.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS SAFETY
For expenses necessary to discharge the
hazardous materials safety functions of the
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Ad-
ministration, $58,000,000, of which $7,570,000
shall remain available until September 30,
2021: Provided, That up to $800,000 in fees col-
lected under 49 U.S.C. 5108(g) shall be depos-
ited in the general fund of the Treasury as
offsetting receipts: Provided further, That
there may be credited to this appropriation,
to remain available until expended, funds re-
ceived from States, counties, municipalities,
other public authorities, and private sources
for expenses incurred for training, for re-
ports publication and dissemination, and for
travel expenses incurred in the performance
of hazardous materials exemptions and ap-
provals functions.
PIPELINE SAFETY
(PIPELINE SAFETY FUND)
(OIL SPILL LIABILITY TRUST FUND)
For expenses necessary to conduct the
functions of the pipeline safety program, for
grants-in-aid to carry out a pipeline safety
program, as authorized by 49 U.S.C. 60107,
and to discharge the pipeline program re-
sponsibilities of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,
$165,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, of which $23,000,000 shall be
derived from the Oil Spill Liability Trust
Fund; of which $134,000,000 shall be derived
from the Pipeline Safety Fund; and of which
$8,000,000 shall be derived from fees collected
under 49 U.S.C. 60302 and deposited in the Un-
derground Natural Gas Storage Facility
Safety Account for the purpose of carrying
out 49 U.S.C. 60141: Provided, That not less
than $1,058,000 of the funds provided under
this heading shall be for the one-call state
grant program.
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS GRANTS
(EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS FUND)
Notwithstanding the fiscal year limitation
specified in 49 U.S.C. 5116, not more than
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H407
January 10, 2019
$28,318,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021, from amounts made avail-
able by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h), 5128(b), and 5128(c):
Provided, That notwithstanding 49 U.S.C.
5116(h)(4), not more than 4 percent of the
amounts made available from this account
shall be available to pay administrative
costs: Provided further, That none of the
funds made available by 49 U.S.C. 5116(h),
5128(b), or 5128(c) shall be made available for
obligation by individuals other than the Sec-
retary of Transportation, or his or her des-
ignee.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of the
Inspector General to carry out the provisions
of the Inspector General Act of 1978, as
amended, $92,600,000: Provided, That the In-
spector General shall have all necessary au-
thority, in carrying out the duties specified
in the Inspector General Act, as amended (5
U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allegations of
fraud, including false statements to the gov-
ernment (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any person or en-
tity that is subject to regulation by the De-
partment of Transportation: Provided further,
That the funds made available under this
heading may be used to investigate, pursu-
ant to section 41712 of title 49, United States
Code: (1) unfair or deceptive practices and
unfair methods of competition by domestic
and foreign air carriers and ticket agents;
and (2) the compliance of domestic and for-
eign air carriers with respect to item (1) of
this proviso.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
TRANSPORTATION
SEC. 180. (a) During the current fiscal year,
applicable appropriations to the Department
of Transportation shall be available for
maintenance and operation of aircraft; hire
of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft;
purchase of liability insurance for motor ve-
hicles operating in foreign countries on offi-
cial department business; and uniforms or al-
lowances therefor, as authorized by law (5
U.S.C. 5901–5902).
(b) During the current fiscal year, applica-
ble appropriations to the Department and its
operating administrations shall be available
for the purchase, maintenance, operation,
and deployment of unmanned aircraft sys-
tems that advance the Department’s, or its
operating administrations’, missions.
(c) Any unmanned aircraft system pur-
chased or procured by the Department prior
to the enactment of this Act shall be deemed
authorized.
SEC. 181. Appropriations contained in this
Act for the Department of Transportation
shall be available for services as authorized
by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at rates for individuals
not to exceed the per diem rate equivalent to
the rate for an Executive Level IV.
SEC. 182. (a) No recipient of funds made
available in this Act shall disseminate per-
sonal information (as defined in 18 U.S.C.
2725(3)) obtained by a State department of
motor vehicles in connection with a motor
vehicle record as defined in 18 U.S.C. 2725(1),
except as provided in 18 U.S.C. 2721 for a use
permitted under 18 U.S.C. 2721.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a), the
Secretary shall not withhold funds provided
in this Act for any grantee if a State is in
noncompliance with this provision.
SEC. 183. None of the funds in this Act shall
be available for salaries and expenses of
more than 110 political and Presidential ap-
pointees in the Department of Transpor-
tation: Provided, That none of the personnel
covered by this provision may be assigned on
temporary detail outside the Department of
Transportation.
SEC. 184. Funds received by the Federal
Highway Administration and Federal Rail-
road Administration from States, counties,
municipalities, other public authorities, and
private sources for expenses incurred for
training may be credited respectively to the
Federal Highway Administration’s ‘‘Federal-
Aid Highways’’ account and to the Federal
Railroad Administration’s ‘‘Safety and Oper-
ations’’ account, except for State rail safety
inspectors participating in training pursuant
to 49 U.S.C. 20105.
SEC. 185. (a) None of the funds provided in
this Act to the Department of Transpor-
tation may be used to make a loan, loan
guarantee, line of credit, or discretionary
grant unless the Secretary of Transportation
notifies the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations not less than 3 full busi-
ness days before any project competitively
selected to receive any discretionary grant
award, letter of intent, loan commitment,
loan guarantee commitment, line of credit
commitment, or full funding grant agree-
ment is announced by the Department or its
modal administrations: Provided, That the
Secretary gives concurrent notification to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations for any ‘‘quick release’’ of funds
from the emergency relief program: Provided
further, That no notification shall involve
funds that are not available for obligation.
(b) In addition to the notification required
in subsection (a), none of the funds made
available in this Act to the Department of
Transportation may be used to make a loan,
loan guarantee, line of credit, cooperative
agreement or discretionary grant unless the
Secretary of Transportation provides the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions a comprehensive list of all such loans,
loan guarantees, lines of credit, cooperative
agreement or discretionary grants that will
be announced not less the 3 full business
days before such announcement: Provided,
That the requirement to provide a list in
this subsection does not apply to any ‘‘quick
release’’ of funds from the emergency relief
program: Provided further, That no list shall
involve funds that are not available for obli-
gation.
SEC. 186. Rebates, refunds, incentive pay-
ments, minor fees and other funds received
by the Department of Transportation from
travel management centers, charge card pro-
grams, the subleasing of building space, and
miscellaneous sources are to be credited to
appropriations of the Department of Trans-
portation and allocated to elements of the
Department of Transportation using fair and
equitable criteria and such funds shall be
available until expended.
SEC. 187. Amounts made available in this
or any prior Act that the Secretary deter-
mines represent improper payments by the
Department of Transportation to a third-
party contractor under a financial assistance
award, which are recovered pursuant to law,
shall be available—
(1) to reimburse the actual expenses in-
curred by the Department of Transportation
in recovering improper payments: Provided,
That amounts made available in this Act
shall be available until expended; and
(2) to pay contractors for services provided
in recovering improper payments or con-
tractor support in the implementation of the
Improper Payments Information Act of 2002:
Provided, That amounts in excess of that re-
quired for paragraphs (1) and (2)—
(A) shall be credited to and merged with
the appropriation from which the improper
payments were made, and shall be available
for the purposes and period for which such
appropriations are available: Provided fur-
ther, That where specific project or account-
ing information associated with the im-
proper payment or payments is not readily
available, the Secretary may credit an ap-
propriate account, which shall be available
for the purposes and period associated with
the account so credited; or
(B) if no such appropriation remains avail-
able, shall be deposited in the Treasury as
miscellaneous receipts: Provided further,
That prior to the transfer of any such recov-
ery to an appropriations account, the Sec-
retary shall notify the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations of the
amount and reasons for such transfer: Pro-
vided further, That for purposes of this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘improper payments’’ has the
same meaning as that provided in section
2(d)(2) of Public Law 107–300.
SEC. 188. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, if any funds provided in or lim-
ited by this Act are subject to a reprogram-
ming action that requires notice to be pro-
vided to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations, transmission of said re-
programming notice shall be provided solely
to the House and Senate Committees on Ap-
propriations, and said reprogramming action
shall be approved or denied solely by the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided, That the Secretary of Trans-
portation may provide notice to other con-
gressional committees of the action of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions on such reprogramming but not sooner
than 30 days following the date on which the
reprogramming action has been approved or
denied by the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations.
SEC. 189. Funds appropriated in this Act to
the modal administrations may be obligated
for the Office of the Secretary for the costs
related to assessments or reimbursable
agreements only when such amounts are for
the costs of goods and services that are pur-
chased to provide a direct benefit to the ap-
plicable modal administration or adminis-
trations.
SEC. 190. The Secretary of Transportation
is authorized to carry out a program that es-
tablishes uniform standards for developing
and supporting agency transit pass and tran-
sit benefits authorized under section 7905 of
title 5, United States Code, including dis-
tribution of transit benefits by various paper
and electronic media.
SEC. 191. The Department of Transpor-
tation may use funds provided by this Act, or
any other Act, to assist a contract under
title 49 U.S.C. or title 23 U.S.C. utilizing geo-
graphic, economic, or any other hiring pref-
erence not otherwise authorized by law, or to
amend a rule, regulation, policy or other
measure that forbids a recipient of a Federal
Highway Administration or Federal Transit
Administration grant from imposing such
hiring preference on a contract or construc-
tion project with which the Department of
Transportation is assisting, only if the grant
recipient certifies the following:
(1) that except with respect to apprentices
or trainees, a pool of readily available but
unemployed individuals possessing the
knowledge, skill, and ability to perform the
work that the contract requires resides in
the jurisdiction;
(2) that the grant recipient will include ap-
propriate provisions in its bid document en-
suring that the contractor does not displace
any of its existing employees in order to sat-
isfy such hiring preference; and
(3) that any increase in the cost of labor,
training, or delays resulting from the use of
such hiring preference does not delay or dis-
place any transportation project in the ap-
plicable Statewide Transportation Improve-
ment Program or Transportation Improve-
ment Program.
SEC. 192. Not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Transportation shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations and Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H408 January 10, 2019
and the Committees on Appropriations and
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives a report on efforts
by the Department of Transportation to en-
gage with local communities, metropolitan
planning organizations, and regional trans-
portation commissions on advancing data
and intelligent transportation systems tech-
nologies and other smart cities solutions.
SEC. 193. The Secretary of Transportation
shall consult with the Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Civil Works to identify any ex-
isting authorities and any additional au-
thorities that may be needed to leverage
funds from Department of Transportation
programs for purposes of inland waterway
project costs.
SEC. 194. (a) Subject to subsections (c) and
(d), none of the funds appropriated or other-
wise made available to the Department of
Transportation by this or any other Act may
be obligated or expended to enforce or re-
quire the enforcement of section 127(a) of
title 23, United States Code, with respect to
a segment described in paragraph (1) or (2) of
subsection (b) if the segment is designated as
a route of the Interstate System.
(b) The segments referred to in subsection
(a) are the following:
(1) The William H. Natcher Parkway (to be
designated as a spur of Interstate Route 65)
from Interstate Route 65 in Bowling Green,
Kentucky, to United States Route 60 in
Owensboro, Kentucky.
(2) The Julian M. Carroll (Purchase) Park-
way (to be designated as Interstate Route 69)
in the State of Kentucky from the Tennessee
State line to the interchange with Interstate
Route 24, near Calvert City, Kentucky.
(c) Only a vehicle that could operate le-
gally on a segment described in paragraph (1)
or (2) of subsection (b) before the date of des-
ignation of the segment as a route of the
Interstate System may continue to operate
on that segment, subject to the condition
that, except as provided in subsection (d),
the gross vehicle weight of such a vehicle
shall not exceed 120,000 pounds.
(d) Nothing in this section prohibits a
State from issuing a permit for a nondivis-
ible load or vehicle with a gross vehicle
weight that exceeds 120,000 pounds.
SEC. 195. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Department
of Transportation may be obligated or ex-
pended to implement, administer, or enforce
the requirements of section 31137 of title 49,
United States Code, or any regulation issued
by the Secretary pursuant to such section,
with respect to the use of electronic logging
devices by operators of commercial motor
vehicles, as defined in section 31132(1) of such
title, transporting livestock, as defined in
section 602 of the Emergency Livestock Feed
Assistance Act of 1988 (7 U.S.C. 1471) or in-
sects.
SEC. 196. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available to the Federal
Transit Administration under this title to
carry out sections 5307, 5311, 5337, and 5339 of
title 49, United States Code, may be used in
awarding a contract or subcontract to an en-
tity on or after the date of enactment of this
Act for the procurement of rolling stock for
use in public transportation if the manufac-
turer of the rolling stock is incorporated in
or has manufacturing facilities in the United
States and receives support from the govern-
ment of a country that—
(1) is identified as a nonmarket economy
country (as defined in section 771(18) of the
Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1677(18))) as of
the date of enactment of this Act;
(2) was identified by the United States
Trade Representative in the most recent re-
port required by section 182 of the Trade Act
of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2242) as a priority foreign
country under subsection (a)(2) of that sec-
tion; and
(3) is subject to monitoring by the Trade
Representative under section 306 of the
Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2416).
(b) This section shall be applied in a man-
ner consistent with the obligations of the
United States under international agree-
ments.
(c)(1) This section shall not apply to the
award of a contract or subcontract made by
a public transportation agency with a rail
rolling stock manufacturer described in sub-
section (a) if the manufacturer produces rail
rolling stock for an eligible public transpor-
tation agency through a contract executed
prior to the date of enactment of this Act.
(2) A rail rolling stock manufacturer de-
scribed in subsection (a) may not use funds
provided under a contract or subcontract de-
scribed in paragraph (1) to expand the manu-
facturer’s production of rail rolling stock
within the United States to an amount of
rolling stock vehicles or railcars that is
greater than the amount required under con-
tractual obligations of the manufacturer as
of the date of enactment of this Act includ-
ing all options for additional rolling stock.
(d) Nothing in this section shall be con-
strued to apply to funds that are not appro-
priated or otherwise made available to the
Federal Transit Administration under this
title.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Transportation Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
EXECUTIVE OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for Ex-
ecutive Offices, which shall be comprised of
the offices of the Secretary, Deputy Sec-
retary, Adjudicatory Services, Congressional
and Intergovernmental Relations, Public Af-
fairs, Small and Disadvantaged Business Uti-
lization, and the Center for Faith-Based and
Neighborhood Partnerships, $14,898,000: Pro-
vided, That not to exceed $25,000 of the
amount made available under this heading
shall be available to the Secretary for offi-
cial reception and representation expenses as
the Secretary may determine.
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICES
For necessary salaries and expenses for Ad-
ministrative Support Offices, $556,000,000, of
which $76,600,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Financial Officer, (and of
which $25,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2021, shall be for the financial
transformation initiative); $98,000,000 shall
be available for the Office of the General
Counsel, of which not less than $15,000,000
shall be for the Departmental Enforcement
Center; $213,300,000 shall be available for the
Office of Administration; $40,200,000 shall be
available for the Office of the Chief Human
Capital Officer; $54,000,000 shall be available
for the Office of Field Policy and Manage-
ment; $20,000,000 shall be available for the Of-
fice of the Chief Procurement Officer;
$3,600,000 shall be available for the Office of
Departmental Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity; $4,300,000 shall be available for the
Office of Business Transformation; and
$46,00,000 shall be available for the Office of
the Chief Information Officer: Provided, That
funds provided under this heading may be
used for necessary administrative and non-
administrative expenses of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, not oth-
erwise provided for, including purchase of
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as author-
ized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902; hire of passenger
motor vehicles; and services as authorized by
5 U.S.C. 3109: Provided further, That notwith-
standing any other provision of law, funds
appropriated under this heading may be used
for advertising and promotional activities
that directly support program activities
funded in this title: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall provide the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations quar-
terly written notification regarding the sta-
tus of pending congressional reports: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall pro-
vide in electronic form all signed reports re-
quired by Congress: Provided further, That
not more than 10 percent of the funds made
available under this heading for the Office of
Chief Financial Officer for the financial
transformation initiative may be obligated
until the Secretary submits to the House and
Senate Committees on Appropriations, for
approval, a plan for expenditure that in-
cludes the financial and internal control ca-
pabilities to be delivered and the mission
benefits to be realized, key milestones to be
met, and the relationship between the pro-
posed use of funds made available under this
heading and the projected total cost and
scope of the initiative.
PROGRAM OFFICE SALARIES AND EXPENSES
PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Public and Indian Housing,
$222,000,000.
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Community Planning and Develop-
ment, $110,000,000.
HOUSING
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Housing, $390,000,000, of which not
less than $12,500,000 shall be for the Office of
Recapitalization.
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Policy Development and Research,
$26,000,000.
FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Fair Housing and Equal Oppor-
tunity, $71,500,000.
OFFICE OF LEAD HAZARD CONTROL AND
HEALTHY HOMES
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy
Homes, $7,800,000.
WORKING CAPITAL FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the working capital fund for the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
(referred to in this paragraph as the
‘‘Fund’’), pursuant, in part, to section 7(f) of
the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment Act (42 U.S.C. 3535(f)), amounts
transferred, including reimbursements pur-
suant to section 7(f), to the Fund under this
heading shall be available for Federal shared
services used by offices and agencies of the
Department, and for such portion of any of-
fice or agency’s printing, records manage-
ment, space renovation, furniture, or supply
services as the Secretary determines shall be
derived from centralized sources made avail-
able by the Department to all offices and
agencies and funded through the Fund: Pro-
vided, That of the amounts made available in
this title for salaries and expenses under the
headings ‘‘Executive Offices’’, ‘‘Administra-
tive Support Offices’’, ‘‘Program Office Sala-
ries and Expenses’’, and ‘‘Government Na-
tional Mortgage Association’’, the Secretary
shall transfer to the Fund such amounts, to
remain available until expended, as are nec-
essary to fund services, specified in the mat-
ter preceding the first proviso, for which the
appropriation would otherwise have been
available, and may transfer not to exceed an
additional $5,000,000, in aggregate, from all
such appropriations, to be merged with the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H409
January 10, 2019
Fund and to remain available until expended
for any purpose under this heading: Provided
further, That amounts in the Fund shall be
the only amounts available to each office or
agency of the Department for the services, or
portion of services, specified in the matter
preceding the first proviso: Provided further,
That with respect to the Fund, the authori-
ties and conditions under this heading shall
supplement the authorities and conditions
provided under section 7(f).
PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING
TENANT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE
For activities and assistance for the provi-
sion of tenant-based rental assistance au-
thorized under the United States Housing
Act of 1937, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1437 et
seq.) (‘‘the Act’’ herein), not otherwise pro-
vided for, $18,780,987,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be available on October
1, 2018 (in addition to the $4,000,000,000 pre-
viously appropriated under this heading that
shall be available on October 1, 2018), and
$4,000,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be available on October 1, 2019:
Provided, That the amounts made available
under this heading are provided as follows:
(1) $20,520,000,000 shall be available for re-
newals of expiring section 8 tenant-based an-
nual contributions contracts (including re-
newals of enhanced vouchers under any pro-
vision of law authorizing such assistance
under section 8(t) of the Act) and including
renewal of other special purpose incremental
vouchers: Provided, That notwithstanding
any other provision of law, from amounts
provided under this paragraph and any car-
ryover, the Secretary for the calendar year
2019 funding cycle shall provide renewal
funding for each public housing agency based
on validated voucher management system
(VMS) leasing and cost data for the prior cal-
endar year and by applying an inflation fac-
tor as established by the Secretary, by no-
tice published in the Federal Register, and
by making any necessary adjustments for
the costs associated with the first-time re-
newal of vouchers under this paragraph in-
cluding tenant protection and Choice Neigh-
borhoods vouchers: Provided further, That
none of the funds provided under this para-
graph may be used to fund a total number of
unit months under lease which exceeds a
public housing agency’s authorized level of
units under contract, except for public hous-
ing agencies participating in the MTW dem-
onstration, which are instead governed by
the terms and conditions of their MTW
agreements: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall, to the extent necessary to stay
within the amount specified under this para-
graph (except as otherwise modified under
this paragraph), prorate each public housing
agency’s allocation otherwise established
pursuant to this paragraph: Provided further,
That except as provided in the following pro-
visos, the entire amount specified under this
paragraph (except as otherwise modified
under this paragraph) shall be obligated to
the public housing agencies based on the al-
location and pro rata method described
above, and the Secretary shall notify public
housing agencies of their annual budget by
the latter of 60 days after enactment of this
Act or March 1, 2019: Provided further, That
the Secretary may extend the notification
period with the prior written approval of the
House and Senate Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided further, That public housing
agencies participating in the MTW dem-
onstration shall be funded pursuant to their
MTW agreements and shall be subject to the
same pro rata adjustments under the pre-
vious provisos: Provided further, That the
Secretary may offset public housing agen-
cies’ calendar year 2019 allocations based on
the excess amounts of public housing agen-
cies’ net restricted assets accounts, includ-
ing HUD-held programmatic reserves (in ac-
cordance with VMS data in calendar year
2018 that is verifiable and complete), as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That public housing agencies participating
in the MTW demonstration shall also be sub-
ject to the offset, as determined by the Sec-
retary, excluding amounts subject to the sin-
gle fund budget authority provisions of their
MTW agreements, from the agencies’ cal-
endar year 2019 MTW funding allocation: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall use
any offset referred to in the previous two
provisos throughout the calendar year to
prevent the termination of rental assistance
for families as the result of insufficient fund-
ing, as determined by the Secretary, and to
avoid or reduce the proration of renewal
funding allocations: Provided further, That up
to $100,000,000 shall be available only: (1) for
adjustments in the allocations for public
housing agencies, after application for an ad-
justment by a public housing agency that ex-
perienced a significant increase, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, in renewal costs of
vouchers resulting from unforeseen cir-
cumstances or from portability under sec-
tion 8(r) of the Act; (2) for vouchers that
were not in use during the previous 12-month
period in order to be available to meet a
commitment pursuant to section 8(o)(13) of
the Act; (3) for adjustments for costs associ-
ated with HUD–Veterans Affairs Supportive
Housing (HUD–VASH) vouchers; and (4) for
public housing agencies that despite taking
reasonable cost savings measures, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, would otherwise be
required to terminate rental assistance for
families as a result of insufficient funding:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall al-
locate amounts under the previous proviso
based on need, as determined by the Sec-
retary;
(2) $85,000,000 shall be for section 8 rental
assistance for relocation and replacement of
housing units that are demolished or dis-
posed of pursuant to section 18 of the Act,
conversion of section 23 projects to assist-
ance under section 8, the family unification
program under section 8(x) of the Act, relo-
cation of witnesses in connection with ef-
forts to combat crime in public and assisted
housing pursuant to a request from a law en-
forcement or prosecution agency, enhanced
vouchers under any provision of law author-
izing such assistance under section 8(t) of
the Act, Choice Neighborhood vouchers,
mandatory and voluntary conversions, and
tenant protection assistance including re-
placement and relocation assistance or for
project-based assistance to prevent the dis-
placement of unassisted elderly tenants cur-
rently residing in section 202 properties fi-
nanced between 1959 and 1974 that are refi-
nanced pursuant to Public Law 106–569, as
amended, or under the authority as provided
under this Act: Provided, That when a public
housing development is submitted for demo-
lition or disposition under section 18 of the
Act, the Secretary may provide section 8
rental assistance when the units pose an im-
minent health and safety risk to residents:
Provided further, That the Secretary may
only provide replacement vouchers for units
that were occupied within the previous 24
months that cease to be available as assisted
housing, subject only to the availability of
funds: Provided further, That of the amounts
made available under this paragraph,
$5,000,000 may be available to provide tenant
protection assistance, not otherwise pro-
vided under this paragraph, to residents re-
siding in low vacancy areas and who may
have to pay rents greater than 30 percent of
household income, as the result of: (A) the
maturity of a HUD-insured, HUD-held or sec-
tion 202 loan that requires the permission of
the Secretary prior to loan prepayment; (B)
the expiration of a rental assistance contract
for which the tenants are not eligible for en-
hanced voucher or tenant protection assist-
ance under existing law; or (C) the expiration
of affordability restrictions accompanying a
mortgage or preservation program adminis-
tered by the Secretary: Provided further,
That such tenant protection assistance made
available under the previous proviso may be
provided under the authority of section 8(t)
or section 8(o)(13) of the United States Hous-
ing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(t)): Provided
further, That the Secretary shall issue guid-
ance to implement the previous provisos, in-
cluding, but not limited to, requirements for
defining eligible at-risk households within 60
days of the enactment of this Act: Provided
further, That any tenant protection voucher
made available from amounts under this
paragraph shall not be reissued by any public
housing agency, except the replacement
vouchers as defined by the Secretary by no-
tice, when the initial family that received
any such voucher no longer receives such
voucher, and the authority for any public
housing agency to issue any such voucher
shall cease to exist: Provided further, That
the Secretary may provide section 8 rental
assistance from amounts made available
under this paragraph for units assisted under
a project-based subsidy contract funded
under the ‘‘Project-Based Rental Assistance’’
heading under this title where the owner has
received a Notice of Default and the units
pose an imminent health and safety risk to
residents: Provided further, That to the ex-
tent that the Secretary determines that such
units are not feasible for continued rental
assistance payments or transfer of the sub-
sidy contract associated with such units to
another project or projects and owner or
owners, any remaining amounts associated
with such units under such contract shall be
recaptured and used to reimburse amounts
used under this paragraph for rental assist-
ance under the preceding proviso;
(3) $1,956,987,000 shall be for administrative
and other expenses of public housing agen-
cies in administering the section 8 tenant-
based rental assistance program, of which up
to $30,000,000 shall be available to the Sec-
retary to allocate to public housing agencies
that need additional funds to administer
their section 8 programs, including fees asso-
ciated with section 8 tenant protection rent-
al assistance, the administration of disaster
related vouchers, HUD–VASH vouchers, and
other special purpose incremental vouchers:
Provided, That no less than $1,926,987,000 of
the amount provided in this paragraph shall
be allocated to public housing agencies for
the calendar year 2019 funding cycle based on
section 8(q) of the Act (and related Appro-
priation Act provisions) as in effect imme-
diately before the enactment of the Quality
Housing and Work Responsibility Act of 1998
(Public Law 105–276): Provided further, That if
the amounts made available under this para-
graph are insufficient to pay the amounts de-
termined under the previous proviso, the
Secretary may decrease the amounts allo-
cated to agencies by a uniform percentage
applicable to all agencies receiving funding
under this paragraph or may, to the extent
necessary to provide full payment of
amounts determined under the previous pro-
viso, utilize unobligated balances, including
recaptures and carryovers, remaining from
funds appropriated to the Department of
Housing and Urban Development under this
heading from prior fiscal years, excluding
special purpose vouchers, notwithstanding
the purposes for which such amounts were
appropriated: Provided further, That all pub-
lic housing agencies participating in the
MTW demonstration shall be funded pursu-
ant to their MTW agreements, and shall be
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H410 January 10, 2019
subject to the same uniform percentage de-
crease as under the previous proviso: Pro-
vided further, That amounts provided under
this paragraph shall be only for activities re-
lated to the provision of tenant-based rental
assistance authorized under section 8, in-
cluding related development activities;
(4) $154,000,000 for the renewal of tenant-
based assistance contracts under section 811
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Afford-
able Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), including
necessary administrative expenses: Provided,
That administrative and other expenses of
public housing agencies in administering the
special purpose vouchers in this paragraph
shall be funded under the same terms and be
subject to the same pro rata reduction as the
percent decrease for administrative and
other expenses to public housing agencies
under paragraph (3) of this heading: Provided
further, That any amounts provided under
this paragraph in this Act or prior Acts, re-
maining available after funding renewals and
administrative expenses under this para-
graph, shall be available for incremental ten-
ant-based assistance contracts under such
section 811, including necessary administra-
tive expenses;
(5) $5,000,000 shall be for rental assistance
and associated administrative fees for Tribal
HUD–VASH to serve Native American vet-
erans that are homeless or at-risk of home-
lessness living on or near a reservation or
other Indian areas: Provided, That such
amount shall be made available for renewal
grants to recipients that received assistance
under prior Acts under the Tribal HUD–
VASH program: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall be authorized to specify cri-
teria for renewal grants, including data on
the utilization of assistance reported by
grant recipients: Provided further, That such
assistance shall be administered in accord-
ance with program requirements under the
Native American Housing Assistance and
Self-Determination Act of 1996 and modeled
after the HUD–VASH program: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall be authorized
to waive, or specify alternative requirements
for any provision of any statute or regula-
tion that the Secretary administers in con-
nection with the use of funds made available
under this paragraph (except for require-
ments related to fair housing, non-
discrimination, labor standards, and the en-
vironment), upon a finding by the Secretary
that any such waivers or alternative require-
ments are necessary for the effective deliv-
ery and administration of such assistance:
Provided further, That grant recipients shall
report to the Secretary on utilization of such
rental assistance and other program data, as
prescribed by the Secretary: Provided further,
That the Secretary may reallocate, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, amounts returned
or recaptured from awards under prior acts;
(6) $40,000,000 for incremental rental vouch-
er assistance for use through a supported
housing program administered in conjunc-
tion with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs as authorized under section 8(o)(19) of
the United States Housing Act of 1937: Pro-
vided, That the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall make such funding
available, notwithstanding section 203 (com-
petition provision) of this title, to public
housing agencies that partner with eligible
VA Medical Centers or other entities as des-
ignated by the Secretary of the Department
of Veterans Affairs, based on geographical
need for such assistance as identified by the
Secretary of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs, public housing agency administrative
performance, and other factors as specified
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment in consultation with the Sec-
retary of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs: Provided further, That the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development may waive,
or specify alternative requirements for (in
consultation with the Secretary of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs), any provision
of any statute or regulation that the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
administers in connection with the use of
funds made available under this paragraph
(except for requirements related to fair hous-
ing, nondiscrimination, labor standards, and
the environment), upon a finding by the Sec-
retary that any such waivers or alternative
requirements are necessary for the effective
delivery and administration of such voucher
assistance: Provided further, That assistance
made available under this paragraph shall
continue to remain available for homeless
veterans upon turn-over;
(7) $20,000,000 shall be made available for
new incremental voucher assistance through
the family unification program as authorized
by section 8(x) of the Act: Provided, That the
assistance made available under this para-
graph shall continue to remain available for
family unification upon turnover: Provided
further, That for any public housing agency
administering voucher assistance appro-
priated in a prior Act under the family unifi-
cation program that determines that it no
longer has an identified need for such assist-
ance upon turnover, such agency shall notify
the Secretary, and the Secretary shall recap-
ture such assistance from the agency and re-
allocate it to any other public housing agen-
cy or agencies based on need for voucher as-
sistance in connection with such program;
and
(8) the Secretary shall separately track all
special purpose vouchers funded under this
heading.
HOUSING CERTIFICATE FUND
(INCLUDING RESCISSIONS)
Unobligated balances, including recaptures
and carryover, remaining from funds appro-
priated to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development under this heading, the
heading ‘‘Annual Contributions for Assisted
Housing’’ and the heading ‘‘Project-Based
Rental Assistance’’, for fiscal year 2019 and
prior years may be used for renewal of or
amendments to section 8 project-based con-
tracts and for performance-based contract
administrators, notwithstanding the pur-
poses for which such funds were appro-
priated: Provided, That any obligated bal-
ances of contract authority from fiscal year
1974 and prior that have been terminated
shall be rescinded: Provided further, That
amounts heretofore recaptured, or recap-
tured during the current fiscal year, from
section 8 project-based contracts from source
years fiscal year 1975 through fiscal year 1987
are hereby rescinded, and an amount of addi-
tional new budget authority, equivalent to
the amount rescinded is hereby appropriated,
to remain available until expended, for the
purposes set forth under this heading, in ad-
dition to amounts otherwise available.
PUBLIC HOUSING CAPITAL FUND
For the Public Housing Capital Fund Pro-
gram to carry out capital and management
activities for public housing agencies, as au-
thorized under section 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g) (the
‘‘Act’’) $2,775,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022: Provided, That not-
withstanding any other provision of law or
regulation, during fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
may not delegate to any Department official
other than the Deputy Secretary and the As-
sistant Secretary for Public and Indian
Housing any authority under paragraph (2)
of section 9(j) regarding the extension of the
time periods under such section: Provided
further, That for purposes of such section
9(j), the term ‘‘obligate’’ means, with respect
to amounts, that the amounts are subject to
a binding agreement that will result in out-
lays, immediately or in the future: Provided
further, That up to $14,000,000 shall be to sup-
port ongoing public housing financial and
physical assessment activities: Provided fur-
ther, That up to $1,000,000 shall be to support
the costs of administrative and judicial re-
ceiverships: Provided further, That of the
total amount provided under this heading,
not to exceed $25,000,000 shall be available for
the Secretary to make grants, notwith-
standing section 203 of this Act, to public
housing agencies for emergency capital
needs including safety and security measures
necessary to address crime and drug-related
activity as well as needs resulting from un-
foreseen or unpreventable emergencies and
natural disasters excluding Presidentially
declared emergencies and natural disasters
under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.)
occurring in fiscal year 2019: Provided further,
That of the amount made available under
the previous proviso, not less than $5,000,000
shall be for safety and security measures:
Provided further, That in addition to the
amount in the previous proviso for such safe-
ty and security measures, any amounts that
remain available, after all applications re-
ceived on or before September 30, 2020, for
emergency capital needs have been proc-
essed, shall be allocated to public housing
agencies for such safety and security meas-
ures: Provided further, That of the total
amount provided under this heading, up to
$35,000,000 shall be for supportive services,
service coordinators and congregate services
as authorized by section 34 of the Act (42
U.S.C. 1437z–6) and the Native American
Housing Assistance and Self-Determination
Act of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.): Provided
further, That of the total amount made avail-
able under this heading, $15,000,000 shall be
for a Jobs-Plus initiative modeled after the
Jobs-Plus demonstration: Provided further,
That funding provided under the previous
proviso shall be available for competitive
grants to partnerships between public hous-
ing authorities, local workforce investment
boards established under section 107 of the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act
of 2014 (29 U.S.C. 3122), and other agencies
and organizations that provide support to
help public housing residents obtain employ-
ment and increase earnings: Provided further,
That applicants must demonstrate the abil-
ity to provide services to residents, partner
with workforce investment boards, and le-
verage service dollars: Provided further, That
the Secretary may allow public housing
agencies to request exemptions from rent
and income limitation requirements under
sections 3 and 6 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437a and 1437d), as nec-
essary to implement the Jobs-Plus program,
on such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary may approve upon a finding by the
Secretary that any such waivers or alter-
native requirements are necessary for the ef-
fective implementation of the Jobs-Plus ini-
tiative as a voluntary program for residents:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall
publish by notice in the Federal Register any
waivers or alternative requirements pursu-
ant to the preceding proviso no later than 10
days before the effective date of such notice:
Provided further, That for funds provided
under this heading, the limitation in section
9(g)(1) of the Act shall be 25 percent: Provided
further, That the Secretary may waive the
limitation in the previous proviso to allow
public housing agencies to fund activities
authorized under section 9(e)(1)(C) of the
Act: Provided further, That the Secretary
shall notify public housing agencies request-
ing waivers under the previous proviso if the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H411
January 10, 2019
request is approved or denied within 14 days
of submitting the request: Provided further,
That from the funds made available under
this heading, the Secretary shall provide
bonus awards in fiscal year 2019 to public
housing agencies that are designated high
performers: Provided further, That the De-
partment shall notify public housing agen-
cies of their formula allocation within 60
days of enactment of this Act: Provided fur-
ther, That of the total amount provided
under this heading, $25,000,000 shall be avail-
able for competitive grants to public housing
agencies to evaluate and reduce lead-based
paint hazards in public housing by carrying
out the activities of risk assessments, abate-
ment, and interim controls (as those terms
are defined in section 1004 of the Residential
Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of
1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851b)): Provided further, That
for purposes of environmental review, a
grant under the previous proviso shall be
considered funds for projects or activities
under title I of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) for pur-
poses of section 26 of such Act (42 U.S.C.
1437x) and shall be subject to the regulations
implementing such section.
PUBLIC HOUSING OPERATING FUND
For 2019 payments to public housing agen-
cies for the operation and management of
public housing, as authorized by section 9(e)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437g(e)), $4,756,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020.
CHOICE NEIGHBORHOODS INITIATIVE
For competitive grants under the Choice
Neighborhoods Initiative (subject to section
24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937
(42 U.S.C. 1437v), unless otherwise specified
under this heading), for transformation, re-
habilitation, and replacement housing needs
of both public and HUD-assisted housing and
to transform neighborhoods of poverty into
functioning, sustainable mixed income
neighborhoods with appropriate services,
schools, public assets, transportation and ac-
cess to jobs, $100,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2021: Provided, That
grant funds may be used for resident and
community services, community develop-
ment, and affordable housing needs in the
community, and for conversion of vacant or
foreclosed properties to affordable housing:
Provided further, That the use of funds made
available under this heading shall not be
deemed to be public housing notwithstanding
section 3(b)(1) of such Act: Provided further,
That grantees shall commit to an additional
period of affordability determined by the
Secretary of not fewer than 20 years: Pro-
vided further, That grantees shall provide a
match in State, local, other Federal or pri-
vate funds: Provided further, That grantees
may include local governments, tribal enti-
ties, public housing authorities, and non-
profits: Provided further, That for-profit de-
velopers may apply jointly with a public en-
tity: Provided further, That for purposes of
environmental review, a grantee shall be
treated as a public housing agency under sec-
tion 26 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437x), and grants under this
heading shall be subject to the regulations
issued by the Secretary to implement such
section: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, not less than $50,000,000 shall be
awarded to public housing agencies: Provided
further, That such grantees shall create part-
nerships with other local organizations in-
cluding assisted housing owners, service
agencies, and resident organizations: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall con-
sult with the Secretaries of Education,
Labor, Transportation, Health and Human
Services, Agriculture, and Commerce, the
Attorney General, and the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency to co-
ordinate and leverage other appropriate Fed-
eral resources: Provided further, That no
more than $5,000,000 of funds made available
under this heading may be provided as
grants to undertake comprehensive local
planning with input from residents and the
community: Provided further, That unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures, re-
maining from funds appropriated under the
heading ‘‘Revitalization of Severely Dis-
tressed Public Housing (HOPE VI)’’ in fiscal
year 2011 and prior fiscal years may be used
for purposes under this heading, notwith-
standing the purposes for which such
amounts were appropriated: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall issue the Notice of
Funding Availability for funds made avail-
able under this heading no later than 60 days
after enactment of this Act: Provided further,
That the Secretary shall make grant awards
no later than one year from the date of en-
actment of this Act in such amounts that
the Secretary determines: Provided further,
That notwithstanding section 24(o) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437v(o)), the Secretary may, until Sep-
tember 30, 2019, obligate any available unob-
ligated balances made available under this
heading in this, or any prior Act.
FAMILY SELF-SUFFICIENCY
For the Family Self-Sufficiency program
to support family self-sufficiency coordina-
tors under section 23 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937, to promote the develop-
ment of local strategies to coordinate the
use of assistance under sections 8(o) and 9 of
such Act with public and private resources,
and enable eligible families to achieve eco-
nomic independence and self-sufficiency,
$80,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the Secretary
may, by Federal Register notice, waive or
specify alternative requirements under sub-
sections b(3), b(4), b(5), or c(1) of section 23 of
such Act in order to facilitate the operation
of a unified self-sufficiency program for indi-
viduals receiving assistance under different
provisions of the Act, as determined by the
Secretary: Provided further, That owners of a
privately owned multifamily property with a
section 8 contract may voluntarily make a
Family Self-Sufficiency program available
to the assisted tenants of such property in
accordance with procedures established by
the Secretary: Provided further, That such
procedures established pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall permit participating ten-
ants to accrue escrow funds in accordance
with section 23(d)(2) and shall allow owners
to use funding from residual receipt accounts
to hire coordinators for their own Family
Self-Sufficiency program.
NATIVE AMERICAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANTS
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For the Native American Housing Block
Grants program, as authorized under title I
of the Native American Housing Assistance
and Self-Determination Act of 1996
(NAHASDA) (25 U.S.C. 4111 et seq.),
$655,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2023: Provided, That, notwith-
standing NAHASDA, to determine the
amount of the allocation under title I of
such Act for each Indian tribe, the Secretary
shall apply the formula under section 302 of
such Act with the need component based on
single-race census data and with the need
component based on multi-race census data,
and the amount of the allocation for each In-
dian tribe shall be the greater of the two re-
sulting allocation amounts: Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under
this heading, $7,000,000 shall be for providing
training and technical assistance to Indian
housing authorities and tribally designated
housing entities, to support the inspection of
Indian housing units, contract expertise, and
for training and technical assistance related
to funding provided under this heading and
other headings under this Act for the needs
of Native American families and Indian
country: Provided further, That amounts
made available under the previous proviso
may be used, contracted, or competed as de-
termined by the Secretary: Provided further,
That of the amount provided under this
heading, $2,000,000 shall be made available for
the cost of guaranteed notes and other obli-
gations, as authorized by title VI of
NAHASDA: Provided further, That such costs,
including the costs of modifying such notes
and other obligations, shall be as defined in
section 502 of the Congressional Budget Act
of 1974, as amended: Provided further, That
these funds are available to subsidize the
total principal amount of any notes and
other obligations, any part of which is to be
guaranteed, not to exceed $17,761,989: Pro-
vided further, That the Department will no-
tify grantees of their formula allocation
within 60 days of the date of enactment of
this Act: Provided further, That for an addi-
tional amount for the Native American
Housing Block Grants program, as author-
ized under title I of NAHASDA, $100,000,000
to remain available until September 30, 2023:
Provided further, That the Secretary shall ob-
ligate this additional amount for competi-
tive grants to eligible recipients authorized
under NAHASDA that apply for funds: Pro-
vided further, That in awarding this addi-
tional amount, the Secretary shall consider
need and administrative capacity, and shall
give priority to projects that will spur con-
struction and rehabilitation: Provided fur-
ther, That up to 1 percent of this additional
amount may be transferred, in aggregate, to
‘‘Program Office Salaries and Expenses—
Public and Indian Housing’’ for necessary
costs of administering and overseeing the ob-
ligation and expenditure of this additional
amount: Provided further, That any funds
transferred pursuant to the previous proviso
shall remain available until September 30,
2024.
INDIAN HOUSING LOAN GUARANTEE FUND
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
For the cost of guaranteed loans, as au-
thorized by section 184 of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1992 (12
U.S.C. 1715z–13a), $1,440,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
costs, including the costs of modifying such
loans, shall be as defined in section 502 of the
Congressional Budget Act of 1974: Provided
further, That these funds are available to
subsidize total loan principal, any part of
which is to be guaranteed, up to $553,846,154,
to remain available until expended: Provided
further, That up to $750,000 of this amount
may be for administrative contract expenses
including management processes and sys-
tems to carry out the loan guarantee pro-
gram.
NATIVE HAWAIIAN HOUSING BLOCK GRANT
For the Native Hawaiian Housing Block
Grant program, as authorized under title
VIII of the Native American Housing Assist-
ance and Self-Determination Act of 1996 (25
U.S.C. 4111 et seq.), $2,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 812(b) of such
Act, the Department of Hawaiian Home
Lands may not invest grant amounts pro-
vided under this heading in investment secu-
rities and other obligations: Provided further,
That amounts made available under this
heading in this and prior fiscal years may be
used to provide rental assistance to eligible
Native Hawaiian families both on and off the
Hawaiian Home Lands, notwithstanding any
other provision of law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H412 January 10, 2019
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
HOUSING OPPORTUNITIES FOR PERSONS WITH
AIDS
For carrying out the Housing Opportuni-
ties for Persons with AIDS program, as au-
thorized by the AIDS Housing Opportunity
Act (42 U.S.C. 12901 et seq.), $375,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020,
except that amounts allocated pursuant to
section 854(c)(5) of such Act shall remain
available until September 30, 2021: Provided,
That the Secretary shall renew all expiring
contracts for permanent supportive housing
that initially were funded under section
854(c)(5) of such Act from funds made avail-
able under this heading in fiscal year 2010
and prior fiscal years that meet all program
requirements before awarding funds for new
contracts under such section: Provided fur-
ther, That the Department shall notify
grantees of their formula allocation within
60 days of enactment of this Act.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
For assistance to units of State and local
government, and to other entities, for eco-
nomic and community development activi-
ties, and for other purposes, $3,365,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021,
unless otherwise specified: Provided, That of
the total amount provided, $3,300,000,000 is
for carrying out the community development
block grant program under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, as amended (‘‘the Act’’ herein) (42
U.S.C. 5301 et seq.): Provided further, That un-
less explicitly provided for under this head-
ing, not to exceed 20 percent of any grant
made with funds appropriated under this
heading shall be expended for planning and
management development and administra-
tion: Provided further, That a metropolitan
city, urban county, unit of general local gov-
ernment, Indian tribe, or insular area that
directly or indirectly receives funds under
this heading may not sell, trade, or other-
wise transfer all or any portion of such funds
to another such entity in exchange for any
other funds, credits or non-Federal consider-
ations, but must use such funds for activities
eligible under title I of the Act: Provided fur-
ther, That notwithstanding section 105(e)(1)
of the Act, no funds provided under this
heading may be provided to a for-profit enti-
ty for an economic development project
under section 105(a)(17) unless such project
has been evaluated and selected in accord-
ance with guidelines required under sub-
section (e)(2): Provided further, That the De-
partment shall notify grantees of their for-
mula allocation within 60 days of enactment
of this Act: Provided further, That of the
total amount provided under this heading,
$65,000,000 shall be for grants to Indian tribes
notwithstanding section 106(a)(1) of such
Act, of which, notwithstanding any other
provision of law (including section 203 of this
Act), up to $4,000,000 may be used for emer-
gencies that constitute imminent threats to
health and safety.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT LOAN GUARANTEES
PROGRAM ACCOUNT
Subject to section 502 of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974, during fiscal year 2019,
commitments to guarantee loans under sec-
tion 108 of the Housing and Community De-
velopment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5308), any
part of which is guaranteed, shall not exceed
a total principal amount of $300,000,000, not-
withstanding any aggregate limitation on
outstanding obligations guaranteed in sub-
section (k) of such section 108: Provided, That
the Secretary shall collect fees from bor-
rowers, notwithstanding subsection (m) of
such section 108, to result in a credit subsidy
cost of zero for guaranteeing such loans, and
any such fees shall be collected in accord-
ance with section 502(7) of the Congressional
Budget Act of 1974.
HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAM
For the HOME Investment Partnerships
program, as authorized under title II of the
Cranston-Gonzalez National Affordable
Housing Act, as amended, $1,362,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2022: Pro-
vided, That notwithstanding the amount
made available under this heading, the
threshold reduction requirements in sections
216(10) and 217(b)(4) of such Act shall not
apply to allocations of such amount: Pro-
vided further, That the Department shall no-
tify grantees of their formula allocation
within 60 days of enactment of this Act.
SELF-HELP AND ASSISTED HOMEOWNERSHIP
OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM
For the Self-Help and Assisted Homeown-
ership Opportunity Program, as authorized
under section 11 of the Housing Opportunity
Program Extension Act of 1996, as amended,
$54,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That of the total
amount provided under this heading,
$10,000,000 shall be made available to the
Self-Help Homeownership Opportunity Pro-
gram as authorized under section 11 of the
Housing Opportunity Program Extension Act
of 1996, as amended: Provided further, That of
the total amount provided under this head-
ing, $35,000,000 shall be made available for
the second, third, and fourth capacity build-
ing activities authorized under section 4(a)
of the HUD Demonstration Act of 1993 (42
U.S.C. 9816 note), of which not less than
$5,000,000 shall be made available for rural
capacity building activities: Provided further,
That of the total amount provided under this
heading, $5,000,000 shall be made available for
capacity building by national rural housing
organizations with experience assessing na-
tional rural conditions and providing financ-
ing, training, technical assistance, informa-
tion, and research to local nonprofits, local
governments, and Indian Tribes serving high
need rural communities: Provided further,
That of the total amount provided under this
heading, $4,000,000, shall be made available
for a program to rehabilitate and modify the
homes of disabled or low-income veterans, as
authorized under section 1079 of Public Law
113–291: Provided further, That funds provided
under the previous proviso shall be awarded
within 180 days of enactment of this Act:
Provided further, That funds provided for
such program in fiscal years 2016, 2017, and
2018 shall be awarded within 60 days of enact-
ment of this Act.
HOMELESS ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For the Emergency Solutions Grants pro-
gram as authorized under subtitle B of title
IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assist-
ance Act, as amended; the Continuum of
Care program as authorized under subtitle C
of title IV of such Act; and the Rural Hous-
ing Stability Assistance program as author-
ized under subtitle D of title IV of such Act,
$2,612,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That any rental as-
sistance amounts that are recaptured under
such Continuum of Care program shall re-
main available until expended: Provided fur-
ther, That not less than $270,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for such Emergency Solutions
Grants program: Provided further, That not
less than $2,205,000,000 of the funds appro-
priated under this heading shall be available
for such Continuum of Care and Rural Hous-
ing Stability Assistance programs: Provided
further, That of the amounts made available
under this heading, up to $50,000,000 shall be
made available for grants for rapid re-hous-
ing projects and supportive service projects
providing coordinated entry, and for eligible
activities the Secretary determines to be
critical in order to assist survivors of domes-
tic violence, dating violence, and stalking:
Provided further, That such projects shall be
eligible for renewal under the continuum of
care program subject to the same terms and
conditions as other renewal applicants: Pro-
vided further, That up to $7,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be available for the national homeless data
analysis project: Provided further, That all
funds awarded for supportive services under
the Continuum of Care program and the
Rural Housing Stability Assistance program
shall be matched by not less than 25 percent
in cash or in kind by each grantee: Provided
further, That for all match requirements ap-
plicable to funds made available under this
heading for this fiscal year and prior fiscal
years, a grantee may use (or could have
used) as a source of match funds other funds
administered by the Secretary and other
Federal agencies unless there is (or was) a
specific statutory prohibition on any such
use of any such funds: Provided further, That
the Secretary shall collect system perform-
ance measures for each continuum of care,
and that relative to fiscal year 2015, under
the Continuum of Care competition with re-
spect to funds made available under this
heading, the Secretary shall base an increas-
ing share of the score on performance cri-
teria: Provided further, That none of the
funds provided under this heading shall be
available to provide funding for new
projects, except for projects created through
reallocation, unless the Secretary deter-
mines that the continuum of care has dem-
onstrated that projects are evaluated and
ranked based on the degree to which they
improve the continuum of care’s system per-
formance: Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall prioritize funding under the
Continuum of Care program to continuums
of care that have demonstrated a capacity to
reallocate funding from lower performing
projects to higher performing projects: Pro-
vided further, That all awards of assistance
under this heading shall be required to co-
ordinate and integrate homeless programs
with other mainstream health, social serv-
ices, and employment programs for which
homeless populations may be eligible: Pro-
vided further, That any unobligated amounts
remaining from funds appropriated under
this heading in fiscal year 2012 and prior
years for project-based rental assistance for
rehabilitation projects with 10-year grant
terms may be used for purposes under this
heading, notwithstanding the purposes for
which such funds were appropriated: Provided
further, That all balances for Shelter Plus
Care renewals previously funded from the
Shelter Plus Care Renewal account and
transferred to this account shall be avail-
able, if recaptured, for Continuum of Care re-
newals in fiscal year 2019: Provided further,
That the Department shall notify grantees of
their formula allocation from amounts allo-
cated (which may represent initial or final
amounts allocated) for the Emergency Solu-
tions Grant program within 60 days of enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That up to
$80,000,000 of the funds appropriated under
this heading shall be to implement projects
to demonstrate how a comprehensive ap-
proach to serving homeless youth, age 24 and
under, in up to 25 communities, including at
least five communities with substantial
rural populations, can dramatically reduce
youth homelessness: Provided further, That of
the amount made available under the pre-
vious proviso, up to $5,000,000 shall be avail-
able to provide technical assistance on youth
homelessness, and collection, analysis, and
reporting of data and performance measures
under the comprehensive approaches to serve
homeless youth, in addition to and in coordi-
nation with other technical assistance funds
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H413
January 10, 2019
provided under this title: Provided further,
That such projects shall be eligible for re-
newal under the continuum of care program
subject to the same terms and conditions as
other renewal applicants: Provided further,
That youth aged 24 and under seeking assist-
ance under this heading shall not be required
to provide third party documentation to es-
tablish their eligibility under 42 U.S.C.
11302(a) or (b) to receive services: Provided
further, That unaccompanied youth aged 24
and under or families headed by youth aged
24 and under who are living in unsafe situa-
tions may be served by youth-serving pro-
viders funded under this heading.
HOUSING PROGRAMS
PROJECT-BASED RENTAL ASSISTANCE
For activities and assistance for the provi-
sion of project-based subsidy contracts under
the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) (‘‘the Act’’), not other-
wise provided for, $11,347,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be available
on October 1, 2018 (in addition to the
$400,000,000 previously appropriated under
this heading that became available October
1, 2018), and $400,000,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be available on October
1, 2019: Provided, That the amounts made
available under this heading shall be avail-
able for expiring or terminating section 8
project-based subsidy contracts (including
section 8 moderate rehabilitation contracts),
for amendments to section 8 project-based
subsidy contracts (including section 8 mod-
erate rehabilitation contracts), for contracts
entered into pursuant to section 441 of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11401), for renewal of section 8 con-
tracts for units in projects that are subject
to approved plans of action under the Emer-
gency Low Income Housing Preservation Act
of 1987 or the Low-Income Housing Preserva-
tion and Resident Homeownership Act of
1990, and for administrative and other ex-
penses associated with project-based activi-
ties and assistance funded under this para-
graph: Provided further, That of the total
amounts provided under this heading, not to
exceed $245,000,000 shall be available for per-
formance-based contract administrators for
section 8 project-based assistance, for car-
rying out 42 U.S.C. 1437(f): Provided further,
That the Secretary may also use such
amounts in the previous proviso for perform-
ance-based contract administrators for the
administration of: interest reduction pay-
ments pursuant to section 236(a) of the Na-
tional Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z–1(a)); rent
supplement payments pursuant to section
101 of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s); section 236(f)(2)
rental assistance payments (12 U.S.C. 1715z–
1(f)(2)); project rental assistance contracts
for the elderly under section 202(c)(2) of the
Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); project
rental assistance contracts for supportive
housing for persons with disabilities under
section 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez
National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
8013(d)(2)); project assistance contracts pur-
suant to section 202(h) of the Housing Act of
1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667); and
loans under section 202 of the Housing Act of
1959 (Public Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667): Provided
further, That amounts recaptured under this
heading, the heading ‘‘Annual Contributions
for Assisted Housing’’, or the heading ‘‘Hous-
ing Certificate Fund’’, may be used for re-
newals of or amendments to section 8
project-based contracts or for performance-
based contract administrators, notwith-
standing the purposes for which such
amounts were appropriated: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding any other provision
of law, upon the request of the Secretary,
project funds that are held in residual re-
ceipts accounts for any project subject to a
section 8 project-based Housing Assistance
Payments contract that authorizes HUD or a
Housing Finance Agency to require that sur-
plus project funds be deposited in an inter-
est-bearing residual receipts account and
that are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary, shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to be available until expended: Pro-
vided further, That amounts deposited pursu-
ant to the previous proviso shall be available
in addition to the amount otherwise pro-
vided by this heading for uses authorized
under this heading.
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY
For capital advances, including amend-
ments to capital advance contracts, for hous-
ing for the elderly, as authorized by section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended,
for project rental assistance for the elderly
under section 202(c)(2) of such Act, including
amendments to contracts for such assistance
and renewal of expiring contracts for such
assistance for up to a 1-year term, for senior
preservation rental assistance contracts, in-
cluding renewals, as authorized by section
811(e) of the American Housing and Eco-
nomic Opportunity Act of 2000, as amended,
and for supportive services associated with
the housing, $678,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2022: Provided, That of
the amount provided under this heading, up
to $90,000,000 shall be for service coordinators
and the continuation of existing congregate
service grants for residents of assisted hous-
ing projects: Provided further, That amounts
under this heading shall be available for Real
Estate Assessment Center inspections and
inspection-related activities associated with
section 202 projects: Provided further, That
the Secretary may waive the provisions of
section 202 governing the terms and condi-
tions of project rental assistance, except
that the initial contract term for such as-
sistance shall not exceed 5 years in duration:
Provided further, That upon request of the
Secretary, project funds which are held in re-
sidual receipts accounts for any project sub-
ject to a section 202 project rental assistance
contract and, upon termination of such con-
tract, are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until September
30, 2022: Provided further, That amounts de-
posited in this account pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall be available, in addition
to the amounts otherwise provided by this
heading, for amendments and renewals: Pro-
vided further, That unobligated balances, in-
cluding recaptures and carryover, remaining
from funds transferred to or appropriated
under this heading shall be available for
amendments and renewals notwithstanding
the purposes for which such funds originally
were appropriated: Provided further, That of
the total amount provided under this head-
ing, $10,000,000, shall be for a program to be
established by the Secretary to make grants
to experienced non-profit organizations,
States, local governments, or public housing
agencies for safety and functional home
modification repairs to meet the needs of
low-income elderly persons to enable them
to remain in their primary residence: Pro-
vided further, That of the total amount made
available under the previous proviso, no less
than $5,000,000 shall be available to meet
such needs in communities with substantial
rural populations.
HOUSING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
For amendments to capital advance con-
tracts, for supportive housing for persons
with disabilities, as authorized by section 811
of the Cranston-Gonzalez National Afford-
able Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 8013), as amend-
ed, for project rental assistance for sup-
portive housing for persons with disabilities
under section 811(d)(2) of such Act, for
project assistance contracts pursuant to sec-
tion 202(h) of the Housing Act of 1959 (Public
Law 86–372; 73 Stat. 667), including amend-
ments to contracts for such assistance and
renewal of expiring contracts for such assist-
ance for up to a 1-year term, for project rent-
al assistance to State housing finance agen-
cies and other appropriate entities as au-
thorized under section 811(b)(3) of the Cran-
ston-Gonzalez National Housing Act, and for
supportive services associated with the hous-
ing for persons with disabilities as author-
ized by section 811(b)(1) of such Act,
$154,000,000, to remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2022: Provided, That amounts
made available under this heading shall be
available for Real Estate Assessment Center
inspections and inspection-related activities
associated with section 811 projects: Provided
further, That, upon the request of the Sec-
retary, project funds which are held in resid-
ual receipts accounts for any project subject
to a section 811 project rental assistance con-
tract and, upon termination of such con-
tract, are in excess of an amount to be deter-
mined by the Secretary shall be remitted to
the Department and deposited in this ac-
count, to remain available until September
30, 2022: Provided further, That amounts de-
posited in this account pursuant to the pre-
vious proviso shall be available in addition
to the amounts otherwise provided by this
heading for amendments and renewals: Pro-
vided further, That unobligated balances, in-
cluding recaptures and carryover, remaining
from funds transferred to or appropriated
under this heading shall be used for amend-
ments and renewals notwithstanding the
purposes for which such funds originally
were appropriated.
HOUSING COUNSELING ASSISTANCE
For contracts, grants, and other assistance
excluding loans, as authorized under section
106 of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1968, as amended, $45,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020, including
up to $4,500,000 for administrative contract
services: Provided, That grants made avail-
able from amounts provided under this head-
ing shall be awarded within 180 days of en-
actment of this Act: Provided further, That
funds shall be used for providing counseling
and advice to tenants and homeowners, both
current and prospective, with respect to
property maintenance, financial manage-
ment or literacy, and such other matters as
may be appropriate to assist them in improv-
ing their housing conditions, meeting their
financial needs, and fulfilling the respon-
sibilities of tenancy or homeownership; for
program administration; and for housing
counselor training: Provided further, That for
purposes of providing such grants from
amounts provided under this heading, the
Secretary may enter into multiyear agree-
ments, as appropriate, subject to the avail-
ability of annual appropriations.
RENTAL HOUSING ASSISTANCE
For amendments to contracts under sec-
tion 101 of the Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) and section
236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1715z–1) in State-aided, noninsured
rental housing projects, $5,000,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount, together with unobligated balances
from recaptured amounts appropriated prior
to fiscal year 2006 from terminated contracts
under such sections of law, and any unobli-
gated balances, including recaptures and car-
ryover, remaining from funds appropriated
under this heading after fiscal year 2005,
shall also be available for extensions of up to
one year for expiring contracts under such
sections of law.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H414 January 10, 2019
PAYMENT TO MANUFACTURED HOUSING FEES
TRUST FUND
For necessary expenses as authorized by
the National Manufactured Housing Con-
struction and Safety Standards Act of 1974
(42 U.S.C. 5401 et seq.), up to $12,000,000, to re-
main available until expended, of which
$12,000,000 is to be derived from the Manufac-
tured Housing Fees Trust Fund: Provided,
That not to exceed the total amount appro-
priated under this heading shall be available
from the general fund of the Treasury to the
extent necessary to incur obligations and
make expenditures pending the receipt of
collections to the Fund pursuant to section
620 of such Act: Provided further, That the
amount made available under this heading
from the general fund shall be reduced as
such collections are received during fiscal
year 2019 so as to result in a final fiscal year
2019 appropriation from the general fund es-
timated at zero, and fees pursuant to section
620 of such Act shall be modified as nec-
essary to ensure such a final fiscal year 2019
appropriation: Provided further, That for the
dispute resolution and installation pro-
grams, the Secretary may assess and collect
fees from any program participant: Provided
further, That such collections shall be depos-
ited into the Fund, and the Secretary, as
provided herein, may use such collections, as
well as fees collected under section 620 of
such Act, for necessary expenses of such Act:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding the
requirements of section 620 of such Act, the
Secretary may carry out responsibilities of
the Secretary under such Act through the
use of approved service providers that are
paid directly by the recipients of their serv-
ices.
FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION
MUTUAL MORTGAGE INSURANCE PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
New commitments to guarantee single
family loans insured under the Mutual Mort-
gage Insurance Fund shall not exceed
$400,000,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That during fis-
cal year 2019, obligations to make direct
loans to carry out the purposes of section
204(g) of the National Housing Act, as
amended, shall not exceed $1,000,000: Provided
further, That the foregoing amount in the
previous proviso shall be for loans to non-
profit and governmental entities in connec-
tion with sales of single family real prop-
erties owned by the Secretary and formerly
insured under the Mutual Mortgage Insur-
ance Fund: Provided further, That for admin-
istrative contract expenses of the Federal
Housing Administration, $130,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2020: Pro-
vided further, That to the extent guaranteed
loan commitments exceed $200,000,000,000 on
or before April 1, 2019, an additional $1,400 for
administrative contract expenses shall be
available for each $1,000,000 in additional
guaranteed loan commitments (including a
pro rata amount for any amount below
$1,000,000), but in no case shall funds made
available by this proviso exceed $30,000,000:
Provided further, That notwithstanding the
limitation in the first sentence of section
255(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C.
1715z–20(g)), during fiscal year 2019 the Sec-
retary may insure and enter into new com-
mitments to insure mortgages under section
255 of the National Housing Act only to the
extent that the net credit subsidy cost for
such insurance does not exceed zero: Provided
further, That for fiscal year 2019, the Sec-
retary shall not take any action against a
lender solely on the basis of compare ratios
that have been adversely affected by defaults
on mortgages secured by properties in areas
where a major disaster was declared in 2017
or 2018 pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford
Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.).
GENERAL AND SPECIAL RISK PROGRAM ACCOUNT
New commitments to guarantee loans in-
sured under the General and Special Risk In-
surance Funds, as authorized by sections 238
and 519 of the National Housing Act (12
U.S.C. 1715z–3 and 1735c), shall not exceed
$30,000,000,000 in total loan principal, any
part of which is to be guaranteed, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That during fiscal year 2019, gross obliga-
tions for the principal amount of direct
loans, as authorized by sections 204(g), 207(l),
238, and 519(a) of the National Housing Act,
shall not exceed $1,000,000, which shall be for
loans to nonprofit and governmental entities
in connection with the sale of single family
real properties owned by the Secretary and
formerly insured under such Act.
GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE
ASSOCIATION
GUARANTEES OF MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES
LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM ACCOUNT
New commitments to issue guarantees to
carry out the purposes of section 306 of the
National Housing Act, as amended (12 U.S.C.
1721(g)), shall not exceed $550,000,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2020:
Provided, That $27,000,000 shall be available
for necessary salaries and expenses of the Of-
fice of Government National Mortgage Asso-
ciation: Provided further, That to the extent
that guaranteed loan commitments exceed
$155,000,000,000 on or before April 1, 2019, an
additional $100 for necessary salaries and ex-
penses shall be available until expended for
each $1,000,000 in additional guaranteed loan
commitments (including a pro rata amount
for any amount below $1,000,000), but in no
case shall funds made available by this pro-
viso exceed $3,000,000: Provided further, That
receipts from Commitment and Multiclass
fees collected pursuant to title III of the Na-
tional Housing Act, as amended, shall be
credited as offsetting collections to this ac-
count.
POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH
RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY
For contracts, grants, and necessary ex-
penses of programs of research and studies
relating to housing and urban problems, not
otherwise provided for, as authorized by title
V of the Housing and Urban Development
Act of 1970 (12 U.S.C. 1701z–1 et seq.), includ-
ing carrying out the functions of the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
under section 1(a)(1)(i) of Reorganization
Plan No. 2 of 1968, and for technical assist-
ance, $100,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020: Provided, That with re-
spect to amounts made available under this
heading, notwithstanding section 203 of this
title, the Secretary may enter into coopera-
tive agreements with philanthropic entities,
other Federal agencies, State or local gov-
ernments and their agencies, or colleges or
universities for research projects: Provided
further, That with respect to the previous
proviso, such partners to the cooperative
agreements must contribute at least a 50
percent match toward the cost of the
project: Provided further, That for non-com-
petitive agreements entered into in accord-
ance with the previous two provisos, the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development
shall comply with section 2(b) of the Federal
Funding Accountability and Transparency
Act of 2006 (Public Law 109–282, 31 U.S.C.
note) in lieu of compliance with section
102(a)(4)(C) with respect to documentation of
award decisions: Provided further, That prior
to obligation of technical assistance funding,
the Secretary shall submit a plan, for ap-
proval, to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations on how it will allocate
funding for this activity: Provided further,
That none of the funds provided under this
heading may be available for the doctoral
dissertation research grant program.
FAIR HOUSING AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
FAIR HOUSING ACTIVITIES
For contracts, grants, and other assist-
ance, not otherwise provided for, as author-
ized by title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of
1968, as amended by the Fair Housing
Amendments Act of 1988, and section 561 of
the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1987, as amended, $65,300,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That notwithstanding 31 U.S.C. 3302, the Sec-
retary may assess and collect fees to cover
the costs of the Fair Housing Training Acad-
emy, and may use such funds to provide such
training: Provided further, That no funds
made available under this heading shall be
used to lobby the executive or legislative
branches of the Federal Government in con-
nection with a specific contract, grant, or
loan: Provided further, That of the funds
made available under this heading, $300,000
shall be available to the Secretary of Hous-
ing and Urban Development for the creation
and promotion of translated materials and
other programs that support the assistance
of persons with limited English proficiency
in utilizing the services provided by the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
OFFICE OF LEAD HAZARD CONTROL AND
HEALTHY HOMES
LEAD HAZARD REDUCTION
For the Lead Hazard Reduction Program,
as authorized by section 1011 of the Residen-
tial Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act
of 1992, $260,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, of which $45,000,000 shall
be for the Healthy Homes Initiative, pursu-
ant to sections 501 and 502 of the Housing and
Urban Development Act of 1970, which shall
include research, studies, testing, and dem-
onstration efforts, including education and
outreach concerning lead-based paint poi-
soning and other housing-related diseases
and hazards: Provided, That for purposes of
environmental review, pursuant to the Na-
tional Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42
U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other provisions of
law that further the purposes of such Act, a
grant under the Healthy Homes Initiative, or
the Lead Technical Studies program under
this heading or under prior appropriations
Acts for such purposes under this heading,
shall be considered to be funds for a special
project for purposes of section 305(c) of the
Multifamily Housing Property Disposition
Reform Act of 1994: Provided further, That
not less than $95,000,000 of the amounts made
available under this heading for the award of
grants pursuant to section 1011 of the Resi-
dential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction
Act of 1992 shall be provided to areas with
the highest lead-based paint abatement
needs: Provided further, That $45,000,000 of the
funds appropriated under this heading shall
be for the implementation of projects to
demonstrate how intensive, extended multi-
year interventions can dramatically reduce
the presence of lead-based paint hazards in
communities containing high concentrations
of both pre-1940 housing and low-income fam-
ilies by achieving economies of scale that
substantially reduce the cost of lead-based
paint remediation activities and administra-
tive costs for grantees: Provided further, That
such projects in each of five communities
shall be for five years and serve no more
than four contiguous census tracts in which
there are high concentrations of housing
stock built before 1940, in which low-income
families with children make up a signifi-
cantly higher proportion of the population as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H415
January 10, 2019
compared to the State average, and that are
located in jurisdictions in which instances of
elevated blood lead levels reported to the
State are significantly higher than the State
average: Provided further, That funding
awarded for such projects shall be made
available for draw down contingent upon the
grantee meeting cost-savings, productivity,
and grant compliance benchmarks estab-
lished by the Secretary: Provided further,
That each recipent of funds for such projects
shall contribute an amount not less than 10
percent of the total award, and that the Sec-
retary shall give priority to applicants that
secure commitments for additional contribu-
tions from public and private sources: Pro-
vided further, That grantees currently receiv-
ing grants made under this heading shall be
eligible to apply for such projects, provided
that they are deemed to be in compliance
with program requirements established by
the Secretary: Provided further, That each
applicant shall certify adequate capacity
that is acceptable to the Secretary to carry
out the proposed use of funds pursuant to a
notice of funding availability: Provided fur-
ther, That amounts made available under
this heading in this or prior appropriations
Acts, still remaining available, may be used
for any purpose under this heading notwith-
standing the purpose for which such amounts
were appropriated if a program competition
is undersubscribed and there are other pro-
gram competitions under this heading that
are oversubscribed.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FUND
For the development, modernization, and
enhancement of, modifications to, and infra-
structure for Department-wide and program-
specific information technology systems, for
the continuing operation and maintenance of
both Department-wide and program-specific
information systems, and for program-re-
lated maintenance activities, $280,000,000, of
which $260,000,000 shall remain available
until September 30, 2020, and of which
$20,000,000 shall remain available until Sep-
tember 30, 2021: Provided, That any amounts
transferred to this Fund under this Act shall
remain available until expended: Provided
further, That any amounts transferred to
this Fund from amounts appropriated by pre-
viously enacted appropriations Acts may be
used for the purposes specified under this
Fund, in addition to any other information
technology purposes for which such amounts
were appropriated: Provided further, That not
more than 10 percent of the funds made
available under this heading for develop-
ment, modernization and enhancement may
be obligated until the Secretary submits to
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations, for approval, a plan for expendi-
ture that—(A) identifies for each moderniza-
tion project: (i) the functional and perform-
ance capabilities to be delivered and the mis-
sion benefits to be realized, (ii) the esti-
mated life-cycle cost, and (iii) key mile-
stones to be met; and (B) demonstrates that
each modernization project is: (i) compliant
with the Department’s enterprise architec-
ture, (ii) being managed in accordance with
applicable life-cycle management policies
and guidance, (iii) subject to the Depart-
ment’s capital planning and investment con-
trol requirements, and (iv) supported by an
adequately staffed project office.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
For necessary salaries and expenses of the
Office of Inspector General in carrying out
the Inspector General Act of 1978, as amend-
ed, $128,082,000: Provided, That the Inspector
General shall have independent authority
over all personnel issues within this office.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
(INCLUDING RESCISSION)
SEC. 201. Fifty percent of the amounts of
budget authority, or in lieu thereof 50 per-
cent of the cash amounts associated with
such budget authority, that are recaptured
from projects described in section 1012(a) of
the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assist-
ance Amendments Act of 1988 (42 U.S.C. 1437f
note) shall be rescinded or in the case of
cash, shall be remitted to the Treasury, and
such amounts of budget authority or cash re-
captured and not rescinded or remitted to
the Treasury shall be used by State housing
finance agencies or local governments or
local housing agencies with projects ap-
proved by the Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development for which settlement oc-
curred after January 1, 1992, in accordance
with such section. Notwithstanding the pre-
vious sentence, the Secretary may award up
to 15 percent of the budget authority or cash
recaptured and not rescinded or remitted to
the Treasury to provide project owners with
incentives to refinance their project at a
lower interest rate.
SEC. 202. None of the amounts made avail-
able under this Act may be used during fiscal
year 2019 to investigate or prosecute under
the Fair Housing Act any otherwise lawful
activity engaged in by one or more persons,
including the filing or maintaining of a non-
frivolous legal action, that is engaged in
solely for the purpose of achieving or pre-
venting action by a Government official or
entity, or a court of competent jurisdiction.
SEC. 203. Except as explicitly provided in
law, any grant, cooperative agreement or
other assistance made pursuant to title II of
this Act shall be made on a competitive basis
and in accordance with section 102 of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545).
SEC. 204. Funds of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development subject to the
Government Corporation Control Act or sec-
tion 402 of the Housing Act of 1950 shall be
available, without regard to the limitations
on administrative expenses, for legal serv-
ices on a contract or fee basis, and for uti-
lizing and making payment for services and
facilities of the Federal National Mortgage
Association, Government National Mortgage
Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, Federal Financing Bank, Fed-
eral Reserve banks or any member thereof,
Federal Home Loan banks, and any insured
bank within the meaning of the Federal De-
posit Insurance Corporation Act, as amended
(12 U.S.C. 1811–1).
SEC. 205. Unless otherwise provided for in
this Act or through a reprogramming of
funds, no part of any appropriation for the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment shall be available for any program,
project or activity in excess of amounts set
forth in the budget estimates submitted to
Congress.
SEC. 206. Corporations and agencies of the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment which are subject to the Government
Corporation Control Act are hereby author-
ized to make such expenditures, within the
limits of funds and borrowing authority
available to each such corporation or agency
and in accordance with law, and to make
such contracts and commitments without re-
gard to fiscal year limitations as provided by
section 104 of such Act as may be necessary
in carrying out the programs set forth in the
budget for 2019 for such corporation or agen-
cy except as hereinafter provided: Provided,
That collections of these corporations and
agencies may be used for new loan or mort-
gage purchase commitments only to the ex-
tent expressly provided for in this Act (un-
less such loans are in support of other forms
of assistance provided for in this or prior ap-
propriations Acts), except that this proviso
shall not apply to the mortgage insurance or
guaranty operations of these corporations,
or where loans or mortgage purchases are
necessary to protect the financial interest of
the United States Government.
SEC. 207. The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall provide quarterly
reports to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations regarding all uncommit-
ted, unobligated, recaptured and excess funds
in each program and activity within the ju-
risdiction of the Department and shall sub-
mit additional, updated budget information
to these Committees upon request.
SEC. 208. The President’s formal budget re-
quest for fiscal year 2020, as well as the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment’s congressional budget justifications to
be submitted to the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate, shall use the identical ac-
count and sub-account structure provided
under this Act.
SEC. 209. No funds provided under this title
may be used for an audit of the Government
National Mortgage Association that makes
applicable requirements under the Federal
Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661 et
seq.).
SEC. 210. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, subject to the conditions
listed under this section, for fiscal years 2019
and 2020, the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development may authorize the transfer of
some or all project-based assistance, debt
held or insured by the Secretary and statu-
torily required low-income and very low-in-
come use restrictions if any, associated with
one or more multifamily housing project or
projects to another multifamily housing
project or projects.
(b) PHASED TRANSFERS.—Transfers of
project-based assistance under this section
may be done in phases to accommodate the
financing and other requirements related to
rehabilitating or constructing the project or
projects to which the assistance is trans-
ferred, to ensure that such project or
projects meet the standards under subsection
(c).
(c) The transfer authorized in subsection
(a) is subject to the following conditions:
(1) NUMBER AND BEDROOM SIZE OF UNITS.—
(A) For occupied units in the transferring
project: The number of low-income and very
low-income units and the configuration (i.e.,
bedroom size) provided by the transferring
project shall be no less than when trans-
ferred to the receiving project or projects
and the net dollar amount of Federal assist-
ance provided to the transferring project
shall remain the same in the receiving
project or projects.
(B) For unoccupied units in the transfer-
ring project: The Secretary may authorize a
reduction in the number of dwelling units in
the receiving project or projects to allow for
a reconfiguration of bedroom sizes to meet
current market demands, as determined by
the Secretary and provided there is no in-
crease in the project-based assistance budget
authority.
(2) The transferring project shall, as deter-
mined by the Secretary, be either physically
obsolete or economically nonviable.
(3) The receiving project or projects shall
meet or exceed applicable physical standards
established by the Secretary.
(4) The owner or mortgagor of the transfer-
ring project shall notify and consult with the
tenants residing in the transferring project
and provide a certification of approval by all
appropriate local governmental officials.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H416 January 10, 2019
(5) The tenants of the transferring project
who remain eligible for assistance to be pro-
vided by the receiving project or projects
shall not be required to vacate their units in
the transferring project or projects until new
units in the receiving project are available
for occupancy.
(6) The Secretary determines that this
transfer is in the best interest of the tenants.
(7) If either the transferring project or the
receiving project or projects meets the con-
dition specified in subsection (d)(2)(A), any
lien on the receiving project resulting from
additional financing obtained by the owner
shall be subordinate to any FHA-insured
mortgage lien transferred to, or placed on,
such project by the Secretary, except that
the Secretary may waive this requirement
upon determination that such a waiver is
necessary to facilitate the financing of ac-
quisition, construction, and/or rehabilitation
of the receiving project or projects.
(8) If the transferring project meets the re-
quirements of subsection (d)(2), the owner or
mortgagor of the receiving project or
projects shall execute and record either a
continuation of the existing use agreement
or a new use agreement for the project
where, in either case, any use restrictions in
such agreement are of no lesser duration
than the existing use restrictions.
(9) The transfer does not increase the cost
(as defined in section 502 of the Congres-
sional Budget Act of 1974, as amended) of any
FHA-insured mortgage, except to the extent
that appropriations are provided in advance
for the amount of any such increased cost.
(d) For purposes of this section—
(1) the terms ‘‘low-income’’ and ‘‘very low-
income’’ shall have the meanings provided
by the statute and/or regulations governing
the program under which the project is in-
sured or assisted;
(2) the term ‘‘multifamily housing project’’
means housing that meets one of the fol-
lowing conditions—
(A) housing that is subject to a mortgage
insured under the National Housing Act;
(B) housing that has project-based assist-
ance attached to the structure including
projects undergoing mark to market debt re-
structuring under the Multifamily Assisted
Housing Reform and Affordability Housing
Act;
(C) housing that is assisted under section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as amended by
section 801 of the Cranston-Gonzales Na-
tional Affordable Housing Act;
(D) housing that is assisted under section
202 of the Housing Act of 1959, as such sec-
tion existed before the enactment of the
Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable
Housing Act;
(E) housing that is assisted under section
811 of the Cranston-Gonzales National Af-
fordable Housing Act; or
(F) housing or vacant land that is subject
to a use agreement;
(3) the term ‘‘project-based assistance’’
means—
(A) assistance provided under section 8(b)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
(B) assistance for housing constructed or
substantially rehabilitated pursuant to as-
sistance provided under section 8(b)(2) of
such Act (as such section existed imme-
diately before October 1, 1983);
(C) rent supplement payments under sec-
tion 101 of the Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Act of 1965;
(D) interest reduction payments under sec-
tion 236 and/or additional assistance pay-
ments under section 236(f)(2) of the National
Housing Act;
(E) assistance payments made under sec-
tion 202(c)(2) of the Housing Act of 1959; and
(F) assistance payments made under sec-
tion 811(d)(2) of the Cranston-Gonzalez Na-
tional Affordable Housing Act;
(4) the term ‘‘receiving project or projects’’
means the multifamily housing project or
projects to which some or all of the project-
based assistance, debt, and statutorily re-
quired low-income and very low-income use
restrictions are to be transferred;
(5) the term ‘‘transferring project’’ means
the multifamily housing project which is
transferring some or all of the project-based
assistance, debt, and the statutorily required
low-income and very low-income use restric-
tions to the receiving project or projects;
and
(6) the term ‘‘Secretary’’ means the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development.
(e) RESEARCH REPORT.—The Secretary
shall conduct an evaluation of the transfer
authority under this section, including the
effect of such transfers on the operational ef-
ficiency, contract rents, physical and finan-
cial conditions, and long-term preservation
of the affected properties.
SEC. 211. (a) No assistance shall be provided
under section 8 of the United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) to any individual
who—
(1) is enrolled as a student at an institu-
tion of higher education (as defined under
section 102 of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002));
(2) is under 24 years of age;
(3) is not a veteran;
(4) is unmarried;
(5) does not have a dependent child;
(6) is not a person with disabilities, as such
term is defined in section 3(b)(3)(E) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437a(b)(3)(E)) and was not receiving assist-
ance under such section 8 as of November 30,
2005;
(7) is not a youth who left foster care at
age 14 or older and is at risk of becoming
homeless; and
(8) is not otherwise individually eligible, or
has parents who, individually or jointly, are
not eligible, to receive assistance under sec-
tion 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f).
(b) For purposes of determining the eligi-
bility of a person to receive assistance under
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), any financial assistance
(in excess of amounts received for tuition
and any other required fees and charges)
that an individual receives under the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.),
from private sources, or an institution of
higher education (as defined under the High-
er Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002)),
shall be considered income to that indi-
vidual, except for a person over the age of 23
with dependent children.
SEC. 212. The funds made available for Na-
tive Alaskans under the heading ‘‘Native
American Housing Block Grants’’ in title II
of this Act shall be allocated to the same Na-
tive Alaskan housing block grant recipients
that received funds in fiscal year 2005.
SEC. 213. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, in fiscal year 2019, in managing
and disposing of any multifamily property
that is owned or has a mortgage held by the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and during the process of foreclosure
on any property with a contract for rental
assistance payments under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 or other
Federal programs, the Secretary shall main-
tain any rental assistance payments under
section 8 of the United States Housing Act of
1937 and other programs that are attached to
any dwelling units in the property. To the
extent the Secretary determines, in con-
sultation with the tenants and the local gov-
ernment, that such a multifamily property
owned or held by the Secretary is not fea-
sible for continued rental assistance pay-
ments under such section 8 or other pro-
grams, based on consideration of (1) the costs
of rehabilitating and operating the property
and all available Federal, State, and local re-
sources, including rent adjustments under
section 524 of the Multifamily Assisted Hous-
ing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997
(‘‘MAHRAA’’) and (2) environmental condi-
tions that cannot be remedied in a cost-ef-
fective fashion, the Secretary may, in con-
sultation with the tenants of that property,
contract for project-based rental assistance
payments with an owner or owners of other
existing housing properties, or provide other
rental assistance. The Secretary shall also
take appropriate steps to ensure that
project-based contracts remain in effect
prior to foreclosure, subject to the exercise
of contractual abatement remedies to assist
relocation of tenants for imminent major
threats to health and safety after written
notice to and informed consent of the af-
fected tenants and use of other available
remedies, such as partial abatements or re-
ceivership. After disposition of any multi-
family property described under this section,
the contract and allowable rent levels on
such properties shall be subject to the re-
quirements under section 524 of MAHRAA.
SEC. 214. The commitment authority fund-
ed by fees as provided under the heading
‘‘Community Development Loan Guarantees
Program Account’’ may be used to guar-
antee, or make commitments to guarantee,
notes, or other obligations issued by any
State on behalf of non-entitlement commu-
nities in the State in accordance with the re-
quirements of section 108 of the Housing and
Community Development Act of 1974: Pro-
vided, That any State receiving such a guar-
antee or commitment shall distribute all
funds subject to such guarantee to the units
of general local government in non-entitle-
ment areas that received the commitment.
SEC. 215. Public housing agencies that own
and operate 400 or fewer public housing units
may elect to be exempt from any asset man-
agement requirement imposed by the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development in
connection with the operating fund rule: Pro-
vided, That an agency seeking a discontinu-
ance of a reduction of subsidy under the op-
erating fund formula shall not be exempt
from asset management requirements.
SEC. 216. With respect to the use of
amounts provided in this Act and in future
Acts for the operation, capital improvement
and management of public housing as au-
thorized by sections 9(d) and 9(e) of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437g(d) and (e)), the Secretary shall not im-
pose any requirement or guideline relating
to asset management that restricts or limits
in any way the use of capital funds for cen-
tral office costs pursuant to section 9(g)(1) or
9(g)(2) of the United States Housing Act of
1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437g(g)(1), (2)): Provided, That
a public housing agency may not use capital
funds authorized under section 9(d) for ac-
tivities that are eligible under section 9(e)
for assistance with amounts from the oper-
ating fund in excess of the amounts per-
mitted under section 9(g)(1) or 9(g)(2).
SEC. 217. No official or employee of the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Development
shall be designated as an allotment holder
unless the Office of the Chief Financial Offi-
cer has determined that such allotment hold-
er has implemented an adequate system of
funds control and has received training in
funds control procedures and directives. The
Chief Financial Officer shall ensure that
there is a trained allotment holder for each
HUD appropriation under the accounts ‘‘Ex-
ecutive Offices’’ and ‘‘Administrative Sup-
port Offices,’’ as well as each account receiv-
ing appropriations under the general heading
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H417
January 10, 2019
‘‘Program Office Salaries and Expenses’’,
‘‘Government National Mortgage Associa-
tion—Guarantees of Mortgage-Backed Secu-
rities Loan Guarantee Program Account’’,
and ‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ within the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
SEC. 218. The Secretary of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development shall, for
fiscal year 2019, notify the public through
the Federal Register and other means, as de-
termined appropriate, of the issuance of a
notice of the availability of assistance or no-
tice of funding availability (NOFA) for any
program or discretionary fund administered
by the Secretary that is to be competitively
awarded. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of law, for fiscal year 2019, the Secretary
may make the NOFA available only on the
Internet at the appropriate Government web
site or through other electronic media, as de-
termined by the Secretary.
SEC. 219. Payment of attorney fees in pro-
gram-related litigation shall be paid from
the individual program office and Office of
General Counsel salaries and expenses appro-
priations. The annual budget submission for
the program offices and the Office of General
Counsel shall include any such projected liti-
gation costs for attorney fees as a separate
line item request. No funds provided in this
title may be used to pay any such litigation
costs for attorney fees until the Department
submits for review a spending plan for such
costs to the House and Senate Committees
on Appropriations.
SEC. 220. The Secretary is authorized to
transfer up to 10 percent or $5,000,000, which-
ever is less, of funds appropriated for any of-
fice under the heading ‘‘Administrative Sup-
port Offices’’ or for any account under the
general heading ‘‘Program Office Salaries
and Expenses’’ to any other such office or ac-
count: Provided, That no appropriation for
any such office or account shall be increased
or decreased by more than 10 percent or
$5,000,000, whichever is less, without prior
written approval of the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided fur-
ther, That the Secretary shall provide notifi-
cation to such Committees three business
days in advance of any such transfers under
this section up to 10 percent or $5,000,000,
whichever is less.
SEC. 221. (a) Any entity receiving housing
assistance payments shall maintain decent,
safe, and sanitary conditions, as determined
by the Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment (in this section referred to as the
‘‘Secretary’’), and comply with any stand-
ards under applicable State or local laws,
rules, ordinances, or regulations relating to
the physical condition of any property cov-
ered under a housing assistance payment
contract.
(b) The Secretary shall take action under
subsection (c) when a multifamily housing
project with a section 8 contract or contract
for similar project-based assistance—
(1) receives a Uniform Physical Condition
Standards (UPCS) score of 60 or less; or
(2) fails to certify in writing to the Sec-
retary within 3 days that all Exigent Health
and Safety deficiencies identified by the in-
spector at the project have been corrected.
Such requirements shall apply to insured
and noninsured projects with assistance at-
tached to the units under section 8 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437f), but do not apply to such units assisted
under section 8(o)(13) (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(13))
or to public housing units assisted with cap-
ital or operating funds under section 9 of the
United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C.
1437g).
(c)(1) Within 15 days of the issuance of the
REAC inspection, the Secretary must pro-
vide the owner with a Notice of Default with
a specified timetable, determined by the Sec-
retary, for correcting all deficiencies. The
Secretary must also provide a copy of the
Notice of Default to the tenants, the local
government, any mortgagees, and any con-
tract administrator. If the owner’s appeal re-
sults in a UPCS score of 60 or above, the Sec-
retary may withdraw the Notice of Default.
(2) At the end of the time period for cor-
recting all deficiencies specified in the No-
tice of Default, if the owner fails to fully cor-
rect such deficiencies, the Secretary may—
(A) require immediate replacement of
project management with a management
agent approved by the Secretary;
(B) impose civil money penalties, which
shall be used solely for the purpose of sup-
porting safe and sanitary conditions at appli-
cable properties, as designated by the Sec-
retary, with priority given to the tenants of
the property affected by the penalty;
(C) abate the section 8 contract, including
partial abatement, as determined by the Sec-
retary, until all deficiencies have been cor-
rected;
(D) pursue transfer of the project to an
owner, approved by the Secretary under es-
tablished procedures, which will be obligated
to promptly make all required repairs and to
accept renewal of the assistance contract as
long as such renewal is offered;
(E) transfer the existing section 8 contract
to another project or projects and owner or
owners;
(F) pursue exclusionary sanctions, includ-
ing suspensions or debarments from Federal
programs;
(G) seek judicial appointment of a receiver
to manage the property and cure all project
deficiencies or seek a judicial order of spe-
cific performance requiring the owner to
cure all project deficiencies;
(H) work with the owner, lender, or other
related party to stabilize the property in an
attempt to preserve the property through
compliance, transfer of ownership, or an in-
fusion of capital provided by a third-party
that requires time to effectuate; or
(I) take any other regulatory or contrac-
tual remedies available as deemed necessary
and appropriate by the Secretary.
(d) The Secretary shall also take appro-
priate steps to ensure that project-based con-
tracts remain in effect, subject to the exer-
cise of contractual abatement remedies to
assist relocation of tenants for major threats
to health and safety after written notice to
the affected tenants. To the extent the Sec-
retary determines, in consultation with the
tenants and the local government, that the
property is not feasible for continued rental
assistance payments under such section 8 or
other programs, based on consideration of—
(1) the costs of rehabilitating and oper-
ating the property and all available Federal,
State, and local resources, including rent ad-
justments under section 524 of the Multi-
family Assisted Housing Reform and Afford-
ability Act of 1997 (‘‘MAHRAA’’); and
(2) environmental conditions that cannot
be remedied in a cost-effective fashion, the
Secretary may contract for project-based
rental assistance payments with an owner or
owners of other existing housing properties,
or provide other rental assistance.
(e) The Secretary shall report quarterly on
all properties covered by this section that
are assessed through the Real Estate Assess-
ment Center and have UPCS physical inspec-
tion scores of less than 60 or have received
an unsatisfactory management and occu-
pancy review within the past 36 months. The
report shall include—
(1) the enforcement actions being taken to
address such conditions, including imposi-
tion of civil money penalties and termi-
nation of subsidies, and identify properties
that have such conditions multiple times;
(2) actions that the Department of Housing
and Urban Development is taking to protect
tenants of such identified properties; and
(3) any administrative or legislative rec-
ommendations to further improve the living
conditions at properties covered under a
housing assistance payment contract.
This report shall be due to the Senate and
House Committees on Appropriations no
later than 30 days after the enactment of
this Act, and on the first business day of
each Federal fiscal year quarter thereafter
while this section remains in effect.
SEC. 222. None of the funds made available
by this Act, or any other Act, for purposes
authorized under section 8 (only with respect
to the tenant-based rental assistance pro-
gram) and section 9 of the United States
Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.),
may be used by any public housing agency
for any amount of salary, including bonuses,
for the chief executive officer of which, or
any other official or employee of which, that
exceeds the annual rate of basic pay payable
for a position at level IV of the Executive
Schedule at any time during any public
housing agency fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 223. None of the funds in this Act pro-
vided to the Department of Housing and
Urban Development may be used to make a
grant award unless the Secretary notifies
the House and Senate Committees on Appro-
priations not less than 3 full business days
before any project, State, locality, housing
authority, tribe, nonprofit organization, or
other entity selected to receive a grant
award is announced by the Department or its
offices.
SEC. 224. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to require or enforce
the Physical Needs Assessment (PNA).
SEC. 225. None of the funds made available
in this Act shall be used by the Federal
Housing Administration, the Government
National Mortgage Administration, or the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment to insure, securitize, or establish a
Federal guarantee of any mortgage or mort-
gage backed security that refinances or oth-
erwise replaces a mortgage that has been
subject to eminent domain condemnation or
seizure, by a State, municipality, or any
other political subdivision of a State.
SEC. 226. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to terminate the
status of a unit of general local government
as a metropolitan city (as defined in section
102 of the Housing and Community Develop-
ment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302)) with respect
to grants under section 106 of such Act (42
U.S.C. 5306).
SEC. 227. Amounts made available under
this Act which are either appropriated, allo-
cated, advanced on a reimbursable basis, or
transferred to the Office of Policy Develop-
ment and Research in the Department of
Housing and Urban Development and func-
tions thereof, for research, evaluation, or
statistical purposes, and which are unex-
pended at the time of completion of a con-
tract, grant, or cooperative agreement, may
be deobligated and shall immediately be-
come available and may be reobligated in
that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal year
for the research, evaluation, or statistical
purposes for which the amounts are made
available to that Office subject to re-
programming requirements in section 405 of
this Act.
SEC. 228. None of the funds provided in this
Act or any other act may be used for awards,
including performance, special act, or spot,
for any employee of the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development who has been
subject to administrative discipline in fiscal
years 2018 or 2019, including suspension from
work.
SEC. 229. Funds made available in this title
under the heading ‘‘Homeless Assistance
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H418 January 10, 2019
Grants’’ may be used by the Secretary to
participate in Performance Partnership Pi-
lots authorized under section 526 of division
H of Public Law 113–76, section 524 of division
G of Public Law 113–235, section 525 of divi-
sion H of Public Law 114–113, and such au-
thorities as are enacted for Performance
Partnership Pilots in an appropriations Act
for fiscal year 2019: Provided, That such par-
ticipation shall be limited to no more than
10 continuums of care and housing activities
to improve outcomes for disconnected youth.
SEC. 230. With respect to grant amounts
awarded under the heading ‘‘Homeless As-
sistance Grants’’ for fiscal years 2015, 2016,
2017, 2018 and 2019 for the continuum of care
(CoC) program as authorized under subtitle C
of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless
Assistance Act, costs paid by program in-
come of grant recipients may count toward
meeting the recipient’s matching require-
ments, provided the costs are eligible CoC
costs that supplement the recipient’s CoC
program.
SEC. 231. (a) From amounts made available
under this title under the heading ‘‘Homeless
Assistance Grants’’, the Secretary may
award 1-year transition grants to recipients
of funds for activities under subtitle C of the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act
(42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq.) to transition from
one Continuum of Care program component
to another.
(b) No more than 50 percent of each transi-
tion grant may be used for costs of eligible
activities of the program component origi-
nally funded.
(c) Transition grants made under this sec-
tion are eligible for renewal in subsequent
fiscal years for the eligible activities of the
new program component.
(d) In order to be eligible to receive a tran-
sition grant, the funding recipient must have
the consent of the Continuum of Care and
meet standards determined by the Secretary.
SEC. 232. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Department
of Housing and Urban Development to direct
a grantee to undertake specific changes to
existing zoning laws as part of carrying out
the final rule entitled ‘‘Affirmatively Fur-
thering Fair Housing’’ (80 Fed. Reg. 42272
(July 16, 2015)) or the notice entitled ‘‘Af-
firmatively Furthering Fair Housing Assess-
ment Tool’’ (79 Fed. Reg. 57949 (September
26, 2014)).
SEC. 233. Section 218(g) of the Cranston-
Gonzalez National Affordable Housing Act
(42 U.S.C. 12748(g)) shall not apply with re-
spect to the right of a jurisdiction to draw
funds from its HOME Investment Trust Fund
that otherwise expired or would expire in
2016, 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 or 2021 under that
section.
SEC. 234. The Promise Zone designations
and Promise Zone Designation Agreements
entered into pursuant to such designations,
made by the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development in prior fiscal years, shall re-
main in effect in accordance with the terms
and conditions of such agreements.
SEC. 235. The Secretary shall initiate a
comprehensive review of existing public
housing and tenant-based rental assistance
regulations and related notices and other
guidance documents to identify opportuni-
ties to streamline the administration of such
programs while also ensuring compliance
with Federal financial and internal control
requirements. The Secretary shall establish
a regulatory advisory committee, composed
of program and research experts from the
Department, a fair representation of public
housing agencies, and independent subject
matter experts in housing policy, property
management, and Federal grant manage-
ment, which shall advise the Secretary with
respect to specific policy proposals to reduce
administrative burden. The Secretary, in
consultation with the advisory committee,
shall submit a report on the results of such
regulatory review to the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations no later than
one year after the date of enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 236. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to establish and
apply a ranking factor in the selection and
award of any funds made available and re-
quiring competitive selection under this Act,
including preference or bonus points or other
incentives for participation in or coordina-
tion with EnVision Centers.
SEC. 237. (a) The Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development shall continue to engage
in efforts authorized by the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act of 2013 (Public
Law 113–4; 127 Stat. 54) to ensure that sur-
vivors of domestic violence and sexual as-
sault are not unlawfully evicted or denied
housing by certain landlords based on their
experience as survivors.
(b) Not later than 180 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development shall sub-
mit to Congress a report on the efforts de-
scribed in subsection (a).
SEC. 238. None of the funds made available
under this Act may be used to provide hous-
ing assistance benefits for an individual who
is convicted of—
(1) aggravated sexual abuse under section
2241 of title 18, United States Code;
(2) murder under section 1111 of title 18,
United States Code; or
(3) any other Federal or State offense in-
volving—
(A) severe forms of trafficking in persons
or sex trafficking, as those terms are defined
in paragraphs (9) and (10), respectively, of
section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Pro-
tection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102); or
(B) child pornography, as defined in section
2256 of title 18, United States Code.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Department
of Housing and Urban Development Appro-
priations Act, 2019’’.
TITLE III
RELATED AGENCIES
ACCESS BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For expenses necessary for the Access
Board, as authorized by section 502 of the Re-
habilitation Act of 1973, as amended,
$8,400,000: Provided, That, notwithstanding
any other provision of law, there may be
credited to this appropriation funds received
for publications and training expenses.
FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Federal Mar-
itime Commission as authorized by section
201(d) of the Merchant Marine Act, 1936, as
amended (46 U.S.C. 307), including services as
authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109; hire of passenger
motor vehicles as authorized by 31 U.S.C.
1343(b); and uniforms or allowances there-
fore, as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 5901–5902,
$27,490,000: Provided, That not to exceed $2,000
shall be available for official reception and
representation expenses.
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Office of In-
spector General for the National Railroad
Passenger Corporation to carry out the pro-
visions of the Inspector General Act of 1978,
as amended, $23,274,000: Provided, That the
Inspector General shall have all necessary
authority, in carrying out the duties speci-
fied in the Inspector General Act, as amend-
ed (5 U.S.C. App. 3), to investigate allega-
tions of fraud, including false statements to
the government (18 U.S.C. 1001), by any per-
son or entity that is subject to regulation by
the National Railroad Passenger Corpora-
tion: Provided further, That the Inspector
General may enter into contracts and other
arrangements for audits, studies, analyses,
and other services with public agencies and
with private persons, subject to the applica-
ble laws and regulations that govern the ob-
taining of such services within the National
Railroad Passenger Corporation: Provided
further, That the Inspector General may se-
lect, appoint, and employ such officers and
employees as may be necessary for carrying
out the functions, powers, and duties of the
Office of Inspector General, subject to the
applicable laws and regulations that govern
such selections, appointments, and employ-
ment within the Corporation: Provided fur-
ther, That concurrent with the President’s
budget request for fiscal year 2020, the In-
spector General shall submit to the House
and Senate Committees on Appropriations a
budget request for fiscal year 2020 in similar
format and substance to those submitted by
executive agencies of the Federal Govern-
ment: Provided further, That not later than
240 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Inspector General shall update the
report entitled ‘‘Effects of Amtrak’s Poor
On-Time Performance’’, numbered CR–2008–
047, and dated March 28, 2008, and make the
updated report publicly available.
NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the National
Transportation Safety Board, including hire
of passenger motor vehicles and aircraft;
services as authorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, but at
rates for individuals not to exceed the per
diem rate equivalent to the rate for a GS–15;
uniforms, or allowances therefor, as author-
ized by law (5 U.S.C. 5901–5902), $110,400,000, of
which not to exceed $2,000 may be used for
official reception and representation ex-
penses. The amounts made available to the
National Transportation Safety Board in
this Act include amounts necessary to make
lease payments on an obligation incurred in
fiscal year 2001 for a capital lease.
NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD
REINVESTMENT CORPORATION
For payment to the Neighborhood Rein-
vestment Corporation for use in neighbor-
hood reinvestment activities, as authorized
by the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corpora-
tion Act (42 U.S.C. 8101–8107), $145,000,000, of
which $5,000,000 shall be for a multi-family
rental housing program: Provided, That an
additional $2,000,000, to remain available
until September 30, 2023, shall be for the pro-
motion and development of shared equity
housing models.
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For necessary expenses of the Surface
Transportation Board, including services au-
thorized by 5 U.S.C. 3109, $37,100,000: Provided,
That notwithstanding any other provision of
law, not to exceed $1,250,000 from fees estab-
lished by the Chairman of the Surface Trans-
portation Board shall be credited to this ap-
propriation as offsetting collections and used
for necessary and authorized expenses under
this heading: Provided further, That the sum
herein appropriated from the general fund
shall be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis
as such offsetting collections are received
during fiscal year 2019, to result in a final ap-
propriation from the general fund estimated
at no more than $35,850,000.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H419
January 10, 2019
UNITED STATES INTERAGENCY COUNCIL ON
HOMELESSNESS
OPERATING EXPENSES
For necessary expenses (including payment
of salaries, authorized travel, hire of pas-
senger motor vehicles, the rental of con-
ference rooms, and the employment of ex-
perts and consultants under section 3109 of
title 5, United States Code) of the United
States Interagency Council on Homelessness
in carrying out the functions pursuant to
title II of the McKinney-Vento Homeless As-
sistance Act, as amended, $3,600,000: Provided,
That the first proviso in Public Law 115–141
under the heading ‘‘United States Inter-
agency Council on Homelessness—Operating
Expenses’’ is amended by striking ‘‘2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘2021’’.
TITLE IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS ACT
SEC. 401. None of the funds in this Act shall
be used for the planning or execution of any
program to pay the expenses of, or otherwise
compensate, non-Federal parties intervening
in regulatory or adjudicatory proceedings
funded in this Act.
SEC. 402. None of the funds appropriated in
this Act shall remain available for obliga-
tion beyond the current fiscal year, nor may
any be transferred to other appropriations,
unless expressly so provided herein.
SEC. 403. The expenditure of any appropria-
tion under this Act for any consulting serv-
ice through a procurement contract pursu-
ant to section 3109 of title 5, United States
Code, shall be limited to those contracts
where such expenditures are a matter of pub-
lic record and available for public inspection,
except where otherwise provided under exist-
ing law, or under existing Executive order
issued pursuant to existing law.
SEC. 404. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be obligated or ex-
pended for any employee training that—
(1) does not meet identified needs for
knowledge, skills, and abilities bearing di-
rectly upon the performance of official du-
ties;
(2) contains elements likely to induce high
levels of emotional response or psychological
stress in some participants;
(3) does not require prior employee notifi-
cation of the content and methods to be used
in the training and written end of course
evaluation;
(4) contains any methods or content associ-
ated with religious or quasi-religious belief
systems or ‘‘new age’’ belief systems as de-
fined in Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission Notice N–915.022, dated Sep-
tember 2, 1988; or
(5) is offensive to, or designed to change,
participants’ personal values or lifestyle out-
side the workplace.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict, or otherwise preclude an agency
from conducting training bearing directly
upon the performance of official duties.
SEC. 405. Except as otherwise provided in
this Act, none of the funds provided in this
Act, provided by previous appropriations
Acts to the agencies or entities funded in
this Act that remain available for obligation
or expenditure in fiscal year 2019, or provided
from any accounts in the Treasury derived
by the collection of fees and available to the
agencies funded by this Act, shall be avail-
able for obligation or expenditure through a
reprogramming of funds that—
(1) creates a new program;
(2) eliminates a program, project, or activ-
ity;
(3) increases funds or personnel for any
program, project, or activity for which funds
have been denied or restricted by the Con-
gress;
(4) proposes to use funds directed for a spe-
cific activity by either the House or Senate
Committees on Appropriations for a dif-
ferent purpose;
(5) augments existing programs, projects,
or activities in excess of $5,000,000 or 10 per-
cent, whichever is less;
(6) reduces existing programs, projects, or
activities by $5,000,000 or 10 percent, which-
ever is less; or
(7) creates, reorganizes, or restructures a
branch, division, office, bureau, board, com-
mission, agency, administration, or depart-
ment different from the budget justifications
submitted to the Committees on Appropria-
tions or the tables in the explanatory state-
ment described in section 421 of this Act,
whichever is more detailed, unless prior ap-
proval is received from the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, each agency funded
by this Act shall submit a report to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the Senate and
of the House of Representatives to establish
the baseline for application of reprogram-
ming and transfer authorities for the current
fiscal year: Provided further, That the report
shall include—
(A) a table for each appropriation with a
separate column to display the prior year en-
acted level, the President’s budget request,
adjustments made by Congress, adjustments
due to enacted rescissions, if appropriate,
and the fiscal year enacted level;
(B) a delineation in the table for each ap-
propriation and its respective prior year en-
acted level by object class and program,
project, and activity as detailed in the budg-
et appendix for the respective appropriation;
and
(C) an identification of items of special
congressional interest.
SEC. 406. Except as otherwise specifically
provided by law, not to exceed 50 percent of
unobligated balances remaining available at
the end of fiscal year 2019 from appropria-
tions made available for salaries and ex-
penses for fiscal year 2019 in this Act, shall
remain available through September 30, 2020,
for each such account for the purposes au-
thorized: Provided, That a request shall be
submitted to the House and Senate Commit-
tees on Appropriations for approval prior to
the expenditure of such funds: Provided fur-
ther, That these requests shall be made in
compliance with reprogramming guidelines
under section 405 of this Act.
SEC. 407. No funds in this Act may be used
to support any Federal, State, or local
projects that seek to use the power of emi-
nent domain, unless eminent domain is em-
ployed only for a public use: Provided, That
for purposes of this section, public use shall
not be construed to include economic devel-
opment that primarily benefits private enti-
ties: Provided further, That any use of funds
for mass transit, railroad, airport, seaport or
highway projects, as well as utility projects
which benefit or serve the general public (in-
cluding energy-related, communication-re-
lated, water-related and wastewater-related
infrastructure), other structures designated
for use by the general public or which have
other common-carrier or public-utility func-
tions that serve the general public and are
subject to regulation and oversight by the
government, and projects for the removal of
an immediate threat to public health and
safety or brownfields as defined in the Small
Business Liability Relief and Brownfields
Revitalization Act (Public Law 107–118) shall
be considered a public use for purposes of
eminent domain.
SEC. 408. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be transferred to any depart-
ment, agency, or instrumentality of the
United States Government, except pursuant
to a transfer made by, or transfer authority
provided in, this Act or any other appropria-
tions Act.
SEC. 409. No part of any appropriation con-
tained in this Act shall be available to pay
the salary for any person filling a position,
other than a temporary position, formerly
held by an employee who has left to enter
the Armed Forces of the United States and
has satisfactorily completed his or her pe-
riod of active military or naval service, and
has within 90 days after his or her release
from such service or from hospitalization
continuing after discharge for a period of not
more than 1 year, made application for res-
toration to his or her former position and
has been certified by the Office of Personnel
Management as still qualified to perform the
duties of his or her former position and has
not been restored thereto.
SEC. 410. No funds appropriated pursuant to
this Act may be expended by an entity un-
less the entity agrees that in expending the
assistance the entity will comply with sec-
tions 2 through 4 of the Act of March 3, 1933
(41 U.S.C. 8301–8305, popularly known as the
‘‘Buy American Act’’).
SEC. 411. No funds appropriated or other-
wise made available under this Act shall be
made available to any person or entity that
has been convicted of violating the Buy
American Act (41 U.S.C. 8301–8305).
SEC. 412. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used for first-class airline
accommodations in contravention of sec-
tions 301–10.122 and 301–10.123 of title 41, Code
of Federal Regulations.
SEC. 413. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used to approve a
new foreign air carrier permit under sections
41301 through 41305 of title 49, United States
Code, or exemption application under section
40109 of that title of an air carrier already
holding an air operators certificate issued by
a country that is party to the U.S.-E.U.-Ice-
land-Norway Air Transport Agreement
where such approval would contravene
United States law or Article 17 bis of the
U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Norway Air Transport
Agreement.
(b) Nothing in this section shall prohibit,
restrict or otherwise preclude the Secretary
of Transportation from granting a foreign
air carrier permit or an exemption to such
an air carrier where such authorization is
consistent with the U.S.-E.U.-Iceland-Nor-
way Air Transport Agreement and United
States law.
SEC. 414. None of the funds made available
in this Act may be used to send or otherwise
pay for the attendance of more than 50 em-
ployees of a single agency or department of
the United States Government, who are sta-
tioned in the United States, at any single
international conference unless the relevant
Secretary reports to the House and Senate
Committees on Appropriations at least 5
days in advance that such attendance is im-
portant to the national interest: Provided,
That for purposes of this section the term
‘‘international conference’’ shall mean a
conference occurring outside of the United
States attended by representatives of the
United States Government and of foreign
governments, international organizations, or
nongovernmental organizations.
SEC. 415. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available under this Act may
be used by the Surface Transportation Board
to charge or collect any filing fee for rate or
practice complaints filed with the Board in
an amount in excess of the amount author-
ized for district court civil suit filing fees
under section 1914 of title 28, United States
Code.
SEC. 416. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used by the Department
of Transportation, the Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development, or any other
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H420 January 10, 2019
Federal agency to lease or purchase new
light duty vehicles for any executive fleet, or
for an agency’s fleet inventory, except in ac-
cordance with Presidential Memorandum—
Federal Fleet Performance, dated May 24,
2011.
SEC. 417. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to maintain or
establish a computer network unless such
network blocks the viewing, downloading,
and exchanging of pornography.
(b) Nothing in subsection (a) shall limit
the use of funds necessary for any Federal,
State, tribal, or local law enforcement agen-
cy or any other entity carrying out criminal
investigations, prosecution, or adjudication
activities.
SEC. 418. (a) None of the funds made avail-
able in this Act may be used to deny an In-
spector General funded under this Act timely
access to any records, documents, or other
materials available to the department or
agency over which that Inspector General
has responsibilities under the Inspector Gen-
eral Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), or to prevent
or impede that Inspector General’s access to
such records, documents, or other materials,
under any provision of law, except a provi-
sion of law that expressly refers to the In-
spector General and expressly limits the In-
spector General’s right of access.
(b) A department or agency covered by this
section shall provide its Inspector General
with access to all such records, documents,
and other materials in a timely manner.
(c) Each Inspector General shall ensure
compliance with statutory limitations on
disclosure relevant to the information pro-
vided by the establishment over which that
Inspector General has responsibilities under
the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C.
App.).
(d) Each Inspector General covered by this
section shall report to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate within 5 calendar days
any failures to comply with this require-
ment.
SEC. 419. None of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available by this Act may be
used to pay award or incentive fees for con-
tractors whose performance has been judged
to be below satisfactory, behind schedule,
over budget, or has failed to meet the basic
requirements of a contract, unless the Agen-
cy determines that any such deviations are
due to unforeseeable events, government-
driven scope changes, or are not significant
within the overall scope of the project and/or
program unless such awards or incentive fees
are consistent with 16.401(e)(2) of the FAR.
SEC. 420. (a) Section 420 (a) None of the
funds appropriated or otherwise made avail-
able under this Act may be used to acquire
telecommunications equipment produced by
Huawei Technologies Company, ZTE Cor-
poration or a high-impact or moderate-im-
pact information system, as defined for secu-
rity categorization in the National Institute
of Standards and Technology’s (NIST) Fed-
eral Information Processing Standard Publi-
cation 199, ‘‘Standards for Security Cat-
egorization of Federal Information and In-
formation Systems’’ unless the agency has—
(1) reviewed the supply chain risk for the
information systems against criteria devel-
oped by NIST to inform acquisition decisions
for high-impact and moderate-impact infor-
mation systems within the Federal Govern-
ment;
(2) reviewed the supply chain risk from the
presumptive awardee against available and
relevant threat information provided by the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and other
appropriate agencies; and
(3) in consultation with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation or other appropriate Federal
entity, conducted an assessment of any risk
of cyber-espionage or sabotage associated
with the acquisition of such system, includ-
ing any risk associated with such system
being produced, manufactured, or assembled
by one or more entities identified by the
United States Government as posing a cyber
threat, including but not limited to, those
that may be owned, directed, or subsidized
by the People’s Republic of China, the Is-
lamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic Peo-
ple’s Republic of Korea, or the Russian Fed-
eration.
(b) None of the funds appropriated or oth-
erwise made available under this Act may be
used to acquire a high-impact or moderate
impact information system reviewed and as-
sessed under subsection (a) unless the head
of the assessing entity described in sub-
section (a) has—
(1) developed, in consultation with NIST
and supply chain risk management experts, a
mitigation strategy for any identified risks;
(2) determined, in consultation with NIST
and the Federal Bureau of Investigation,
that the acquisition of such system is in the
vital national security interest of the United
States; and
(3) reported that determination to the
Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate in a man-
ner that identifies the system intended for
acquisition and a detailed description of the
mitigation strategies identified in (1), pro-
vided that such report may include a classi-
fied annex as necessary.
SEC. 421. The explanatory statement re-
garding division D of H.R. 21, printed in the
Congressional Record on January 3, 2019, and
submitted by the Chair of the Committee on
Appropriations, shall have the same effect
with respect to allocation of funds and im-
plementation of this Act as if it were a joint
explanatory statement of a committee of
conference.
SEC. 422. (a) Employees furloughed as a re-
sult of any lapse in appropriations beginning
on or about December 22, 2018 and ending on
the date of enactment of this Act shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation, for the period of such lapse in ap-
propriations, as soon as practicable after
such lapse in appropriations ends.
(b) For purposes of this section, ‘‘employ-
ees’’ means any Federal employees whose
salaries and expenses are provided in this
Act.
(c) All obligations incurred in anticipation
of the appropriations made and authority
granted by this Act for the purposes of main-
taining the essential level of activity to pro-
tect life and property and bringing about or-
derly termination of Government functions,
and for purposes as otherwise authorized by
law, are hereby ratified and approved if oth-
erwise in accord with the provisions of this
Act.
SEC. 423. (a) If a State (or another Federal
grantee) used State funds (or the grantee’s
non-Federal funds) to continue carrying out
a Federal program or furloughed State em-
ployees (or the grantee’s employees) whose
compensation is advanced or reimbursed in
whole or in part by the Federal Govern-
ment—
(1) such furloughed employees shall be
compensated at their standard rate of com-
pensation for such period;
(2) the State (or such other grantee) shall
be reimbursed for expenses that would have
been paid by the Federal Government during
such period had appropriations been avail-
able, including the cost of compensating
such furloughed employees, together with in-
terest thereon calculated under section
6503(d) of title 31, United States Code; and
(3) the State (or such other grantee) may
use funds available to the State (or the
grantee) under such Federal program to re-
imburse such State (or the grantee), to-
gether with interest thereon calculated
under section 6503(d) of title 31, United
States Code.
(b) For purposes of this section, the term
‘‘State’’ and the term ‘‘grantee,’’ including
United States territories and possessions,
shall have the meaning given such terms
under the applicable Federal program under
subsection (a). In addition, ‘‘to continue car-
rying out a Federal program’’ means the
continued performance by a State or other
Federal grantee, during the period of a lapse
in appropriations, of a Federal program that
the State or such other grantee had been
carrying out prior to the period of the lapse
in appropriations.
(c) The authority under this section ap-
plies with respect to any period in fiscal year
2019 (not limited to periods beginning or end-
ing after the date of the enactment of this
Act) during which there occurs a lapse in ap-
propriations with respect to any department
or agency of the Federal Government receiv-
ing funding in this Act which, but for such
lapse in appropriations, would have paid, or
made reimbursement relating to, any of the
expenses referred to in this section with re-
spect to the program involved. Payments
and reimbursements under this authority
shall be made only to the extent and in
amounts provided in advance in appropria-
tions Acts.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Transpor-
tation, Housing and Urban Development, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The bill
shall be debatable for 1 hour, equally
divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations or their re-
spective designees.
The gentleman from North Carolina
(Mr. PRICE) and the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. DIAZ-BALART) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from North Carolina.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I ask unanimous consent that
all Members may have 5 legislative
days in which to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on the measure under consid-
eration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from North Carolina?
There was no objection.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
267, legislation to reopen and respon-
sibly fund the Departments of Trans-
portation and Housing and Urban De-
velopment.
The bill before us is bipartisan and
invests in critical national priorities.
It passed the Senate Appropriations
Committee on a unanimous vote, and it
was adopted by the full Senate on a 92–
6 vote.
It provides $71.4 billion in discre-
tionary funding, which is $23.3 billion
above the President’s budget request
and $1.1 billion above the FY 2018 en-
acted level.
This legislation is critical for the
success of America’s families, commu-
nities, and businesses. In addition to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.003 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H421
January 10, 2019
maintaining existing infrastructure, it
will allocate $17 billion for new trans-
portation and housing projects in both
rural and urban areas.
Like last year, it includes several bil-
lion dollars of funding above author-
ized levels for the FAST Act to accel-
erate improvements in our aviation
system, to expand transit and rail net-
works, to replace aging highways and
bridge infrastructure, and to repair our
affordable housing stock.
It also builds on the progress we have
made since enactment of the 2018 bipar-
tisan budget agreement to ensure that
vulnerable populations—including low-
income families, seniors, veterans, and
the disabled—have access to reliable
transportation and safe housing.
It would provide robust funding for
flexible grant programs, especially
HOME and Community Development
Block Grants, that allow towns and
cities across the country, large and
small, to leverage both public and pri-
vate capital to address their most
pressing community needs.
Just as important, this legislation
would finally reopen these depart-
ments. It would allow more than 20,000
furloughed employees at DOT and over
7,000 furloughed employees at HUD to
receive back pay and to return to their
mission, which is serving the American
people.
The Trump shutdown, Mr. Speaker,
has dragged on for more than 2 weeks,
shuttering vital government services
and creating chaos and uncertainty for
families, businesses, and communities
in each of our districts.
For example, grants to help States
and communities pay for upgrades to
transit, rail, and aviation facilities are
being put on hold.
State departments of transportation
are beginning to delay new construc-
tion projects.
The National Transportation Safety
Board has ceased major accident inves-
tigations.
The National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration is no longer inves-
tigating or reviewing information
about major vehicle manufacturing de-
fects, which, in fact, puts lives at risk.
New hiring and training for air traf-
fic controllers has ground to a halt, ex-
acerbating an ongoing staffing short-
age. FAA equipment maintenance is
curtailed, and pilot certifications are
suspended.
Disaster relief funding for States hit
by disasters last year—funding that
has already been appropriated—re-
mains unallocated because staff at
HUD remain furloughed.
Meanwhile, Mr. Speaker, we discov-
ered just this weekend that HUD offi-
cials failed to renew more than 1,000
landlord contracts for the Project-
Based Section 8 housing program be-
fore they expired at the end of the
year, exposing tens of thousands of ten-
ants to possible eviction.
Mr. Speaker, these problems can only
get worse as the shutdown goes on.
Hundreds more of these contracts are
up for renewal in the coming months.
H.R. 267 would put an end to the mad-
ness, ensuring that vital transpor-
tation and housing infrastructure is
funded for the remainder of the 2019 fis-
cal year.
This legislation reflects the best of
bipartisan collaboration, and it ex-
cludes problematic policy riders from
both sides of the aisle.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this bipartisan, commonsense
legislation to reopen the government
without further delay, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in opposition to
this bill. My objections are numerous.
Again, there are a lot of reasons why I
am objecting to this bill in this form
today.
One of the things that I think is im-
portant to note, because I have heard
throughout the debate in all these bills
how passing these bills will reopen the
Federal Government: Mr. Speaker, I
heard that last week on the floor of
this House, on the same appropriations
bills.
I want to mention that again. Last
week, on this floor, Members came up
and said, if those bills pass the House,
the Federal Government would reopen.
Mr. Speaker, those bills passed the
House. They didn’t reopen the Federal
Government, just like these bills,
which are identical to the bills that
were passed last week—identical—un-
fortunately, also will not reopen the
government.
Now, I have other objections as well,
Mr. Speaker. This bill is, frankly, ab-
surd because it takes a Senate product,
ignoring all—all—of the House Mem-
bers’ priorities. It is jamming it
through this body without a single op-
portunity to amend or improve or
change this bill in any way.
Not one House Member has had one
priority put in this bill because there
are no amendments allowed in this
process.
Again, this ploy will not work. The
Senate has no plans of taking up this
legislation. And, again, this is deja vu
all over again.
I heard folks last week talk about, if
the House passed those bills last week,
like we are hearing now, the govern-
ment would reopen. Mr. Speaker, those
statements were not true last week,
and they are not true this week, unfor-
tunately.
Now, not only did the bills last week
not reopen the government. In fact, ev-
eryone on this House floor knows that
this bill passing, unfortunately, will
not reopen the Federal Government.
Mr. Speaker, all the members of the
press up there know that passing this
bill, unfortunately, will not reopen the
government.
Heck, anybody who has been paying
any attention knows that this is a
sham; that, just like last week, those
bills passing didn’t reopen the govern-
ment, and unfortunately, passing this
bill, or these appropriations bills, in
this manner will not reopen the gov-
ernment either.
b 1400
So by introducing these Senate bills
without any changes to reflect the pri-
orities of this body and without any
opportunity for amendments, we are
engaging in a sad, sad charade.
I want to take some time, oppor-
tunity to discuss the real-world con-
sequences of this stunt. Again, our ma-
jority is asking us, all of us here in this
Chamber, to reject all of the hard work
and all of the priorities of every House
Member, Republican or Democrat.
Mr. Speaker, in our House bill, I am
proud that we decided to make a his-
toric investment, for example, in ports:
port infrastructure, the ports, seaports,
including larger seaports that are crit-
ical to our country’s commerce. In the
House bill, we provided $250 million for
this program.
Well, the Senate didn’t make this in-
vestment. They didn’t think that that
was as high of a priority. They missed
that opportunity to build infrastruc-
ture that we need to create jobs and in-
crease our ability to export American
goods made by Americans.
We also placed a higher priority on
roads and on bridges than the Senate
did and with an emphasis on funds that
go directly and immediately to the
States and the territories through the
highway formula program. The Senate
didn’t have that priority.
The Senate provides far less for this
purpose, Mr. Speaker. Let me tell you
what that number is, far less: $1.4 bil-
lion less for that direct spending in in-
frastructure, bridges, and roads that
goes straight to the States.
The Senate, instead, put a high pri-
ority on administrative accounts and
programs with, frankly, higher over-
head. This bill means less funding for
your State Department of Transpor-
tations and fewer jobs rebuilding the
highways and the bridges around our
country.
Mr. Speaker, we also included a pro-
vision that provided regulatory relief
to, for example, sugar and beet haulers
in Idaho and in Oregon. This narrow
provision—and this is a bipartisan pro-
vision—simply made truck length re-
quirements uniform between those two
States—common sense.
Again, this provision has support on
both sides of the aisle, and it will help
truckers and farmers in those States.
But, you see, the Democratic proposal
before you does not include even that
commonsense provision, commonsense
bipartisan provision.
Mr. Speaker, we also included a pro-
vision in the House bill that allows for
small increases in the allowable weight
for trucks that run on electric bat-
teries, an innovation to help the envi-
ronment. This is another common-
sense, bipartisan provision that this
bill does not have, and it was not in-
cluded in the Senate mark.
This bill eliminates House and Sen-
ate report language—I want to repeat,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.044 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H422 January 10, 2019
both House and Senate report lan-
guage.
Now, what does that mean? That
every single item we put in the report
for Members, at the request of Mem-
bers from both parties, is gone, is irrel-
evant in this bill.
You see, the direction that we pro-
vide in our reports every year helps
hold the bureaucracy accountable and
ensure that our constituents have a
voice in their government. Mr. Speak-
er, that language is gone.
For example, we put directives in our
report that require that the FAA take
specific action, specific action to ad-
dress airport noise, airport noise in our
communities. Now, this is specifically
important—I should say especially im-
portant—to our Democratic colleagues
in the subcommittee and the com-
mittee on this floor, and we accommo-
dated all of their requests on this issue
with new stringent requirements on
the FAA, Mr. Speaker. This bill makes
those requirements null and void.
So let me now turn to housing pro-
grams. When we looked at the HUD
budget, we made sure, in the House, in
the House bill, the House mark—and,
by the way, this is done in a bipartisan
way. We made sure that we scrubbed
the administrative and overhead ac-
counts and, instead, put funds towards
programs that serve our neediest, our
neediest citizens. This bill, unfortu-
nately, falls far short on our charge to
do the best that we can with the rev-
enue, the taxpayer money.
And, again, to make sure that the bu-
reaucracy is held accountable, this bill
falls short. Let me give you a few ex-
amples.
In our bill last year, we included $50
million in new funding for a program
that we call mobility vouchers. These
vouchers are targeted at families with
children, to enable them to move to
neighborhoods with greater economic
opportunity, and this initiative has
strong bipartisan support from the au-
thorizers and strong support from the
advocates for the poor. The Senate bill
does not include any funds, zero funds,
for this program.
The House also included significantly
more funding for new vouchers for peo-
ple with disabilities. This program
helps families across the country that
struggle to take care of severely dis-
abled relatives, and it also serves, by
the way, so many veterans with dis-
abilities. We provided $390 million for
this program.
For tens of thousands of new vouch-
ers, this bill before us, frankly, falls
short there as well, by $236 million, and
adds no new vouchers.
You see, Mr. Speaker, I am proud to
say that every year, when I was chair-
man, I also worked to ensure that
there was adequate funding for Housing
Opportunities for Persons with AIDS,
or HOPWA. This program has a record
of saving lives, reducing disease trans-
missions, and protecting communities.
I am so proud of that. We provided $393
million in our bill to ensure that there
was no reduction, no cut to housing
services for this vulnerable population.
The Senate, unfortunately, again,
falls severely short, $375 million. This
will result in 1,700 people losing their
housing, which will put communities
at risk.
This, by the way, is a severe hit, par-
ticularly for cities likes Miami, New
York, Atlanta, San Francisco, and
many others. This is an area the Sen-
ate was counting on the House to fix,
to fix their low funding levels. But, you
see, Mr. Speaker, we don’t have the op-
portunity because of this stunt that we
are witnessing here today.
Finally, we included $150 million for
Choice Neighborhoods, which is a pro-
gram that provides much-needed neigh-
borhood rehabilitation—revitalization
grants, I should say. This has such
strong bipartisan support in the House.
The Senate did not prioritize it as
much as we did, and they only provided
$100 million.
So I look forward to advancing a bill
that protects this, all of these issues,
and other important priorities for our
House Members. I look forward to
working to do that.
But before I close, Mr. Speaker, I
want to take a minute to thank some-
body who has become a personal friend,
Chairman PRICE. I will tell you, it has
been an honor, Mr. Speaker, to work
beside him for the past 4 years devel-
oping bills that truly meet the needs of
our people, of our country, of our com-
munities. These past 2 years, I think,
have been particularly energizing as we
worked on T-HUD bills that made sub-
stantial new investments in our Na-
tion’s infrastructure.
Chairman PRICE and I have always
been able to work together to find com-
mon ground, to find solutions, and that
is the spirit of cooperation and good
will that will get us, I am sure, to a
breakthrough to end this impasse and
to reopen the government once again.
So, again, I do not have anybody in
this Chamber that I am more pleased
to work with than the chairman of this
subcommittee.
Now, today, on this bill, mark my
words, Mr. Speaker, mark my words,
the passage of these bills in this form
will not open the Federal Government.
Everyone in here knows that; just like
last year, last week, we knew that they
would not open the government, and
we heard on this floor that they would.
This bill, unfortunately, will not re-
open the government. It falls short on
our priorities. It does not include any
of the House priorities; so, therefore, I
respectfully would urge a ‘‘no’’ vote.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I thank my friend, MARIO
DIAZ-BALART, our ranking member and
former chairman of this subcommittee,
for those kind words—a sentiment that
I share totally. And we, I am sure, are
going to be able to continue this coop-
erative relationship in this new Con-
gress, and I look forward to that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from New York (Mrs.
LOWEY), our full committee chair-
woman.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, the
Trump shutdown is now in its 20th day.
More than 800,000 Federal employees
are going without pay, many while
they are still working, and the Amer-
ican people are being denied vital serv-
ices all because of President Trump’s
demands for a wasteful border wall.
The bill before us today would reopen
the Department of Transportation, De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, and other critical agencies
like the National Transportation Safe-
ty Board and U.S. Interagency Council
on Homelessness.
Frankly, it is outrageous that safety-
critical personnel who are ensuring our
trains operate and air traffic runs
smoothly cannot count on a paycheck.
They and the thousands of furloughed
Federal employees cannot afford this
kind of financial uncertainty and
missed paychecks.
The Trump shutdown has also had
dangerous housing implications for
many hardworking families. For exam-
ple, HUD’s project-based Section 8
housing assistance program, which cov-
ers tens of thousands of low-income
renters, is in trouble. Payments have
been made for tenants this month, but
due to staff furloughs, HUD contracts
with landlords that expired since the
shutdown began have not been re-
newed. This could lead to evictions of
senior citizens and the disabled, dis-
placing the most vulnerable among us.
House Democrats want to open the
government, but the President and the
Senate Republicans continue to ob-
struct instead of working with us to
get the people’s work done.
The solution to this crisis is simple:
Pass the bills where we can agree, and
extend funding for Homeland Security
for a month to allow time for negotia-
tion on border security and immigra-
tion policy.
I do hope that my colleagues across
the Capitol come to their senses and
stop this ridiculous Trump shutdown.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
yield as much time as she may con-
sume to the gentlewoman from Texas
(Ms. GRANGER), a titanium Texan, the
ranking member of the full committee.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in opposition to H.R. 267. Unfor-
tunately, moving this bill across the
floor will not resolve the partial gov-
ernment shutdown, as the President
has said he will not sign this bill into
law.
It is the job and responsibility of the
Congress to appropriate funds. We
must come together to find a solution
that will reopen the government and
fund border security. We need a com-
promise that represents the will of
both Chambers and the American peo-
ple.
By considering the Senate-passed
version of the appropriations bills, we
are eliminating House Members’ in-
volvement in the process. When it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.046 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H423
January 10, 2019
comes to Transportation, Housing and
Urban Development, and related agen-
cies, H.R. 267 places a lower priority on
creating jobs and expanding oppor-
tunity.
For example, this bill provides $1.4
billion less for highway funding to the
States and territories. That is less
money to address our Nation’s crum-
bling roads and bridges.
When it comes to the Federal Avia-
tion Administration, this bill provides
$250 million less to modernize our air
traffic control system.
The bill also reduces programs for
the most vulnerable among us. It pro-
vides millions less for a voucher pro-
gram that enables families with chil-
dren to move to neighborhoods with
greater economic opportunity and vir-
tually eliminates funds that House Re-
publicans provided for impoverished
citizens living with disabilities.
Mr. Speaker, Republicans stand
ready and willing to negotiate with our
friends on the other side of the aisle on
legislation that includes priorities of
both Houses and both Chambers. That
is how the legislative body and our sys-
tem of government is designed to work.
I thank the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DIAZ-BALART) for his efforts today
and over the last several months to en-
sure that the House’s voice is heard in
this debate.
b 1415
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Illinois (Mr. QUIGLEY), a
member of our subcommittee and the
chairman-designate of the Financial
Services and General Government Sub-
committee.
Mr. QUIGLEY. Mr. Speaker, let’s not
complicate things. There is nothing in
the transportation bill or the housing
budget that has anything to do with
the border wall.
Instead, these agencies keep us safe
when we fly and keep the planes,
trains, and buses running on time.
They keep Americans housed and warm
on frigid January days like today in
Chicago. They provide the support nec-
essary to invest in our communities
and ensure that our citizens can get to
work and school, and can rebuild after
natural disasters.
Shuttering the Departments of
Transportation and of Housing and
Urban Development over an unrelated
fight about a wall on the southern bor-
der is the height of administrative
malpractice and the reason I am proud
to support this bill to reopen these
vital agencies immediately.
This shutdown is endangering the
well-being of the American public. For
example, at air traffic control facilities
all over the country, including Chicago
Center, one of the busiest control cen-
ters in the Nation, staff ID badges,
which are needed to get into the con-
trol rooms and operate equipment, ex-
pire during the month of January. Or-
dinarily, this wouldn’t be a problem,
but the person in charge of issuing new
ID badges for the 58 controllers at Chi-
cago Center is furloughed, leaving the
people responsible for ensuring that
our air system runs safely and effec-
tively in limbo and possibly preventing
them from monitoring the skies as
they should.
Worse yet, the Trump administration
is unconscionably forcing these air
traffic controllers, along with TSA
agents and other crucial officials who
are instrumental to the safety of the
American public, to work long hours
without pay, and treating them as
pawns in a political chess match. It is
dangerous; it is not right; and the peo-
ple expect more of their government.
This President likes to tout himself
as a builder and speaks frequently
about infrastructure investment. Yet,
he is singlehandedly standing in the
way of any progress on addressing our
Nation’s infrastructure needs by shut-
ting down the very agencies charged
with addressing them. It seems, once
again, he is all bluster and no sub-
stance.
I support this bill to reopen HUD and
DOT, to get Federal employees back to
work, and to support the millions of
Americans who rely on the important
work these agencies do. I urge my col-
leagues to do the same.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
Idaho (Mr. SIMPSON), the ranking mem-
ber of the Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development and Related
Agencies.
Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I have
always found this debate interesting,
but we know what this is all about.
This is all about the negotiations on
border security.
What I found interesting is to listen
to everybody talk about the President
not being willing to negotiate, not
being willing to compromise. Yet, he
has offered many of the things that the
Democrats say that they want in any
border security bill.
A negotiation ends when both parties
can say they got something that they
want. Yet, the Democratic leaders in
the House and the Senate continue to
say ‘‘no’’ to anything the President
wants. He wants a border wall for a
part of border security, and they con-
tinue to say ‘‘no.’’ That is no kind of
negotiation, and we know that is what
has led us here today.
Every one of us wants government
reopened, but we know the games that
are being played here. I will tell you,
the problem with what is on the floor
today is that we are bringing up the
Senate bills that completely ignore the
priorities of House Republicans and
House Democrats in the appropriations
process.
Most of these bills have been
conferenced. Why bring up just the
Senate bill and not the conference re-
port that was done that recognizes
both Senate and House priorities?
Let me give you one example. The
House T-HUD bill carried a bipartisan
provision that raises the length limit
for specific vehicles used to transport
sugar beets, and only on specific routes
used to ship sugar beets between Or-
egon and Idaho for processing. It is a
provision that is supported by the Or-
egon Department of Transportation,
the U.S. Department of Transpor-
tation, and the State of Idaho. It is
very limited—only sugar beets on non-
interstate highways—and everybody
agrees with it.
Mr. Speaker, I have a letter here
from two Senators, one from Idaho and
one from Oregon, who support this pro-
vision, and I will include it in the
RECORD.
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, September 11, 2018.
Hon. RICHARD SHELBY,
Chairman, Senate Committee on Appropriations,
Washington, DC.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
Chairwoman, Transportation, Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee, Washington, DC.
Hon. PATRICK LEAHY,
Vice Chair, Senate Committee on Appropria-
tions, Washington, DC.
Hon. JACK REED,
Ranking Member, Transportation, Housing and
Urban Development, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN SHELBY, RANKING MEMBER
LEAHY, SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIRWOMAN COLLINS,
AND RANKING SUBCOMMITTEE CHAIRMAN REED:
We are writing to support a provision in H.R
6072, reported by the House Appropriations
Committee, which would increase the allow-
able length of uniquely configured trucks
hauling sugar beets by 14′; 8″, but only on
less than 55 miles of specifically identified,
on non-Interstate roads in rural Malheur
County, Oregon.
These trucks use limited non-Interstate
routes as they drive from Oregon sugar beet
receiving stations to Idaho beet processing
facilities. In Idaho, trucks hauling sugar
beets have been safely using this configura-
tion since 2003. Extending this to Oregon
sugar beet growers across the border means
1,830 fewer truck trips on our roads.
This provision has bi-partisan support. The
four undersigned, representing Oregon and
Idaho, introduced this provision as an
amendment when the THUD bill was consid-
ered by the Senate, although it was not
voted upon.
The proposed language has been exten-
sively reviewed by technical experts at the
Federal Highways Administration as well as
the Oregon Department of Transportation
Motor Carrier Division as well, both of which
assisted with its drafting.
We encourage you to help Oregon sugar
beet farmers and their families by including
the narrow provision for trucks hauling Or-
egon sugar beets on defined Malheur County
routes in the final legislation.
Sincerely,
Ron Wyden, United States Senator;
James E. Risch, United States Senator;
Mike Crapo, United States Senator;
Jeffrey A. Merkley, United States Sen-
ator.
Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, this pro-
vision is noncontroversial. It is in the
House bill. Guess what? It is not in the
Senate bill. That means, if you adopt
the Senate bill, you have dropped out
this provision and you have dropped
out many other provisions that are a
priority for both House Republicans
and House Democrats.
Why would we turn over everything
to the Senate and their priorities?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.047 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H424 January 10, 2019
You all know how this works. When
we write a bill, we emphasize House
priorities and we downplay Senate pri-
orities. They do the same thing on
their side, emphasizing Senate prior-
ities and downplaying House priorities.
Then we go to conference, and we work
it out and find a compromise. But we
are not doing that with this bill.
I will tell you, if you bring up the
conferenced bills, the bills that have
been conferenced last year between the
House and the Senate, you will have
my support. I will vote for them, but
not for a bill that just emphasizes the
Senate priorities and ignores the work
of the House and the House Appropria-
tions Committee.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oregon (Mr. DEFAZIO), the
chairman of the Transportation and In-
frastructure Committee.
Mr. DEFAZIO. Mr. Speaker, why are
we here today? We are here today be-
cause the President is down on the bor-
der and he wants to build, along part of
the border, a wall, a Maginot Line, if
you would have it. The French thought
that they could keep the Germans out
by building a fortified wall and for-
tifications along part of their border.
The Germans went around it.
Well, if the drugs were coming over
the border illegally, they would go
around it. But that is not where they
are coming. They are coming through
the ports of entry, where we don’t have
enough personnel, who, by the way,
aren’t getting paid today, and where
we don’t have the technology we need
to find the humans and the drugs that
are being smuggled through in tractor
trailers and other vehicles across the
border.
If you want to invest in border secu-
rity, that is a place to invest in border
security.
Now, the President promised us a
grand infrastructure plan. Little did we
know it was going to be a partial wall
along the Mexican border that he felt
so strongly about that he would shut
down the government.
We have the busiest, most complex
aviation system in the world. It is the
safest in the world. Today, 14,000 air
traffic controllers are working without
pay. They all got checks today—I just
got a copy of one—for $0. So they are
still processing their checks, but the
check is for $0.
Then we have 3,300 aviation inspec-
tors who are furloughed. They are not
essential. We are allowing the airline
industry and all the aircraft mainte-
nance facilities and everything else to
self-regulate. No one is looking over
their shoulder. ‘‘Oh, don’t worry about
it. No problems.’’ Right.
Then, of course, there are a few other
issues that this bill would deal with.
We have a $100 billion backlog to bring
existing transit, which is inadequate
for today’s needs, up to a state of good
repair. This is delaying dealing with
that problem more and more into the
future.
We have 56,000 bridges on the na-
tional highway system that need sub-
stantial repair or replacement. Well,
guess what? That is not going forward
today either.
Last year, we wasted 3.1 billion gal-
lons of gasoline and diesel idling in
traffic. A lot of concern about climate
change—well, on this side of the aisle,
not on that side of the aisle. They
don’t believe in it. I don’t know, maybe
the gentleman from Florida does; they
are kind of going underwater.
But we aren’t giving people the op-
tions they need to get out of their cars,
to be more efficient with transit.
Wastewater, the Federal Government
used to partner with communities to
deal with wastewater. We are not doing
that anymore.
So are we going to rebuild America?
Are we going to deliver on the Presi-
dent’s promise of something other than
a stupid, wasteful, ineffective wall?
How about shutting down the govern-
ment because Congress won’t provide
the funding we need to rebuild our in-
frastructure? That would be, perhaps, a
better cause for this President.
I urge Members to vote for this, re-
open the government, fund transpor-
tation and infrastructure, and fund our
air traffic controllers who are keeping
us safe.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 4 minutes to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. RUTHERFORD), a former
sheriff and my dear friend.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today in opposition to this bill.
Rather than focusing energy on
reaching a compromise with the Senate
and the President to reopen the gov-
ernment and get those Federal workers
their paychecks, my colleagues across
the aisle are spending time bringing
bills to the floor that have absolutely
no chance of passing and becoming law.
The bill is a waste of everyone’s time
and a waste of countless hours of hard
work by Members and staff on both
sides of the aisle.
Last Congress, my colleagues and I
on the Appropriations Committee
worked hard for many months in a bi-
partisan and bicameral way to pass a
Transportation and Housing and Urban
Development funding bill on time. In
fact, Mr. Speaker, we passed that bill
in the House in July of last year.
Then, in December, when we were
looking at a looming shutdown, my
colleagues and I in the House passed a
funding package that would have kept
the government open and provided an
additional $5 billion for border security
and $9 billion for initial disaster assist-
ance to American citizens in those
communities devastated by hurricanes
and fires.
Instead, here we are, bringing to the
floor a bill that ignores the bipartisan
work of my House colleagues.
This bill today provides less funding
for our ports, highways, and air traffic
control. It provides less housing for
people with disabilities, our veterans,
and those living with HIV and AIDS.
Also, it doesn’t include the oversight
and accountability provisions that
were added by the House. On top of all
that, the President has already said he
will not sign the bill into law.
As we waste the House’s time, and,
quite frankly, the people’s time, on
this bill, 800,000 Federal workers are
suffering. All our Nation’s transpor-
tation systems are becoming less effi-
cient. Many functions of our air, rail,
maritime, and highway transportation
are being held up by furloughs and
understaffing. Those essential per-
sonnel who are required to show up,
they go unpaid for their work. This is
unjust and immoral.
Mr. Speaker, I implore the Speaker
of the House and my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle to put aside
these partisan tactics and bring to the
floor bills we have already worked on
through regular order and with bipar-
tisan agreement.
It is very simple. If the Speaker is
truly serious about opening the govern-
ment and getting people back to work,
bring a bill to the floor that the Senate
can pass and the President will sign
into law.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 1 minute to the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. NADLER),
the chairman of the Judiciary Com-
mittee.
Mr. NADLER. Mr. Speaker, I support
this legislation because it is past time
to move beyond the political game of
chicken and reopen these critical gov-
ernment agencies.
This Republican-passed Senate bill is
not perfect. While it maintains current
funding for the HOPWA program, it
does not include the full $393 million
that I led many of my colleagues in re-
questing last Congress. The House fis-
cal year 2019 bill reflected that funding
level, and I deeply appreciate the hard
work of my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle in achieving that goal.
But I support this bill and urge all of
my colleagues to vote for it for one
simple reason: We must get these pro-
grams funded and operating again. Peo-
ple are suffering. They are working
without pay or furloughed with no idea
if they will ever get back to work.
They are watching critical services and
benefits slowly disappear, and it will
only get worse as this absurd and un-
necessary shutdown drags on.
The House will pass this bill today,
and I call on my Republican colleagues
here and in the Senate to get people
back to work, to get our government
open again, and to put aside this polit-
ical game of blackmail by the Presi-
dent in which he says the government
will remain shut if we don’t give him
his $5 billion downpayment on a $25 bil-
lion wall. That is a judgment for Con-
gress, not to be subject to blackmail by
the President holding the American
people hostage.
I urge my colleagues to vote for this
bill, and let’s get our government open
again.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the gentleman from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.049 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H425
January 10, 2019
Mississippi (Mr. PALAZZO), who, by the
way, is not on the T-HUD Sub-
committee but who has been an amaz-
ing asset to the full committee, but, in
particular, to the T-HUD Sub-
committee.
b 1430
Mr. PALAZZO. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, there are a host of
things wrong with bringing this bill to
the floor. By bringing forth the Senate
version of this bill, it completely ig-
nores all of the work this committee
has done over the past year, ignoring
Members’ priorities as well as testi-
monies, both of which serve as the
basis of the House version of the T-
HUD bill. I will name a few examples.
The Choice Neighborhoods program
receives $50 million less in the Senate
bill before us today. The Choice Neigh-
borhoods initiative works to address
the problems of growing poverty in
high-poverty neighborhoods. It pro-
vides flexible resources for local lead-
ers to help transform their distressed
neighborhoods into mixed-income, suc-
cessful neighborhoods.
Also notably missing from the Sen-
ate bill is a very important family mo-
bility demonstration project. Low-in-
come families and voucher holders are
often concentrated in high-poverty
neighborhoods with limited education,
transportation, and employment oppor-
tunities. The demonstration project ab-
sent from the Senate bill utilizes the
voucher platform to target families
with children and enable them to move
to neighborhoods with greater eco-
nomic opportunities.
There are also several provisions in
the House report that are missing from
the Senate version.
As a former deputy director for a
public housing authority in Mis-
sissippi, I can tell you that these com-
monsense provisions would vastly im-
prove the lives of not only our dedi-
cated PHA employees, but also the
lives of their tenants at a time when
PHAs are stretched thin and do not
have the operating or the capital funds
necessary to meet HUD’s ever growing
list of demands.
As it relates to operating funds,
HUD’s current method for calculating
formula income and utility expenses
for PHAs in no way reflects the reality
that many experience locally, particu-
larly for PHAs that serve large elderly
and disabled populations. The House
language directs HUD to submit a re-
port outlining alternatives for oper-
ating fund calculations so that PHAs
already strapped for cash do not con-
tinue to lose money because of a one-
size-fits-all approach.
Lastly, for years now, the T-HUD
package has contained a provision pro-
hibiting funds for HUD’s physical needs
assessment, an onerous and costly re-
quirement that increases administra-
tive burdens on PHAs and, as time has
shown, has no operational benefit for
local housing programs.
These may seem trivial to some, but
these are vitally important to the peo-
ple they affect.
Mr. Speaker, these are not Repub-
lican priorities; these are bipartisan
priorities. We owe it to the Members of
this body who worked hard on these
provisions and many others to consider
these bills properly and through the
conference process. Bringing the Sen-
ate version of this bill to the floor ig-
nores the will of this House and all the
hard work Members from both sides of
the aisle have put into the process.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
the legislation.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Massachusetts (Ms.
CLARK), a member of our sub-
committee.
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman from
North Carolina for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I have to agree with my
colleagues today. This is not the bill
that the House approved or that has ev-
erything that we have worked on our
subcommittee to get into law to help
fund those programs that are so vital
to families at home and across this
country, but we are here today trying
to get the Senate to accept ‘‘yes’’ for
an answer, because what is critical is
that we reopen government.
President Trump is holding 800,000
Federal employees hostage, and that
ripples out to millions of Americans
who rely on government not just for a
paycheck, but for those critical serv-
ices, whether they are border security
or TSA agents, the FBI, food programs,
or vital housing and transportation
services.
Specifically, the Federal Housing Ad-
ministration has stopped processing
loans and mortgage approvals, putting
families trying to buy a new home or
refinance an FHA-insured mortgage
into financial limbo.
I heard a story of one woman who is
battling cancer. She has not been able
to earn an income, and refinancing her
home was the key way that she could
continue to have this battle and get
the treatments that she needs and give
her family the money to survive and
meet their basic needs. With the clos-
ing of FHA, she is unable to get those
documents and be able to refinance her
house.
This shutdown is also threatening to
destabilize more than 4 million house-
holds that depend on HUD’s rental as-
sistance programs.
The phones are ringing off the hook
in my office in D.C. and back home in
Massachusetts. We heard just this
week from a retired Federal employee
from Natick who called because she
lives in affordable housing and is re-
quired to prove her income to renew
her lease.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr. KIL-
DEE). The time of the gentlewoman has
expired.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 30 sec-
onds to the gentlewoman.
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts. Mr.
Speaker, she cannot obtain the state-
ment from OPM regarding her pension
right now because they are closed. This
jeopardizes her living situation.
We must reopen government and
then resolve our differences about how
we address border security. Passage of
this bill is a critical first step.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, if I
might inquire how much time I have
left.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Florida has 7 minutes re-
maining. The gentleman from North
Carolina has 141⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker,
having no more speakers, I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from New Jersey (Ms.
SHERRILL), a new Member of the House.
Ms. SHERRILL. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 267, and I urge my
colleagues to come together to reopen
a vital part of our government and to
support this straightforward, bipar-
tisan bill. It is a downpayment on re-
ducing our nationwide, dangerous in-
frastructure problems.
It provides $650 million for Amtrak’s
Northeast corridor, the most heavily
used passenger rail line in the Nation;
$2.8 billion for the Federal Railroad Ad-
ministration; and $800 million in new
transit infrastructure grants. This is
the least we can do to begin to get our
government open and Americans back
to work.
Congress is 4 months behind on pay-
ing our transportation bills. We cannot
move forward on our larger infrastruc-
ture investment needs, like Gateway,
without this first step. Gateway is the
most vital infrastructure project in our
Nation.
The century-old Hudson River rail
tunnel connects 200,000 commuters
every day from New Jersey to New
York. Amtrak uses it to connect 20
train routes across the country. This
tunnel is the Achilles heel of the
Northeast rail corridor and was se-
verely damaged during Superstorm
Sandy. A collapse of the tunnel could
injure thousands and cost our economy
an estimated $100 million a day. But
just as important to my constituents,
every delay, every deferred decision on
Gateway means a hardworking parent
not making it home to see his or her
family.
The proposal for Gateway was sub-
mitted to the DOT over a year ago.
Secretary Chao needs to put the funds
already approved by Congress to work.
New transit trains and tunnels are ex-
actly the type of infrastructure
projects our country needs to build a
strong future.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the sub-
committee chair for being so focused
on America’s transportation priorities
and for allowing the voice of the people
of the 11th District of New Jersey to be
heard today.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.050 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H426 January 10, 2019
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Oklahoma (Ms. KENDRA
S. HORN), another new Member of the
House, who, as she will tell us, has a
special reason, given her district, to
understand the impact of this shut-
down.
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Chairman-des-
ignate PRICE for recognizing me so that
I can express my support for this legis-
lation and discuss my grave concern
about how the government shutdown is
affecting my congressional district and
the Nation.
Simply put, this shutdown is an issue
of national security and safety. Many
of the approximately 16,000 Federal
Government employees and contrac-
tors who live in my district are ad-
versely affected by the government’s
closure.
Specifically, the FAA’s Mike
Monroney Aeronautical Center is one
of the 10 largest employers in Okla-
homa, with more than 5,000 employees
and contractors, and up to 2,000 stu-
dents who attend the air traffic con-
troller and aviation training school.
The Monroney Center is not only im-
portant to Oklahoma City, but it is a
critical piece of our Nation’s infra-
structure, which supports more than
45,000 air traffic control centers world-
wide.
Today, more than 1,000 employees
have been furloughed and another 600
are working without pay. Additionally,
all of the air traffic controller and
aviation students have been sent home.
To put this in context, the Monroney
Center is the only one of its kind in the
entire United States, but today the
doors are shuttered and all training
has ceased. The longer the shutdown
continues, the longer it will take for
training to resume.
To make matters worse, the
Monroney Center still hasn’t recovered
from the 2013 sequester, and currently
the FAA is at a 30-year air traffic con-
troller staffing low.
Yesterday, I met with an air traffic
controller from Oklahoma who ex-
pressed his concerns about the im-
mense stress and strain for controllers
that the choked-off pipeline is causing.
This is both an economic and domestic
national security issue, and I am very
concerned that the government shut-
down may affect the safety and secu-
rity of our Nation’s air travelers.
My constituents sent me to Wash-
ington to work hard on their behalf,
and I am proud to have voted for sev-
eral measures to reopen the govern-
ment since I was sworn in last week.
It is time to get the government back
on track. It is time we use common
sense, roll up our sleeves, and do the
job that we were sent here to do.
There is a time and a place to debate
border security, which is a complex
problem that I firmly believe must be
addressed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield an additional 15 sec-
onds to the gentlewoman.
Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Oklahoma.
Mr. Speaker, however, we should never
risk the air safety and security of this
country. The health and future of the
Nation’s aeronautical infrastructure
should not be a pawn in a political
game.
Mr. Speaker, I support this legisla-
tion to fund the Department of Trans-
portation, and I urge my colleagues to
join me.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 11⁄2 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from California (Ms. HILL),
another of our new Members.
Ms. HILL of California. Mr. Speaker,
I thank the gentleman from North
Carolina for yielding me time.
Mr. Speaker, I am speaking with you
today because it is past time to reopen
critical functions of our government.
Aerospace and aviation are the back-
bone of my district. I just came from
speaking with aviation professionals
who are employed by the FAA, as well
as pilots and other impacted organiza-
tions. It has never been more clear to
me that this is a crisis of both safety
and national security.
Air traffic controllers are given the
huge task of ensuring that millions of
passengers a day fly safely. Thousands
of support professionals are furloughed
or not working. They include special-
ists who provide tactical, strategic,
and administrative support, and this
puts Americans across the country in
danger.
I have spoken to air traffic control-
lers in my district who are picking up
second jobs in order to pay their bills
and feed their kids.
Just yesterday, Christy, a veteran
and mother of two, came all the way to
D.C. from California to let me know
the hardships that this shutdown has
put her family through.
We can’t afford these men and women
to be operating at anything less than
100 percent. We need to pass this bill
today and get our civil servants, our
veterans back to work and protect all
American citizens.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further speakers
and I am prepared to close.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to first again
commend the chairman. This is an in-
dividual who I know always works in
good faith, and I look forward to work-
ing with him again.
But, Mr. Speaker, I think it is very
clear that we say what we are doing
here today. This bill that already
passed last week will not reopen gov-
ernment.
As a matter of fact, Mr. Speaker, let
me tell you what potentially could
have reopened government. You see, I
went to the Rules Committee on Tues-
day with an amendment, Mr. Speaker.
The amendment was very simple. It
has very strong bipartisan support. I
think it could have been a way to re-
open the government.
It basically was the Dream Act, to le-
galize all the Dreamers, that has been
cosponsored by every Democrat in this
body last Congress, along with also le-
galizing all the folks who are here
under the TPS program, and it then
had the funding for border security,
issues that should not be partisan and
controversial, issues that the Members
across the aisle and the leadership—let
me talk about the leadership across the
aisle—said that they support.
b 1445
I will never forget the Speaker of the
House spent almost 8 hours on this
floor saying that she wanted to fight
for the Dreamers. Yet, there was a vote
on Tuesday, Mr. Speaker, in the com-
mittee that she controls, the Rules
Committee, on a party-line vote, the
bill that would have, yes, funded border
security—but would have legalized past
the DREAM Act, and legalized those
under TPS—was voted down on a
party-line vote.
Mr. Speaker, you want to know if
there is good faith to reopen this gov-
ernment. That showed it right there.
No, this bill will not reopen the Fed-
eral Government, unfortunately. Like
last week, this same bill that passed
didn’t reopen it. Real efforts to reopen
it, like that one that I mentioned,
voted down four amendments, voted
down a party-line vote.
It is time to get real about reopening
the government. It is time to get real
about passing a real T-HUD bill. Let’s
get back to the people’s business. This
is not a way to do it. This is a sham.
Again, I am grateful to the chairman
because I know he is working in good
faith, but this effort is not in good
faith, so we must vote it down to get
back to doing the real business of the
people.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself the balance of
my time.
Mr. Speaker, we have got to end this
Trump shutdown. It is self-inflicted,
costly, damaging, and dangerous. It is
up to Congress to end it.
Speaker after speaker on the Repub-
lican side this afternoon have looked
somewhat wistfully at the bills that
passed the House Appropriations Com-
mittee in the prior Congress. They
longed for the chance to consider fund-
ing bills that reflect compromise be-
tween the House and the Senate, the
equivalent of conference agreements,
that we negotiated last year.
Do we prefer those bills, Mr. Speak-
er? Of course, we do. But we missed our
opportunity to pass those bills in Sep-
tember and we missed it again in De-
cember, when Republicans controlled
all the levers of government.
Now the new Democratic majority is
forced to clean up this mess in the mid-
dle of the Trump shutdown. This bill
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.052 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H427
January 10, 2019
would reopen DOT and HUD, and it
would provide billions in critical trans-
portation and housing investments for
our communities, families, and busi-
nesses.
This bill, and others on the floor this
week, is the best way to make it as
easy as possible for the Senate to say
yes. That is what this is all about, Mr.
Speaker: the Senate to say yes and end
this shutdown. They have already said
yes to these bills.
I remind my colleagues and the Sen-
ate leadership of another interesting
fact, this bill, and other bills, can be-
come law, even if the President were to
withhold his signature.
If you vote against this bill, you are
enabling the irresponsible behavior of
the President and you are telling the
American people that you are willing
to hold our government hostage for a
boondoggle border wall.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this legislation and end the
Trump shutdown.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in strong support of the FY19 Transportation,
Housing and Urban Development, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act. This bill protects
American families from being kicked out into
the street in the dead of winter, ensures the
safety of our skies, and quite literally, keeps
our country moving.
This bill pays our hardworking air traffic con-
trollers and reopens our air traffic training fa-
cilities. It allows our highway safety agencies
to get back to work, including the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which
investigates automotive defects and formu-
lates automotive safety standards.
This bill ensures the National Transportation
Safety Board can continue its investigations
into deadly road, rail, marine, and aviation ac-
cidents, as well as its issuance of safety rec-
ommendations that drive policy changes that
save thousands of lives.
This bill also reopens HUD, ensuring fami-
lies aren’t evicted due to this unnecessary
shutdown. It enables FHA loans to be proc-
essed for prospective homebuyers across the
nation, and it protects renters who rely on
HUD inspectors to ensure safe and sanitary
housing.
Finally, it allows the FAA to resume its
issuance of aviator and engineer certifications,
as well as its development and testing of next
generation safety technologies.
Without these vital functions, our economy
will be dragged to a halt, and American fami-
lies will be left in the cold. I will be voting yes
on this bill, and I hope my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle will do the same.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr. Speaker,
I rise today to urge my colleagues to support
this appropriations bill, which would fund the
Departments of Transportation and Housing
and Urban Development.
Air travel is fast becoming one of the most
disturbing points of contention in this shut-
down fracas.
The world’s largest pilots’ union recently
warned in a letter to the Trump administration
that air safety could be threatened by the
shutdown.
About 10,000 FAA air traffic controllers have
been deemed essential and asked to perform
a vital public safety function without pay.
These men and women are dedicated, hard-
working professionals. But this situation is un-
fair and untenable.
Soon, many of these vital air safety workers
will begin to face financial hardship. We can-
not reasonably expect them to work without
pay.
On top of this, the FAA has fewer safety in-
spectors on the job than are needed to ensure
that our air traffic control system is operating
maximally.
On the ground, state transportation projects
are being halted because the federal govern-
ment often pays up to 90 percent of road
projects.
With the Department of Transportation shut-
tered, road projects nationwide are stalling as
federal payments to states are delayed.
Americans who rely on the Department of
Housing and Urban Development may face
hardship, too. Due to the shutdown, HUD has
stopped conducting inspections at assisted
housing units.
Residents of these housing units depend on
these inspections to ensure proper upkeep of
their homes. They are important for ensuring
the maintenance of sanitation and safety.
Even more alarming, more than 1,000 con-
tracts for government-funded housing prop-
erties for low-income renters have expired be-
cause HUD is shut down.
Because funding has lapsed, thousands of
low-income renters may face eviction.
I urge my colleagues to vote for this bill, be-
cause the integrity of our airspace and trans-
portation systems depend on it. And so do
thousands of Americans who depend on HUD
for housing.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 267, the ‘‘Transportation,
Housing and Urban Development and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year
2019,’’ which funds the Department of Trans-
portation and the Department of Housing and
Urban Development and ensure that people
living in housing supported by HUD are not
evicted as a result of the government shut-
down proudly engineered by the President of
the United States.
I am pleased to co-sponsor and support this
bill because it is the right thing to do.
Because of the Trump Shutdown, some of
the most important activities funded in the
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Devel-
opment, and Related Agencies have ground to
a halt.
In addition to concerns over possible evic-
tions and severe slowdowns with Federal
Housing Administration (FHA) loans, the shut-
down has also led to other serious impacts.
For example, the health and safety of rent-
ers have been put at risk because HUD’s Real
Estate Assessment Center is not conducting
inspections in assisted housing units which
are critical to ensure decent, safe, and sani-
tary housing.
Because of the shutdown, the National
Highway Traffic Safety Administration has sus-
pended data analysis and investigations into
motor vehicle manufacturing defects which
means that recalls of automotive defects will
not occur.
The FAA training academy in Oklahoma
City is closed, slowing the training of new air
traffic controllers, despite shortages of quali-
fied staff nationwide.
Additionally, the issuance of FAA airmen
certificates that are required for the crew of
international carriers that transit through the
U.S. has been suspended—the issuance of
airmen certificates which are mandatory for
becoming a student, private, or commercial
pilot; flight engineer, navigator, or attendant; or
other aviation-related professions.
These are among the many reasons I
strongly support H.R. 267, which is virtually
identical to legislation that has already passed
the Senate on a 92–6 vote.
This legislation will reopen the Departments
of Transportation and Housing and Urban De-
velopment and stop some the worst impacts of
the Trump Shutdown on families, businesses,
and communities.
The bill provides $71.4 billion in discre-
tionary funding, $23.3 billion above the Presi-
dent’s budget request and $1.1 billion above
the FY2018 enacted level.
The total includes more than $17 billion in
funding for new infrastructure projects, in addi-
tion to $49 billion for infrastructure from dedi-
cated fuel and aviation taxes.
And the bill rejects the President’s deep
cuts to Public and Indian Housing and Com-
munity Planning and Development.
The bill also rejects President Trump’s pro-
posed elimination of the Community Develop-
ment Block Grant (CDBG), the HOME Invest-
ment Partnerships Program, and the Choice
Neighborhood Initiative.
Mr. Speaker, it is well that we take stock of
the human toll caused by the Trump Shut-
down, which is now entering its third week.
420,000 federal employees are working
without pay.
Frontline federal employees, including law
enforcement and public safety personnel, have
been working without pay since December 22,
including 14,000 FBI agents, 54,000 Customs
and Border Protection agents, 6,000 Forest
Service firefighters.
400,000 Federal Employees have been fur-
loughed.
In addition to the federal employees working
without pay, hardworking federal employees at
agencies like the Department of Transpor-
tation, the Department of Commerce, and
NASA have been furloughed without pay,
plunging them and their families into uncer-
tainty.
The Federal Housing Administration (FHA)
has stopped processing loans and mortgage
approvals, putting families trying to buy a new
home or refinance an FHA-insured mortgage
into financial limbo.
IRS Customer Service Halted, Tax Return
Processing Jeopardized.
Walk-in taxpayer assistance centers and all
taxpayer customer service, which serves ap-
proximately 2.5 million citizens monthly, is un-
available during the shutdown.
Electronic and paper tax returns submitted
by taxpayers will not be processed, leading to
backlogs that will potentially delay tax refunds.
The Food and Drug Administration cannot
accept any regulatory submissions and cannot
support many routine regulatory and compli-
ance activities.
This includes some medical product, animal
drug, and most food-related activities.
The FDA also cannot conduct routine estab-
lishment inspections, which could prevent the
finding and correction of violations, especially
for food safety.
A shutdown beyond January would cause
the Food and Nutrition Service to reduce ben-
efits by about 40 percent to almost 40 million
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.054 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H428 January 10, 2019
individuals and families across the country
who are dependent on the Supplemental Nu-
trition Assistance Program (SNAP).
The Small Business Administration has
completely halted its role in the federal con-
tracting process, interfering with projects gov-
ernment wide.
The SBA has also stopped approving loan
assistance and guarantee applications from
commercial banks and small businesses,
blocking access to federally-assisted loans for
many small businesses.
Businesses across the country have lost ac-
cess to the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity’s E-Verify program, which is intended to
allow business owners to comply with federal
law and determine the immigration status of
employees they hire.
Most services provided by the Federal
Trade Commission are suspended under the
shutdown, including the National Do Not Call
Registry (for consumers and telemarketers),
consumer complaint systems, and identity
theft reporting—as well as law enforcement
access to FTC’s consumer complaints.
In addition, the FTC has suspended most
investigations and litigation under the shut-
down.
The Department of Justice’s civil litigation
efforts against bad actors have stopped, and
payments to crime victims have been put on
hold.
Training for Department of Justice employ-
ees, even for those still working despite the
shutdown, is canceled.
Department of Justice programs to train
state and local law enforcement officers and
officials have also been canceled.
All services for visitors to National Park
Service sites—such as visitors’ centers, inter-
pretative programs, and restrooms—have
been suspended.
Many Parks are overflowing with uncollected
garbage, while curtailed law enforcement staff-
ing is putting visitors’ safety at risk.
In addition, the Smithsonian Institution and
the National Gallery of Art have closed.
The Environmental Protection Agency has
halted inspections at drinking water systems,
hazardous waste management and chemical
facilities.
The men and women who have been fur-
loughed because of this manufactured crisis
are not responsible for the Trump Shutdown.
The dedicated men and women of the fed-
eral civilian workforce, like those who serve in
the Armed Forces, have not spent their pro-
fessional lives fomenting ethnic hatred and
xenophobia, or imagining a national security
crisis on the southern border.
Instead, these loyal and committed public
servants are motivated by their paramount in-
terest in serving the American public without
fear or favor and, for the last four days, with-
out any guarantee that they would be com-
pensated for their labor.
And yet, they gladly and willingly serve,
some risking their lives to keep us safe.
Others stand watch monitoring weather sys-
tems and providing information necessary to
protect the public from hurricanes and torna-
does and wildfires or conducting research to
find cures for disease or that will yield techno-
logical innovations or help us mark and meas-
ure the far reaches of space.
Others work to secure the borders and
homeland, ensure the safety of our food and
water, serve our seniors and children, provide
training and support for those looking for work,
and protecting our environment and keeping
watch over our treasures—our national parks
and monuments, including this magnificent
Capitol where the people have sent us to their
business.
Mr. Speaker, the men and women of the
federal workforce do the people’s business.
They serve everyone equally. They do not sin-
gle out some persons to serve and ignore oth-
ers. They do not cherry-pick.
We should follow their example. And the
best way to do that is for the House and Sen-
ate to pass this and the remaining appropria-
tions bills by veto-proof margins and send
them to President for signature and to vote to
override should the President unwisely elect to
veto the bill.
I urge all Members to join me in voting for
H.R. 267.
Ms. LEE of California. Mr. Speaker, first, I
want to thank Chairman PRICE for his leader-
ship on this bill.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support of the
FY 2019 Transportation and Housing Appro-
priations Bill, which provides more than $71
billion to partially re-open the government.
Families living in housing supported by the
Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment (HUD) deserve to know they will have a
roof over their heads.
This bill will ensure that struggling families
are not evicted from their homes because of
the Trump Administration’s incompetence and
cruelty.
There was a report this week that thou-
sands of families could be evicted because
HUD officials forgot about Section 8 contracts
that expired last month.
Let me reiterate: families could become
homeless—in the middle of winter—because
these Trump officials couldn’t keep track of
this program.
Mr. Speaker, this is just downright unaccept-
able. And it’s hurting people across the coun-
try.
Im my home district, renovations on an af-
fordable housing project have been put on
hold because of this shutdown.
There is an affordable housing crisis in this
country, Mr. Speaker. A delay in projects like
this will mean fewer people have a place to
rest their heads at night.
These families deserve better.
Mr. Speaker, the Trump shutdown is hurting
real families and it’s hurting our economy.
Let’s pass this bill to reopen the govern-
ment, and make sure families can stay in their
homes.
I urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yes.’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
MCEACHIN). All time for debate has ex-
pired.
Pursuant to House Resolution 28, the
previous question is ordered on the bill.
The question is on the engrossment
and third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, I
have a motion to recommit at the
desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Yes, in its cur-
rent form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Diaz-Balart moves to recommit the
bill, H.R. 267, to the Committee on Appro-
priations with instructions to report the
same back to the House forthwith with the
following amendment:
Page 93, line 17, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $71,000,000)’’.
Page 102, line 8, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $71,000,000)’’.
Page 144, line 15, after each dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(reduced by $71,000,000)’’.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART (during the read-
ing). Mr. Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to dispense with the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
Florida is recognized for 5 minutes in
support of his motion.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker,
this motion to recommit restores a
House priority that had overwhelming
support when we put together the FY
2019 T-HUD bill during the last Con-
gress.
As I mentioned in my opening state-
ment, our House bill last year placed a
high priority on increasing housing op-
portunities for people living with dis-
abilities. We heard from members of
humanitarian groups, nonprofits, and
religious organizations, frankly, just
from our communities, on the impor-
tance of ensuring that the disabled
have humane housing options.
Our bill, therefore, last year included
$390 million for this program, to pro-
vide over 20,000 additional housing
vouchers for people with disabilities.
These vouchers help some of the need-
iest among us live, frankly, with dig-
nity.
The program provides a critical life-
line to families who struggle to care
for the severely disabled. And it pre-
vents, frankly, worst-case scenarios
where severely disabled individuals
would otherwise face homelessness.
Mr. Speaker, this motion is a reason-
able, partial restoration of funding for
this program. This modest motion par-
tially restores the disability voucher
cuts that my colleagues are offering
today, and, instead, provides an addi-
tional $71 million for this valuable pro-
gram.
The motion would provide 7,200
vouchers, and would correct a signifi-
cant blemish in the Senate-originated
bill that is before us today.
Every single dollar of this funding
goes directly to serve those in need.
This is an account without bureau-
cratic overhead. Every single dollar
goes to serve those who need it. It is a
program with, again, a strong record of
accountability and of performance.
Not one dollar of this program goes
to the Federal bureaucracy. These
funds directly serve the disabled and
their families, often, Mr. Speaker,
through faith-based and community-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.016 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H429
January 10, 2019
based organizations. This program also
serves a large number of veterans,
some of whom, Mr. Speaker, became
disabled in service to our country.
This motion is offset by a reduction
to HUD’s Information Technology
Fund, leaving the account at a very
reasonable level of $209 million. Again,
this is a manageable level for HUD IT,
and it is a modest adjustment to bring
dignity, relief, and help to individuals
and families with disabilities.
Mr. Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
the motion, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, I rise in opposition to the mo-
tion to recommit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, responsibility for funding the
Federal Government is as basic as it
gets. It is one of the most important
duties of Congress. The previous major-
ity failed to do the basic task of keep-
ing the lights on. Here on day 5 of the
116th Congress, we Democrats and lead-
ership are determined to reopen Fed-
eral agencies shuttered by the Trump
shutdown.
This legislation, which has already
gotten bipartisan support—virtually
unanimous support in the Senate—will
ensure that the Federal Government is
open and working for the American
people.
The agencies funded in this bill have
been shuttered for 20 days. More than
20,000 air traffic controllers have been
on the job, ensuring the safety of the
Nation’s skies, without pay. They have
been doing their jobs without the usual
complement of safety professionals
who support the operation of the air-
space.
Yet, when payday comes for these
controllers—and thousands of other
Federal workers—they will see noth-
ing. Instead of their pay, they will get
a blank check. They will not get com-
pensated for the work they have done.
HUD is scrambling to renew con-
tracts and ensure that thousands of
tenants aren’t evicted. The uncertainty
over Federal grants has caused State
departments of transportation to delay
issuing contracts just before the con-
struction season, and the list goes on
and on.
Mr. Speaker, we must end this mad-
ness. This bill, in its current form, rep-
resents the quickest and easiest way to
do this, making it as easy as possible
for the Senate to say ‘‘yes,’’ because
they have already said ‘‘yes’’ to these
bills.
This is why we are taking this ap-
proach. I ask my colleagues to support
us in that so that here, on day 20 of the
Trump shutdown, we can bring this to
a close. We are on the verge of having
the longest government shutdown in
American history. We need to pass this
bill without further delay.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
reject this motion to recommit, vote
‘‘no’’ on the motion to recommit, and
‘‘yes’’ on the bill.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
Mr. DIAZ-BALART. Mr. Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
PROTECTING DIPLOMATS FROM
SURVEILLANCE THROUGH CON-
SUMER DEVICES ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 115) to require the Department of
State to establish a policy regarding
the use of location-tracking consumer
devices by employees at diplomatic and
consular facilities, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 115
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Diplomats from Surveillance Through Con-
sumer Devices Act’’.
SEC. 2. SECURING UNITED STATES DIPLOMATIC
AND CONSULAR FACILITIES
AGAINST CYBERSURVEILLANCE.
(a) POLICY ON LOCATION-TRACKING CON-
SUMER DEVICES.—Not later than 60 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State shall establish a policy on
the use of location-tracking consumer de-
vices, including GPS-enabled devices, at
United States diplomatic and consular facili-
ties by United States Government employ-
ees, contractors, locally employed staff, and
members of other agencies deployed to or
stationed at such facilities.
(b) SECURITY BRIEFING.—Existing and new
employees at United States diplomatic and
consular facilities, including contractors, lo-
cally employed staff, and members of other
agencies deployed to or stationed at such fa-
cilities, shall, as a part of the security brief-
ings provided to such employees, be informed
of the policy described in subsection (a) and
given instructions on the use of location-
tracking consumer devices both on and off
the premises of such facilities.
(c) COORDINATION.—The Secretary of State
shall coordinate with the heads of any other
agencies whose employees are deployed to or
stationed at United States diplomatic and
consular facilities in the formulation of the
policy described in subsection (a) and the
dissemination of such policy pursuant to
subsection (b).
(d) REPORT.—Not later than 30 days after
the formulation of the policy described in
subsection (a), the Secretary of State shall
submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Sen-
ate a report on the details of such policy.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on H.R. 115, currently under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, before I talk about the
bill, I want to very briefly acknowledge
the fact that this is the first debate we
have had with bills in the Foreign Af-
fairs Committee since the new Con-
gress. I want to welcome Mr. MCCAUL
to the very important position—which
I had for the past 6 years—of ranking
member. And I know that, as chair-
man, the Foreign Affairs Committee
for the past 6 years has had a record of
being the most bipartisan committee
in the Congress. I hope and I know that
that will continue with this Congress,
and that the respect that all Members
have shown each other will continue
the tradition of the Foreign Affairs
Committee. I look forward to working
with Mr. MCCAUL in that regard.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
115, the Protecting Diplomats from
Surveillance Through Consumer De-
vices Act. I thank Mr. CASTRO for in-
troducing this legislation.
Before I get into the merits of this
particular bill, which is designed to
protect diplomats from cyber snooping,
I would be remiss if I failed to express
my deep concern that thousands of De-
partment of State employees and dip-
lomats are furloughed without pay.
b 1500
I am hearing stories of State Depart-
ment officials struggling to make ends
meet, taking up side jobs and having
garage sales to stay afloat. By keeping
America’s diplomats away from their
jobs, we are harming our national secu-
rity. We need to end this shutdown, and
we need to end it now.
Now, I will turn to the excellent bill
before us today. This measure aims to
ensure the Department of State has
policies in place to help prevent our ad-
versaries from tracking the locations
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.056 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H430 January 10, 2019
of our foreign service officers through
their electronic devices.
From Fitbits and smartwatches to
phones and cars, most of us have at
least one tracking device with us at all
times. Many of us would literally be
lost without these devices, but they
pose security risks as well.
This commonsense measure would
make sure the Secretary of State has a
policy in place on using location track-
ing consumer devices at our diplomatic
and consular facilities around the
world.
This is a good bill that passed the
House unanimously in the last Con-
gress, and I urge my colleagues to sup-
port its passage again today.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Let me first congratulate Mr. ENGEL
on his ascension to the chairmanship of
the Foreign Affairs Committee. I can’t
think of a better chairman to work
with than Mr. ENGEL, who is always bi-
partisan, always says that partisanship
stops at the water’s edge. And I know,
being a national security committee,
that we will conduct ourselves with
dignity and respect for each other. We
may disagree from time to time, but
we will always respect each other. I
look forward to working with him in
this Congress.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of a bill I sponsored with Mr. CASTRO of
Texas, the Protecting Diplomats from
Surveillance Through Consumer De-
vices Act.
Last year, a report revealed the risk
of using wearable technologies such as
Fitbits and Apple watches which use
GPS tracking. As the report stated, re-
searchers were able to track the move-
ments of deployed troops in overseas
locations. This obviously poses an
enormous security risk for our soldiers
overseas. Enemies could track patrol
routes or discover the location of se-
cret foreign installments.
This exposure puts our diplomats at
risk as well. We have men and women
engaging in diplomatic efforts all over
the world, often in sensitive and high-
risk areas. We must not make it easier
for our enemies to track their move-
ments.
As such, our bill requires the Depart-
ment of State to establish a policy on
the use of location tracking consumer
devices by diplomats at U.S. facilities
around the world. We introduced this
bill last year, and it passed in a large
bipartisan fashion.
I want to thank Mr. CASTRO for his
leadership, as well as Chairman ENGEL
for his work on this important legisla-
tion. I urge my colleagues to support.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, in closing,
let me say that the Protecting Dip-
lomats from Surveillance Through
Consumer Devices Act is a common-
sense way to improve the safety of U.S.
personnel overseas.
I urge my colleagues to support the
measure, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, in clos-
ing, I think protecting our diplomats
and ensuring sensitive and classified
areas is really critical to our national
security. This bill does that.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Mr. Speaker, I am
grateful for Chairman ENGEL’s leadership on
the Foreign Affairs Committee.
I look forward to continue working with
Chairman ENGEL to advance U.S. foreign pol-
icy and national security this Congress.
I’d also like to thank my colleague from
Texas, Ranking Member MICHAEL MCCAUL, for
authoring this measure with me.
Mr. Speaker, U.S. Foreign Service Offices
voluntarily serve in some of the most dan-
gerous pockets of the world to advance U.S.
national interests and security abroad.
Changing technologies force us to adapt our
security practices to ensure our diplomats’
safety.
This includes threats posed by location-
tracking consumer devices that reveal physical
locations and movements.
I was glad to reintroduce the Protecting Dip-
lomats from Surveillance Through Consumer
Devices Act last week with Ranking Member
MCCAUL.
This legislation requires the State Depart-
ment to account for location-tracking con-
sumer devices in broader U.S. embassy and
consulate security policies.
As lawmakers, we have a moral obligation
to ensure our men and women in the line of
duty have the protections they deserve.
This legislation does just that.
Protecting our nation’s frontline civilians is
not a partisan issue, it’s an American issue.
We must ensure our security policies and
practices nimbly adapt to evolving tech-
nologies and tactics used by our enemies.
That’s why I urge my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to support this measure.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 115 the ‘‘Protecting Diplomats
from Surveillance Through Consumer Devices
Act,’’ which directs the State Department to
establish a policy on location-tracking con-
sumer devices at U.S. diplomatic and consular
facilities around the world and requires em-
ployees to be briefed on the policies and pro-
cedures during routine security briefings.
H.R. 115 also requires the Secretary of
State to coordinate with heads of any other
agencies whose employees are deployed to or
stationed at U.S. facilities in formulating this
policy.
I support this legislation because, among
other things, with the enactment of this act,
the Secretary of State shall establish a policy
on the use of location-tracking devices, includ-
ing GPS-enabled devices, at United States fa-
cilities, both at home and abroad.
This act clarifies that U.S. employees will be
kept updated and notified about the use of lo-
cation-tracking consumer devices both on and
off the premises of U.S. diplomatic and con-
sular facilities.
The State Department is the critical go be-
tween when dealing with international affairs
and foreign policy issues, and this act will ex-
pand their duties by protecting the privacy
rights of Diplomats and resident employees in
this new age of technology.
Location-tracking information can be stored
within a device or transmitted to an outside
server, both storing the data, and giving real
time location of said device.
Mr. Speaker, in this day and age, most
smart phone users have location-tracking apps
open on their device at all times; an estimated
90 percent of smart phone owners in 2015
use location-based services, and have them
on a all times.
For example, weather apps, which an esti-
mated 65 percent of adults share their location
with and check daily, require the users’ loca-
tion to provide accurate weather information.
For these reasons, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 115 and upholding
the importance of the privacy of our employ-
ees in consular and diplomatic facilities, and
ensuring that all persons involved are aware
and educated about the upholding policies.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 115.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
UNITED STATES-MEXICO
ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 133) to promote economic part-
nership and cooperation between the
United States and Mexico.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 133
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘United
States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The United States and Mexico have ben-
efitted from a bilateral, mutually beneficial
partnership focused on advancing the eco-
nomic interests of both countries.
(2) In 2013, Mexico adopted major energy
reforms that opened its energy sector to pri-
vate investment, increasing energy coopera-
tion between Mexico and the United States
and opening new opportunities for United
States energy engagement.
(3) On January 18, 2018, the Principal Dep-
uty Assistant Secretary for Educational and
Cultural Affairs at the Department of State
stated, ‘‘Our exchange programs build endur-
ing relationships and networks to advance
U.S. national interests and foreign policy
goals . . . The role of our exchanges . . . in
advancing U.S. national security and eco-
nomic interests enjoys broad bipartisan sup-
port from Congress and other stakeholders,
and provides a strong return on invest-
ment.’’.
(4) According to the Institute of Inter-
national Education, in the 2015–2016 aca-
demic year, more than 56,000 United States
students studied in other countries in the
Western Hemisphere region while more than
84,000 non-United States students from the
region studied in the United States, but only
5,000 of those United States students studied
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.059 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H431
January 10, 2019
in Mexico and only 16,000 of those non-United
States students were from Mexico.
(5) In March 2011, the United States
launched the 100,000 Strong in the Americas
Initiative, which seeks to increase edu-
cational exchanges between the United
States and other countries in the Western
Hemisphere region so that 100,000 United
States students are studying in other coun-
tries in the Western Hemisphere region and
100,000 non-United States students from the
region are studying in the United States per
year by 2020.
(6) In January 2014, the United States es-
tablished the 100,000 Strong in the Americas
Innovation Fund, which seeks to realize the
goals of the 100,000 Strong in the Americas
Initiative by facilitating a public-private
partnership between the Department of
State and nongovernmental organizations,
corporations, and universities in the United
States and other countries of the Western
Hemisphere region.
(7) To date, the 100,000 Strong in the Amer-
icas Innovation Fund has awarded more than
100 grants to more than 250 higher education
institutions from 25 countries in the Western
Hemisphere region, and has raised $9,000,000
in investments, 75 percent of which was from
corporations, foundations, and regional gov-
ernments.
SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States—
(1) to continue deepening economic co-
operation between the United States and
Mexico; and
(2) to seek to prioritize and expand edu-
cational and professional exchange programs
with Mexico, including through the frame-
work of the 100,000 Strong in the Americas
Initiative.
SEC. 4. STRATEGY TO PRIORITIZE AND EXPAND
EDUCATIONAL AND PROFESSIONAL
EXCHANGE PROGRAMS WITH MEX-
ICO.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
shall develop a strategy to carry out the pol-
icy described in section 3, to include
prioritizing and expanding educational and
professional exchange programs with Mexico
through the framework of the 100,000 Strong
in the Americas Initiative.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The strategy required
under subsection (a) shall—
(1) encourage more academic exchanges be-
tween the United States and Mexico at the
secondary, post-secondary, and post-grad-
uate levels, especially with communities and
through academic institutions in the covered
United States-Mexico border region;
(2) encourage United States and Mexican
academic institutions and businesses to col-
laborate to assist prospective and developing
entrepreneurs in strengthening their busi-
ness skills and promoting cooperation and
joint business initiatives across the United
States and Mexico, with a focus on initia-
tives in the covered United States-Mexico
border region;
(3) promote energy infrastructure coordi-
nation and cooperation through support of
vocational-level education, internships, and
exchanges between the United States and
Mexico, particularly in the region in which
the Eagle Ford Shale is located and in prox-
imity to such region; and
(4) assess the feasibility of fostering part-
nerships between universities in the United
States and medical school and nursing pro-
grams in Mexico to ensure that medical
school and nursing programs in Mexico have
comparable accreditation standards as med-
ical school and nursing programs in the
United States by the Accreditation and
Standards in Foreign Medical Education, in
addition to the Accreditation Commission
For Education in Nursing, so that medical
students can pass medical licensing board
exams, and nursing students can pass nurs-
ing licensing exams, in the United States.
(c) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State shall submit to Congress
a report on the strategy required under sub-
section (a).
SEC. 5. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) 100,000 STRONG IN THE AMERICAS INITIA-
TIVE.—The term ‘‘100,000 Strong in the Amer-
icas Initiative’’ means the initiative estab-
lished in March 2011 by the United States
Government to increase educational ex-
changes in the Western Hemisphere.
(2) COVERED UNITED STATES-MEXICO BORDER
REGION.—The term ‘‘covered United States-
Mexico border region’’ means those portions
of the United States and Mexico that are
within 100 kilometers of the international
boundary between those countries.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on H.R. 133, currently under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
I rise in support of this measure. I
thank Representative CUELLAR for in-
troducing this measure, and I will dis-
cuss its merits in a moment.
But I can’t stand in good conscience
on the House floor to talk about our
economic partnership with Mexico and
not speak for a moment on what is
happening right now on our southern
border.
The government is currently shut
down, with thousands of workers fur-
loughed and prevented from doing their
jobs. This is something that should be
ameliorated quickly. Government
should open.
The measure before us today deals
with the incredibly important relation-
ship with our neighbor to the south,
Mexico. Mexico is our close friend and
ally and a country with which we have
extraordinarily close cultural and per-
son-to-person ties.
This bill builds on the Obama admin-
istration’s 100,000 Strong in the Amer-
icas initiative by requiring the Sec-
retary of State to expand the exchange
programs and allow our students and
business leaders to share and learn
from each other.
It is also crucial that we send a
strong message to the Mexican people
that the United States Congress will
not walk away from them despite the
damage done to the relationship.
As I have said many times in the
House Foreign Affairs Committee and
on the House floor, the United States
should be in the business of building
bridges, not walls, to our friends in
Mexico.
By passing this measure today, the
House of Representatives is recommit-
ting itself to our bilateral relationship.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting this legislation, and I reserve
the balance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
I rise today in support of the U.S.-
Mexico Economic Partnership Act au-
thored by my good friend and fellow
Texan, Mr. CUELLAR.
As a native Texan, I know how crit-
ical the U.S.-Mexico relationship is to
the prosperity and security of our two
nations. And as the former chairman of
the U.S.-Mexico IPG, I had the honor of
leading congressional delegations to sit
down with our Mexican counterparts to
discuss bilateral issues, such as trade
and security, and just recently went
down for the President’s inauguration.
These legislative exchanges have been
imperative for furthering the relation-
ship between our two nations.
However, we must look beyond tradi-
tional and shared connections and fos-
ter cultural and academic partnerships
and grow the U.S.-Mexico relationship
among the younger generations. This
bill achieves that goal by creating aca-
demic exchanges in the private sector
that are focused on health and energy.
This academic pipeline will strengthen
our energy infrastructure and develop
new generations of medical profes-
sionals who could work in both of our
countries.
This bill complements the economic
growth initiatives and the recently ne-
gotiated USMCA trade agreement, and
it promotes the U.S.-Mexico relation-
ship at the committee level.
Again, as I mentioned just a few
weeks ago, I had the pleasure of at-
tending the inauguration of President
Lopez Obrador in Mexico City with
many of my colleagues. Our two coun-
tries have had a very proud history to-
gether, and I think these are times,
trying times, as the chairman men-
tioned, but I think that is why this bill
is so important. I think we can have a
brighter future together between our
two nations. I urge my colleagues to
support it to strengthen this relation-
ship.
In closing, I would like to once again
thank Mr. CUELLAR for leading this
message. Growing up in Texas, I dealt
with our Mexican counterpart, their
largest trading partner, have done a lot
with Mexico. When I was in the Attor-
ney General’s Office, I met with Mexico
periodically, and also as a Member of
Congress.
This is an important relationship be-
tween our countries. While there have
been moments of disagreement, I think
it is important that our countries re-
main allies and we are friends with our
neighbors to the south.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I want to
close by again emphasizing the impor-
tance of the U.S.-Mexico relationship.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.018 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H432 January 10, 2019
Twenty years ago, it would have been
hard to imagine coming to the House
floor in support of a bipartisan bill on
educational exchanges with Mexico.
Now, a bill like this will glide through
the House with little, if any, opposi-
tion, just as it did last year. But we
cannot take cooperation for granted.
We have to keep on working with Mex-
ico to improve our relationship.
I thank my colleagues for supporting
me and joining me in supporting this
legislation to double down on the suc-
cesses in the U.S.-Mexico partnership,
and I urge its immediate passage.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 133, the ‘‘United States-Mex-
ico Economic Partnership Act’’ that promotes
economic partnership and cooperation be-
tween the United States and Mexico.
The ‘‘United States-Mexico Economic Part-
nership Act’’ strategy predominantly focuses
on academic, business and medical ex-
changes.
The United States and Mexico have bene-
fitted from a bilateral, mutually beneficial part-
nership focused on advancing the economic
interests of both countries.
In March 2011, the United States launched
the ‘‘100,000 Strong in the Americas Initia-
tive’’, which increased educational exchanges
between the United States and other countries
in the Western Hemisphere region.
The 100,000 United States students are
studying in other countries in the Western
Hemisphere region and 100,000 non-United
States students from the region are studying
in the United States per year by 2020.
The ‘‘United States-Mexico Economic Part-
nership Act’’ would expand the educational
and professional exchange programs with
Mexico, including through the framework of
the 100,000 Strong in the Americas Initiative.
In the 18th Congressional District of Texas,
the Houston Independent School District is
educating nearly 3,500 immigrant students in
their first year in American school systems.
The state’s largest district of Texas has
more than 11,000 immigrant students who
have been in America for three years or less.
René Sánchez, the principal of César E.
Chávez High School located in the 18th dis-
trict and the son of Mexican immigrants made
statements to incoming high schoolers.
‘‘Many of you were not in Houston last year,
were not in the United States, yet we’re hold-
ing you to the same standards as students
. . . living in the United States all their lives,’’
said René Sánchez.
High school students like Sophia Martinez,
an 18-year-old senior from Mexico have been
in Houston for nearly two years and speak
near-fluently but stumble over the essay sec-
tion.
For these students and reasons, I ask my
colleagues to join me in supporting H.R. 133.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 133.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
TRANS-SAHARA COUNTERTERROR-
ISM PARTNERSHIP ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 192) to establish an interagency
program to assist countries in North
and West Africa to improve immediate
and long-term capabilities to counter
terrorist threats, and for other pur-
poses.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 192
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Trans-Sa-
hara Counterterrorism Partnership Act’’.
SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that—
(1) the Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism
Partnership, launched in 2005, is an inter-
agency program to assist partner countries
in the Sahel and Maghreb regions of Africa
on their immediate and long-term capabili-
ties to address terrorist threats and prevent
the spread of violent extremism;
(2) armed groups and violent Islamist ter-
rorist organizations, such as Al Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb, Boko Haram, the Islamic
State of West Africa, and other affiliated
groups, have killed tens of thousands of in-
nocent civilians, displaced populations, de-
stabilized local and national governments,
and caused mass human suffering in the af-
fected communities;
(3) it is in the national security interest of
the United States to combat the spread of
radical Islamist extremism and build partner
countries’ capacity to combat these threats
in Africa;
(4) extremist movements exploit vulner-
able and marginalized communities suffering
from poverty, lack of economic opportunity
(particularly among youth populations), and
weak governance; and
(5) to address critical security, political,
economic, and humanitarian challenges in
these regions of Africa, a coordinated, inter-
agency approach is needed to appropriately
allocate resources, share responsibility, de-
conflict programs, and maximize the effec-
tiveness of United States defense, diplo-
matic, and development capabilities.
SEC. 3. TRANS-SAHARA COUNTERTERRORISM
PARTNERSHIP.
(a) TRANS-SAHARA COUNTERTERRORISM
PARTNERSHIP.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—The Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Secretary of
Defense and the Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment, shall establish a partnership, to be
known as the ‘‘Trans-Sahara Counterter-
rorism Partnership’’ (TSCTP), to coordinate
all United States programs, projects, and ac-
tivities in North and West Africa that are
conducted for any of the following purposes:
(A) To build the capacity of foreign mili-
tary and law enforcement entities in such re-
gions to conduct counterterrorism oper-
ations.
(B) To improve the ability of foreign mili-
tary and law enforcement entities in such re-
gions to cooperate with the United States
and other partner countries on counterter-
rorism efforts.
(C) To enhance the border security capac-
ity of partner countries in such regions, in-
cluding the ability to monitor, restrain, and
interdict terrorists.
(D) To strengthen the rule of law in such
countries, including access to justice, and
the ability of the law enforcement entities of
such partner countries to detect, disrupt, re-
spond to, investigate, and prosecute terrorist
activity.
(E) To monitor and counter the financing
of terrorism.
(F) To further reduce any vulnerabilities
among affected populations in such regions
to recruitment or incitement of terrorist ac-
tivities through public diplomacy efforts,
such as supporting youth employment, pro-
moting meaningful participation of women,
strengthening local governance and civil so-
ciety capacity, and improving access to eco-
nomic opportunities and education.
(G) To support independent, local-language
media, particularly in rural areas, to counter
media operations and recruitment propa-
ganda by terrorist organizations.
(2) CONSULTATION.—In coordinating pro-
grams through the TSCTP, the Secretary of
State shall also consult, as appropriate, with
the Director of National Intelligence, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney
General, the Chief Executive Officer of the
United States Agency for Global Media (for-
merly known as the Broadcasting Board of
Governors), and the heads of other relevant
Federal departments and agencies.
(3) CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION.—Not later
than 15 days before obligating amounts for
an activity coordinated by the TSCTP pursu-
ant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of State
shall submit a notification, in accordance
with the requirements of section 634A of the
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C.
2394–1), that includes the following:
(A) The foreign country and entity, as ap-
plicable, whose capabilities are to be en-
hanced in accordance with the purposes spec-
ified in paragraph (1).
(B) The amount, type, and purpose of sup-
port to be provided.
(C) An assessment of the capacity of the
foreign country or entity to absorb the as-
sistance to be provided.
(D) The estimated cost and anticipated im-
plementation timeline for assistance.
(E) As applicable, a description of the ar-
rangements to sustain any equipment pro-
vided by the activity beyond the completion
date of such activity, if applicable, and the
estimated cost and source of funds to sup-
port such sustainment.
(F) The amount, type, statutory authoriza-
tion, and purpose of any United States secu-
rity assistance provided to such foreign
country during the three preceding fiscal
years pursuant to authorities under title 10,
United States Code, the Foreign Assistance
Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.), or any
other ‘‘train and equip’’ authorities of the
Department of Defense.
(b) COMPREHENSIVE STRATEGY FOR
COUNTERTERRORISM EFFORTS.—
(1) DEVELOPMENT.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of Defense and the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, shall submit to the
appropriate congressional committees a
comprehensive, interagency strategy that—
(A) states the objectives of the United
States counterterrorism effort in North and
West Africa with respect to the use of all
forms of United States assistance to counter
violent extremism;
(B) includes a plan by the Secretary of
State for the manner in which programs
shall be coordinated by the TSCTP pursuant
to subsection (a)(1), including which agency
or bureau of the Department of State, as ap-
plicable, will be responsible for leading and
coordinating each such program; and
(C) outlines a plan to monitor and evaluate
TSCTP programs and identifies the key indi-
cators that will be used to measure perform-
ance and progress under the strategy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.061 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H433
January 10, 2019
(2) SUPPORTING MATERIAL IN ANNUAL BUDG-
ET REQUEST.—The Secretary of State shall
include, in the budget materials submitted
in support of the budget of the President
(submitted to Congress pursuant to section
1105 of title 31, United States Code) for each
fiscal year beginning after the date of the en-
actment of this Act, a description of the re-
quirements, activities, and planned alloca-
tion of amounts requested by the TSCTP.
(c) MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF PRO-
GRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.—
(1) MONITORING AND EVALUATION.—The Sec-
retary of State, in consultation with the
Secretary of Defense and the Administrator
of the United States Agency for Inter-
national Development, shall monitor and
evaluate the programs coordinated by the
TSCTP pursuant to subsection (a)(1) in ac-
cordance with the plan outlined pursuant to
subsection (b)(1)(C).
(2) REPORT.—For the 5-year period begin-
ning 180 days after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Secretary of State shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees an annual report on monitoring and
evaluation efforts pursuant to paragraph (1)
that describes—
(A) the progress made in meeting the ob-
jectives listed in the strategy required by
subsection (b)(1), including any lessons
learned in carrying out TSCTP programs and
activities and any recommendations for im-
proving such programs and activities;
(B) the efforts taken to coordinate, de-con-
flict, and streamline TSCTP programs to
maximize resource effectiveness;
(C) the extent to which each partner coun-
try has demonstrated the ability to absorb
the equipment or training provided in the
year previous under TSCTP programs, and
where applicable, the ability to maintain
and appropriately utilize such equipment
provided;
(D) the extent to which each partner coun-
try is investing its own resources to advance
the goals described in subsection (a)(1) or
demonstrated a commitment and willingness
to cooperate with the United States to ad-
vance such goals; and
(E) the actions taken by the government of
each partner country receiving assistance
through programs coordinated by the TSCTP
to combat corruption, improve transparency
and accountability, and promote other forms
of good governance.
(d) FORM.—The strategy required by sub-
section (b)(1) and the report required by sub-
section (c)(2) shall be submitted in unclassi-
fied form but may include a classified annex.
(e) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations, and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence of the
House of Representatives; and
(2) the Committee on Armed Services, the
Committee on Foreign Relations, the Com-
mittee on Appropriations, and the Select
Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on H.R. 192, currently under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self as much time as I may consume.
I rise in support of this measure. I
would like to begin by again thanking
Mr. MCCAUL for once again putting for-
ward this legislation. I look forward to
working with him, as I mentioned be-
fore, as he begins his role as the rank-
ing member on the Foreign Affairs
Committee.
The bill before us today authorizes
the Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism
Partnership. This interagency program
was established in 2005 to help Amer-
ica’s partners in the Sahel and
Maghreb regions counter terrorism and
violent extremism.
In places where instability leads to
terrorism and conflict, it is important
that we collaborate with our allies and
that our policy is driven by a united
interagency effort. That is why this
bill is so important.
By coordinating our diplomatic, mili-
tary, and development efforts in our
own government and with partners
abroad, the Trans-Sahara Counterter-
rorism Partnership strengthens our re-
sponse to the international security
threats facing these regions of Africa.
Passing this legislation, which au-
thorizes an existing program, will also
enhance the ability of Congress to con-
duct thorough oversight.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation, which already passed the
House last year, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
I rise in support of my bill, the
Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Part-
nership Act. This bill passed the House
last year. I am pleased that the chair-
man and I were able to make it an
early priority in this Congress.
This legislation strengthens our
counterterrorism operations in Africa,
an area where the terror threat is rap-
idly rising.
b 1515
Our military successes in Iraq and
Syria have splintered ISIS, squeezed
terrorists out of the Middle East, and
sent them fleeing to Africa. The num-
bers are alarming.
On the eve of 9/11, al-Qaida had only
a few hundred followers. Today, it is
estimated that 10,000 ISIS and al-Qaida
jihadists have established bases across
the continent.
Along with other existing terrorist
organizations, such as Boko Haram,
terrorism is taking hold in Africa and
prohibiting its prosperity. We know
that these groups have plotted attacks
that threaten U.S. interests, and some
have succeeded.
The Trump administration recently
released their Africa strategy. It appro-
priately prioritizes U.S. efforts to
counter radical Islamic terrorism on
the continent. I applaud their contin-
ued focus on this issue.
My bill, which I introduced with my
friend Mr. KEATING, authorizes for the
first time a program called the Trans-
Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership.
This program works with countries
such as Chad, Mali, Niger, and Nigeria
to build their capacity to conduct
counterterrorism operations, prevent
the spread of violent extremism, and
strengthen the rule of law.
Furthermore, it requires the State
Department, USAID, and the Defense
Department to work together to de-
velop a counterterrorism strategy in
Africa. By taking a multifaceted ap-
proach and better coordinating our ef-
forts, we can prevent terrorism from
gaining a larger foothold in these coun-
tries.
Again, I thank Mr. ENGEL and I
thank Mr. KEATING for their shared
support of this cause, and I urge my
colleagues to support it.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I thank
Chairman ENGEL and Congressman
KEATING. The bill authorizes a really
important interagency effort to com-
bat terrorism and prevent the spread of
radical Islamist extremism in Africa.
As ISIS and other terrorist ideologies
are degraded in the Middle East, they
are, unfortunately, finding a safe haven
in Africa.
We must partner with other nations
to work to combat these threats before
they impact the homeland. This bill
will increase congressional oversight
from our committee and better coordi-
nate U.S. assistance.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, in closing,
I again thank Mr. MCCAUL for his work
on this measure and state again that I
look forward to working side by side
with him as chairman and ranking
member of the Foreign Affairs Com-
mittee. This bill authorizes an impor-
tant program that strengthens our ef-
forts to assist partners in the Sahel
and Maghreb to counter terrorism and
violent extremism.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleague to
support this important legislation, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
support of H.R. 192, the ‘‘Trans-Sahara
Counter-Terrorism Partnership Act,’’ which will
help to establish an interagency program to
assist countries in North and West Africa to
improve immediate and long-term capabilities
to counter terrorist threats, and for other pur-
poses.
This bill launched in 2005, is a partnership
to cooperate with countries in the Sahel and
Maghreb regions of Africa on their immediate
and longterm capabilities to address and pre-
vent the spread of violent extremism.
Extremist movements, such as Al Qaeda in
the Islamic Maghreb, Boko Haram, the Islamic
State of West Africa, and other affiliated
groups, have killed tens of thousands of inno-
cent civilians, displaced populations, desta-
bilized local and national governments, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.017 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H434 January 10, 2019
caused mass human suffering in the affected
communities.
As Al-Qaeda and the Islamic State are
being driven out of the Middle East, Africa is
becoming the new battleground for their terror
attacks.
According to the Environmental System Re-
search Institute, in the last four years, terrorist
attacks have killed 31,600 people in 4,455 at-
tacks in Africa.
Boko Haram alone caused more than 8,000
fatalities across Nigeria, Cameroon, Chad and
Niger.
Boko Haram have taken control of the
former commercial town of Baga near the bor-
der with Chad, which caused the displacement
of hundreds of people.
Armed groups and violent Islamist terrorist
organizations exploit vulnerable and
marginalized communities suffering from pov-
erty, lack of economic opportunity (particularly
among youth populations), and weak govern-
ance.
Youth populations are more likely to join an
expanding terrorist network in West and Cen-
tral Africa, which make the region more likely
to be hit by a severe violent attack.
Al-Qaeda and ISIS recruited in Tunisia
6,500 youth volunteers.
On Oct. 4, 2017, militants affiliated with ISIS
ambushed a team of U.S. troops in Niger, kill-
ing four soldiers and wounding two.
On October 6, 2017, a terrorist attack killed
more than 300 people, injured nearly 400 and
leveled an entire block in Mogadishu, Somalia.
That is why it is important that we vote
today to implement the following recommenda-
tions from the report:
To establish an interagency program to as-
sist countries in North and West Africa to im-
prove immediate and long-term capabilities to
counter terrorist threats, and for other pur-
poses.
This is in the national security interest of the
United States to combat the spread of radical
Islamist extremism and build partner countries’
capacity to combat these threats in Africa.
H.R. 192 follows the recommendation from
the report and ensures that the U. S,Congress
can assist its partner countries to:
Address critical security, political, economic,
and humanitarian challenges in these regions
of Africa, a coordinated, interagency approach
is needed to appropriately allocate resources,
share responsibility, de-conflict programs, and
maximize the effectiveness of United States
defense, diplomatic, and development capa-
bilities.
H.R. 192 is a step in the right direction be-
cause it will help to establish an interagency
program to assist countries in the Sahel and
Maghreb regions of Africa on their immediate
and long-term capabilities to address and pre-
vent the spread of violent extremism.
I urge my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting this important legislation.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 192.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
SPECIAL ENVOY TO MONITOR AND
COMBAT ANTI-SEMITISM ACT
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 221) to amend the State Depart-
ment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to
monitor and combat anti-Semitism
globally, and for other purposes.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 221
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Special
Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semi-
tism Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDING.
Congress finds that since the Global Anti-
Semitism Review Act of 2004 was enacted, in
many foreign countries acts of anti-Semi-
tism have been frequent and wide in scope,
the perpetrators and variety of threats to
Jewish communities and their institutions
have proliferated, and in some countries
anti-Semitic attacks have increased in fre-
quency, scope, violence, and deadliness.
SEC. 3. MONITORING AND COMBATING ANTI-SEM-
ITISM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (a) of section
59 of the State Department Basic Authorities
Act of 1956 (22 U.S.C. 2731) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (A)—
(i) by inserting before the period at the end
the following: ‘‘, who shall be appointed by
the President, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate’’; and
(ii) by adding at the end the following new
sentence: ‘‘The Special Envoy shall report
directly to the Secretary.’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (B)—
(i) in the heading, by striking ‘‘APPOINT-
MENT’’ and inserting ‘‘NOMINATION’’;
(ii) by striking the first sentence;
(iii) in the second sentence, by striking ‘‘If
the Secretary determines that such is appro-
priate, the Secretary may appoint’’ and in-
serting ‘‘If the President determines that
such is appropriate, the President may nomi-
nate’’; and
(iv) in the third sentence, by striking ‘‘The
Secretary may allow such officer or em-
ployee to retain the position (and the respon-
sibilities associated with such position) held
by such officer or employee prior to the ap-
pointment’’ and inserting ‘‘Such officer or
employee may not retain the position (or the
responsibilities associated with such posi-
tion) held by such officer or employee prior
to the nomination’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(3) DUTIES.—The Special Envoy shall
serve as the primary advisor to, and coordi-
nate efforts across, the United States Gov-
ernment relating to monitoring and com-
bating anti-Semitism and anti-Semitic in-
citement that occur in foreign countries.
‘‘(4) RANK AND STATUS OF AMBASSADOR.—
The Special Envoy shall have the rank of
ambassador.
‘‘(5) QUALIFICATIONS.—The Special Envoy
should be a person of recognized distinction
in the field of—
‘‘(A) combating anti-Semitism;
‘‘(B) religious freedom; or
‘‘(C) law enforcement.’’.
(b) NOMINATION.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
and not later than 120 after any such posi-
tion becomes vacant, the President shall
nominate the Special Envoy for Monitoring
and Combating anti-Semitism under section
59 of the State Department Basic Authorities
Act of 1956, as amended by subsection (a) of
this section.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days to revise and extend
their remarks and include extraneous
material on H.R. 221, currently under
consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
221. I am a proud original cosponsor of
this bill, and I am pleased we are con-
sidering it today. We passed it with bi-
partisan, unanimous support in the
last Congress, and I am looking for-
ward to seeing us show that broad sup-
port again. In this Congress, we must
continue to stand against anti-Semi-
tism.
I thank my colleagues for their hard
work on this effort: Congressman CHRIS
SMITH, the author of this legislation,
and my fellow co-chairs of the Bipar-
tisan Taskforce for Combating Anti-
Semitism. I am proud to stand with a
group of legislators committed to
fighting intolerance and hatred.
Mr. Speaker, we have seen a sick-
ening increase in anti-Semitism over
the past few years. Just a few months
ago, a gunman stormed a synagogue in
Pittsburgh, attacking peaceful
congregants and killing 11 people. We
have seen people who embrace hatred
and bigotry given a new, loud mega-
phone to spread their poison. Across
the United States, we have seen an up-
tick in anti-Semitic language and an
increase in threats of violence against
Jewish communities. In my home
State of New York, NYPD officials
have reported an alarming surge of
anti-Semitic hate crimes.
Every day, more and more alarming
anti-Semitic incidents are happening
across the world: Holocaust survivors
recently assaulted, rallies and parades
glorifying Nazi leaders, and swastikas
graffitied to incite fear and terror. The
list goes on and on.
This is appalling, and it demands im-
mediate action.
As a country, we need to come to-
gether to say enough is enough. We
need to confront evil, call it by its
name, and say there is no place for it
anywhere in the United States or
around the world. We need to do it as
citizens. We need to do so in our laws
and in our policies. We need to make
sure that we fill the positions that are
supposed to be dealing with this issue.
The Special Envoy to Combat Anti-
Semitism position at the State Depart-
ment is still vacant, and that is simply
unacceptable.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.020 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H435
January 10, 2019
We must have a senior official push
back against intolerance and hatred of
anti-Semitism. American leadership is
desperately needed in the fight against
this ancient form of hatred. I am sick
and tired of foot-dragging on filling
this critical position.
That is why I am glad we are moving
this bill forward. This legislation
would elevate the Special Envoy posi-
tion and require the President to put
forward a nominee no more than 120
days after a vacancy. This is essential
for making sure that a prolonged va-
cancy like we have right now never
happens again. We must have a senior
State Department official dedicated to
coordinating U.S. Government efforts
to combat anti-Semitism abroad.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
measure. I ask my colleagues to join
me in doing so, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support
of this bill to ensure that American ef-
forts to fight the scourge of anti-Semi-
tism are as strong as possible.
In December, the European Union re-
leased the results of a survey of over
16,500 European Jews. The results of
this survey are, frankly, disturbing.
In its report, the EU wrote that anti-
Semitism pervades everyday life. It
also stated that anti-Semitism under-
mines Jews’ feelings of safety and secu-
rity and that anti-Semitic harassment
is so common that it becomes normal-
ized.
Europe is not alone in seeing a resur-
gence of anti-Semitism. Textbooks
across the Middle East teach children
to hate Jews. Malaysia’s Prime Min-
ister has repeated offensive, anti-Se-
mitic statements. Here in the United
States, we were devastated by the at-
tack on a Pittsburgh synagogue in Oc-
tober. No region or country is immune
from this hatred.
In 2004, the Global Anti-Semitism Re-
view Act was passed into law, estab-
lishing a Special Envoy to Monitor and
Combat Anti-Semitism. This position
was created to combat this threat
worldwide through bilateral relation-
ships and international organizations
such as the European Union and the
United Nations. Fifteen years later, we
need to modernize the way our govern-
ment is set up to fight this hatred.
This bipartisan bill, which has been
previously introduced in the House and
passed in the House, requires the Presi-
dent to appoint a Special Envoy to
Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism.
The bill also elevates the Special
Envoy position to the rank of Ambas-
sador and ensures direct access to the
Secretary of State. It is finally time
for the stature of this position to re-
flect the level of work that must be
done.
Unfortunately, a Special Envoy has
yet to be nominated under this admin-
istration, and I strongly urge the
President to appoint a qualified can-
didate as soon as possible.
Mr. Speaker, I would also like to
thank Congressman CHRIS SMITH for in-
troducing this important bill, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. SCHNEIDER), who is the Demo-
cratic lead on this bill.
Mr. SCHNEIDER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of, and I am proud to
be an original cosponsor of, the bipar-
tisan Special Envoy to Monitor and
Combat Anti-Semitism Act, H.R. 221. I
thank Representative CHRIS SMITH for
introducing this bill and Chairman
ENGEL and Ranking Member MCCAUL
for their leadership in bringing it to
the floor today.
I am sad to say that we live in a time
when anti-Semitism is again on the
rise across our globe. Last fall, the en-
tire world was shocked by the shooting
in Pittsburgh of 11 Jews at prayer in
the Tree of Life synagogue, the dead-
liest attack on the Jewish community
in our country’s history.
Here in the United States, according
to the Anti-Defamation League, anti-
Semitic incidents increased 57 percent
in the U.S. alone in 2017 compared to
the previous year.
In the European Union, a survey
found that European Jewish commu-
nities fear attacks and rated anti-Sem-
itism on the Internet and social media
as the biggest social and political prob-
lem. A Kantor study on contemporary
Jewry recently stated that Europe’s
largest Jewish communities are experi-
encing normalization and
mainstreaming of anti-Semitism not
seen since the Second World War.
The United States has an important
leadership role to play in tamping out
hate both here and around the world.
That is why I am concerned that the
State Department Special Envoy to
Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism re-
mains unfilled, as it has since the start
of the Trump administration. Our bill
would elevate this role to a position of
proper importance at the ambassa-
dorial rank and sets requirements to
ensure the role is filled within 90 days.
We need to do all we can to support
our allies and combat anti-Semitism
wherever and whenever it manifests
itself. Hate is truly a cancer that eats
away at our foundations. What may
first begin as words can fester and
manifest into discrimination, violence,
or worse.
I am proud this House passed our bill
overwhelmingly in the last Congress
but disappointed that the Senate did
not take action. I am pleased that this
is a priority at the start of this new
Congress, and I hope the Senate will
follow our lead and take up this impor-
tant legislation. I hope the President
will take note and pass this legislation
and fill this long-overdue vacancy.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from New
Jersey (Mr. SMITH), who is the author
of this bill.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I thank Mr. MCCAUL for yield-
ing and for his very strong support of
this legislation. And ELIOT ENGEL, the
new chairman, I thank him as well. I
thank Brad Schneider for being the
original Democratic cosponsor.
This is a bipartisan bill. In the last
Congress, we had 86 cosponsors. Even in
this Congress, we already have gotten
up to 80 cosponsors. It shows that we
can reach across the aisle and fight
this pernicious evil called anti-Semi-
tism.
In 2004, Mr. Speaker, I authored the
provisions of law that created and re-
quired this position and the office it
leads at the State Department. H.R. 221
upgrades and strengthens the position
to better anticipate, prevent, mitigate,
and respond to threats against Jewish
communities worldwide.
H.R. 221 elevates the Special Envoy
to the rank of Ambassador, reporting
directly to the Secretary of State. This
would enable sufficient seniority and
access inside the U.S. Government and
when engaging foreign governments.
The bill requires the President to
nominate a candidate no later than 90
days—and all the Presidents from Bush
to Obama, and now, sadly, under Presi-
dent Trump, have been very late in
coming forward with that nominee.
There was a nominee for the Special
Envoy, but because of illness or a
health crisis, that person was not
named. But we—all of us—have asked
the President to name that person and
to do so immediately.
This bill requires, as I said, to do it
no later than 90 days after the bill be-
comes law and no later than 120 days
thereafter whenever that position is
empty.
H.R. 221 prohibits double-hatting of
the Special Envoy with duties irrele-
vant to combating anti-Semitism. The
legislation also mandates the Special
Envoy to be the primary adviser to the
U.S. Government on monitoring and
combating anti-Semitism.
Far too often, Mr. Speaker, over the
decades, the U.S. Government has put
combating anti-Semitism, human traf-
ficking, and religious freedom viola-
tions in the back seat of our foreign
policy. That is why Congress has cre-
ated offices and positions to ensure the
United States was focused on fighting
these evils.
Over the past decades, there has been
an unprecedented rise in anti-Semitic
acts and rhetoric all over the world:
Jews harassed, assaulted, and even
murdered; synagogues attacked; graves
and cemeteries desecrated; anti-Se-
mitic slurs; plus targeting the State of
Israel itself with the three Ds—demoni-
zation, double-standard, and
delegitimization, as my good friend,
the great Soviet Jewish refusenik and
religious prisoner Natan Sharansky
named them. The so-called BDS move-
ment to boycott, divest from, and sanc-
tion Israel is one of the most per-
nicious examples of what Sharansky
called the new anti-Semitism.
Anti-Semitic hatred is hardwired
into the ideology of violent Islamist
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.066 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H436 January 10, 2019
and White supremacist groups, but the
evil goes beyond those perpetrators.
b 1530
Politicians, entertainers, and public
intellectuals across the philosophical
spectrum have exhibited anti-Semi-
tism. Strong American leadership,
therefore, is essential to battle this
bigotry.
Combating anti-Semitism, as I said
earlier, has always been a bipartisan
effort. This bill did pass the last Con-
gress 393–2. The text before us in the
legislation is identical. I hope we have
very strong support for it and the Sen-
ate, hopefully, will take it up, consider
it, pass it, and get it to the President.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ).
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentleman for
yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of H.R. 221, the Special Envoy
to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism
Act, and thank our bipartisan cospon-
sors for moving it forward.
This bill would elevate the position
of Special Envoy to Monitor and Com-
bat Anti-Semitism to the rank of am-
bassador, with nomination by the
President and confirmation by the Sen-
ate. Sadly, this bill is very much need-
ed.
A report last year published by the
Kantor Center at Tel Aviv University
found an increase in anti-Semitic har-
assment and abuse worldwide, includ-
ing in schools and online. The report
recounts abuse against Jews in dozens
of countries around the world.
Yet, despite its clear findings, the
Trump administration has yet to even
fill the position of Special Envoy to
Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism.
This is simply shameful and inex-
plicable. It is particularly shameful
given this President’s unabashed em-
brace of the alt-right, a movement
which was linked to the murderous at-
tack on the Tree of Life synagogue, the
deadliest attack on a Jewish commu-
nity in American history.
Talk is cheap. If President Trump
genuinely cared about the Jewish com-
munity, he would have made this ap-
pointment a priority—and he has not.
I thank my colleagues who are mov-
ing this bill forward on both sides of
the aisle. I urge us to pass this bill,
again, and send it to the Senate and
eventually to the President’s desk so
that America can lead by example by
filling this vital role that demonstrates
our commitment that Jews and people
of all faiths are free to practice their
religion without fear or harm.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. BILIRAKIS), the cosponsor of this
bill.
Mr. BILIRAKIS. Mr. Speaker, I
thank Chairman ENGEL for his friend-
ship and all his good work over the
years, as well. Again, I also thank Rep-
resentative SMITH, my good friend, for
sponsoring this piece of legislation.
As co-chair of the International Reli-
gious Freedom Caucus, I rise in strong
support of H.R. 221, the Special Envoy
to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism
Act.
The Special Envoy to Monitor and
Combat Anti-Semitism was established
by the Global Anti-Semitism Review
Act. The Special Envoy develops and
implements policies and projects to
support efforts to combat anti-Semi-
tism globally.
This bill elevates the position to the
rank of ambassador, directly reporting
to the Secretary of State, sending a
clear message to the world regarding
our commitment to combating anti-
Semitism.
In addition to requiring the position
be filled, the bill prevents the ap-
pointee from holding any other office,
making this a priority and ensuring
their sole focus is monitoring and com-
bating the scourge of anti-Semitism.
Throughout history, humanity has
experienced tremendous evil, Mr.
Speaker. Our brightest moments as a
Nation were those when we recognized
evil and worked together to swiftly and
unapologetically defeat it. Our darkest
moments were those when we stood by
and did nothing while making excuses
for our passivity.
Combating anti-Semitism and pro-
moting human rights are pivotal com-
ponents of American diplomacy and
foreign policy. Additionally, dedicated
U.S. leadership in this area is crucial,
especially at a time when anti-Semi-
tism around the world is dangerously
on the rise.
I urge my colleagues to support this
good, bipartisan bill.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DEUTCH), one of my fellow co-
chairs of a bipartisan task force to
combat anti-Semitism.
Mr. DEUTCH. Mr. Speaker, I thank
Chairman ENGEL for helping to shep-
herd this legislation through the com-
mittee last year and for bringing it to
the floor so quickly this year. I thank
the ranking member, I thank my fellow
co-chairs of the Anti-Semitism Task
Force, and I especially want to thank
my colleague, CHRIS SMITH, who has
been a stalwart ally in combating anti-
Semitism and has worked to create and
strengthen this position for many
years.
Mr. Speaker, 4 years ago, on January
9, 2015, a gunman entered a kosher su-
permarket in Paris, killing four. Last
year, on the anniversary of the
Hypercacher shooting, another kosher
supermarket in southern Paris was tar-
geted with swastikas and arson.
Tragically, there have been countless
attacks against the Jewish commu-
nities of Europe over the last few
years, some of which make headlines,
but many of which don’t: The anti-Se-
mitic murder of a Holocaust survivor;
the man attacked in Germany for
wearing a kippah, a Jewish skullcap;
the shootings at the Jewish Museum of
Belgium in Brussels that killed four;
the shooting at a Bat Mitzvah in Co-
penhagen; an 11-year-old in England at-
tacked on the street as children shout-
ed, ‘‘Burn all the Jews;’’ and White su-
premacists and anti-Semites marching
in European capitals.
Anti-Semitism is certainly not a new
phenomenon, but we should expect that
the United States Government would
take a leading role in tracking, com-
bating, and preventing it.
After October 27, when the deadliest
attack on the Jewish community in
America took place and 11 Jews were
gunned down for practicing their reli-
gion, America has an obligation to
lead. We need a global-facing officer at
the State Department who will engage
Jewish communities and European
leaders to make their countries safer
for Jews.
We have repeatedly asked this ad-
ministration to fill the Special Envoy
position. They have left it vacant for
almost 2 full years under two different
Secretaries of State. Members of Con-
gress have sent letters to the White
House and the State Department. We
have asked administration officials in
person about when or whether they
plan to appoint a Special Envoy. There
is bipartisan frustration over the
delay.
Mr. Speaker, anti-Semitism is the
canary in the coal mine. When it is
present in your country, there is ha-
tred in your country. I am pleased the
House will vote on this bipartisan bill
early in this Congress to send a clear
message to the administration that
there is no time to waste. Democrats
and Republicans together expect Amer-
ica and the President to stand firmly
against anti-Semitism by filling this
important position.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I con-
tinue to reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from New
York (Mrs. LOWEY), my good friend.
She and I have districts that border
each other.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Speaker, I am so
pleased to thank Chairman ENGEL for
initiating and working so hard on this
absolutely essential issue.
It is really shocking to me, with
anti-Semitism spreading throughout
Europe and other places in the world,
that we don’t have a Special Envoy. I
have brought this to the attention of
the former Secretary of State. The ur-
gency of this issue demands a person
who is focused, with a staff, and work-
ing with Members of Congress who
share their passion. We need this Spe-
cial Envoy now.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
In closing, I thank the gentleman
from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH) for his
hard work to ensure that anti-Semi-
tism remains at the top of our coun-
try’s foreign policy agenda. I, too, echo
my colleagues’ on the other side of the
aisle plea to this administration in a
bipartisan way to appoint a Special
Envoy.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.067 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H437
January 10, 2019
If I can just conclude by saying that
I am the son of a World War II veteran.
My father was a bombardier on a B–17.
He was part of the D-day air campaign.
He bombed the Nazis. We saw the hor-
rors of Nazi Germany. I have been to
Auschwitz to see the horrors of the gas
chambers and what the Nazis per-
petrated against the Jewish people. We
thought it was stamped out then. We
thought it was over. And yet it is not.
It is hard to believe that so many years
later, anti-Semitism and neo-Nazis
still exist in this world.
It is my sincere hope, with this Spe-
cial Envoy we can truly make a dif-
ference—the Greatest Generation
fought against it—and that this
scourge will be eliminated entirely
from the planet.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
such time as he may consume to the
gentleman from Florida (Mr. HAS-
TINGS).
(Mr. HASTINGS asked and was given
permission to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HASTINGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of this particular measure.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
In closing, let me say that I strongly
support this bipartisan bill. As all of
my colleagues have said, we can never
become complacent when we see anti-
Semitism rear its ugly head. We need
to reject it. We need to fight it. We
need to shine a light in all the dark
corners so it has no place to hide and
fester.
What does that look like when it
comes to foreign policy?
It starts by appointing a senior dip-
lomat, someone we can point to with
confidence and say, ‘‘You are leading
America’s effort to grapple with this
problem around the world.’’
This bill would make sure that that
seat will not remain vacant the way it
has for the last 2 years. I am proud to
be an original cosponsor of this legisla-
tion. I am proud that we have such bi-
partisan support for this legislation.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 221, the ‘‘Special
Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism
Act.’’
H.R. 221 amends the State Department
Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to allow the
monitoring and combatting of Anti-Semitism
globally.
H.R. 221 requires that the Special Envoy to
Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism be a presi-
dentially-appointed and Senate confirmed po-
sition.
This position holds the rank of Ambassador
and will report directly to the Secretary of
State.
H.R. 221 requires the President nominate a
Special Envoy no later than 90 days after the
bill’s enactment and no more than 120 days
after the position becomes vacant.
Since the passing of the Global Anti-Semi-
tism Review Act of 2004, Congress has found
that in many foreign countries acts of anti-
Semitism have been frequent, threats to Jew-
ish communities and their institutions have
proliferated, and in some countries these at-
tacks have increased in frequency, scope, vio-
lence, and lethality.
The Kantor Center, a research department
at Tel Aviv University focused on the inter-
disciplinary research of European Jewry from
the end of World War II to the present day, re-
corded 327 worldwide major incidents of vio-
lence, vandalism, and desecration in 2017.
This number, 327, does not represent all in-
cidents, only the major incidents—arson,
weapon and weaponless attacks, serious
threats, vandalism, and desecration.
Targets of these attacks include people,
synagogues, community centers and schools,
cemeteries and memorial sites, and private
property.
There has also been an increase in harass-
ment and abuse, both in person and digitally.
Anti-Semitic attacks are human rights viola-
tions and they need to be treated that way.
For these reasons, I ask my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 221 which estab-
lishes a Special Envoy that will serve, not only
as the primary advisor to the Government, but
will also coordinate efforts relating to moni-
toring and combating anti-Semitism showing
the United States’ commitment to human
rights worldwide.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 221.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
The motion to recommit on H.R. 267;
Passage of H.R. 267;
The motion to recommit on H.R. 265;
and,
Passage of H.R. 265.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
TRANSPORTATION, HOUSING AND
URBAN DEVELOPMENT, AND RE-
LATED AGENCIES APPROPRIA-
TIONS ACT, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to recommit on the bill (H.R. 267)
making appropriations for the Depart-
ment of Transportation, and Housing
and Urban Development, and related
agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, and for other purposes,
offered by the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DIAZ-BALART), on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk will redesignate the mo-
tion.
The Clerk redesignated the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 193, nays
228, not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 22]
YEAS—193
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davis, Rodney
Delgado
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—228
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.069 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H438 January 10, 2019
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—12
Arrington
Bucshon
Carter (TX)
Davidson (OH)
Frankel
Jones
LaMalfa
Lawrence
Mast
Schrader
Sensenbrenner
Waters
b 1605
Ms. SPANBERGER, Messrs. RUSH,
LEWIS, and COSTA changed their vote
from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. KELLY of Mississippi,
DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, KING of
New York, CHABOT, SPANO, and CAL-
VERT changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’
to ‘‘yea.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated for:
Mr. ARRINGTON. Mr. Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 22.
Mr. LAMALFA. Mr. Speaker, I was
unavoidably detained. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 22.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
Under clause 10 of rule XX, the yeas
and nays are ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 244, nays
180, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 23]
YEAS—244
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—180
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
Bucshon
Carter (TX)
Davidson (OH)
Frankel
Jones
Mast
Roy
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
b 1615
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I was unavoidably
detained. Had I been present, I would have
voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 23.
f
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, AND RELATED
AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The un-
finished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to recommit on the bill (H.R. 265)
making appropriations for Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and Related Agencies
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.030 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H439
January 10, 2019
programs for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, and for other pur-
poses, offered by the gentleman from
Alabama (Mr. ADERHOLT), on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk will redesignate the mo-
tion.
The Clerk redesignated the motion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 197, nays
229, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 24]
YEAS—197
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davis, Rodney
Delgado
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—229
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—7
Bucshon
Carter (TX)
Davidson (OH)
Frankel
Jones
Mast
Sensenbrenner
b 1624
Ms. SHALALA and Mr. GALLEGO
changed their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to
‘‘nay.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
Under clause 10 of rule XX, the yeas
and nays are ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 243, nays
183, not voting 7, as follows:
[Roll No. 25]
YEAS—243
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Walden
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—183
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.074 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H440 January 10, 2019
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marino
Marshall
Massie
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Wagner
Walberg
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—7
Bucshon
Carter (TX)
Davidson (OH)
Frankel
Jones
Mast
Sensenbrenner
b 1632
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBER TO
JOINT ECONOMIC COMMITTEE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
ALLRED). The Chair announces the
Speaker’s appointment, pursuant to 15
U.S.C. 1024(a), and the order of the
House of January 3, 2019, of the fol-
lowing Member on the part of the
House to the Joint Economic Com-
mittee:
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY, New York
f
PRESIDENT TRUMP’S THREAT TO
DECLARE A NATIONAL EMER-
GENCY TO BUILD A BORDER
WALL
(Mr. ESPAILLAT asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, Presi-
dent Trump has threatened to build his
wall and has put out of work over
800,000 Americans through his Trump
shutdown, and just today he doubled
down on a threat to declare a national
emergency so he could usurp Congress
and trample on our Constitution.
These bully tactics may have worked
running his business, but they will not
work running our country.
Let me promise the American people
right now, Democrats in Congress will
fight and disallow Trump to waste your
hard-earned taxpayer dollars on his ri-
diculous wall. That is why I have intro-
duced legislation to stop the wall.
My This Land Is Our Land Act will
counter the many threats Trump has
made to get his medieval and ineffec-
tive wall: It won’t allow him to build it
on public land; it won’t allow him to
take away people’s private land by
using eminent domain; and, most im-
portantly, it won’t allow him to use
fake national emergencies.
So let me finish by paraphrasing
Ronald Reagan: Mr. Trump, give up
your wall.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
RECOGNIZING MARICOPA COUNTY
SUPERVISORS STEVE CHUCRI
AND BILL GATES
(Mr. BIGGS asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BIGGS. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to commend the just completed chair-
manship of Maricopa County Super-
visor Steve Chucri and to congratulate
the incoming chairman, Supervisor
Bill Gates.
Maricopa County is the Nation’s fast-
est growing county, and Steve Chucri
has had a lot to do with our success. He
has led efforts on the board of super-
visors to create a healthier urban envi-
ronment, foster more job connections,
fight homelessness, and sustain good
governance. We are thankful for his
service as chairman of the board of su-
pervisors.
Incoming chairman is Supervisor Bill
Gates, and I congratulate him on his
new post. I know he will continue to
lead Maricopa County well throughout
this next year.
I am grateful for individuals like
Steve Chucri and Bill Gates who help
to make Maricopa County an attrac-
tive destination to millions of men,
women, and children.
f
SIGN THE BILL AND OPEN UP THE
GOVERNMENT
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, to
the White House: Sign the bill and open
up the government.
Today, the President is in my home
State, impossible for him to see the en-
tire border on the southern border and
to realize that work has been done for
almost two decades on barriers, and
that is why only 12 known or alleged
terrorists have crossed that border as
compared to the unfenced northern
border, which was where the 2000 ter-
rorists coming across the border as the
century turned occurred.
Tomorrow, there will be faithful Fed-
eral employees who will not get their
money, many in Texas: 9,000 Treasury
employees are stationed in Texas, 5,700
Homeland Security; the airports in my
district, with 51,000 screeners, may
miss their first paychecks; and John-
son Space Center—hardworking Ameri-
cans.
This is no time for one’s ego or one’s
preference of what type of barrier. It is
a time for those of us who care about
border security, Democrats who give
billions of dollars, including $1.3 billion
that we gave in this budget and $1.6 bil-
lion.
Open the government and pay these
people their checks.
I look forward to meeting with Fed-
eral employees. Call my office. We
want to give you as much help as we
can.
Open the government. That is what
should be done.
Mr. Speaker, because this President insists
on an immoral and ineffective border wall, he
has shut down the government and said he
would be proud to do it.
This is a presidential temper tantrum.
The President clearly does not realize what
he asking, and the impact this has on Ameri-
cans throughout the nation.
In my homestate, I know that the con-
sequences are real—mortgages and rent are
not paid, car payments are not being made,
spring tuition checks are not being paid, sup-
plemental nutrition assistance.
Texas has 35,694 employees in agencies
without appropriations.
With its vast size, Texas accounts for at
least a few thousand workers in nearly every
major federal agency.
Nearly 9,000 Treasury Department employ-
ees are stationed there, along with about
5,700 Homeland Security employees and
4,300 in the Department of Transportation.
Smaller agencies with particularly high con-
centrations of Texas-based employees include
NASA and the Small Business Administration.
The impact to the city of Houston is not in-
significant.
Houston is the nation’s fourth largest city,
and the shutdown is affecting us acutely.
To get to and from my district, I am proud
to fly through George Bush international air-
port, in Houston.
I am proud to say that this airport is in my
district, and these brave Americans who are
on the front lines of protecting America, are
working without pay.
TSA agents are considered essential em-
ployees and must report to work even though
they aren’t getting paid during the shutdown.
Screening areas at Bush and Hobby have
not been impacted, but it’s a different story in
Dallas and New York.
At DFW, there has reportedly been a 200%
to 300% increase in TSA agents calling out
sick since the shutdown began.
Travelers waited in nearly hour-long security
lines at New York’s LaGuardia Airport on Mon-
day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:14 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.036 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H441
January 10, 2019
The TSA worries lines may get even longer
if more screeners call out sick.
Tomorrow could be a tipping point when
51,000 screeners may miss their first pay-
checks.
TSA agents are considered essential em-
ployees and must report to work even though
they aren’t getting paid during the shutdown.
Houston is also home to one of the greatest
aeronautical institutions all the world—the
Johnson Space Center.
There are more than 16,000 NASA employ-
ees still out of work as the federal government
shutdown.
The partial government shutdown impacts
800,000 of the 2.1 million federal workers na-
tionwide, including 16,700 NASA employees,
which accounts for 96 percent of the work-
force.
Although most of NASA’s employees will be
furloughed, those responsible for keeping peo-
ple and property safe are exempted from the
shutdown.
For example, International Space Station
operations will continue: about 200 of the
3,055 federal employees at Johnson Space
Center in Houston will continue working pri-
marily to keep the three astronauts aboard the
space station alive.
But that is only the beginning of the prob-
lem.
Houston citizens are unable to seek tem-
porary private sector work because such jobs
require permission, and the people who proc-
ess those requests have been furloughed.
Federally funded housing programs are in
jeopardy as the shutdown stretches on.
For example, rural home loans financed by
the USDA are not an option.
Texans who were affected by Hurricane
Harvey are still waiting for federal aid, and the
shutdown won’t make it any easier to get that
aid.
Harris County is putting a hold on Harvey
recovery projects that relied in part on federal
money.
The Treasury Department’s loss of funding
means some Texas wineries and breweries
can’t get federal approval of labels allowing
their products to be sold across state lines.
Federal employees are required to work
throughout the shutdown without pay, like cor-
rections officers and Border Patrol agents.
Agencies such as the national parks, NASA
and some IRS employees have been sent
home or furloughed in Houston, Texas.
There are any number of cascading ef-
fects—Local restaurants are feeling the impact
as well; federal employees who frequent near-
by eateries for meals are no longer eating out.
Federal courts are grinding to a halt and na-
tional parks are shuttered.
f
RECOGNIZING THE AMERICAN
FREEDOM FUND
(Mr. BARR asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to recognize a group of veterans who
have come together to found the non-
profit American Freedom Fund.
These three patriots—Petty Officer
Gabriel Stecker, Major Rob Miller, and
Lieutenant Donald Bramer, a fellow
Kentuckian—have selflessly taken on
an issue that faces many of our vet-
erans when separated from service or
returned home from operations abroad,
to include loneliness and void of com-
munity, preventable circumstances
that magnify wounds both seen and un-
seen.
Through the American Freedom
Fund’s mission of athletics, education,
and advocacy, their programs have
brought hundreds of Active Reserve
and veteran servicemembers together
to play softball, enjoy sporting events,
find that next career, or, more impor-
tantly, know that they are never alone.
It is with great pleasure and pride
that I commend these patriots and the
troops of volunteers that make up the
American Freedom Fund for their dedi-
cation and continued service to this
Nation and its heroes.
f
SHUTDOWN IS HARMING THE
PEOPLE OF CENTRAL VIRGINIA
(Ms. SPANBERGER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Ms. SPANBERGER. Mr. Speaker, I
would like to raise the alarm and
sound the alarm about the shutdown
and how it is harming the people of
central Virginia.
Across the country, hundreds of
thousands of Federal employees are
working without pay or are furloughed,
including critical law enforcement per-
sonnel. The best way to illustrate the
destructive effects of this shutdown is
to share a story from one of my con-
stituents in Virginia’s Seventh Dis-
trict. She said to us:
My husband is a Federal employee and the
sole provider for our family, and right now,
we don’t know when he’ll get paid. Because
I got sick last year, we now have less money
in the bank, and we’re not sure how we can
hold on.
While he could make more money in the
private sector, my husband believes that
working in a Federal job is his way of mak-
ing a difference through public service—and
every day, he is proud to go into the office at
5 a.m. to do what he can to serve his coun-
try.
One of the hardest days of his life was
when he came home and said that earlier
that day, he had told those under him that
they were furloughed—just days before
Christmas.
We are begging you to reopen the govern-
ment.
This story demonstrates the impor-
tance of fixing this mess and reopening
the government.
I encourage my colleagues and lead-
ership to act now in a bipartisan way
to protect the livelihoods of these
hardworking families.
f
b 1645
LET’S GET THE GOVERNMENT
OPEN NOW
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Mr. Speaker, recently, I
have heard many of my Democratic
colleagues, and even more in the
media, saying that our President has
manufactured a crisis at the southern
border and that there is no need for
funding to secure it properly.
Tell Ingrid Lake there is no crisis.
Her 6-year-old boy, Lennox, sustained a
life-altering injury as a result of an il-
legal alien’s criminal behavior, and
that individual had previously been de-
ported 15 times.
Tell Officer Ronil Singh’s family
there is no crisis. Officer Singh was re-
cently shot in cold blood by an illegal
alien after a traffic stop.
Last year alone, border security
intercepted about 17,000 people with no
criminal convictions at our border.
Members, those who oppose our
President at any cost, refuse to see the
truth. But, to me, and I believe to all
who objectively consider the cir-
cumstances, there is clearly a full-
blown legitimate crisis. It is one we
have been ignoring for far too long. An
overwhelming majority of constituents
calling my office in the last few days
agree.
Mr. Speaker, let’s get this govern-
ment open now, and let’s authorize the
money necessary to ensure the security
of our people.
f
GUN VIOLENCE
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEAN. Mr. Speaker, I am hon-
ored to stand as a Member of Congress
for my first floor speech. I purposefully
rise to speak about the issue of gun vi-
olence and, specifically, H.R. 8.
Last year, 40,000 people in America
died of gun violence, over half to sui-
cide. Another 80,000 people were wound-
ed, literally caught in the crossfire.
This week, I was honored to stand
with Gabby Giffords—a woman whose
public service inspired my own—the
Speaker, and Chairman THOMPSON to
cosponsor H.R. 8.
Background checks work and the
public knows we must pass this legisla-
tion to save lives.
As I worked with Gabby Giffords, I
was reminded of the words of Robert
Frost marking JFK’s inauguration. He
wrote: ‘‘Courage is in the air.’’
We must act on that courage.
f
IT IS UP TO CONGRESS TO ACT
(Mr. MEUSER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, the infor-
mation is clear:
17,000 criminals were apprehended by
Customs and Border Patrol agents at
our southern border last year.
90 percent of the heroin ravaging
American families comes across our
southern border.
400,000 immigrants were apprehended
attempting to come here illegally last
year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.040 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H442 January 10, 2019
2,400 pounds of fentanyl were seized
by our Border Patrol last year alone,
enough to kill every living American.
The Customs and Border Patrol agen-
cy states, in no uncertain terms, a bar-
rier or a wall is essential to do their
job.
Even if these facts are trivialized, no
one in Congress can seriously claim
that we do not have a crisis at our
southern border. It is up to Congress to
act. The first duty of government is to
afford protection to our citizens, and
our citizens are demanding it.
I have received hundreds of calls to
my office, urging us to follow the plan
offered by Homeland Security experts
to secure our border, build a barrier,
enforce our immigration laws, and do
our jobs.
f
END THE CHARADE AND REOPEN
THE GOVERNMENT
(Mr. NEGUSE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. NEGUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today as the son of refugees, and the
first Eritrean American to be elected
to the House of Representatives.
My father, who immigrated to this
country 35 years ago, sat in this same
Chamber up there in the gallery only a
week ago to watch his son be sworn
into the people’s House.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today with a sim-
ple, solemn, and serious request: that
this administration stop its demoniza-
tion of immigrants and reopen the gov-
ernment.
The administration has manufac-
tured a crisis based on fear and is now
holding our government effectively
hostage, blatantly causing harm to the
economic security of American fami-
lies across the Nation.
Bruce, a constituent in my district,
had to close down his small business in
Estes Park as a result of the shutdown.
As Rocky Mountain National Park re-
mains closed, small businesses have
continued to struggle under this bur-
den.
Countless workers in my district—
Federal lab workers, national park em-
ployees, national firefighters, weather
forecasters, and many others—have
been furloughed or are working with-
out pay, and $700 million in national
parks’ revenue in Colorado has been
threatened.
Mr. Speaker, enough is enough.
Mr. President, end the charade and
reopen the government now.
f
LET’S STAY AND OPEN THE
GOVERNMENT
(Mr. MEADOWS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. MEADOWS. Mr. Speaker, I find
it just fascinating that my Democratic
colleagues come down here to the well
of the House to talk about opening up
the government when, indeed, it is
their reluctance to negotiate at all
that is keeping the government shut
down. On day 1 of the shutdown, it was
zero money for new border barriers. On
day 20, it is still zero money for new
border barriers.
And to suggest to this body and to
the Nation that, indeed, they are nego-
tiating in good faith, I just find it in-
comprehensible.
I can tell you that we are ready to
negotiate. In fact, they have been say-
ing, it is their way or the highway. And
do you know what? They are going to
hit the highway in just a few hours and
get out of here.
I think we ought to all stay here,
let’s negotiate, let’s get a result, let’s
open the government, but, more impor-
tantly, let’s protect our borders and
communities across the country.
f
LET’S REOPEN THE GOVERNMENT
(Ms. GARCIA of Texas asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. GARCIA of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
this body has passed bipartisan bills to
open up the government, yet this shut-
down could become the longest one in
the history of this country.
My communities in Houston are feel-
ing the real effects of this shutdown.
Over one-in-five families in my district
depend on food stamps. This shutdown
continues to threaten their food secu-
rity and, in some cases, their health
and well-being. This issue hits our sen-
iors especially hard, because over 11
percent of food stamp recipients are
seniors and over three-quarters of
those live alone.
In Texas, almost 30,000 Federal em-
ployees are furloughed or working with
no guarantee of a paycheck.
At Houston’s Hobby Airport, in my
district, we may put air travelers at
risk. TSA employees, air traffic con-
trollers, and Customs and Border Pro-
tection agents are required to work
without pay.
No one should be forced to barter for
their rent or food, be evicted from their
home, or be forced to work without
pay.
We have passed bipartisan legislation
to end this shutdown. Let’s reopen our
government and let’s pay our workers.
f
LET’S PUT A BARRIER WHERE WE
NEED IT
(Mr. GOHMERT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. GOHMERT. Mr. Speaker, the
Democrats refuse to open the govern-
ment. They won’t provide more than a
dollar. The Speaker said she would give
a dollar for a border barrier. That is
outrageous.
How many people in this body have
walls around their homes and live in
gated communities. How many people
in this body at night check to make
sure their door is locked, not because a
burglar can’t get around it, but be-
cause they love the people in their
home and they don’t want burglars
having it too easy getting in, even
though they could, but it slows people
down. That is what a border barrier
does.
And for the little girl that was killed
by an illegal alien in my district and
thrown in a well, this is not a charade.
This is life or death for many people.
Let’s put a barrier where we need it,
and then we can have everybody get-
ting paid.
f
THE COST OF A GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN
(Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York asked and was given permis-
sion to address the House for 1 minute.)
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. Mr. Speaker, we are paying a
high price for the President’s demand
for more than $5 billion to fund his
wall.
The shutdown not only hurts those
directly affected, it has begun to
spread to the broader economy.
The shutdown slows economic
growth, weakens business confidence,
softens consumer spending, and de-
presses lending.
JPMorgan Chase estimates the eco-
nomic costs to be $1.5 billion per week
during the shutdown.
Mark Zandi, chief economist at
Moody’s, says that if the shutdown
lasts into February, economic growth
could be reduced by $8.7 billion.
President Trump’s own Council of
Economic Advisers projects that eco-
nomic growth will slow every week
that the shutdown continues.
In addition, the rating agency Fitch
has warned that a prolonged shutdown
could lead to a downgrade of U.S. debt.
This will raise borrowing costs for
companies and consumers across the
country.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce
states that the shutdown is harming
the American people, the business com-
munity, and the economy.
Mr. President, you are playing a very
dangerous game, and we all will pay
the price.
f
BORDER SECURITY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
minority leader.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, to-
night, we are here to have a conversa-
tion about the situation at our south-
ern border.
The President calls it a border crisis
and a humanitarian crisis, yet others
call it immoral to give more funding to
secure our Nation at the southern bor-
der. So what really is the situation?
We are in the 20th day of a govern-
ment shutdown over the question of: Is
the security of the American people at
risk because of what is happening at
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.080 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H443
January 10, 2019
our southern border? And, if it is, what
should we do about it?
Tonight, my colleagues and I want to
share the facts regarding the situation,
and some stories from our districts,
that illustrate why we support building
a wall, as well as securing our border in
other ways.
For me, it is a matter of three
things:
The need to stop the flow of illegal
drugs;
The safety of innocent families in our
districts, as well as the safety of inno-
cent individuals who want to come
here and immigrate to our country;
and
Third, I believe it is a matter of fair-
ness.
Let me share what I mean.
I believe, and I think most people
agree, that we have a drug crisis in our
country. I see it every week when I am
back in my district, when I talk to my
law enforcement, when I talk to my
families who have lost a child through
a heroin overdose, when I see the rising
foster care numbers in our State be-
cause their parents are drug addicted.
We have a crisis.
I recently had a chance to travel to
the Nogales-Mariposa port of entry
that is south of Tucson, in Arizona, and
boy was it eye-opening. There I learned
from our Border Patrol agents that the
drug cartels are waging a war, basi-
cally, against our country, and, sadly,
in many ways, they are winning. They
have more money, they have more
manpower, and they are using drug
mules to carry drugs across the unse-
cured part of our border. They are in-
volving the gangs that come down, and
then those travel up into our districts.
I am from Missouri, and we see it there
in Missouri.
Last year, sadly, more than 72,000
Americans died from a drug overdose.
That is more than died in the entire
Vietnam war, the entire war, and this
happens every year. That is also more
deaths than people who passed away in
our country from traffic accidents and
homicides combined. Think about it.
When we hear the nightly news and
there is a homicide, that somebody has
been shot and killed, it is tragic. Or we
hear a report about somebody dying in
a car accident, it is terrible. But all of
the people in America who died from
the traffic accidents and every person
who died in a homicide, if you put
those numbers together, that does not
come close to the number of people
who have died from drug overdoses. We
have got to do better.
I have got some pictures of some in-
dividuals who are victims of this drug
crisis that is a result of our open bor-
ders. But they are not just statistics.
The reason I put up their pictures here
on this poster is because they are not a
number. They have names. They lived.
People loved them. They were sons,
daughters, coworkers, and they were
friends.
The lady on the far side with her lit-
tle boy, her name is Victoria and her
son is Andrew. Now she didn’t pass
away, but she has been addicted to
meth, so that when she gave birth to
Andrew, he was addicted and had to go
through withdrawal symptoms, and she
struggled with a drug addiction.
b 1700
The young man in the middle is
named Eamon, and he, sadly, passed
away from a heroin overdose.
The mother here and her daughter,
she is still alive, but she is struggling
with drug addiction, through heroin,
and she has lost custody of her little
girl.
Like I said, we have a record number
of foster kids right now in America be-
cause of parents losing their children
to drug addiction.
A large number of the people have
drug addictions due to opioids. In fact,
according to the CDC, of more than
72,000 drug overdoses, many of them
were due to fentanyl, which is also
coming across our southern border. In
fact, fentanyl killed 30,000 Americans
last year.
The Border Patrol is doing a great
job with the resources they have, but
they need more help. They found and
interdicted 1.2 tons of fentanyl—1.2
tons. That is enough to kill every
American. It takes only 2 milligrams of
fentanyl to kill an individual. If you
add up how much damage 1.2 tons of
fentanyl could do, it adds up to over 500
million people who could be killed. It is
unbelievable.
Then cocaine, they seized enough co-
caine at the southern border last year
to fill 141 1-ton pickup trucks. I made a
poster just to show this because a lot
of us are familiar with pickup trucks.
We have 1-ton trucks, 3⁄4-ton trucks. 141
of them, picture them filled with co-
caine. That is how much was caught by
our Border Patrol at the southern bor-
der. We have no idea how much more is
not caught.
Next one I want to talk about is
methamphetamine. They seized 124
tons of methamphetamine. Here is a
face, and maybe you have seen these
posters or pictures before. This is what
meth does to individuals in a very
short amount of time. It is awful. It is
so addictive.
At one time, Missouri was called the
meth capital of our country. It tied
with California for several years. It is a
terrible distinction to have, but there
were meth labs everywhere. Our law
enforcement was doing as good a job as
they could, interdicting and shutting
down these meth labs.
Now when I talk to my law enforce-
ment at home, they say that we have
hardly any meth labs, but the reason is
sad. The reason is because the meth is
still there, but it is coming from across
our border. It is part of this tonnage
coming up. That is why we have to
build a wall and secure the border.
I could talk about heroin. They
seized 6,500 pounds of heroin. That is
over 3 tons. In Missouri, in my State,
we lost 380 people to heroin overdose
last year.
This is the fact: 90 percent of the her-
oin in our country comes from across
the southern border. The drug cartels
aren’t backing off. They don’t care.
They see this as a revenue opportunity.
They don’t care about people.
Just in 2 years, there has been a 73
percent increase in fentanyl that they
have shoved across our border, a 38 per-
cent increase in methamphetamine, a
22 percent increase in heroin. That just
is what is seized.
Our Border Patrol needs some help.
We have to stop this drug crisis.
But there is more. Besides drug
deaths, there have been numerous
deaths linked to illegal immigrants
that come here.
Now, all of us support people coming
here legally. Almost every one of us in
the body have some story about a rel-
ative who came here, maybe they went
through Ellis Island. I support legal
immigration. But when we have an
open border, anybody can come across.
Last year, they caught 17,000 people
coming across the border who had
criminal records. The ones who didn’t
get caught end up in our communities
and, sadly, kill people like Officer
Singh.
Our hearts were broken the day after
Christmas when we heard this story of
this legal immigrant who did it right.
He came from Fiji. He immigrated
here, and his goal was to become a po-
lice officer. He wanted that so much,
first to be a citizen, but then he trav-
eled 4 hours every day to attend his po-
lice academy.
He learned English. He took English
classes to learn the language, so that
he could be a good police officer. And
he was a good one. He was an honorable
one.
An illegal immigrant who came
across our southern border shot and
killed him. This is why we have to se-
cure our border, and we can do it.
I am also concerned about the inno-
cent people who are being told a lie by
the drug cartels. They are giving their
life savings to a coyote to come here.
They are brought to the border and
then travel across the border.
Doctors Without Borders tells an up-
setting statistic to me, and to anybody
who is listening, that one-third of all
the women who try to make that trip
are sexually assaulted.
This current system is incentivizing
them, with an open border, to try to
make that trek, and they are being
harmed. Instead, we have to close that
border and give them the tools that
will help them come here legally, come
here safely. That is what we all want.
Lastly, I want to talk about the issue
of fairness. Right now, there are 700,000
people who are in the process of becom-
ing legal citizens of our country, trying
to come here and be an immigrant, fol-
lowing our laws.
In my district, I am working with
some families who are trying to get
relatives here through the legal sys-
tem, and it is amazing what you go
through. First of all, it takes years. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.082 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H444 January 10, 2019
takes years, but they fill out the paper-
work. I have seen the pictures of the
stacks of paperwork that they have to
file with our immigration system to
get them here.
There are 700,000 people right now
trying to do that. It is just not fair to
allow people to jump the line and to
just walk across.
Because of the way our laws are now,
if you bring a child into our country,
they can hold them only 20 days, and
then you have to let them go. So they
know that.
I learned that the drug cartels at the
border actually have attorneys. They
are a big business. They are something
else.
They know the laws. They know they
are going to be let out, and they are
here. That is just not right. We can do
better. We can secure the border.
$5.7 billion in the scheme of things is
not that much. We give $50 billion
every year for foreign aid, so it is
about a tenth of the foreign aid we give
to other countries to secure their bor-
ders.
Why don’t we secure our country? We
can do that.
I wanted to share some of those facts
and invite some of my colleagues to
come here tonight to share their
thoughts on this very important issue
that is before us as a nation and to
hear their stories.
The first person I want to yield to is
the gentleman from Montana, GREG
GIANFORTE.
Mr. GIANFORTE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Missouri
for focusing the attention of this
Chamber on this crisis at our border
and the need for reform.
America’s borders have been too open
for too long. As a result, we face a hu-
manitarian and national security crisis
that is getting worse. Congress has a
responsibility to the American people
to address it.
Providing for our Nation’s security is
the chief function of the Federal Gov-
ernment. It is past time for leaders on
the other side of the aisle to get seri-
ous, do their jobs, stop playing polit-
ical games, and secure our border.
What is happening at the border and
to those seeking to enter our country
illegally is a tragedy. More than 30 per-
cent of migrant women making the
trip to our southern border have been
sexually assaulted during their jour-
ney. More than two-thirds of all mi-
grants making the trek have reported
violence.
Our broken immigration system en-
courages parents to send their kids on
a dangerous journey by themselves.
The humanitarian tragedy is one ele-
ment. Our open borders are also a
threat to national security and com-
munity safety. Drug cartels, gangs, and
human traffickers are exploiting our
weak borders and bringing crime into
our communities.
Last year, Border Patrol agents ar-
rested 17,000 individuals with criminal
records. About 800 gang members were
caught trying to cross the border.
The crisis extends to Montana where
our epidemic of meth use tears apart
families and threatens our commu-
nities.
However, we no longer have Montana
meth because of the good work of our
law enforcement. Now we have Mexican
meth. Law enforcement in Fergus
County, Montana, tells me that they
know when a shipment from Mexico ar-
rives because they see an increase in
crime. Domestic violence, burglaries,
and violence are the result of Mexican
meth coming into Montana commu-
nities.
Law enforcement in the State also
told me that, in addition to an uptick
in crime, addiction has left more fami-
lies broken apart and more kids in fos-
ter care.
Law enforcement tells me that over
90 percent of all the crime we have in
Montana is addiction-related.
The humanitarian crisis is not lim-
ited to our border. We can see it in our
communities: crime, violence, and bro-
ken families. We must secure our bor-
der.
One element of improving border se-
curity is a wall or a physical barrier.
Walls work. The results bear it out.
Walls at the border in San Diego, El
Paso, Tucson, and Yuma have seen dra-
matic declines in the number of illegal
immigrants crossing the border.
Facing an increasing humanitarian
and national security crisis, it is past
time that leaders across the aisle focus
on securing the border. End the games.
Get the job done and secure the border.
Mr. Speaker, I want to thank the
gentlewoman for the time and for her
leadership on this issue.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman. I appreciate his
comments. They were spot on.
We are seeing the same thing in Mis-
souri with that meth coming up from
Mexico and the record number of peo-
ple in foster care. It just breaks your
heart, and it doesn’t have to be that
way.
Mr. GIANFORTE. We must act.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Yes, we must act.
Mr. Speaker, I would now like to in-
vite my friend from Louisiana, MIKE
JOHNSON, to share what he is seeing
down there in Louisiana, what his con-
stituents are saying, and what his
thoughts are.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. JOHNSON).
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the gentlewoman
from Missouri.
Mr. Speaker, the gentlewoman has
given us this opportunity tonight to
speak on the growing crisis at our
southern border. It is a critical issue
that our friends on the other side of
the aisle are simply failing to address.
Over the course of this government
shutdown, many have sought to dis-
miss the very real challenges that we
are facing regarding human traf-
ficking, sexual assault, and drug smug-
gling that clearly are occurring. Thou-
sands of people are making the dan-
gerous journey to and across our south-
ern border, and this has been the re-
sult.
What these same opponents fail to
mention is the perverse incentives that
exist for these crimes.
For example, our lax immigration
laws have encouraged illegal immigra-
tion.
For example, the dramatic increase
in unaccompanied minors and supposed
family units at the border are a direct
result of our catch-and-release policies.
The President made his case to the
American people just a few nights ago,
and he addressed the urgent need for
border security. He is precisely right.
Securing our borders and protecting
the American people must be a top pri-
ority of this Congress. It is our duty. It
is important to maintain the strength
and the sovereignty of our Nation.
A strong America is good not only
for our national security and our pros-
perity, but it is good for all people
around the world. As the last great su-
perpower, we have to maintain our sov-
ereignty and our strength, and it is im-
portant to do exactly that.
Here are just a few of the most dev-
astating facts, and we will hear many
of them tonight.
Last year, Customs and Border Pro-
tection agents apprehended 17,000
adults with existing criminal records.
In the past 2 years alone, ICE agents
have arrested over 230,000 illegal aliens
with a prior criminal history com-
mitted within our borders. That is as-
sault, homicide, and sexual assault—
violent crimes. Our border agents have
arrested thousands of gang members
and traffickers, and they have rescued
countless children from exploitation.
By any objective measure, this is a
humanitarian and a national security
crisis. Anyone who says otherwise is ei-
ther ignoring the facts or being dis-
honest.
Right now, so many of our friends on
the other side are refusing to do what
they have supported in the past, simply
because it is now in line with President
Trump’s agenda.
b 1715
When President Obama was in office,
for example, all 54 Senate Democrats
voted for $46 billion in border security
and hundreds of miles in border fenc-
ing.
What has changed, Mr. Speaker?
That is an important question. Do
our friends across the aisle need to
hear from the families who have lost
loved ones at the hands of an illegal
alien? Do they deny that children being
smuggled across the border deserve re-
prieve?
Sadly, the legislation that has come
before the House this week fails to ad-
dress the extraordinary crisis we face.
This isn’t an honest attempt to end the
shutdown. These aren’t good faith ne-
gotiations. This is a political stunt.
These bills will not be considered by
the Senate; they will not be signed by
the President; and everybody knows
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.084 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H445
January 10, 2019
that. Rather than working on solu-
tions, the Democrats here have chosen
to waste the people’s time with these
symbolic votes.
Not securing our border is an im-
moral act. What we have done here and
what we are doing here is immoral by
failing to address this issue. I commend
the President and all of my Republican
colleagues for taking this stand.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Thank you so
much. I appreciate your perspective
down there from Louisiana.
You bring up the great point of the
number of children coming across. I
heard yesterday how Health and
Human Services, which gets custody of
these children, just does not have the
capacity to house them and to take
care of them. It is a crisis. That is why
the President says it is a humanitarian
crisis. So we have got to act.
Mr. Speaker, we started off in Mis-
souri; we had Montana; we have gone
down to Louisiana to hear their per-
spective; and now we go to North Caro-
lina to hear from Representative TED
BUDD.
I appreciate your being here, Rep-
resentative BUDD, and we would love to
hear what your thoughts are on this
very important topic.
I yield to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. BUDD).
Mr. BUDD. Thank you, as a friend
and Congresswoman from Missouri, for
yielding and holding such an important
and timely Special Order.
Mr. Speaker, on Tuesday, President
Trump went to the American people
and rightfully made the case for the
border security proposal he has sub-
mitted to Congress, and it is a proposal
that I fully support.
This plan, which was developed by
border security and law enforcement
professionals, takes necessary steps to
secure our border, protect our commu-
nities, and it ends the plague of crimes
that were committed by illegal aliens
against American citizens.
The truth is America is at a decision
point. It is time to decide what kind of
country, exactly, we want to be: a
country founded on the rule of law or
on lawlessness.
We have seen States across the coun-
try declare themselves a sanctuary for
illegal immigrants, willing to put the
lives of U.S. citizens at risk for polit-
ical purposes. We have lawmakers here
in this Chamber who are intent on
eliminating our Immigration and Cus-
toms Enforcement agency, ICE, which
is tasked with enforcing our immigra-
tion laws.
We know that the vast majority of
immigrants are great people, and it
would be foolish to even think other-
wise. In fact, legal immigration—that
is legal, with an L—historically has
been beneficial economically, socially,
and culturally to the United States,
and I have no doubt that we are going
to continue to invite and welcome
legal immigrants with open arms to
our country every day. We do that for
about 1 million a year. We are a very
welcoming and generous country. But
to ignore the crisis at our southern
border is also dangerous.
Throughout 2018, Customs and Border
Patrol seized 1.7 million pounds of nar-
cotics. We have seen a 38 percent in-
crease in methamphetamines and a 73
percent increase in fentanyl coming
across our borders. These drugs are
taking the lives of tens of thousands of
our people every year—I think we
heard the number 72,000 last year, in-
cluding many of those from my home
State of North Carolina. For those who
are living with addiction, these drugs
steal their dignity, and they steal their
self-worth.
The trafficking of women and chil-
dren across our southern border is
equally as egregious. In his address to
the Nation the other night, the Presi-
dent called this a crisis of the heart
and a crisis of the soul.
The Department of Homeland Secu-
rity has also been very clear regarding
the national security implications that
come with having a border that can be
easily accessed by those who want to
cause us harm.
To conclude, I will say that, right
now, the government is in a shutdown
because President Trump requested
funding for a border wall that Demo-
crats once supported when there was a
different President.
To be frank, the current shutdown
isn’t due to policy difference; it is due
to politics. So let’s put politics aside,
and let’s do what is right for our con-
stituents and for our country.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Well said, Rep-
resentative.
Mr. Speaker, now we have my col-
league and friend to the south in Ar-
kansas. Representative FRENCH HILL
wants to share a little bit. I appreciate
his being here tonight.
I yield to the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. HILL).
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. I thank my
friend from Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER)
for her leadership on this issue. Thanks
for letting us gather together on the
people’s House floor tonight and talk
about this issue and try to lay out for
the American people who are watching
some of the facts associated with this
situation. I am not sure they always
get the full story.
When I came to Congress, I knew the
only way to really understand this bor-
der security issue was to go to the bor-
der. Since I was elected in 2014, I have
been down on the southwest border
four times and am getting ready to go
back in just a few days.
On those trips, I meet with Border
Patrol agents, local law enforcement,
county judges, citizens, and commu-
nity leaders. We all talk about the
issue of what is the definition of border
security: the physical barrier aspect?
the technology? the observation? the
manpower? the coordination with local
law enforcement?
We always talk about drugs and drug
cartels. You have heard from our lead-
er tonight that they outman and
outgun American law enforcement,
Federal and State.
Just last week, I got a note from my
good friend that we lost another young
person from my high school due to her-
oin and fentanyl overdose.
I carry a little packet of Sweet’N
Low in my pocket, Mr. Speaker, be-
cause a gram of fentanyl, which is the
size of a Sweet’N Low packet, has
enough fentanyl in it to kill 500 Ameri-
cans. So it is killing our kids, Mr.
Speaker, and it is coming across the
border with Mexico.
Physical barriers shape the strategic
deployment of our force. That is why
county judges support it, mayors sup-
port it, and our Border Patrol supports
it. This is why, over the past 20 years,
when President Bush proposed it,
President Clinton proposed it, Bush 43
proposed it, and Obama supported it,
we built fence, starting in San Diego.
We see, where there is fencing, 90 per-
cent reductions in people crossing ille-
gally.
Fences work. Physical barriers work.
Physical barriers shape our force de-
ployment and allow us to better use
our manpower and coordinate our very
understaffed and undergunned forces.
Secondly, it is increasingly frus-
trating to me that this is a crisis of
politics in this House Chamber and in
the United States Senate. It is utterly
hypocritical on the part of our leaders
in the House and our minority in the
Senate to not see this need for humani-
tarian assistance on the border and
physical security on the border. Repub-
licans have proposed this time and
time again last year. We got no Demo-
cratic votes for it last year.
I want my friends on the other side of
the aisle to be able to make the moral
distinction between those who come to
our country legally and those who
come here illegally. It seems to me
that is a straightforward promise.
America is a nation of immigrants. We
are the most generous and welcoming
country in the world.
One other point I want to make be-
fore I close, my friend from Missouri, is
to talk about people seeking asylum
here, people coming to our border with
no papers, no documentation.
There was a news story this week
about the Bangladeshi pair of men try-
ing to come in and cross the border,
interviewed on national television. We
see, time and time again, people come
from Bangladesh and from all over the
world. They come to Mexico; they
come to our border; and they have no
passport.
How do they come into the United
States? They have no documents. They
claim asylum, credible fear, and yet
here, Mr. Speaker, is a driver’s license
handed to me by a Border Patrol agent
in Chula Vista, California, of a Saudi
Arabian born in the early 1990s, and yet
we have no record of someone from
Saudi Arabia crossing at Chula Vista
in the time frame that this driver’s li-
cense was found in the Chula Vista sta-
tion outside San Diego.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.087 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H446 January 10, 2019
We have a crisis on this border, and
when people tell you there isn’t one,
they are not telling you the truth.
That should terrify us that we don’t
know who is coming across our border,
Mr. Speaker.
Therefore, I thank the gentlewoman
from Missouri for holding this hour. I
am grateful for the opportunity to
speak to the American people about
the drugs and the impact on our youth
and the impact on our national secu-
rity by not having a secure southern
border.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Thank you, gen-
tleman, that was excellent; and I ap-
preciate you bringing a picture so we
can all see that what the Border Patrol
and others are running into is that in-
dividuals, clearly, are here from other
countries illegally, and that is why we
need to secure this border. It is very
concerning what is happening as a re-
sult of having an open border.
Mr. Speaker, I am glad that my col-
league from Florida has shared a little
bit of his time this evening to come
join us.
JOHN RUTHERFORD, I appreciate your
being here, and I look forward to hear-
ing what you have to share tonight.
I yield to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. RUTHERFORD).
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle are calling the
situation at the southern border a
manufactured crisis. What a heartless
and naive thing to say.
Tell that to the families of almost 300
people who die every week from the
heroin flooding across our southern
border.
Tell that to the ICE agents who
seized enough synthetic opioids in 2017
to kill every single American by over-
dose.
Or come on down with me to the 2100
block of Jefferson Street in Jackson-
ville, Florida, and you tell that to the
medical examiner who saw, in 2017, the
highest rate of fentanyl-related deaths
in the entire State of Florida.
A manufactured crisis? Hardly, Mr.
Speaker.
Thankfully, the experts at DHS who
are on the ground doing the good work
to protect us understand what is nec-
essary to combat this crisis, and they
have asked Congress for our help.
These DHS professionals have told us
that security at the border requires a
multilayered approach that includes
additional personnel, increased tech-
nology, access roads, and, yes, a wall.
The wall is not and never has been
the beginning and end to border secu-
rity, but it is an important part of a
comprehensive security plan. Let’s give
the DHS the money for the wall, get
out of the way, and let the folks on the
ground do their job.
Mr. Speaker, I have spent 41 years of
my life as a law enforcement officer,
including 12 years as sheriff. One thing
I know firsthand is the judgment of the
patrolman should amplify larger than
the back-office bureaucrat. Listen to
those in operations. Those who would
argue against the pleas of the DHS ei-
ther haven’t seen what is really going
on or are intentionally ignoring the
crisis.
For my friends on the other side of
the aisle who are calling this a manu-
factured crisis, they know this isn’t
about the $5 billion for the wall. In
fact, most of them at one time or an-
other have already voted to fund a
wall. To them, it is really about not
wanting to support our President. It is
about being part of a resistance move-
ment.
If you want to talk about a manufac-
tured crisis, I can point you in the
right direction, because it is manufac-
tured in Central America, it is manu-
factured in South America, and it is
being manufactured by drug cartels to
be trafficked north and smuggled
across the southern border and into our
communities. I have seen firsthand the
lives destroyed and the communities
torn apart by this scourge coming
through our porous southern border.
This bickering over one-tenth of 1
percent of our annual budget has be-
come a hyperbolic political football,
putting lives at risk. I say, enough, Mr.
Speaker. Our Federal law enforcement
officers on the ground at the border
have asked for our help, and we have a
solemn obligation to give them what
they need to keep Americans safe.
A manufactured crisis? Hardly, Mr.
Speaker.
Mrs. HARTZLER. You sure know
what you are talking about because of
the lifelong service that you have given
to law enforcement.
I loved what you shared. It is time to
listen to those people on the ground
and in operations. That is who we need
to listen to.
You are right. When I had a chance
to go to the border, the Border Patrol
are saying we need this. They are there
every day risking their lives trying to
keep us safe.
So thank you for sharing your first-
hand perspective from law enforcement
and what you are hearing. I appreciate
it.
Now, Mr. Speaker, I would like to
turn to another colleague of mine,
whom I actually had to travel to the
border with back in October. She is
from Arizona, which is where the port
was in Mariposa, Nogales, that we went
to.
DEBBIE LESKO, thank you for joining
us tonight. I really appreciate your
sharing with America and with our col-
leagues here about what you are seeing
from Arizona and your perspective on
the need to build this security wall at
the border.
I yield to the gentlewoman from Ari-
zona (Mrs. LESKO).
Mrs. LESKO. Thank you very much,
Representative HARTZLER; it was really
eye-opening when we went down to the
Arizona border. I have been there a
number of times, but I learned directly
from not only the high-ranking offi-
cials, but from rank-and-file agents.
When I asked if a border fence was
necessary to protect our Nation, they
said, absolutely, yes. That is part of
the solution. We have a major problem.
Today, I would like to focus on some
people from Arizona, Representative
HARTZLER, who were killed. They were
killed by illegal immigrants who came
into our country illegally. So I rise
today because our open borders have
caused a humanitarian and security
crisis.
When the Democrats say that this is
a manufactured crisis, that is abso-
lutely false. I have seen firsthand and
have talked to people firsthand. We
have a crisis on our southern border.
b 1730
Arizonans know the challenges of an
unsecured border all too well. Just ask
Mary Ann Mendoza whose son, Bran-
don, a Mesa, Arizona, police officer,
was killed in a head-on collision caused
by an illegal immigrant.
The illegal immigrant who killed
Brandon was arrested in the nineties
for burglary and assaulting a police of-
ficer. He never showed up for court and
was reapprehended at the border in 2002
attempting to come back into our
country. Unfortunately, a lenient judge
let him stay. Because of that, this law
enforcement officer was killed.
Arizona Border Agent Brian Terry’s
life was taken by a group of traffickers
hoping to smuggle drugs into our coun-
try. When Agent Terry and three other
border agents tried to stop their illegal
activity, they shot him. Perhaps had
our border not been so porous, Agent
Brian Terry would still be with us
today.
A rancher from Cochise County, Ari-
zona, Robert Krentz, was killed by an
illegal immigrant at home on his
ranch.
Unfortunately, there are way too
many stories just like these of inno-
cent people getting killed by illegal
immigrants.
I live in a border State. I have been
to the border a number of times. Most
recently, I visited the United States-
Mexico border in Nogales with the gen-
tlewoman, where I met with Customs
and Border Protection agents. I asked
the agents if they thought the border
fence would help. As I said before, they
said absolutely, yes, that a fence will
help in our efforts to combat illegal
immigration and other illegal activity
across the border.
The crisis we are dealing with at the
border is not just illegal immigration.
There are illicit and illegal drugs flow-
ing through our borders; human traf-
ficking; and, as we learned from the
agents, dangerous cartels at the border
that are exploiting vulnerable children
and mothers. In fact, according to Doc-
tors Without Borders, more than 30
percent of the women who come to the
southern border have been sexually as-
saulted on their journey.
This is something that is up to Con-
gress to fix. We need border security.
The fence is just part of the solution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.088 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H447
January 10, 2019
We need technology like sensors and
drones, so we have eyes where we can’t
have our agents. We need more boots
on the ground. We have funded more
agents on the ground. Let’s hire more
agents, so our resources aren’t spread
too thin.
What we are asking for is a multi-
faceted approach to border security.
Democrats know this. In 2006, Demo-
crats supported a border fence. CHUCK
SCHUMER and then-Senators Barack
Obama and Hillary Clinton voted to
fund $52 billion for 700 miles of fencing.
Now we are asking for $5.7 billion. To
me and you, that is a lot of money, but
it really represents only one-tenth of 1
percent of our spending.
On December 20, the Republicans in
the House voted to keep the govern-
ment open and secure the border. Un-
fortunately, not one Democrat voted
for the bill. Now we are in a situation
where the government is shut down.
They won’t come to the table. They
won’t negotiate. They don’t have a
counteroffer.
I am willing to sit down and listen to
their suggestions, but they haven’t
brought forward any suggestions. They
are refusing to negotiate and refusing
to deal with this national security cri-
sis.
While Democrats refuse to come to
the negotiating table, our brave Border
Patrol and ICE agents continue their
mission of protecting our borders, even
without a paycheck. We should be sup-
porting them by giving them the tools
and resources they need to do their
jobs and keep our Nation safe.
Instead, unfortunately, my Democrat
colleagues are ignoring the public calls
for border security. In fact, when
Democrats repeatedly say, ‘‘We are for
border security,’’ I think their talk is
talk. They need to walk the walk and
listen to our law enforcement that tells
them what we need. Part of that is a
border fence.
President Trump addressed the Na-
tion this week. Now it is up to Con-
gress to address and solve the issue
with legislation. Let’s stop these polit-
ical ploys and fund comprehensive bor-
der security.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for her excel-
lent summation of what is important.
It was so touching. I thank her for
bringing the pictures of Arizonans who
have lost their lives due to Congress’
failure to build the wall and keep us
safe.
That is why we are here tonight, say-
ing now is the time. We have to stop
this.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Minnesota, PETE STAUBER. He is
new to Congress. I am so glad to have
him here. I appreciate him coming, and
I look forward to hearing what he has
to say from a Minnesotan’s point of
view.
Mr. STAUBER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my colleague from the State of Mis-
souri for her leadership. It is a privi-
lege to stand here on this important
issue.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to discuss the
pressing issue of border security.
Across our southern border, we have
thousands of miles of unprotected ter-
rain where weapons, human trafficking
victims, and drugs are easily smuggled
into this country every single day.
Believe it or not, the drugs that are
crossing our southern border even
make their way to the most northern
communities in my great State of Min-
nesota. Just last year, more than two
dozen people were arrested for their in-
volvement in a large heroin trafficking
network that brought drugs to St.
Louis County, where my family,
friends, and constituents live. This is
unacceptable.
During my 23 years as a law enforce-
ment officer, I worked tirelessly to
keep illegal drugs off the streets and
out of the hands of our young children.
I have given too many death notifica-
tions to unsuspecting parents. The pain
and anguish of each family will never
be forgotten.
Mr. Speaker, it is high time we rec-
ognize that our porous borders are in-
trinsically tied to the drug crisis, the
rise in human trafficking, and illegal
immigration in this country. I urge the
Democratic leadership to put partisan
politics aside so we can finally work
together and secure our borders. The
health and safety of the American peo-
ple are depending on it, and doing
nothing is no longer an option.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, the
gentleman has that law enforcement
background that is so critical right
here in Congress. That is why we are
glad he is here and appreciate him
sharing. I can’t imagine what he has
gone through so many times, having to
go to somebody’s home—the parents—
and face a mom and dad to tell them
that their child has died.
That is why we are here today. I ap-
preciate the gentleman’s passion for
this issue. I share it.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Illinois, MIKE BOST, a colleague to
the east. I thank him for being here to-
night and appreciate him sharing about
this important crisis that we have at
our border.
Mr. BOST. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman from Missouri for yield-
ing and for putting this on tonight.
Mr. Speaker, if you have listened to
this debate tonight, the colleagues that
I serve with are explaining that there
truly is a crisis. Unfortunately, there
are those who claim that it is a manu-
factured crisis. Despite what the col-
leagues from the other side of the aisle
say, it is not a manufactured crisis. It
is not a new crisis, but it is an ever-
growing crisis.
Let me tell you that I have had expe-
rience and understand the border from
many years ago. While stationed in the
United States Marine Corps in Yuma,
Arizona, I actually worked at a site
called P111 that was 3 miles off the
Mexican border in Arizona. Every
night, people would come across.
Thinking they were seeing a border
fence, they would climb into the com-
pound. Every night, we would have to
call border security, and they would
pick them up and take them back.
We talked about the crisis of drugs
coming across. Let me tell you about
the crisis that occurred at that time.
Some very evil people would watch the
desert, and they would kill these peo-
ple trying to come across the border,
who would then just be left because
there was no ID for them.
But we can secure our border. It is an
argument that has been going on in
this House and in this Nation for some
time.
Many of you who are older will re-
member that Ronald Reagan actually
argued and put forth the idea with Tip
O’Neill, the idea that they would do
immigration reform, which Tip wanted,
as long as they could secure the border,
which the President wanted. Tip
O’Neill got what he wanted. The Presi-
dent didn’t get what he wanted, be-
cause the House didn’t pass the fund-
ing.
Mr. Speaker, it is time we passed the
funding. We have to end this shutdown,
and we have to secure our border. But
it takes a good-faith effort on both
sides to negotiate. When Speaker
PELOSI says she offered $1 toward the
physical barrier, she is not negotiating
in good faith.
It is very sad, because I am con-
cerned about those people who work for
us in this government who are not re-
ceiving a paycheck. Everybody who is
speaking on this floor tonight is. But
they are also concerned about the pic-
tures that we see here and the prob-
lems that we see.
In this House last year, we worked on
legislation dealing with the opioid cri-
sis, but our largest supplier of opioids
is at that southern border. Over 90 per-
cent of the opioids and heroin that
comes in and that kills the people of
the United States is coming across be-
cause we don’t have the ability to se-
cure that border with a physical bar-
rier.
There is one difference right now be-
tween when NANCY PELOSI and CHUCK
SCHUMER supported a barrier along
that border. The only difference is who
is sitting in the White House. You can
like him; you can hate him; but the re-
ality is this issue is not about him. It
is about the citizens of this United
States. It is about what is doing right
by the citizens that send us here. To
watch political football being played in
this House and watch what occurs is
simply mind-boggling.
I had a town hall meeting the other
night, and we let both those for and
those against speak and ask questions.
By the time it was said and done, over
66 percent of the people I was talking
to believed that we must secure this
border with a physical barrier.
Plain and simple, let’s stop playing
politics, and let’s fund the government
and our border. We can do both. The
people of America need to know and
understand that, because I know my
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00085 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.090 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H448 January 10, 2019
colleagues who are speaking here to-
night do understand it.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, the
gentleman is right. We can do both. We
are all committed to doing that. That
is why we are here. We are working for
the American public, and I believe we
will get this done.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to my colleague
and good friend from Alabama, MARTHA
ROBY.
Mrs. ROBY. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentlewoman and my friend as well for
holding this Special Order tonight. I
agree with the comments my col-
leagues have made here on the floor
this evening.
Mr. Speaker, I rise this evening to
underscore the severity of the situa-
tion at our southern border. We are in
the midst of a real crisis, and we must
act now.
According to Homeland Security, in
the last 2 months, our Border Patrol
has apprehended roughly 140,000 illegal
immigrants at the southern border.
This is an increase of 86 percent over
the same period last year. Addition-
ally, there were more than 25,000 fami-
lies apprehended last November. This is
the highest monthly number ever re-
corded by Border Patrol.
Mr. Speaker, here in Congress, my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle are
talking about this issue as though it is
something new. This is not a new issue.
For the past decade, the people who I
represent in southeast Alabama have
consistently expressed to me their frus-
trations with our country’s illegal im-
migration problem.
I believe now is the time that we
must use every tool available to en-
hance border security. And we must do
it now. We cannot wait another decade.
I really appreciate the gentlewoman
taking this time, her leadership on this
issue tonight, and her giving me the
opportunity to speak.
b 1745
Mrs. HARTZLER. Thank you for
coming and sharing. You made so
many great points. And just the sheer
number of people who are coming
across, we just say those numbers, but
I heard the other day, it is like 2,000 a
day.
In my district—I have a very rural
district—there are a lot of towns that
don’t have 2,000 people in them. So if I
picture one of my towns that has 2,000
people in it, that is how many that are
coming across every day, the southern
border, 2,000 people a day.
We have just got to address this. I
agree with you, we have got to do it
now. And thank you so much for com-
ing.
I would like to now yield to the gen-
tleman from South Carolina, Rep-
resentative DUNCAN, my good friend, to
come here and share his thoughts from
South Carolina and why he thinks this
is a real crisis, and then why we need
to deal with it right now.
Mr. DUNCAN. Mr. Speaker, first off,
let me thank the gentlewoman for hav-
ing this Special Order on a very, very
important issue.
South Carolina is as far away from
the Texas border, the southern border,
as almost any State. We do have an
international border with the port of
Charleston. We have airports there.
But on Tuesday, the President care-
fully explained the reality on our
southern border.
Plain and simple, we have a real and
tangible national security crisis on our
hands with illegal immigration, drug
smuggling, human smuggling, sex traf-
ficking, and terrorist threats, terror-
ists attempting to infiltrate our coun-
try through our poorest and unsafe
southern border. These are people who
aren’t from Central or South America.
There have been people of all nationali-
ties apprehended on our southern bor-
der.
The President should be applauded
for looking at every angle and every
out-of-the-box idea to answer his con-
stitutional duty to the American peo-
ple to secure our Nation. This is about
national security. It is not just about
illegal immigrants wanting to come
into our country to work and provide
for their family; this is about national
security.
We all know we have an epidemic
drug problem in this country, and the
majority of the drugs are coming
across our southern border. Sex traf-
ficking and human trafficking, in gen-
eral, are immense in our southern bor-
der region.
And we do know that the Quds Force,
the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Spe-
cial Elite Forces, the Quds Force, have
tried to come across our southern bor-
der, apprehended and thwarted by an
undercover DEA agent on the Mexican
side of the border that stopped that.
That Quds Force operative wanted to
come to this city, wanted to come to
Washington, D.C., to assassinate the
Ambassador from Saudi Arabia at a
restaurant where a Member of this
body could have been eating.
The threat of terrorism is real. The
illegality and illegal activities hap-
pening on our southern border are real.
It is what the people want. It is what
they expect from the Commander-in-
Chief, to make sure that our Nation is
safe. They want a true leader, a prob-
lem-solver. President Trump has prov-
en that he is a problem-solver in pri-
vate business, and he is applying that
as Commander-in-Chief.
Congressional Democrats have been
unwilling to secure the border, even
though a lot of them voted for the 2006
Secure Fence Act, but they failed to
fund it. So the show vote, if you look
at their rhetoric, they believed in se-
curing the border. Now it is time to put
the money there to truly do it.
Seventy-nine Senators voted for that
as well, the 2006 Secure Fence Act. And
because of Democrats’ unwillingness to
fulfill their constitutional Article I du-
ties, the government remains partially
shut down.
This isn’t politics. This is national
security. It is time to build the wall,
secure our border, stop the illegal ac-
tivities, a national security issue to
protect us and our fellow citizens. We
owe it to the American citizens to step
up and secure this Nation.
I applaud the President and I applaud
Mrs. HARTZLER for having this Special
Order and giving us Members a chance
to voice our support for what is going
on with the administration trying to
secure this country.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Well said. Well
said. I thank the gentleman; that was
great.
Now, I yield to the gentleman from
Texas, Representative BRIAN BABIN. He
is right there at the border. So what
does the gentleman have to say?
Mr. BABIN. I was at the border this
past weekend.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Really?
Mr. BABIN. I certainly was.
Mr. Speaker, as a Representative
from the 36th District of Texas, I made
a promise to my constituents and the
American people to secure the south-
ern border, and I intend to keep my
promise.
The last 2 months alone, Border Pa-
trol agents have apprehended roughly
140,000 illegal aliens on the southwest
border, which is a staggering 86 percent
increase from this time last year alone.
Without question, funding to build the
wall is crucial, and now is our chance.
In December of 2018, Border Patrol
agents apprehended more than 27,000
members of family units, the highest
monthly total on record, a number
which has been on a steady incline for
months. I have seen this with my own
eyes.
Mr. Speaker, last month, I joined my
Republican colleagues here in the
House and voted to fully fund the gov-
ernment and secure money for the bor-
der wall. Regrettably, the Democrats
blocked this commonsense legislation
and are now unwilling to negotiate
with us or the President.
The crisis at our southern border is a
dire national security and humani-
tarian concern, and a solution must
not be delayed any longer. The border
encompasses approximately 2,000 miles;
but with too many of those miles left
open, we are hurting our border States,
and, quite frankly, the entire Nation is
put at risk. It is past time for the
Democrats to come to the table with a
serious offer so that we can move for-
ward toward meaningful border secu-
rity.
Simply put, we have very little idea
who is coming across the border, what
their intentions are, and we have to get
a handle on this. Criminal organiza-
tions, cartels, and others who wish to
harm us are easily entering our coun-
try undetected.
Indeed, 500 Texans have died at the
hands of illegal criminals in Texas
alone. And Houston, which I represent
part of, is the number one port of entry
for sex trafficking in the United
States, a very dubious, indeed, record
there.
I am willing to fight for this, and I
encourage my colleagues to do the
same.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00086 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.091 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H449
January 10, 2019
I thank my friend, the gentlewoman
from Missouri (Mrs. HARTZLER), for the
time.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield to my colleague from North Caro-
lina, Representative ROUZER, to share.
And while he is coming, I just want
to thank the gentleman from Texas for
sharing that. That is just heart-
breaking that 500,000 Texans were
killed at the hands of illegal aliens.
But we can fix that.
So I thank Representative ROUZER
for being here. What does the gen-
tleman have to say tonight about this?
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Speaker, I would
like to thank the gentlewoman from
Missouri for leading this Special Order
and her great leadership in so many re-
spects and, particularly, in this regard.
Mr. Speaker, there is absolutely no
question about it. Our Nation is in the
midst of a humanitarian and national
security crisis at our southern border,
one that is growing by the day, and its
impact is far-reaching.
Unfortunately, many of these illegal
aliens are very dangerous individuals
with criminal records, members of
gangs, and others coming for nefarious
purposes who are exploiting the loop-
holes and current immigration laws.
This has led to an increase in human
trafficking and a lethal spike in drug
trafficking that is striking rural and
urban communities, alike, all across
this great land.
During the past 2 years, ICE officers
made 266,000 arrests of aliens with
criminal records, including those
charged or convicted of 100,000 assaults
and nearly 30,000 sex crimes.
Data shows that 31 percent of women
and nearly 17 percent of men are sexu-
ally assaulted en route to the border.
The situation is so bad that nearly 70
percent of migrants are victims of
some form of violence during their
travel.
Now, let’s talk about the drugs.
Heroin and fentanyl are hitting rural
and urban America in epidemic propor-
tions. Just this past year, there was a
73 percent increase of fentanyl and 22
percent increase in heroin brought
across the southern border. In fact, ap-
proximately 90 percent of the heroin
brought into this country is smuggled
across.
According to the Center for Disease
Control, in 2017 alone, more than 70,000
lives were lost due to drug overdoses.
They published this just this past De-
cember 18, more than 70,000 lives.
The drugs coming in across the bor-
der are destroying lives, separating
families, and robbing this country of
great talent that is so badly needed.
Almost every business owner I talked
to tells me what a hard time they have
trying to find workers because, in so
many cases, they can’t pass a drug
test.
My home State of North Carolina
also suffers greatly from the preva-
lence of human trafficking. In so many
cases, this, too, starts at the southern
border.
Here is the bottom line: Criminal or-
ganizations and others are utilizing il-
legal immigration as a way to make
billions in profit and cause harm to
countless victims in the process. A bar-
rier in the right places makes a lot of
common sense. The President is asking
for a little more than 230-some square
miles of steel barrier out of almost
2,000 miles of border. This shouldn’t
even be a debate. Give me a break.
Mr. Speaker, this is a crisis that re-
quires bipartisan action. I applaud
President Trump and his commitment
to securing the border, and I am proud
to stand with him until it is done.
I urge our Democratic colleagues to
come to the table. This is a negotia-
tion. This is a process. Come to the
table and let’s work it out, and let’s do
what is right for the American people.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I ap-
preciate the conversation that we have
had tonight, sharing with the Amer-
ican people the facts and the stories of
some people in our district about why
this is so important.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on the topic of
this Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Missouri?
There was no objection.
Mrs. HARTZLER. Mr. Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
f
FINANCIAL CHALLENGES FAMI-
LIES ARE EXPERIENCING BE-
CAUSE OF THE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. Porter) is recognized
for 60 minutes as the designee of the
majority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the subject of my
Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I am here
today to describe the enduring finan-
cial challenges that families are expe-
riencing because of the President’s gov-
ernment shutdown.
I know how terrifying it is when your
livelihood is suddenly taken away. I
grew up during the 1980s farm crisis
and watched as my neighborhood bank
closed. Everyone in my town felt a real
sense of panic and of loss.
Farmers were being foreclosed on and
losing farms that had been in their
family for generations. There were sui-
cides and the kind of social pain and
personal pain that comes with eco-
nomic hardship. While the town even-
tually recovered, the people and the
community were changed forever.
I understand how devastating a fi-
nancial crisis can be, and I understand
how one missed paycheck can spiral. I
know this from my own childhood dur-
ing the farm crisis and from the nearly
two decades I have spent studying fam-
ilies on the brink of bankruptcy.
Federal workers are now questioning
whether working for the Federal Gov-
ernment is a stable paycheck. They are
wondering if their family, if their kids
can count on this administration. Fam-
ilies are wondering how long they can
afford to wait for the shutdown to end,
and they are having hard discussions at
the dinner table about whether to leave
the Federal workforce in search for a
new job.
Tomorrow, 800,000 Federal workers
and their families will miss paychecks,
plunging employees into uncertainty.
About 42,000 of those Federal workers
are in my home State of California.
More than 5,000 of these unpaid work-
ers live in my district, and many of
them are hurting.
With each missed paycheck comes
missed payments on bills and missed
payments on loans. Families will be hit
with late fees and interest, often in the
double or even triple digits.
Despite having no paycheck, Federal
workers still have urgent expenses—
prescription drugs, gas, childcare, gro-
ceries—and those who are still required
to report for work incur costs to get to
and from their workplaces.
This past spring, the Federal Reserve
found that 40 percent of Americans
don’t have the cash to pay for an unex-
pected $400 expense without having to
sell a belonging or borrowing money.
Those families also don’t have the cash
to go without paychecks.
Families may feel forced to consider
taking out a payday loan to get quick
cash to meet their expenses. In the
past 2 years, more than 10 percent of
Americans have gone to a payday lend-
er, even though the interest rates are
incredibly high and the national aver-
age is almost 400 percent interest. In
California, the average rate is 460 per-
cent.
b 1800
In Virginia, where even a larger per-
centage of Federal workers live, the
average payday loan is over 600 per-
cent.
For workers living paycheck to pay-
check, the shutdown and its missed
paychecks can easily spiral into bank-
ruptcy. Even if we provide Federal
workers with backpay, which we
should, it will not make those hurt by
this shutdown whole.
When the government reopens, it
won’t be able to help Federal workers
who incur late fees or hits on credit re-
ports during the shutdown. It won’t
pay interest on new loans taken out by
Federal workers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00087 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.093 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H450 January 10, 2019
One of my constituents in Califor-
nia’s 45th Congressional District, Au-
brey, told me that her family has filed
paperwork to borrow against their
401(k) retirement. Borrowing against
that 401(k) will come with large tax
penalties, but she is part of a single-in-
come household living on a Federal
Government wage. She and her wife
and their kids rely on a steady pay-
check, and they are understandably
concerned about the impact that the
shutdown will have on their family.
Another constituent in my district,
Melinda, told me that she has been
working for a government agency for
over 30 years. She is debating taking
out a loan. She is researching whether
she can file for unemployment. She
loves her job and wants to go to work
but is prohibited from doing so. She
just paid the tuition for one of her kids
to go to college, and she does not have
the means to live without a paycheck.
This shutdown is a disaster for Fed-
eral workers who aren’t getting paid,
and it is a disaster for working families
who deserve to get the tax refunds they
are owed.
Right now, families are denied tax re-
funds because of the government shut-
down. Yesterday, my colleagues, Demo-
crats, voted to reopen the Treasury De-
partment, the IRS, and the Small Busi-
ness Administration, and we were
joined by several Republicans, but this
administration won’t even consider
opening up the Treasury.
Now this administration has said the
IRS will service tax refunds even with
the government shutdown, but before
this announcement, the IRS was oper-
ating with a barebones staff. Only one
out of every eight employees was in
that office, and that has made it so
much harder for Americans to prepare
their tax returns.
As we start filing for tax returns,
American people need certainty from
their government, not the chaos of a
shutdown. And since this is the first
year that the Republican tax law
raised taxes for Orange County fami-
lies, it is even more important that
taxpayers get the refunds and the tax
help that they deserve.
As a professor of bankruptcy law, I
also know that many families who
struggle with overwhelming debt, often
from unexpected medical bills, wait
until this time of year to file for bank-
ruptcy. That is because they have to
use their own tax refunds to pay their
attorney or filing fees.
If the IRS does not get these families
the refunds they are owed, they won’t
be able to get help in bankruptcy from
their overwhelming debts or catch up
on loan payments. And without the
money to file for bankruptcy, families
can lose parts of their paychecks to
wage garnishment, squeezing families
in this country even tighter.
It is past time that we reopen the
government. This is day 20 of the shut-
down. This administration is recklessly
hurting Federal families and workers
who are counting on basic government
services, including getting their own
hard-earned money back from the IRS,
and even backpay for these workers
will not erase the harm of this shut-
down.
Those families will still have $30 late
fees on credit card payments. They will
still have to pay interest on their
mortgages that could run into hun-
dreds of dollars. If they are 2 weeks
late in paying their credit card bills or
mortgage payments, they can be hit
with negative credit reporting, which
can drop their credit scores, and those
negative reports stay on their records
for up to 7 years.
Simply reopening the government
won’t make these families whole, but it
is a necessary start. That is why I am
sending letters to the leading banks
and credit card companies asking them
to offer relief to families. These letters
ask the banks and credit card compa-
nies to waive fees, to pause debt repay-
ment timelines, to freeze eviction and
foreclosure proceedings until 2 weeks
after our Federal workers receive their
next paycheck. They should also freeze
the reporting of negative information
to credit reporting agencies during this
difficult time.
Many of our country’s credit unions
have already offered their customers
such relief. For example, Orange Coun-
ty’s Credit Union is providing fur-
loughed workers 2 weeks of pay, up to
$5,000, at 0 percent interest for 60 days,
and they are offering these furloughed
workers 90-day waivers on payments
for existing loans.
Another credit union in my district,
Kinecta Federal Credit Union, is offer-
ing unpaid workers $2,000 at 0 percent
for 12 months. That 12-month loan pe-
riod recognizes how long it will take
unpaid workers to right themselves
from the harm of this missed paycheck.
These efforts by these credit unions
will go a long ways to mitigating the
real consequences of this shutdown for
American families, and I hope other fi-
nancial institutions and lenders join
and engage in similar efforts.
President Trump has the power to re-
open the government and stop hurting
families, especially unpaid workers.
Orange County, California, and this
Nation deserve a government at work.
I yield to my colleague from Michi-
gan (Ms. TLAIB).
Ms. TLAIB. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to speak out against drunk driving, a
senseless, unacceptable, and prevent-
able act. I uplift my dear friends, the
Abbas family, who lost their lives trag-
ically due to the fault of a drunk driv-
er. They were kind. They were loving.
According to the CDC, alcohol-im-
paired fatalities accounted for 29 per-
cent of the total vehicle traffic acci-
dents in 2017. I honor their memory
today by supporting my colleague,
Congresswoman DEBBIE DINGELL, in her
proposal to expand the use of
breathalyzers in new vehicles.
This doesn’t change the fact that
someone got drunk and got behind the
wheel of a car, and, as a result, we lost
five bright lights in Michigan: Issam
Abbas, Dr. Rima Abbas, and their three
children, Ali, Isabelle, and Giselle.
I want to repeat a quote by Helen
Keller: ‘‘What we once enjoyed and
deeply loved we can never lose, for all
that we love deeply becomes part of
us.’’
Let us honor the memory and the
lives of the Abbas family and pray for
the comfort of their surviving family.
In regards to the shutdown, Mr.
Speaker, I would like to help my col-
leagues understand the human toll on
our residents and thousands of Federal
workers across the Nation. It is now
day 20.
Today, over 400 housing units across
my district, the 13th Congressional
District, are directly impacted by the
HUD funding expiring due to the gov-
ernment shutdown. HUD is begging
landlords to not evict our residents due
to the lack of payment.
HUD provides affordable rent for over
40,000 low-income families across this
Nation. We are talking about residents
who are disabled, children, seniors, and
veterans who are living with challenges
that require assistance to live.
Mr. Speaker, again, going on day 20,
we are creating a humanitarian crisis.
In Detroit, Michigan, there are nearly
1,000 families affected by this current
situation. The number is sure to rise as
the shutdown continues.
Another area of the shutdown that
we cannot stress enough is the amount
of workers who do not know when they
will receive their next paycheck. In
Michigan alone, we have 6,000 workers,
mostly in southeastern Michigan, and
now they are scrambling to figure out
how they will pay for their shelter and
food for their family.
In Wayne County, Michigan, Federal
workers are being given an extension
to pay their property taxes. The shut-
down is causing a disruption in their
lives and so many that are connected.
The bills will continue to come, Mr.
Speaker. The late fines and interest
fees will pile up while the administra-
tion plays games with the lives of the
American people.
Government must be about people
first. The continued denial that the
real crisis is the shutdown will cause a
detrimental impact on our residents.
The cost to reopen government will
continue to increase. We deserve bet-
ter. We deserve our President to lead
with compassion.
It is critical that we put a human
face to this crisis so that we under-
stand the real impact on everyday peo-
ple.
The U.S. Coast Guard employees in
Michigan today are at risk of missing
their next paycheck. They are cur-
rently working around the clock on the
Great Lakes breaking ice to keep our
shipping and logistics industries going.
They are providing a critical role in
our regional economy and security
without knowing whether they will get
paid.
Our Coast Guard even rescued a man
from Lake Michigan, an honorable ac-
tion, but let’s thank them by paying
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00088 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.095 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H451
January 10, 2019
them so they can take care of their
families.
Jasmine, a worker that has been with
the TSA for nearly 16 years, has al-
ready been unable to cover her bills
and had to turn to her own mother for
financial help. She said that they are
doing their job to the best of their abil-
ity and feel that they are being treated
as pawns in something they have no
control over.
She is right, Mr. Speaker. She and
her fellow workers are wondering how
they are going to pay for gas and feed
their children.
I know I am a new Member here, but
the disconnect of many of my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
and the current administration, it has
been felt here and also back home. I see
it. It is toxic, and it will never serve
the American people. The disconnec-
tion with real people will continue to
deny the right for our citizens to live
with human dignity.
I have vital EPA workers that mon-
itor air pollution in my district that
have been off duty for weeks now. One
in five children has asthma in my dis-
trict, Mr. Speaker. This is unjust. We
need to have a functional and open gov-
ernment that protects us. We have
some of the worst corporate polluters
in the country in the 13th Congres-
sional District, and now we have no
one protecting us from air pollution
violators. Let’s get them back to work
for our residents.
Mr. Speaker, these are just a handful
of examples of Americans that are
being harmed by the actions of this ad-
ministration and the inaction of the
Senate. We must end this shutdown
now. Our residents deserve us to lead
with compassion and responsibility.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
my colleague from the great State of
California, Mike Levin.
Mr. LEVIN of California. Mr. Speak-
er, when the people of California’s 49th
District elected me to represent them
in Congress, I did not imagine that I
would be sworn in during a partial gov-
ernment shutdown. However, on the
same day that I raised my right hand
and took the oath of office, I also cast
my first votes to fund Federal agencies
that have been shut down by President
Trump.
We have since voted on several simi-
lar bills, including earlier today. The
bills we voted on were not controver-
sial. In fact, they were the same exact
bills that Senate Republicans sup-
ported just 1 month ago, and they have
received bipartisan support here in the
House. In fact, just today, 12 Repub-
licans voted to fund and reopen Trans-
portation and HUD, and 10 voted to re-
open Agriculture and the SNAP pro-
gram.
One-third of the Federal workforce is
comprised of veterans. The shutdown is
hurting their credit rating and that of
all Federal employees. How can Presi-
dent Trump claim to care about vet-
erans while allowing this to continue?
For those in my district back home
who are impacted, I hear your voices. I
have heard the voice of the Fish and
Wildlife Service employee in my dis-
trict who told me the other day that
many of her colleagues are living pay-
check to paycheck and can’t afford to
go any longer without the pay that
they have earned and that they de-
serve.
I have heard the grocery store owner
in my district who can’t get help with
his food stamp eligibility because the
appropriate USDA office is shut down.
The Trump shutdown is hurting peo-
ple in my district and every district
who have done nothing but worked
hard and played by the rules.
We can end this today by reopening
the government while we continue to
debate border security. And make no
mistake, we need smart, effective, and
humane border security, but we do not
need 5th century technology for a 21st
century problem.
I strongly urge Leader MCCONNELL to
bring up the bipartisan funding bills
for a vote in the Senate, and I urge
President Trump to do the right thing
and sign them.
Mr. Speaker, 20 days is far too long.
The American people have had enough.
Let’s end this senseless shutdown, and
let’s end it now.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, how
much time is remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from California has 43 min-
utes remaining.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JACKSON LEE), my colleague.
b 1815
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
want to thank my colleague, the dis-
tinguished Congresswoman from Cali-
fornia, for her leadership and her amaz-
ing journey here to the United States
House of Representatives. It is clearly
because of life stories like hers that we
will be more effective in representing
all of the American people, so I thank
her for leading the Congressional Pro-
gressive Caucus this evening and really
speaking to our colleagues and, yes,
the American people.
I know that the number 20 has many
meanings. For 3-year-olds and 4-year-
olds and 5-year-olds, you give them 20
pennies for their piggy bank and you
can see their sparkling eyes, just really
happy.
You can count down 20 days till your
vacation. It is reasonable. You can get
ready, get new clothes and new suit-
cases.
You may be able to count down if
you are suffering from an illness and
the doctor says that in 20 days things
will be looking up.
But in this instance, I am standing
alongside of this sign, ‘‘20 Days,’’ be-
cause it represents pain and frustra-
tion. It certainly represents a sadness
that is truly unnecessary, for we will
approach the longest shutdown of the
Federal Government, the longest abuse
of power that the United States of
America has ever seen.
Just a few weeks ago, we saw the
President of the United States indicate
that he will take ownership of a shut-
down. I think it is important to take
note of the fact that this is a policy
dispute, a simple policy dispute that is
not catastrophic.
In the meantime, we have dangerous
conditions in the Nation’s parks, na-
tional historic sites, and we have a
shut door for the Nation’s school-
children at our museums.
Individuals who are seeking mort-
gages, first-time buyers, young cou-
ples, retirees, have been stopped in
their tracks.
Those brave men and women, includ-
ing firefighters under the Department
of the Interior who fought those ter-
rible fires in California, will not be
paid tomorrow.
My colleagues and friends in Texas,
as a border State resident, will not be
paid tomorrow: border Patrol, Customs
and Border Protection, the brave men
and women that I visited with working
in the Nation’s airports and in my air-
port, the George Bush Intercontinental
Airport in Houston, Texas.
Mortgages and rent not paid, car pay-
ments not being paid, spring tuition
checks not being paid, Supplemental
Nutrition Assistance not being paid. So
much is riding on the fact that these
individuals are working without pay
because of, simply, a temper tantrum.
Now, I want information. I was down
at the border just a couple of weeks
ago. I go all the time. I served on the
Border Security Committee on Home-
land Security. I helped write a bipar-
tisan Homeland Security border secu-
rity bill.
When the Border Patrol was a small
agency, we poured millions of dollars,
post-9/11, to build up their personnel,
give them laptops, night goggles, jeeps.
I went to the border at night, in the
dark of night. I saw their work. I know
what they need. I know that they have
their views.
Many have said: I don’t care what
kind of barrier it is; a concrete wall
will not work, but we need a combina-
tion of things.
And so what the Commander-in-Chief
will see at the border that will warrant
the shutting down of government, the
make-believe national crisis, I hope—
and I wanted him to visit the patrol
stations, the Border Patrol stations
where hopeless families and children
are there, some suffering, as little
Felipe was, because the conditions are
not there for welcoming women and
children seeking asylum through the
normal legal process, of which some
would be granted and some will be di-
rected to go home. That is the Amer-
ican way.
But yet 35,694 employees are not get-
ting a paycheck in Texas because of
this tragic condition.
So I say to the commonsense people,
the Democratic majority that voted on
legislation that could have simply gone
to the other body, been placed on the
calendar for the Senate, voted on, and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00089 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.096 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H452 January 10, 2019
sent to the desk of the President of the
United States, I would say: Mr. Presi-
dent, sign the bill and open the govern-
ment.
Policy changes are not warranted for
a shutdown. Fifty-one thousand TSA
agents missing their paychecks is not
defendable, and the 800,000 total em-
ployees, 16,000 NASA employees who
were furloughed, and the impact on the
fourth largest city in the Nation, rural
home loans financed by the USDA, and
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
Program, Hurricane Harvey Federal
aid.
I heard the pain of a Member whose
Pacific Island, which he represents as a
Delegate, has just suffered a massive
typhoon. We need disaster aid for
them.
The good news is that the Demo-
cratic leadership is doing our job. We
are on the floor every day passing the
bill to open the government—let me
say it again—to open the government.
Mr. Speaker, let me conclude on
these two points:
I always believe that it is important
to be truthful in one’s statement. Any
of us in public service should give the
best evidence of the truth that we can.
Those of us who have served in the
last 2 to 3 to 4 or 5 years have seen the
pain of our constituents and the pain of
Members of Congress who come from
districts where the enormity of the
opioid crisis has taken whole families.
We know that there are 100-plus people
dying every day from opioid abuse.
For those of us who come from inner-
city communities, that was yester-
year’s crack and cocaine that didn’t
get the attention that we are getting
now. But I am not selfish. I am glad, as
a nation, we recognize the literal de-
stroying of a human being and family.
So we have invested money in treat-
ment. We have looked at the criminal
justice system, and we will look even
more to not penalize those who are ad-
dicted. We are trying to eliminate ac-
cess to meth and some of the most poi-
sonous drugs, now kush, and many oth-
ers.
But it is shameful to use the pain of
these families and to create a false nar-
rative that I put up a wall and I will
heal Johnny Smith way up in New Eng-
land from his opioid disease.
Drugs, we have a war that we must
finish, fight and finish. We must get
people off of drugs. We must cure them.
We must treat them as if they are sick.
But I can tell you, Mr. Speaker, no
wall is going to stop the epidemic. We
must engage in diplomacy and the frus-
tration and the poverty in South and
Central America.
By the way, I have introduced a bill
that says if we have a wall, concrete
wall, then, as was promised by this ad-
ministration, Mexico should pay for it.
But we must engage with the South
and Central American countries, and
any drugs that want to get into this
country, you can be assured they will
be coming in underground, in tunnels,
well-lit tunnels, well-known pathways
and legal points of entry.
How do I know? I have been at the
border when a bust has been made and
seen the car open and the most unique
places where millions of dollars of
drugs were hidden.
Thank you to the canine team that is
so effective.
None of this was spoken about. The
narrative was not true. The White
House is not presenting to the Amer-
ican people what really is a national
emergency. Opioid is, but the way it
must be dealt with is increased access
to healthcare and not the continued
undermining of the Affordable Care
Act.
So, finally, we have heard the Presi-
dent call and scream that he will de-
clare a national emergency.
I think it is important, as it is for
the Members of this great body, this
great Nation, to know that we have a
Constitution where Article I is the
Congress and Article II is the Execu-
tive, and nowhere in those two articles
does it say that the Congress has to be
told what to do by the administra-
tion—nowhere. An independent body
must stand for what the American peo-
ple need. So there are statutes that
govern the emergency declaration.
I will give it to you straight: There
are two statutes that require either
that there be a declaration of war—I
have not heard that—or else a proper
formal declaration of national emer-
gency. They don’t dictate exactly what
the conditions are. It is all about proc-
ess and transparency.
If, for example, the President would
want to declare this a national emer-
gency, he would have to frame it, and
he would have to determine what that
means. Do we want to use the Armed
Forces? What kind of national emer-
gency is it?
And do you realize that national
emergency means taking money from
so many vital programs? Just like the
$5.7 billion wall that, for some reason,
the supporters or people listening to
this narrative of the wall, they must
think that we have a hidden treasure
somewhere that we will just go in and
dig down in the pot and get $5.7 billion.
You take $5.7 billion, and you will
take it out of the United States mili-
tary. You will take it out of the Coast
Guard. You will take it out of edu-
cation. You will take it out of
healthcare. You will take it out of the
environment. You will take it out of
international diplomacy. You will take
it out of those suffering from HIV/
AIDS. You will take it out of the starv-
ing people around the world. That is
where the money will come from.
So I hope that there will be a path-
way where this body of Congress works
to send the bills to the President’s
desk. I hope that we don’t go 2 or 3
more days past this day tomorrow,
when no checks will come to thousands
of Americans, and get this government
open.
If the President thinks he can declare
a national emergency and that is the
only narrative he wants to use, we will
do our job. He will do his job, but we
should have, as our number one job, to
open this government now and to pro-
vide the good, hardworking Americans
who serve us in the Federal Govern-
ment and those who are impacted by
them to be able to get a check, to be
able to do the things that this great
Nation has allowed them to do; for we
stumble, we do not realize that, in the
Declaration of Independence, it indi-
cated that we were all created equal,
with certain unalienable rights of life,
liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
I take that to heart, what this coun-
try stands for, and we have got to fight
for those who cannot fight for them-
selves.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman for the kind words.
I yield to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ESPAILLAT).
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Mr. Speaker, I
want to first thank the gentlewoman
and the Progressive Caucus for orga-
nizing this very important Special
Order hour. It is an important oppor-
tunity for us to share stories about
how the Trump shutdown is causing
real damage in many of our commu-
nities and to remind the American peo-
ple that President Trump is holding
government hostage not for some noble
cause, but for his petulant demand for
an unnecessary and medieval border
wall.
b 1830
There are 14,000 Federal workers in
New York State whose pay has been
impacted by this Trump shutdown, but
I will share the story of one of my con-
stituents.
This is the reality of a constituent
from the 13th Congressional District,
someone I have the privilege to rep-
resent and know. That person is a
NASA employee who, along with doz-
ens of her colleagues, has been fur-
loughed due to the Trump shutdown.
Most Americans are unaware that
NASA operates and conducts some of
the most important climate change re-
search in New York City through
NASA labs right in the heart of New
York City.
My constituent’s work is even more
critical now than ever before, as our
global climate is in its most fragile
state, with record-shattering hurri-
canes pounding the Caribbean. We saw
how Hurricane Maria ravaged through
the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico and
the Gulf Coast of our country, as well
as the massive wildfires burning
throughout California and other parts
of the West Coast.
My constituent and her fellow work-
ers, dedicated researchers, conduct ob-
servational-based climate assessment.
Now, because of the Trump shutdown,
these crucial studies will stop.
The intensive models they build ex-
plain past climate behavior and help us
predict future climate conditions so we
can be better prepared in the future.
This is not surprising, Mr. Speaker,
because many of the folks around the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00090 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.098 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H453
January 10, 2019
White House believe that climate
change is a hoax, that it doesn’t exist
at all.
These researchers that have been fur-
loughed are so necessary for the future
of our Nation and our planet. Their
periodic reports are essential for under-
standing our climate and how it is
changing.
In a response from agencies that
seems almost like a cruel joke, fur-
loughed Federal workers, like my con-
stituent, have been encouraged to get
creative, to budget closely. They have
been asked that perhaps they could
make ends meet if they baby-sit or if
they have garage sales.
This is the message that these agen-
cies have given to some of the fur-
loughed workers across the country,
but too many in our Federal workforce
simply cannot afford to miss a loan
payment, a utility bill, their rent,
their mortgage.
This President simply doesn’t under-
stand just how hard it is for working
class people and middle class people.
As Speaker PELOSI aptly put it, Presi-
dent Trump doesn’t understand that
working people cannot ask their dad or
their mom for money.
This whole situation is unacceptable.
And just like President Trump said
when he accepted the Republican nomi-
nation back in 2016, he alone can fix
this. He created this crisis.
I bring this here to show the Amer-
ican people who is crossing the border.
I went down to the border in New Mex-
ico, and I saw moms and little children
running away from violence, from hun-
ger, running away from natural disas-
ters, sleeping on a cold, dirty, dingy
floor, packed like sardines.
We are a better country. We are a
better America.
We ask you, Mr. President: Give up
your wall. Give up your wall and re-
open government. Free the 800,000 Fed-
eral workers you have held hostage in
this manufactured, fictitious security
crisis.
This is the moment, this is the time.
Mr. Speaker, we must fight back, we
must reopen government. We will not
give in to the wall.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for yielding to me.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for being here tonight.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker,
will the gentlewoman yield?
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
JACKSON LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, I was just on the floor,
but I could not leave the floor without
reminding us that our constituents
have names.
So I wanted Edith to know how con-
cerned I am about her, and to say that
when I spoke about the 20 days and the
20 pennies, all of that is, if you will,
things that are static, but a human
being who has to deal with life’s ups
and downs is real.
Edith Banda—recently returned from
a reservist deployment in the Middle
East—is among thousands of people in
the Houston area feeling the impact of
the government shutdown.
Edith has not worked her Federal job
in downtown Houston, which is where
my congressional office is, since the
shutdown 17 days ago.
Making matters worse, she and doz-
ens of others in Houston are unable to
seek private sector work, because such
jobs require permission, and the people
who process these requests have been
furloughed; just like some are trying to
get unemployment, and some of the
documentation they need are with peo-
ple who are furloughed.
Edith has been selling her personal
possessions to make ends meet, but she
said another couple of weeks of no
work would be crushing.
Now, I know our Speaker has indi-
cated that we are working very hard
here to get access to credit through
credit unions and no-interest loans. We
have letters that they can send.
I want to personally say that my of-
fice is open. 713–655–0050 is my local of-
fice. My staff, get ready, in case we can
be of help to you down in Houston to be
able to see what we can do about your
circumstances.
Finally, I just want to say that Carol
has been a Federal employee for over 25
years. She is waiting to find out when
she will be allowed to return to work.
She has been furloughed.
After reflecting on her two daughters
enrolled in college and her fears of no
longer being able to help them with
their education expenses, she wrote
about how the Trump shutdown was
hurting her. And like many employees,
she has a mortgage, credit card pay-
ments, Federal student loans, and she
is trying to be a mother.
And I would just say this as I close,
that she has got to deal with late fees,
interest rate hikes and damage to her
credit score, and so she is one of those
individuals.
I just want to say that the metaphor,
the narrative, again, of so many people
having gates to their homes, and to use
that when these people are pouring out
their life savings, they are pouring
their heart out, they are in distress, I
have a very diverse district, and I can
assure you I can travel around and see
very few gated communities of all eco-
nomic levels. And they love their fam-
ily. They have a door, but they are
moving around the community.
This is a great Nation. That is a poor
example, that we have gated commu-
nities because we love the people that
are in or not, because we don’t like the
people who are out.
It is because you have a dislike for
the people who are out. That must be
your lack of understanding of all of our
humanity, because for those of us at
Homeland Security who have been to
the northern border as well, there is
not one fence there and not one person
that wants a fence. And we know what
happened in 2000 when a person came
across to do harm to the United States.
We can find a better solution. Let’s
stop using the narrative, because I
think many Americans live in cir-
cumstances where they see their neigh-
bors, they interact with their neigh-
bors, and they don’t have locked gates
and walls. Some do. That is their
choice. But that is not the definition of
who we are.
So I want to say to Edith and to
Carol and others, Democrats are here
working as hard as we can. Congress-
woman PORTER is working as hard as
she can. And we will be back on the
floor again tomorrow.
I am just hoping that the Senate, the
other body, can take up our bills. Once
they do that, it is very clear that they
can go right to the President. If it sits
for 10 days, it is law.
I feel that if it is vetoed, I really feel
that the good people of this House and
Senate will override it and get these
people back where they need to be.
Mr. Speaker, I thank the gentle-
woman for yielding so I could tell
Edith and Carol’s story.
Mr. Speaker, today I rise to join my col-
leagues in discussing the Trump Shutdown
and its devastating impact on the financial se-
curity of federal families and contractors.
As the Trump Shutdown enters its third
week, the effects of President Trump and Re-
publicans’ reckless decision to shutter the gov-
ernment over a wasteful and unnecessary bor-
der wall are obvious.
Frontline federal employees, including law
enforcement and public safety personnel, have
been working without pay since December 22.
This includes around 14,000 FBI agents,
54,000 Customs and Border Protection
agents, 47,000 Transportation Security Offi-
cers and 6,000 Forest Service firefighters.
TSA employees received their last paycheck
on December 28, giving them money that
would typically last through the next pay pe-
riod but which will now have to stretch much
further.
The shutdown has already forced some em-
ployees to look for new jobs or take on extra
work, and the pressure is immense for em-
ployees and families with no other source of
income.
This also includes 3,200 Secret Service
agents who risk their lives every single day to
protect President Trump and his family.
In addition to the federal employees working
without pay, hardworking federal employees at
agencies like the Department of Justice, the
Department of Homeland Security, the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, and NASA have been fur-
loughed without pay, plunging them and their
families into uncertainty.
These are real American families that are
being put through an unwarranted and unnec-
essary shutdown and are suffering because of
it.
With many federal employees being fur-
loughed, and those deemed essential being
expected to work without pay American fami-
lies are now stuck wondering how they are
going to get by without an income, especially
since things like rent, groceries, and general
day-to-day living costs still need to be paid
whether the government is fully functional or
not.
The Trump Shutdown will end when the
President comes to his senses.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00091 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.100 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H454 January 10, 2019
Not only are Americans struggling to pay for
their day-to-day expenses but veterans and
military families are suffering as well.
If the shutdown lasts for more than two or
three weeks, the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs has said that it may not have enough
money to pay disability claims and pension
payments.
That could affect approximately 3.6 million
veterans.
For military families, although their pay has
continued, the military is suffering in other
areas.
For example, changes of station for military
personnel will be delayed, medical offerings
could be scaled back, and facility and weap-
ons maintenance could be suspended.
Additionally, military commissaries (base
grocery stores) have shut down and military
families are being forced to shop elsewhere.
According to the Defense Commissary
Agency, military families generally save more
than 30 percent on average at the com-
missaries.
Shopping off the base can be pricey, espe-
cially for military families living in cities with a
high cost of living.
Edith Banda who recently returned from a
reservist deployment in the Middle East is
among thousands of people in the Houston
area feeling the impact of the government
shutdown.
Edith has not worked her federal job in
downtown Houston since the shutdown 17
days ago.
Making matters worse, she and dozens of
others in Houston are unable to seek tem-
porary private sector work because such jobs
require permission, and the people who proc-
ess those requests have been furloughed.
Edith has begun selling her personal pos-
sessions to make ends meet, but she said an-
other couple of weeks of no work would be
crushing.
There are so many other issues that we
could tackle with the money Trump wants to
spend on the wall.
With an increase of $265 million the Depart-
ment of Justice could hire 2,000 new police of-
ficers and make steps towards making many
communities a safer place.
With increase of $99 million the Office of
National Drug Control Policy could support
community-level efforts to address substance
abuse programs in nearly 730 additional com-
munities.
Economic Development Administration with
an increase of $200 million could create or
preserve 31,000 jobs for our hardworking
Americans.
Small Business Administration grants with
an additional $20 million could support dozens
more Women’s Business and Veterans Out-
reach Centers providing business training,
counseling and outreach to 47,000 additional
US veterans and women.
These are the changes that American citi-
zens deserve.
Mr. Speaker, it is critical that the President
ends this government shutdown and end the
unwarranted suffering of American families
across the nation.
Carol with the Bureau of Land Management
wrote to me sharing her frustrations and anx-
iety over the Trump Shutdown.
Carol has been a federal employee for over
25 years. She is waiting to find out when she
will be allowed to return to work. Carol is one
of 800,000 federal government employees liv-
ing with constant worry and angst. Hearing
that President Trump is willing to keep her and
many others furloughed for years has her
questioning her career choice.
After reflecting on her two daughters en-
rolled in college and her fears of no longer
being able to help them with their education
expenses did she write about how Trump’s
Shutdown will hurt her.
She, like many other federal employees,
has a mortgage, has credit card payments,
has federal student loans. The places where
she would look for assistance are closed,
leaving her to attempt to navigate and nego-
tiate late fees, interest rate hikes, and damage
to her credit score that inevitable missed pay-
ments will create.
Carol is just one of the 800,000 federal gov-
ernment employees who will not be receiving
a paycheck tomorrow.
The President should be ashamed.
Prior to Trump’s election the nation heard
about his history of refusing to pay contractors
for work they had completed. The United
States Federal Government does not and will
not conduct business in this way. The United
State Government pays its workers.
Ms. PORTER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentlewoman very much. I appre-
ciate her sharing their stories and add-
ing the stories of Edith and Carol to
those that I shared of my constituents.
Mr. Speaker, I think this really
shows that the harms of the shutdown
are being felt in communities around
the country, including from her home
State in Texas and mine in California.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to call for
an end to the Trump shutdown. This Repub-
lican-imposed shutdown is threatening job cre-
ation, harming small businesses and leaving
families with uncertainty and instability.
It is shameful that President Trump and
Congressional Republicans are so desperate
to secure taxpayer funding for a senseless
border wall that they’re willing to harm hard-
working Americans by shutting down the fed-
eral government.
This outrageous shutdown is forcing
420,000 federal employees to work without
pay. These dedicated public servants have
been doing their jobs and serving the public
without pay since December 22. They include
about 14,000 FBI agents, 6,000 Forest Serv-
ice firefighters, and 54,000 Customs and Bor-
der Protection agents. Furthermore, thousands
of airport security screeners and air traffic con-
trollers are working without pay to protect the
safety of the flying public at airports through-
out the country, including LAX in my congres-
sional district.
In addition, 400,000 federal employees have
been furloughed without pay. This includes
federal workers at the Departments of Trans-
portation, State, Commerce, Interior and Agri-
culture.
These dedicated public servants are sitting
at home wondering how they will pay their
mortgages and buy food for their families. Yet,
they want nothing more than to go back to
work serving the American people.
As the Chair of the House Committee on Fi-
nancial Services, I am especially concerned
about the impact of the Trump Shutdown on
American homebuyers and renters. Millions of
families that rely on Department of Housing
and Urban Development (HUD) and Depart-
ment of Agriculture (USDA) rental assistance
programs are dangerously close to eviction
and foreclosure due to lapses in funding. Fam-
ilies aspiring to become homeowners may see
their Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or
rural housing loans delayed or be unable to
close on their loans altogether during the shut-
down. In rural communities, very low-income,
elderly homeowners who rely on HUD grants
and loans to address health and safety haz-
ards will not receive payments and may be
forced to live in dangerous conditions.
In addition, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), the agency that investors
and the public rely on to police Wall Street
and maintain the safety of our capital markets
system has furloughed roughly 94% of its
staff, leading to a backlog of complaints that
could delay enforcement actions. Companies
looking to go public and enter the stock mar-
ket for the first time may also have to delay
their Initial Public Offerings (IPOs).
Meanwhile, our National Parks are over-
flowing with uncollected trash, and the Envi-
ronmental Protection Agency (EPA) has
stopped conducting inspections of drinking
water systems, hazardous waste facilities, and
chemical facilities.
If the Trump shutdown continues beyond
January, about 40 percent of 40 million indi-
viduals and families across the country who
are dependent upon the Supplemental Nutri-
tion Assistance Program (SNAP), also known
as Food Stamps, will see their benefits re-
duced.
These are just a few examples of the harm
being caused by the third shutdown this nation
has experienced since Trump took office. It is
time for Republicans to stop jeopardizing liveli-
hoods, the financial system, and our economy
by ending this shutdown immediately.
It’s long past time to end this Trump shut-
down, and put America’s public servants back
to work serving the public.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Byrd, one of its clerks, announced that
the Senate has passed a bill of the fol-
lowing title in which the concurrence
of the House is requested:
S. 24. An act to provide for the compensa-
tion of Federal and other government em-
ployees affected by lapses in appropriations.
f
OUR GREATEST DIFFICULTY AS A
SOCIETY IS DEMOGRAPHICS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Arizona (Mr.
SCHWEIKERT) for 30 minutes.
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, this
is one of those opportunities, now that
we have the new session of Congress up
and running, to come up here and sort
of walk through some of the math and
the reality.
And, look, it is always fascinating
when we hear, you know, the discus-
sion of, well, there is $5 billion for se-
curity and the barriers, but I just want
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00092 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.044 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H455
January 10, 2019
to say to everyone, before we sort of go
into the presentation of the actual
math of what is going on in our soci-
ety, you do realize the total amount
that is being discussed as the plus-up
for the border security is less than we
borrow in 2 days. It is less than 2 days
of borrowing.
I mean, we live in this world of ab-
surdity where the politics actually
have outstripped sort of the reality and
the math.
And, look, I accept that there is part
of our society that so desperately
doesn’t want the White House to ever
get any of its priorities, they will burn
the place down, but come on.
Being from a border State, you know,
come and see the fentanyl, the heroin,
the human exploitation that is hap-
pening not only across the country, but
particularly for those of us that are
from border States.
But that isn’t why I had reserved to-
night’s time. I actually want to make
sure that once we get beyond this par-
tial shutdown and we maybe get back
to the business of governing, we actu-
ally start to have some understanding
of the reality of what our society is up
against.
In the first chart I have brought I am
going to try to make an argument that
our greatest difficulty we have as a so-
ciety, as a country, is actually demo-
graphics. This is something we often
don’t talk about, because it is not
something we really can do a lot about,
but the reality of it is, as a society, we
are getting older very fast.
There was an article just last week
saying we are growing older the fastest
in 80 years. You have seen the crash in
our birth rates. I mean, you do realize
that our birth rates are nowhere near
what we call replacement rates as a so-
ciety. We are down to, what is it? What
do they say? 1.76 births, when you need
to be up around 2.1 just for population
stability.
What does that actually mean? Well,
we are going to walk through a number
of these boards and start to understand
what that fiscal impact means if you
want to keep our society’s promises on
things such as Social Security, Medi-
care, and how we deal with it.
I actually want to give sort of an op-
timistic idea. We believe we have sort
of a five-point idea, but it is going to
require my brothers and sisters on the
left, my friends on the right, and peo-
ple in between to pull out their cal-
culators and think.
The fact of the matter is I often feel
like I work in a math-free zone.
Just a bit of trivia. In 11 years, you
and your partner, so two people, will be
supporting one retiree. In 11 years, two
workers for every one person in retire-
ment. Think about that.
No matter what you think about pol-
itics and who pays and who doesn’t
pay, just think about that structurally
as a society: two workers for every one
person in retirement, and that happens
in 11 years.
b 1845
It is hard to talk about because, let’s
face it, we are Members of Congress.
We often like talking about the shiny
object, the thing that when we walk
out these doors, the reporter is going
to stick the microphone in our face,
and it is going to be the shiny object of
the day instead of the structural re-
ality of what threatens our Republic.
The first slide here, all I want to be
absorbed is this is 1965, a long time
ago, 50-some years.
Do you see the red? That is what we
call mandatory spending. Those are
things that are on autopilot.
The most elegant way I think to de-
scribe that is that you have Social Se-
curity and Medicare. Those are earned
entitlements. You worked a certain
number of quarters; you paid in; and
you get those benefits.
There are other entitlements that
fall under this. If you are part of a cer-
tain Tribal population, we have a trea-
ty obligation. Or if you fall under a
certain income, you get these benefits.
But they are mandatory. They are
built into the base. We don’t vote on
them. They are on autopilot.
In last year’s budget, actually, well
over 70 percent of all the spending was
on autopilot. It is what, ultimately, is
consuming the budget.
We are going to do a couple of these
slides, just to try to get our heads
around this. Let’s swap to the next one.
This is just to sort of help the break-
out.
My understanding is that in this
coming budget year—you need to think
about this—defense spending in the
2019 cycle will basically be the same as
Medicare.
How many of us, when we go home to
talk to our constituents, somehow
think defense is two-thirds, a third of
the budget? Basically, as you start to
look at the charts here, you will actu-
ally see—and these are the 2018 num-
bers.
As you walk through, you see the
blue. We will call that the sea foam
blue. That is Social Security. That is
24 percent of all our spending.
If you come over here, national de-
fense is this rust. That is 15.
Last year, Medicare was actually a
little over 14-point-something. This
year, Medicare and defense are almost
the same.
With our demographics—remember
the baby boom, 74 million of our broth-
ers and sisters who were born in that
18-year period who are baby boomers—
the peak of the baby boom right now is
about 62, 63 years old. They are just
starting to move into the years where
they will receive those earned benefits.
Then you come over here to Medicaid
and other income programs, net inter-
est—remember, interest is a manda-
tory. You have to pay it to protect the
sanctity and full faith and credit of
U.S. debt. You start to realize, the
amount that we, as Members of Con-
gress, actually get to work on starts
being about a quarter of all the spend-
ing.
It is not driven, really, by current
policy. These are previous policies. It
is driven by our demographics. We are
getting older very fast.
This is the slide that is the most dev-
astating to get your head around. Yes,
I have not adjusted this for inflation,
so these are stagnant dollars. When
you use a 30-year time window, you can
deduct about a third. Eventually, I will
get this slide up, and I will do the in-
terest deduction.
But think of this: Over the next 30
years—2018 to 2048, a 30-year window—
what is causing an $84 trillion budget
deficit? It is substantially interest, the
shortfalls in Social Security, and the
shortfalls in Medicare. The rest of the
budget has about a $16 trillion surplus
in what we calculated as revenues to
spending.
That is really important to get our
heads around. It is fascinating that,
when you show these numbers, I will
get people who will protest the math.
It is not Republican math; it is not
Democratic math; it is just math.
The reality of it is that we have
these massive, unfunded liabilities that
are basically in two programs, Social
Security and Medicare, and we have a
moral obligation to keep our promises
as a society.
So how do we get there?
The next one, I am just going to put
this one up so it helps reemphasize the
way this works. Think of this: From
2008 to 2028—so that 20-year window—91
percent of the increased spending in
this body comes from three things: in-
terest, the growth in Social Security,
and the growth in spending in
healthcare entitlements.
When you see my kind come behind
these microphones, and we speak as
eloquently as we can, unless we are
telling the truth about the demo-
graphics, we are actually not telling
the truth of what is really going on. I
know it is hard. It is math with lots
and lots of zeroes. But this is the re-
ality. When you look at the charts,
things like defense, nondefense discre-
tionary, even some of what we call the
other entitlements, they are substan-
tially flat over that 20-year period.
We are getting older very fast as a
society, and our birth rates as a soci-
ety have collapsed. We don’t have
enough children right now, over the
last decade, to even be at replacement
rates. We are basically following the
trend of the rest of the industrialized
world.
You have to think that through.
What does that mean for our ability to
promise Americans, as they move into
their senior years, that retirement se-
curity? That, I think, both Republicans
and Democrats all agree we must have,
but, yet, then we do everything we can
to avoid the actual math.
The next slide I want to go to is to,
once again, reemphasize the reality of
what is happening in our society popu-
lation-wise. For this next chart, I am
using Arizona, because that is my
home. But guess which State appears
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00093 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.104 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H456 January 10, 2019
to have the biggest fall in birth rates?
Arizona.
Now, please be merciful on me. I am
going to try to explain something with
a lack of sort of elegant language. I
have had multiple conversations with a
couple of folks who make their living
just fixated on demographic numbers,
and they, partially, are giddy about
this for one thing in society. They sort
of come back and say: Look, in pre-
vious demographic modeling, we
thought parts of our Hispanic popu-
lations, parts of our LDS populations,
and parts of others were going to con-
tinue to have very high birth rates, and
that was going to provide some popu-
lation stability.
But the fact of the matter is the
melting pot, apparently, is actually
working in our society. In our country,
the melting pot is working. One of the
ways that demographers refer to it is
say: Look, we are all not having chil-
dren like each other. The likelihood
you will have a similar education, live
in the same neighborhood, and now
also not have children like each other,
you see it in the math.
So, on one hand, yes, the melting pot
is working. That is great for our coun-
try. We are Americans. We are a di-
verse lot, but we are Americans.
Now we need to deal with the social
entitlement problem. That is, in 11
years, if I have two workers for every
one person that is retired, and my
birth rates are continuing to fall, how
do you make the math work? How do
you keep your promises?
Remember my first quip when first
coming up to the podium: We are hav-
ing this dispute over an additional $5
billion of border security and the ef-
fects that has on humanitarian aid.
But the absurdity is that it is less than
2 days of borrowing right now, and al-
most all that borrowing is driven by—
you saw it on the previous slide—our
allocation to cover our interest costs,
Social Security, and the healthcare en-
titlements, where almost all the spend-
ing growth is.
This is a reality, but it is fascinating.
The beginning of this is 2000. In 2000, we
were basically about 3.1 in birth rates.
Fertility rates have collapsed. When
you actually start to do the mean na-
tionwide, we are now down to—what is
it?—1.67.
We need to actually couple that in
with the massive unfunded liabilities
we have and start to understand that
the greatest threat to our country
right now is massive entitlement prom-
ises and the lack of resources to cover
them.
I have done it before, and I am going
to do this about every week. I am going
to bring in different boards. I have a se-
ries of boards that show almost every
idea that gets quipped out of: ‘‘Well, we
will raise tax rates to this, or we will
do this.’’ None of them come anywhere
close to actually covering the scale of
our obligations.
Right now, I want to do one or two
things that I actually believe are opti-
mistic. I am going to give you sort of
a five-point idea. This is something I
have been talking about in Arizona and
partially around the country and other
places. I need us to think about, okay,
this is the math reality. We have these
massive unfunded liabilities that are
basically driven by two programs and
our interest obligations. How do we fix
it?
Let’s actually walk through a list
and understand it. I call this the uni-
fied theory because we have to do all of
them. We have to do all of them at the
same time, and we have to fixate on
the growth aspects they all bring.
The first one I want to talk about is
immigration. As we go through, par-
tially, the political theater, as this
body has been doing with regard to im-
migration, let’s actually take a step
backward and say: What immigration
policy maximizes economic growth for
the country so that growth helps us
pay our promises, so people will receive
their Social Security and Medicare?
We will have to move to a talent-
based immigration system, because, as
the rest of the world has done, whether
it be New Zealand, Great Britain, Can-
ada, or Australia, the rest of the world
has basically moved to a talent-based
system because they figured out it
maximizes economic growth.
In our case, hopefully, we would
move to a substantially talent-based
system. You still are going to have
compassion. There will still be types of
visas for our brothers and sisters
around the world that meet our stand-
ards of compassion. But with that, I be-
lieve, you also are going to have to put
in math shock absorbers that deal with
the fact that we are going through a
cycle right now with birth rates fall-
ing. Would you adjust certain portions
of that talent-based immigration popu-
lation to deal with something we call
population stability for the future?
Remember, this is about maximizing
economic growth, so we can keep our
promises as a society.
The slide I have next to me is sort of
as we deal with the next couple issues.
So I believe a major reform in the im-
migration system can maximize eco-
nomic expansion.
The next thing is a fixation on
growth. When we did tax reform, as we
get together and start to realize this
supercomputer we carry in our pocket,
oddly enough, could be the greatest
regulator in our society because it can
crowd source information. I have done
presentations on this in the past.
Instead of building bureaucratic mod-
els, where we make people fill out lots
of pieces of paper and shove them in
file cabinets, how about moving to a
modern system?
As a simple example, how many of
you use Waze as a way you drove to
your office, or to work, or to pick up
the kids? That is a crowd source model
that gives you information.
It turns out that same concept can
actually be a way to regulate air qual-
ity and know that we are safe without
building a bureaucratic model. It can
be so many things.
We need to fixate on what maximizes
economic growth in our society, and
that is Tax Code; that is regulatory
code; that is removing barriers, remov-
ing the barriers at the State, local, and
Federal level that encourage risk-tak-
ing entrepreneurship, the things that
create the economic disruptions, so we
grow.
b 1900
The third thing, and that is what
that chart is about, we call it labor
force participation. We got the report
last week that was actually in some
ways wonderful and in some ways it is
heartbreaking.
We are giddy that we broke 63 per-
cent labor force participation. We hit
63.1. I can show you a stack of articles
from the last decade from really smart
economists, mostly on the left side.
They said we are never going to get
back to 63 percent labor force partici-
pation because we are getting older as
a society, we have so many worn-out
workers, or whatever the current pop
cultural term is.
Well, we broke through 63.1 last
month in December. But understand, it
was only a decade ago we were pushing
around 67 percent labor force participa-
tion. What does that mean? It means
we have substantial portions of our
population who, for lots of reasons,
whether it be drugs, whether it be cer-
tain educational aspects, whether it be
societal expectations, are not in the
labor force.
I have actually done it before, and we
will do it again over the next couple of
months. I will do some charts where it
is actually a really interesting sort of
barbell-type curve where we have lots
of young people—mostly males—who
are not in the workforce, and then
older parts of our population who are
choosing maybe the rational thing, to
retire.
How do you build a society that en-
courages a person to stay or to enter
the workforce? So as we have debates
around here where the left wants to
talk about certain types of income as-
sistance, we in the right will talk
about: How do you take that and make
it a reward to work?
We need more of our population to
work. If we could go right now from
that 63 percent labor force participa-
tion and get back to that 67 that we
were at just a decade ago, it is amazing
how it helps.
So the third thing I am going to give
you is we need to have everything,
whether it be from the discussion of
SNAP—food stamps—to incentives in
Social Security and Medicare, to en-
courage someone to stay in the work-
force longer, to a young person in their
student loans to actually enter the
workforce and begin that process.
Every program we as a government,
as a society, participate in, we should
maximize the incentive to work be-
cause we need it if we are going to keep
our promises.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00094 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.105 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H457
January 10, 2019
Remember, this is a loop. Everything
here we talk about is, if we are going
to keep our promises on Social Secu-
rity and Medicare, we have got to have
the economic expansion that provides
the resources.
The next one I am going to give you
is the one that I am most optimistic
about. And let’s put that board up. But
this one is a little harder to talk about,
so I will beg you to bear with me.
When we have had debates around
here on the ACA—some people know it
as ObamaCare—or our Republican al-
ternative, or this healthcare debate, I
need everyone intellectually to strip
away our partisanship and take a step
backwards. Almost all of the debates
have been about who gets to pay.
The ACA just shifted lots and lots of
the spending onto the government.
Some of our alternatives were actually
trying to spread the cost out more
across the private payer populations.
But we have done almost nothing to
disrupt the cost curve.
So part of the thought experiment I
want us all to engage in is: How many
of us went to Blockbuster Video last
weekend? I know it is a little starky,
but think about it. Didn’t it feel like
almost overnight you no longer stood
in line at the local retail strip center
at Blockbuster Video to get the little
silver disk that you were going to take
home and shove into your Blu-ray
player? You would now go home and
you hit a button and you get Netflix, or
HBO Go, or Hulu, or whatever you are
watching.
That is what we call a disruption. Al-
most overnight, society figured out,
hey, this is cheaper, faster, better.
How do we take that sort of concept
of disruption and make it part of
healthcare? How do you say, instead of
playing this game that we have played
over and over of just trying to move
around who gets to pay, we are going
to engage technology in such a fashion
that we disrupt the cost curve of
healthcare delivery?
The fact of the matter is there is so
much technology rolling out, this is
about to become your primary care
physician.
How many of you have seen the arti-
cles of something that looks like a
kazoo, a large kazoo that you blow into
and it tells you if you have the flu
virus. The article from last week,
something a little bigger, a cone over
your nose and mouth, you blow into it
and it tells you if you have a bacteria.
There is the Apple Watch that will
help you manage your arrhythmia.
There is all of this technology rolling
out. There are things, I am told, right
now at the Consumer Electronics
Show, a couple of hundred items being
shown at this moment that are all
technology—we like to refer to them as
digiceuticals in our office—that will
disrupt the cost of healthcare if we can
break down the regulatory legal bar-
riers, whether it be on how we pay for
them or the fact that many of them
provide a level of autonomous
healthcare. Our system as it is regu-
lated and compensated today does not,
was not designed for a level of autono-
mous.
We have a company in Scottsdale
that now has four or five locations up.
I guess they used to be Theranos
booths. I think they are at Safeways, if
I am allowed to say such a thing.
You go in and you functionally fill
out your information in an iPad. You
go into a private booth. There is an av-
atar on the screen. You grab the
scope—and forgive me, I am not a med-
ical person—and you shove it down
your throat, in your ear, in your nose.
It tells you how to move it. It tells you
what they need.
You put your hand on something. It
can do a pulse and the temperatures
and other things. And an algorithm
does the calculations. Apparently, the
algorithm is amazingly accurate.
What would happen if that type of
healthcare became available to all of
us? We crash the price. We dramati-
cally change the availability. And, yes,
these things are scary because it is a
disruption of technology into our econ-
omy, but we don’t have a choice.
You saw the charts before. The great-
est fragility in our society is promises
we have made that we have no money.
And almost every solution gets us no-
where close to the types of resources
needed. We must have a disruption in
the cost of delivery.
And part of the thought experiment,
it has been a year or two, but we have
seen things like the contact lens that
can calculate your blood glucose, that
talks to your insulin pump.
Because we do know that more than
half of our healthcare costs in this
country are for the 5 percent of our
brothers and sisters who have chronic
conditions, what happens when those
digiceuticals help manage those chron-
ic conditions to prevent the crashing?
How about the pill bottle that makes
sure that—we know that 50 percent of
pharmaceuticals are not used properly.
The solution becomes a technology one
when all of a sudden your phone rings.
The beeper goes off. You haven’t taken
your hypertension medicine that morn-
ing.
We desperately need this body to
start to understand this. And is that
Republican or Democratic? It is tech-
nology. Now, I am sure, eventually, we
will break down and it will become a
Republican issue or a Democratic
issue, whether it be because which lob-
byists go where, but for right now, it is
just a solution.
The last one I will give you of my
five is when we do all of this
progrowth, this ability to crash the
cost of delivery of healthcare, we are
going to then have to have a really
honest conversation of what we must
do, particularly in Medicare, to mod-
ernize the design, deal with the reality
that life expectancies for those who
make it into retirement are going up.
Many of us will spend a third of our
life in retirement. Do we need to
change the incentives within those in-
dividual programs on how we take our
benefits? How we manage those costs?
How we participate in them?
We have some really interesting
ideas: Would you make adjustments for
folks who may have the ability to
carry previous healthcare options with
them?
But I truly believe we need to do all
five of these, and we need to do them
almost immediately because every day
we wait, another 10,300 of our brothers
and sisters, Americans, reach 65 and
start to move into their benefits. And
every day we wait, we avoid the reality
of math.
I guess there are a couple of smart
people out there who many years ago
said: Tell me your demographics and I
will tell you your destiny.
I have just told you our demo-
graphics. I have just shared with you
the scale that is off the charts on the
promises we have made and our lack of
resources, and I believe I have actually
begun to give an approach of a unified
theory of how we make it work and
how we make it through, functionally,
our 74 million baby boomers who are
moving into retirement and how we
move through that population bubble
so someone like my 3-year-old daugh-
ter also has the economic opportunities
that I have had.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. SCHWEIKERT. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 o’clock and 10 minutes
p.m.), the House adjourned until to-
morrow, Friday, January 11, 2019, at 9
a.m.
h
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the first, second,
third, and fourth quarters of 2018, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00095 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\K10JA7.107 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H458 January 10, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JAN. 1 AND MAR. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. STEVE WOMACK, Chairman, Dec. 26, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. STEVE WOMACK, Chairman, Dec. 26, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. STEVE WOMACK, Chairman, Dec. 26, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON THE BUDGET, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Steve Gonzalez ......................................................... 10/29 11/1 Spain .................................................... .................... 753.00 .................... 13,844.13 .................... .................... .................... ....................
Sage Peterson .......................................................... 10/29 11/1 Spain .................................................... .................... 753.00 .................... 9,241.93 .................... .................... .................... ....................
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 1,506.00 .................... 23,086.06 .................... .................... .................... 24,592.06
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. STEVE WOMACK, Chairman, Dec. 26, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Joseph Pinder .......................................................... 10/21 10/23 United Kingdom .................................... .................... 596.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 596.00
10/23 10/26 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,478.00 .................... 2,571.04 .................... .................... .................... 4,049.04
Hon. Ruben Kihuen .................................................. 10/22 10/23 Finland .................................................. .................... 416.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 416.00
10/23 10/25 Poland ................................................... .................... 556.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 556.00
10/25 10/27 France ................................................... .................... 1,160.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,160.00
Hon. Robert Pittenger .............................................. 10/22 10/23 Finland .................................................. .................... 416.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 416.00
10/23 10/25 Poland ................................................... .................... 556.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 556.00
10/25 10/27 France ................................................... .................... 1,160.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 1,160.00
10/27 10/30 Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,500.00 .................... 4,704.14 .................... 2,875.00 .................... 19,079.14
Hon. Steve Stivers ................................................... 11/8 11/11 France ................................................... .................... 2,110.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,110.00
11/11 11/13 Belgium ................................................ .................... 684.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 684.00
Hon. Vicente Gonzalez ............................................. 11/17 11/18 Czech Republic ..................................... .................... 400.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 400.00
11/18 11/20 Uzbekistan ............................................ .................... 374.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 374.00
11/20 11/21 Djibouti ................................................. .................... 369.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 369.00
11/21 11/23 Kuwait ................................................... .................... 844.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 844.00
11/23 11/24 Ireland .................................................. .................... 201.39 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 201.39
Hon. Juan Vargas .................................................... 11/30 12/2 Mexico ................................................... .................... 723.90 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 723.90
Hon. Vicente Gonzalez ............................................. 11/30 12/2 Mexico ................................................... .................... 723.90 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 723.90
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 14,268.19 .................... 7,275.18 .................... 2,875.00 .................... 24,418.37
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. JEB HENSARLING, Chairman, Jan. 2, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00096 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.041 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H459
January 10, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JAN. 1 AND MAR. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. MICHAEL T. McCAUL, Chairman, Jan. 2, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Laura Fullerton ........................................................ 4/27 5/1 Australia ............................................... .................... 965.17 .................... (3) .................... 860.00 .................... 1,825.17
5/1 5/3 New Zealand ......................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 372.00 .................... 862.00
Kyle Klein ................................................................. 4/27 5/1 Australia ............................................... .................... 965.17 .................... (3) .................... 860.00 .................... 1,825.17
5/1 5/3 New Zealand ......................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 372.00 .................... 862.00
Forrest McConnell .................................................... 4/27 5/1 Australia ............................................... .................... 965.17 .................... (3) .................... 860.00 .................... 1,825.17
5/1 5/3 New Zealand ......................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 372.00 .................... 862.00
Alan Carroll ............................................................. 4/27 5/1 Australia ............................................... .................... 965.17 .................... (3) .................... 860.00 .................... 1,825.17
5/1 5/3 New Zealand ......................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 372.00 .................... 862.00
Hope Goins .............................................................. 4/27 5/1 Australia ............................................... .................... 965.17 .................... (3) .................... 860.00 .................... 1,825.17
5/1 5/3 New Zealand ......................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 372.00 .................... 862.00
Alex Marston ............................................................ 4/27 5/1 Australia ............................................... .................... 965.17 .................... (3) .................... 860.00 .................... 1,825.17
5/1 5/3 New Zealand ......................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 372.00 .................... 862.00
Brendan Shields ...................................................... 5/8 5/10 Panama ................................................ .................... 218.00 .................... (3) .................... 337.00 .................... 555.00
5/10 5/12 Colombia ............................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 512.33 .................... 1,002.33
5/12 5/15 Mexico ................................................... .................... 732.00 .................... (3) .................... 598.00 .................... 1,330.00
Ryan Propis ............................................................. 5/8 5/10 Panama ................................................ .................... 218.00 .................... (3) .................... 337.00 .................... 555.00
5/10 5/12 Colombia ............................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 512.33 .................... 1,002.33
5/12 5/15 Mexico ................................................... .................... 732.00 .................... (3) .................... 598.00 .................... 1,330.00
Kris Carlson ............................................................. 5/8 5/10 Panama ................................................ .................... 218.00 .................... (3) .................... 337.00 .................... 555.00
5/10 5/12 Colombia ............................................... .................... 490.00 .................... (3) .................... 512.33 .................... 1,002.33
5/12 5/15 Mexico ................................................... .................... 732.00 .................... (3) .................... 598.00 .................... 1,330.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 13,051.02 .................... .................... .................... 11,733.99 .................... 24,758.01
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. MICHAEL T. McCAUL, Chairman, Dec. 6, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON HOMELAND SECURITY, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Brendan Shields ...................................................... 10/17 10/19 Brazil .................................................... .................... 851.00 .................... (3) .................... ** 1,001.67 .................... 1,852.67
10/19 10/21 Costa Rica ............................................ .................... 260.00 .................... (3) .................... 657.37 .................... 917.37
10/21 10/23 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 260.00 .................... (3) .................... NA .................... 260.00
Kris Carlson ............................................................. 10/17 10/19 Brazil .................................................... .................... 851.00 .................... (3) .................... ** 1,001.67 .................... 1,852.67
10/19 10/21 Costa Rica ............................................ .................... 260.00 .................... (3) .................... 657.37 .................... 917.37
10/21 10/23 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 260.00 .................... (3) .................... NA .................... 260.00
Margaret Anne Moore .............................................. 10/17 10/19 Brazil .................................................... .................... 851.00 .................... (3) .................... ** 1,001.67 .................... 1,852.67
10/19 10/21 Costa Rica ............................................ .................... 260.00 .................... (3) .................... 657.37 .................... 917.37
10/21 10/23 Guatemala ............................................ .................... 260.00 .................... (3) .................... NA .................... 260.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 4,113.00 .................... .................... .................... 4,976.82 .................... 9,090.12
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
** Includes Brazil and Guatemala legs of the trip.
HON. MICHAEL T. McCAUL, Chairman, Dec. 6, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON HOUSE ADMINISTRATION, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Kimberly Betz ........................................................... 10/6 10/7 Poland ................................................... .................... 234.27 .................... 12,691.71 .................... .................... .................... 12,925.98
James Fleet .............................................................. 10/6 10/7 Poland ................................................... .................... 234.27 .................... 12,726.71 .................... .................... .................... 12,960.98
Steven Wall .............................................................. 10/6 10/7 Poland ................................................... .................... 234.27 .................... 13,737.71 .................... .................... .................... 13,971.98
Stanley White ........................................................... 10/6 10/7 Poland ................................................... .................... 234.27 .................... 11,890.43 .................... .................... .................... 12,124.70
Ashley Hebert ........................................................... 10/6 10/7 Poland ................................................... .................... 234.27 .................... 13,659.23 .................... .................... .................... 13,893.50
Kimberly Betz ........................................................... 10/7 10/8 Kosovo ................................................... .................... 172.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 172.21
James Fleet .............................................................. 10/7 10/8 Kosovo ................................................... .................... 172.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 172.21
Steven Wall .............................................................. 10/7 10/8 Kosovo ................................................... .................... 172.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 172.21
Stanley White ........................................................... 10/7 10/8 Kosovo ................................................... .................... 172.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 172.21
Ashley Hebert ........................................................... 10/7 10/8 Kosovo ................................................... .................... 172.21 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 172.21
Kimberly Betz ........................................................... 10/8 10/10 Spain .................................................... .................... 464.05 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 464.05
James Fleet .............................................................. 10/8 10/10 Spain .................................................... .................... 493.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 493.84
Steven Wall .............................................................. 10/8 10/10 Spain .................................................... .................... 493.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 493.84
Stanley White ........................................................... 10/8 10/10 Spain .................................................... .................... 493.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 493.84
Ashley Hebert ........................................................... 10/8 10/10 Spain .................................................... .................... 493.84 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 493.84
STAFFDEL Expenses ................................................. 10/6 10/7 Poland ................................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 262.89 .................... 262.89
STAFFDEL Expenses ................................................. 10/7 10/10 Kosovo, Spain ....................................... .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 984.71 .................... 984.71
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 4,471.81 .................... 64,705.79 .................... 1,247.60 .................... 70,425.20
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. GREGG HARPER, Chairman, Dec. 20, 2018.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00097 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.041 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H460 January 10, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON OVERSIGHT AND GOVERNMENT REFORM, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND
DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Carlton Davis ........................................................... 10/6 10/7 Poland ................................................... .................... 278.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 278.00
10/7 10/8 Kosovo ................................................... .................... 165.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 165.00
10/8 10/10 Spain .................................................... .................... 512.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 512.00
Commercial airfare ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,645.00 .................... .................... .................... 13,645.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 955.00 .................... 13,645.00 .................... .................... .................... 14,600.00
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. TREY GOWDY, Chairman, Dec. 20, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON RULES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JAN. 1 AND MAR. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. PETE SESSIONS, Chairman, Apr. 15, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON RULES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN APR. 1 AND JUNE 30, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Stephen Cote ........................................................... 4/2 4/5 Japan .................................................... .................... 1,111.38 .................... 9,534.41 .................... .................... .................... 10,645.79
4/5 4/8 South Korea .......................................... .................... 1,112.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,112.00
Don Sisson ............................................................... 4/2 4/5 Japan .................................................... .................... 1,111.38 .................... 12,265.41 .................... .................... .................... 13,376.79
4/5 4/8 South Korea .......................................... .................... 1,112.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,112.00
Brendan Belair ........................................................ 4/2 4/5 Japan .................................................... .................... 1,111.38 .................... 9,534.41 .................... .................... .................... 10,645.79
4/5 4/8 South Korea .......................................... .................... 1,112.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,112.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 6,670.14 .................... 31,334.23 .................... .................... .................... 38,004.37
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. PETE SESSIONS, Chairman, July 1, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON RULES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Stephen Cote ........................................................... 7/2 7/4 Lithuania .............................................. .................... 652.93 .................... 11,989.81 .................... .................... .................... 12,642.74
7/4 7/5 Poland ................................................... .................... 295.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 295.40
7/5 7/8 Ukraine ................................................. .................... 874.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 874.98
Alexander Davis ....................................................... 7/2 7/4 Lithuania .............................................. .................... 652.93 .................... 13,465.81 .................... .................... .................... 14,118.74
7/4 7/5 Poland ................................................... .................... 295.40 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 295.40
7/5 7/8 Ukraine ................................................. .................... 874.98 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 874.98
Don Sisson ............................................................... 7/1 7/2 U.S.A. (Sick) .......................................... .................... .................... .................... 13,466.81 .................... .................... .................... 13,466.81
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 3,646.62 .................... 38,922.43 .................... .................... .................... 42,569.05
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. PETE SESSIONS, Chairman, Oct. 9, 2018.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON RULES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN OCT. 1 AND DEC. 31, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Steve Cote ............................................................... 10/15 10/17 Iceland .................................................. .................... 795.40 .................... 1,699.40 .................... .................... .................... 2,494.80
10/17 10/19 Denmark ............................................... .................... 741.40 .................... 490.90 .................... .................... .................... 1,232.30
10/19 10/21 Sweden ................................................. .................... 747.86 .................... 4,845.21 .................... .................... .................... 5,593.26
Brendan Belair ........................................................ 10/15 10/17 Iceland .................................................. .................... 620.27 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 620.27
10/17 10/19 Denmark ............................................... .................... 741.40 .................... 490.90 .................... .................... .................... 1,232.30
10/19 10/21 Sweden ................................................. .................... 747.86 .................... 4,845.21 .................... .................... .................... 5,593.26
Collin McCune ......................................................... 10/15 10/17 Iceland .................................................. .................... 795.40 .................... 1,699.40 .................... .................... .................... 2,494.80
10/17 10/19 Denmark ............................................... .................... 741.40 .................... 490.90 .................... .................... .................... 1,232.30
10/19 10/21 Sweden ................................................. .................... 747.86 .................... 4,845.21 .................... .................... .................... 5,593.26
Annie Minkler ........................................................... 10/15 10/17 Iceland .................................................. .................... 795.40 .................... 1,699.40 .................... .................... .................... 2,494.80
10/17 10/19 Denmark ............................................... .................... 741.40 .................... 490.90 .................... .................... .................... 1,232.30
10/19 10/21 Sweden ................................................. .................... 747.86 .................... 4,845.21 .................... .................... .................... 5,593.26
Alec Davis ................................................................ 10/28 11/1 Spain .................................................... .................... 753.00 .................... 13,843.63 .................... .................... .................... 14,596.63
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 9,716.51 .................... 40,287.03 .................... .................... .................... 50,003.54
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. PETE SESSIONS, Chairman, Dec. 23, 2018.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00098 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.041 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H461
January 10, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2018
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. George Holding ................................................ ............. ................. Austria .................................................. .................... 690.27 .................... 1,008.81 .................... .................... .................... 1,699.08
............. ................. Israel ..................................................... .................... 1,605.00 .................... .................... .................... .................... .................... 1,605.00
Hon. Carlos Curbelo ................................................ ............. ................. Colombia ............................................... .................... 684.00 .................... Personal
Funds
.................... 1,166.00 .................... 1,850.00
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 2,979.27 .................... 1,008.81 .................... 1,166.00 .................... 5,154.08
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. KEVIN BRADY Chairman, Dec. 31, 2018.
h
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi (for
himself and Mr. ROGERS of Alabama):
H.R. 424. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002 to improve the manage-
ment and administration of the security
clearance processes throughout the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity.
By Mr. DUNN (for himself and Mr.
LAMB):
H.R. 425. A bill to promote veteran involve-
ment in STEM education, computer science,
and scientific research, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Science, Space,
and Technology.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 426. A bill to withdraw certain Na-
tional Forest System land in the Emigrant
Crevice area located in the Custer Gallatin
National Forest, Park County, Montana,
from the mining and mineral leasing laws of
the United States, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for him-
self, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia,
and Mr. LOUDERMILK):
H.R. 427. A bill to amend section 254 of the
Communications Act of 1934 to provide re-
porting requirements for recipients of funds
that provide access in rural and high cost
areas, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Miss RICE of New York (for herself
and Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 428. A bill to direct the Under Sec-
retary of Homeland Security for Intelligence
and Analysis to develop and disseminate a
threat assessment regarding terrorist use of
virtual currency; to the Committee on
Homeland Security.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 429. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to require all po-
litical committees to notify the Federal
Election Commission within 48 hours of re-
ceiving cumulative contributions of $1,000 or
more from any contributor during a calendar
year; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration.
By Mr. NEAL (for himself and Mr.
BRADY):
H.R. 430. A bill to extend the program of
block grants to States for temporary assist-
ance for needy families and related programs
through June 30, 2019; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. WILLIAMS:
H.R. 431. A bill to repeal the corporate av-
erage fuel economy standards; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. DESAULNIER (for himself, Mr.
MCNERNEY, and Mr. THOMPSON of
California):
H.R. 432. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to convey certain land and fa-
cilities of the Central Valley Project; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 433. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure that veterans may at-
tend pre-apprenticeship programs using cer-
tain educational assistance provided by the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr.
LEWIS, Ms. BASS, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. DEMINGS,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. HURD of Texas,
Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms. GARCIA of
Texas, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr.
BUTTERFIELD, and Mr. HIGGINS of New
York):
H.R. 434. A bill to designate the Emanci-
pation National Historic Trail, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas:
H.R. 435. A bill to provide for a coordinated
national research program to examine the
nature, causes, consequences, and prevention
of violence and unintended injury and death
relating to gun ownership, use, and traf-
ficking, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, and in addition to
the Committees on Science, Space, and
Technology, and Energy and Commerce, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SOTO (for himself, Mr. PAYNE,
Mr. QUIGLEY, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Mr. RASKIN, and Ms.
MOORE):
H.R. 436. A bill to re-establish certain hy-
draulic fracturing chemical disclosure rules,
standards for well construction, and waste
management rules, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce,
and in addition to the Committees on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure, and Natural
Resources, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER (for him-
self, Mr. DUNCAN, Mr. BIGGS, Mr.
ARRINGTON, Mr. BANKS, Mr. DUFFY,
and Mrs. ROBY):
H.R. 437. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to prohibit research with human
fetal tissue obtained pursuant to an abor-
tion, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CALVERT (for himself, Mr.
COOK, and Mr. BROOKS of Alabama):
H.R. 438. A bill to deny Federal funding to
any State or political subdivision of a State
that has in effect any law, policy, or proce-
dure that prevents or impedes a State or
local law enforcement official from main-
taining custody of an alien pursuant to an
immigration detainer issued by the Sec-
retary of Homeland Security, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. LANGEVIN (for himself and
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 439. A bill to amend the charter of the
Future Farmers of America, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. AMASH:
H.R. 440. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act, to clarify the authority
of the Secretary of Homeland Security to
take property using eminent domain, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, and in addition to the Committee on
Homeland Security, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BABIN (for himself and Mr.
HIGGINS of Louisiana):
H.R. 441. A bill to require FERC to exam-
ine certain hydropower licences; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 442. A bill to amend the Consumer Fi-
nancial Protection Act of 2010 to extend the
supervisory authority of the Bureau of Con-
sumer Financial Protection to include as-
sessing compliance with the Military Lend-
ing Act; to the Committee on Financial
Services, and in addition to the Committee
on Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 443. A bill to authorize the Attorney
General to establish a five-year pilot pro-
gram to make grants to local educational
agencies for the hiring of school resource of-
ficers, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on the Judiciary, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 444. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to eliminate the period of eligi-
bility for the Vocational Rehabilitation and
Employment program of the Department of
Veterans Affairs; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 445. A bill to amend the VOW to Hire
Heroes Act of 2011 to make permanent the
Veterans Retraining Assistance Program,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California (for
herself and Mrs. WALORSKI):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00099 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.041 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H462 January 10, 2019
H.R. 446. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow tax credits to vet-
erans for the establishment of franchises; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr.
DOGGETT, Mr. WELCH, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. PINGREE, Ms. DELAURO,
Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. POCAN, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
NEGUSE, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, and Ms.
TLAIB):
H.R. 447. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the im-
portation of affordable and safe drugs by
wholesale distributors, pharmacies, and indi-
viduals; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. CUMMINGS (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. DOGGETT, Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
POCAN, Ms. DELAURO, Ms. GABBARD,
Ms. BONAMICI, Ms. OMAR, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. NORTON, Ms. JAYAPAL,
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. HIGGINS of New
York, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, and Ms. TLAIB):
H.R. 448. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the nego-
tiation of lower covered part D drug prices
on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries and the
establishment and application of a for-
mulary by the Secretary of Health and
Human Services under Medicare part D, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. DEMINGS:
H.R. 449. A bill to amend the Homeland Se-
curity Act of 2002, to direct the Assistant
Secretary for State and Local Law Enforce-
ment to produce and disseminate an annual
catalog on Department of Homeland Secu-
rity training, publications, programs, and
services for State, local, and tribal law en-
forcement agencies, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security,
and in addition to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. DEUTCH (for himself and Mr.
MEADOWS):
H.R. 450. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide an additional tool to
prevent certain frauds against veterans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mr. GREEN of Texas, and Mr.
KING of New York):
H.R. 451. A bill to repeal the section of the
Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation
Act of 2012 that requires the Federal Commu-
nications Commission to reallocate and auc-
tion the T-Band spectrum; to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
H.R. 452. A bill to require the Secretary of
Homeland Security to use the testimonials
of former violent extremists or their associ-
ates in order to counter terrorist recruit-
ment, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security.
By Mr. FLEISCHMANN (for himself,
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, Mr.
HUDSON, Mr. COLE, and Mr. COOK):
H.R. 453. A bill to take certain Federal
lands in Tennessee into trust for the benefit
of the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. FLEISCHMANN (for himself
and Mr. COOPER):
H.R. 454. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to enhance the authority under
which Federal agencies may pay cash awards
to employees for making cost saving disclo-
sures, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
H.R. 455. A bill to ensure the functionality
and security of new Federal websites that
collect personally identifiable information,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 456. A bill to amend the Patient Pro-
tection and Affordable Care Act to permit in-
surers to offer catastrophic coverage plans to
anyone, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 457. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the maximum
contribution limit for health savings ac-
counts, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 458. A bill to prohibit implementation
of the revised definition of short-term, lim-
ited duration insurance in order to permit
such insurance to provide up to 12 months of
coverage; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Commit-
tees on Education and Labor, and Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GOLDEN (for himself and Ms.
PINGREE):
H.R. 459. A bill to clarify the boundary of
Acadia National Park, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 460. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to amend the Federal
medical assistance percentage for the Dis-
trict of Columbia for fiscal years after 2020,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. GRIFFITH (for himself, Mr.
WALDEN, and Mr. CARTER of Georgia):
H.R. 461. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to ensure appropriate care by
certain 340B covered entities for victims of
sexual assault, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. HASTINGS (for himself, Mr.
DIAZ-BALART, Mr. ROONEY of Florida,
Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mrs. MURPHY, and Mr. CRIST):
H.R. 462. A bill to amend the Water Re-
sources Development Act of 2000 to provide
for expedited project implementation relat-
ing to the comprehensive Everglades restora-
tion plan; to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. JONES:
H.R. 463. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to provide for forgiveness of
certain overpayments of retired pay paid to
deceased retired members of the Armed
Forces; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. JONES:
H.R. 464. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve dependency and in-
demnity compensation for survivors of cer-
tain totally disabled veterans; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. OCASIO-
CORTEZ, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. POCAN,
Ms. OMAR, Ms. DELAURO, Mr. NEGUSE,
Ms. LEE of California, Ms. TLAIB, Ms.
PRESSLEY, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. DEFA-
ZIO, and Ms. JAYAPAL):
H.R. 465. A bill to significantly lower pre-
scription drug prices for patients in the
United States by ending government-granted
monopolies for manufacturers who charge
drug prices that are higher than the median
prices at which the drugs are available in
other countries; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself, Mr.
COURTNEY, and Mr. WALDEN):
H.R. 466. A bill to direct the Federal Com-
munications Commission to amend its rules
so as to prohibit the application to amateur
stations of certain private land use restric-
tions, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. KINZINGER (for himself and
Ms. KELLY of Illinois):
H.R. 467. A bill to amend the Trafficking
Victims Protection Act of 2000 to encourage
a victim-centered approach to combating
human trafficking, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire (for
herself and Mr. PAPPAS):
H.R. 468. A bill to redesignate the Saint-
Gaudens National Historic Site as the
‘‘Saint-Gaudens National Historical Park’’,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 469. A bill to require the use of re-
placement cost value in determining the pre-
mium rates for flood insurance coverage
under the National Flood Insurance Act, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 470. A bill to repeal the mandatory
flood insurance coverage requirement for
commercial properties located in flood haz-
ard areas, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 471. A bill to provide for greater trans-
fer of risk under the National Flood Insur-
ance Program to private capital and reinsur-
ance markets, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 472. A bill to allow communities to de-
velop alternative flood insurance rate maps,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Financial Services.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself, Mr.
CROW, Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. TIPTON, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. PERLMUTTER, and Mr.
BUCK):
H.R. 473. A bill to authorize the Every
Word We Utter Monument to establish a
commemorative work in the District of Co-
lumbia and its environs, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself, Mr. LAM-
BORN, and Mr. TIPTON):
H.R. 474. A bill to insure adequate use and
access to the existing Bolts Ditch headgate
and ditch segment within the Holy Cross
Wilderness in Eagle County, Colorado, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. NEGUSE (for himself, Mr. LAM-
BORN, and Mr. TIPTON):
H.R. 475. A bill to adjust the boundary of
the Arapaho National Forest, Colorado, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 476. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase for 2 years the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00100 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10JA7.100 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H463
January 10, 2019
residential energy credit and the investment
tax credit with respect to solar property
with a nameplate capacity of less than 20
kilowatts; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 477. A bill to amend section 7 of Pub-
lic Law 100-515 (16 U.S.C. 1244 note) to pro-
mote continued use of the James J. Howard
Marine Sciences Laboratory at Gateway Na-
tional Recreation Area by the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. PINGREE (for herself and Ms.
HERRERA BEUTLER):
H.R. 478. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the per-
sonal importation of safe and affordable
drugs from approved pharmacies in Canada;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 479. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to eliminate the diver-
sity immigrant program; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama (for him-
self and Mr. THOMPSON of Mis-
sissippi):
H.R. 480. A bill to require an annual home-
land threat assessment, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 481. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to alter the deadlines by
which an application for asylum must be
made, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SIMPSON (for himself and Mr.
FULCHER):
H.R. 482. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of Agriculture to maintain or replace certain
facilities and structures for commercial
recreation services at Smith Gulch in Idaho,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. SIMPSON:
H.R. 483. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to convey certain public land
within the Henry’s Lake Wilderness Study
Area in the State of Idaho to resolve an un-
authorized use and an occupancy encroach-
ment dating back to 1983; to the Committee
on Natural Resources.
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 484. A bill to amend the Mineral Leas-
ing Act to authorize the Secretary of the In-
terior to regulate hydraulic fracturing oper-
ations on Federal lands, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. TIPTON (for himself, Ms.
DELAURO, and Mr. WITTMAN):
H.R. 485. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to provide for the cir-
cumstances under which the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs shall provide reimburse-
ment for emergency ambulance services; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr.
VELA, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mrs. DAVIS of
California, Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas,
and Mr. PETERS):
H.R. 486. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of the Interior to conduct a special resource
study of Chicano Park, located in San Diego,
California, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Mr. PETER-
SON, Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. WALKER, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. FOR-
TENBERRY, Mr. COLE, Mr. SMITH of
Missouri, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. GUTHRIE,
Mr. MULLIN, Mr. THORNBERRY, Mr.
DUNN, Mr. MEADOWS, Mr.
FLEISCHMANN, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr.
COMER, Mr. SMITH of Nebraska, Mr.
GIANFORTE, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
BUCK, Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Mr.
DAVIDSON of Ohio, Mrs. HARTZLER,
Mr. LUCAS, and Mr. ROUZER):
H.R. 487. A bill to require the Secretary of
Transportation to modify provisions relating
to hours of service requirements with respect
to transportation of certain live animals,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. BYRNE (for himself and Mr.
BARR):
H.J. Res. 25. A joint resolution proposing
an amendment to the Constitution of the
United States to limit the number of terms
a Representative or Senator may serve; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mrs. DAVIS of California (for her-
self and Mr. MARINO):
H. Res. 35. A resolution recognizing Janu-
ary 2019 as ‘‘National Mentoring Month’’,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. LOWENTHAL (for himself and
Mr. FITZPATRICK):
H. Res. 36. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
congressional redistricting should be re-
formed to remove political gerrymandering;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi:
H.R. 424.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. DUNN:
H.R. 425.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18:
The Congress shall have Power...To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoing
Powers, and all other Powers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. GIANFORTE:
H.R. 426.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H.R. 427.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Art. II, Sec. 8, Clauses 3 and 18.
By Miss RICE of New York:
H.R. 428.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 429.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 4
By Mr. NEAL:
H.R. 430.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution, to ‘‘provide for the com-
mon Defence and general Welfare of the
United States.’’
By Mr. WILLIAMS:
H.R. 431.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 (‘‘To regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian
Tribes’’)
By Mr. DeSAULNIER:
H.R. 432.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, section 3, clause 2 (relating to
the power of Congress to dispose of and make
all needful rules and regulations respecting
the territory or other property belonging to
the United States).
By Mr. BUDD:
H.R. 433.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
H.R. 434.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 3 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Ms. JOHNSON of Texas:
H.R. 435.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 436.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. SENSENBRENNER:
H.R. 437.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have the power to regu-
late Commerce with foreign Nations, and
among the several States, and with the In-
dian Tribes.
By Mr. CALVERT:
H.R. 438.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution relating to the power to
make all laws necessary and proper for car-
rying out the powers vested in Congress.
By Mr. LANGEVIN:
H.R. 439.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. AMASH:
H.R. 440.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution.
By Mr. BABIN:
H.R. 441.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 442.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
of the Constitution: The Congress shall have
power to enact this legislation to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several states, and with the Indian
tribes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:29 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00101 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L10JA7.100 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H464 January 10, 2019
By Mr. BILIRAKIS:
H.R. 443.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 444.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 445.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 446.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Amendment XVI
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 447.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
Constitution of the United States.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 448.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
Constitution of the United States.
By Mrs. DEMINGS:
H.R. 449.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. DEUTCH:
H.R. 450.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8. To make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into execution the foregoing powers,
and all other powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 451.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under the following pro-
visions of the United States Constitution:
Article I, Section 1;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1;
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3; and
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
H.R. 452.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution.
By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
H.R. 453.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the
Constitution
By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
H.R. 454.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the
Constitution
By Mr. FLEISCHMANN:
H.R. 455.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 456.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 457.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. FORTENBERRY:
H.R. 458.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. GOLDEN:
H.R. 459.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2: ‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power to dispose of and
make all needful rules and regulations re-
specting the territory or other property be-
longing to the United States.’’
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 460.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 461.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. HASTINGS:
H.R. 462.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. JONES:
H.R. 463.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution, which grants Congress the
power to make rules for the government and
regulation of the land and naval forces.
By Mr. JONES:
H.R. 464.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article 1, section
8 of the United States Constitution (clauses
12, 13, 14, 16 and 18), which grants Congress
the power to raise and support an Army; to
provide and maintain a Navy; to make rules
for the government and regulation of the
land and naval forces; to provide for orga-
nizing, arming, and disciplining the militia;
and to make all laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into execution
the foregoing powers.
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 465.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. KINZINGER:
H.R. 466.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Fourteenth Amendment, Section 1
[Rights Gauranteed]; . . . the means em-
ployed to effect its exercise may be neither
arbitrary nor oppressive but must bear areal
and substantial relation to an end that is
public, specifically, the public health, safety,
or morals, or some other aspect of the gen-
eral welfare.
By Mr. KINZINGER:
H.R. 467.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution which states that Congress has the
power ‘‘to make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States or in any
Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 468.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8: The Congress shall
have power . . . to make laws which shall be
necessary and proper for carrying into Exe-
cution the foregoing powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 469.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the explicit power of Congress to
regulate commerce in and among the states,
as enumerate in Article 1, Section 8, Clause
3, the Commerce Clause, of the United States
Constitution.
Additionally, Article 1, Section 7, Clause 2
of the Constitution allows for every bill
passed by the House of Representatives and
the Senate and signed by the President to be
codified into law; and therefore implicitly al-
lows Congress to repeal any bill that has
been passed by both chambers and signed
into law by the President.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 470.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the explicit power of Congress to
regulate commerce in and among the states,
as enumerate in Article 1, Section 8, Clause
3, the Commerce Clause, of the United States
Constitution. Additionally, Article 1, Sec-
tion 7, Clause 2 of the Constitution allows for
every bill passed by the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate and signed by the Presi-
dent to be codified into law; and therefore
implicitly allows Congress to repeal any bill
that has been passed by both chambers and
signed into law by the President.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 471.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the explicit power of Congress to
regulate commerce in and among the states,
as enumerate in Article 1, Section 8, Clause
3, the Commerce Clause, of the United States
Constitution. Additionally, Article 1, Sec-
tion 7, Clause 2 of the Constitution allows for
every bill passed by the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate and signed by the Presi-
dent to be codified into law; and therefore
implicitly allows Congress to repeal any bill
that has been passed by both chambers and
signed into law by the President.
By Mr. LUETKEMEYER:
H.R. 472.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority on which this
bill rests is the explicit power of Congress to
regulate commerce in and among the states,
as enumerate in Article 1, Section 8, Clause
3, the Commerce Clause, of the United States
Constitution. Additionally, Article 1, Sec-
tion 7, Clause 2 of the Constitution allows for
every bill passed by the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate and signed by the Presi-
dent to be codified into law; and therefore
implicitly allows Congress to repeal any bill
that has been passed by both chambers and
signed into law by the President.
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 473.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00102 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.028 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H465
January 10, 2019
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 474.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 475.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. NEGUSE:
H.R. 476.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 477.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3
By Ms. PINGREE:
H.R. 478.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
‘‘To regulate Commerce with foreign Na-
tions, and among the several States, and
with the Indian Tribes’’
By Mr. POSEY:
H.R. 479.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18 of the United
States Constitution, which grants Congress
the authority to make all Laws which shall
be necessary and proper for carrying into
Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. ROGERS of Alabama:
H.R. 480.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18—The Con-
gress shall have Power ‘‘To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 481.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clauses 4
By Mr. SIMPSON:
H.R. 482.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact legislation is provided by Article I,
Section 8 of the United States Constitution,
specifically clause 1 (relating to the power of
Congress to provide for the general welfare
of the United States) and clause 18 (relating
to the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress), and Article IV, section 3, clause 2
(relating to the power of Congress to dispose
of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property
belonging to the United States).’’
By Mr. SIMPSON:
H.R. 483.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
‘‘The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact legislation is provided by Article I,
Section 8 of the United States Constitution,
specifically clause 1 (relating to the power of
Congress to provide for the general welfare
of the United States) and clause 18 (relating
to the power to make all laws necessary and
proper for carrying out the powers vested in
Congress), and Article IV, section 3, clause 2
(relating to the power of Congress to dispose
of and make all needful rules and regulations
respecting the territory or other property
belonging to the United States).’’
By Mr. SOTO:
H.R. 484.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. TIPTON:
H.R. 485.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
section 8 of Article I of the Constitution
By Mr. VARGAS:
H.R. 486.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 2 of Section 3 of Article IV of the
Constitution, which states: The Congress
shall have the Power to dispose of and make
all needful Rules and Regulations respecting
the Territory or other Property belonging to
the United States; and nothing in this Con-
stitution shall be so construed as to Preju-
dice any Claims of the United States, or any
particular State.
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 487.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution
By Mr. BYRNE:
H.J. Res. 25.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article V, U.S. Constitution
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 1: Ms. FINKENAUER, Mrs. AXNE, and
Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 8: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire,
Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms.
CASTOR of Florida, Mr. KIM, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY, Mr. SHERMAN, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
SCHIFF, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. SEWELL
of Alabama, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. GRIJALVA,
and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 31: Mrs. RODGERS of Washington, Mr.
BEYER, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs.
WALORSKI, and Ms. KAPTUR.
H.R. 32: Mr. DESJARLAIS, Mr. JONES, and
Mr. GIBBS.
H.R. 38: Mr. BACON, Mr. LUETKEMEYER, Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, and Mr. LAHOOD.
H.R. 51: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. GARCIA of
Illinois, and Ms. PRESSLEY.
H.R. 67: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
LAMB, Mr. BOST, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
NEGUSE, Mr. CLAY, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, and Mr. PAYNE.
H.R. 93: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 95: Mr. POSEY, Mr. CURTIS, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. BUDD, Mr. RUTHER-
FORD, Mrs. LURIA, Ms. FUDGE, Mr. KIND, Mr.
PETERSON, Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. POCAN, Mr. TURNER, Mr. FLORES, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. WALBERG, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Mr. TIPTON, Ms. STEFANIK, Ms. KAPTUR, Ms.
LOFGREN, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms. TITUS,
and Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 96: Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. PETERSON, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, and Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 114: Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
LOUDERMILK, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia,
and Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 116: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 138: Ms. NORTON, Mr. VEASEY, Ms.
SCANLON, and Ms. CLARKE of New York.
H.R. 140: Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 141: Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. ZELDIN, Mr.
HUNTER, and Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 155: Mr. LUCAS, Mr. BYRNE, Mr. HILL
of Arkansas, and Mr. BARR.
H.R. 167: Ms. WILSON of Florida and Ms.
MOORE.
H.R. 185: Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia.
H.R. 192: Mr. HUDSON.
H.R. 195: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa, Ms. BONAMICI, and Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 206: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H.R. 221: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina, Mr.
GIBBS, Ms. KAPTUR, and Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 230: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 271: Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr.
BARR, Mr. WOODALL, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
HIGGINS of Louisiana, Mr. MCKINLEY, Mrs.
LESKO, Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Mrs. BROOKS
of Indiana, and Mr. GIANFORTE.
H.R. 272: Mr. ROUZER.
H.R. 273: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. COOPER, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. KHANNA, Ms. DEGETTE, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. YARMUTH, Ms. MOORE,
Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. MCGOV-
ERN, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mrs. BEATTY,
and Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 275: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 276: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 294: Mr. CÁRDENAS.
H.R. 296: Mr. ROUZER and Mr. ROONEY of
Florida.
H.R. 301: Mr. WESTERMAN, Mrs. HARTZLER,
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee, and Mr. HIG-
GINS of Louisiana.
H.R. 309: Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. PANETTA,
and Mr. BEYER.
H.R. 330: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 339: Mr. SIRES, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. NADLER, Mr. GON-
ZALEZ of Texas, and Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H.R. 341: Mr. NEAL, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
PORTER, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. PINGREE, Mr.
CRIST, and Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 353: Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 365: Ms. ESCOBAR and Ms. MENG.
H.R. 367: Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr.
CRIST, Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. ROSE of New York, Mr.
SCHRADER, Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
COLE, Mr. JONES, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr.
COOK, Mr. WELCH, Mr. SIRES, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. YOUNG, Mr.
RICHMOND, Mr. KEATING, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. LARSEN of Washington, and Mr.
TAKANO.
H.R. 369: Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. BISHOP
of Utah, Mr. SPANO, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. CARTER of Georgia,
and Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 372: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 384: Mr. MARINO.
H.R. 385: Mr. MARINO and Mr. SMITH of Ne-
braska.
H.R. 390: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 414: Mrs. MURPHY.
H.R. 421: Ms. GABBARD and Mr. SIRES.
H.J. Res. 4: Mr. WRIGHT.
H.J. Res. 6: Mr. WALDEN.
H.J. Res. 18: Mr. LATTA and Mrs. LESKO.
H. Res. 33: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mrs.
DEMINGS, Ms. MOORE, Mr. O’HALLERAN, and
Mrs. BEATTY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:43 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00103 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA7.033 H10JAPT1
lotter
on
DSKBCFDHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S111
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, THURSDAY, JANUARY 10, 2019 No. 5
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, You are wisdom with-
out end, mercy without limits, and
strength beyond resistance. We praise
Your holy Name.
On this 19th day of the partial gov-
ernment shutdown, illumine our dark-
ness, revive our faith, and heal our
wounds. Give wisdom to our law-
makers. May they transform the jar-
ring discord of anxiety and fear into
the music of Your purposes.
Lord, help our Senators to serve our
Nation and world, unsullied by base
motives of self-interest. Pardon and
overrule what has been done
unworthily or left undone or done
amiss.
We pray in Your merciful Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH). Under the previous order,
the leadership time is reserved.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
MEASURES PLACED ON THE CAL-
ENDAR—H.R. 251, H.R. 264, AND
H.R. 269
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there are three bills at
the desk due for a second reading en
bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bills by title for
the second time.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 251) to extend by two years the
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, and for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 264) making appropriations for
financial services and general government
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes.
A bill (H.R. 269) to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
to clarify the regulatory framework with re-
spect to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved drug ap-
plication, and for other purposes.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bills on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings en bloc.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bills will be
placed on the calendar.
f
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
all week I have been outlining the hu-
manitarian and security crisis at our
Nation’s southern border. I have dis-
cussed the threats from the inflow of
drugs and criminal aliens; I have
shared career border security experts’
strong support for physical barriers;
and I have cited the empirical data
that actually backs them up. But on
day 20 of this partial government shut-
down—a shutdown that has been pro-
longed by my Democratic colleagues’
refusal to even come to the table—I
thought I might try something dif-
ferent this morning, so I brought a vis-
ual aid.
The chart right here behind me sums
up my Democratic colleagues’ past and
present positions on border security.
Over here on the left, you have a bor-
der fence made out of steel bollard at
the U.S.-Mexico border in Nogales, AZ.
Construction on this upgraded steel
slat barrier began back in 2011 at the
direction, mind you, of President
Obama’s Department of Homeland Se-
curity—this fence over here, under
President Obama, at the direction of
his Department of Homeland Security.
Just 5 years prior, Senator Obama
joined with then-Senator Hillary Clin-
ton, the current Democratic leader,
and several other Democrats and voted
to authorize 700 miles—700 miles—of
physical barriers under the Secure
Fence Act of 2006.
On the right of this chart, we have an
example of a barrier like those the new
Speaker of the House has recently de-
scribed as immoral. I would defy my
colleagues to tell me what the dif-
ference is. They are exactly identical.
So we went from the Obama adminis-
tration, when everybody was sup-
porting a wall that looked just like
this, to the Trump administration,
where now it is immoral. It is the kind
of barrier that all of a sudden the
Democrats are so opposed to that they
would rather prolong the partial gov-
ernment shutdown than agree to an ad-
ditional investment of approximately
one-tenth—one-tenth—of 1 percent of
Federal spending.
They are identical walls, exactly
alike. When President Obama was
there, they were for it. When President
Trump is there, they are not. As I said,
it is basically the same photograph
twice.
I do that to underscore the point that
the Trump administration is request-
ing funding for the same kinds of phys-
ical barriers that the Obama adminis-
tration was actually proud to build and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.000 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S112 January 10, 2019
bragged about: fencing with spaced
slats that allowed visibility, made with
reinforced steel.
They are the same kinds of barriers
that Customs and Border Protection
experts have told us actually produce
real results. You could call them walls;
you could call them fences; you could
call them steel slats, but what they
really are is effective. That is what
they are. Call them what you will, but
they are effective.
According to the Government Ac-
countability Office, after the outdated
fencing in Nogales was replaced by this
particular steel slat structure, the Bor-
der Patrol reported a significant drop
in violent encounters with illegal im-
migrants. The Border Patrol is not on
either side of this debate. They are just
giving us the facts—just the facts.
During the 2 years leading up to the
2011 construction, 376 assaults on Bor-
der Patrol agents were recorded in the
Nogales station. In the 2 years after—
after—the bollard fence went up, the
number of assaults fell to 71. That is
376 down to 71. That is a decline of 81
percent after the wall or fence or steel
slats—whatever you choose to call it.
We have seen big success in other
sectors as well. The Trump administra-
tion reports that in four border sectors
where physical barriers were recently
built or upgraded, illegal traffic
dropped by—listen to this—90 percent—
90 percent.
It is a fact that physical barriers are
effective, as Democratic Senators used
to understand perfectly well when
there was a different occupant in the
White House and, indeed, used to say
publicly. They used to say that they
are an essential ingredient in a bal-
anced strategy for securing our border.
That was then, and this is now.
So why the tale of two completely
Democratic Parties? Why does the
Speaker of the House feel compelled to
denounce as ‘‘immoral’’ the very kind
of structures that her own party lead-
ers recently praised as essential? Why
do my Democratic colleagues and why
does the Democratic leader feel the
need to prolong this partial shutdown
to avoid getting more of the same in-
vestments he used to vote for? What is
the reason for this bizarre about-face?
Well, even these very Democrats are
finding it difficult to invent a good ex-
cuse. On Tuesday, the distinguished
House majority leader, Mr. HOYER, was
asked by reporters how there is any
real daylight between border security
construction projects that Democrats
have supported in the past and the ones
they are now trying to block. Here is
what majority leader HOYER said to
those reporters. This is an honest man.
‘‘I don’t have an answer that I think is
a really good answer.’’ ‘‘I don’t have an
answer that I think is a really good an-
swer.’’ That is the majority leader of
the House of Representatives. Well, the
reason is because there isn’t a good an-
swer. There is no credible answer to
this massive flip-flop.
We all know what the real reason is.
My Democratic colleagues are oper-
ating purely on political spite directed
at the President of the United States.
Why else would they rather have a par-
tial government shutdown drag on for
nearly 3 weeks than get more of what
they used to vote for and brag about?
Why else would they plug their ears
and refuse to listen to the experts out
on the ground who do this kind of
work, like President Obama’s own
former Border Patrol Chief? Here is
what he says: ‘‘I cannot think of a le-
gitimate argument why anyone would
not support the wall as part of a multi-
layered border security issue.’’
Remember, the proposal we are talk-
ing about today would represent one-
tenth of 1 percent of Federal spending
for this year—one one-thousandth.
With a straight face, Democrats are
trying to convince the country that
the Federal Government simply cannot
reopen, that they simply cannot nego-
tiate with the President because the
sky would come crashing down if we in-
vest one one-thousandth of Federal
spending in proven border security so-
lutions—proven border security solu-
tions, by the way, that their own party
used to support and that President
Obama’s Border Patrol Chief and other
security experts continue to support.
Let’s call it what it is—a flip-flop
that is not based on principle or on evi-
dence but solely on the fact that Presi-
dent Trump is the occupant of the
White House.
So Republicans support the Presi-
dent’s commonsense request. The ex-
perts on the ground who actually risk
their own safety to secure our Nation
support it. Even the 2006 versions of
President Obama, Secretary Clinton,
and the Democratic leader would have
supported it, but today’s Democrats
now say that the same fencing and bar-
riers that were A-OK when President
Obama was in the White House are now
‘‘immoral’’—‘‘immoral’’—because
President Trump is the one making the
requests.
This is not how you make serious
policy. Partisan tantrums are no way
to govern. My Democratic colleagues
need to get serious about their respon-
sibilities, seek treatment for their
brand-new partisan allergy, seek some
treatment for their brand-new party al-
lergy to border security, sit down with
the President, and negotiate a solution
that works for everyone. That is the
only way to move the country forward.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
today is the 20th day of the Trump
shutdown. Tomorrow, it will tie the
record for the longest shutdown in
American history, and 800,000 Federal
workers will miss a paycheck—TSA
agents and Border Patrol, air traffic
controllers and food safety inspectors,
veterans, and FEMA aides, and more.
Many Federal employees—particularly,
GS–3s and GS–4s and GS–5s—live pay-
check to paycheck. Who is going to
make the next mortgage payment for
them? Who is going to put food on the
table? And what on Earth do these em-
ployees and their agencies have to do
with disagreements here over security
down on our southern border?
The President is treating these hard-
working Americans as nothing short of
leverage—pawns in his political gambit
to extract $5 billion from American
taxpayers to fund a border wall that he
promised Mexico would pay for. This is
ridiculous and cruel, and it needs to
end now—right now.
The Democratic position is very sim-
ple. Let’s separate our disagreements
over border security from the govern-
ment shutdown, reopen all the govern-
ment agencies unrelated to border se-
curity, and let’s continue to work to
resolve our differences. Do not hold all
of these workers as hostages, as pawns,
as leverage.
That is why Democrats have passed
the House legislation to reopen govern-
ment that was drafted and supported
by Senate Republicans. We Democrats
are not trying to push down the
throats of Republicans something they
don’t support or they can’t swallow.
Four of the bills in this package passed
the Senate 92 to 6. The other two came
through committee. They didn’t get to
the floor. They passed 31 to 0 and 30 to
1. There is nothing—I repeat, nothing—
contained in the legislation that Sen-
ate Republicans oppose.
So why aren’t we voting on it? Be-
cause Leader MCCONNELL is hiding be-
hind President Trump, saying he will
not bring to the floor a bill to reopen
the government unless the President
says OK.
Now, for the past 3 weeks, we have
tried to get the President to ‘‘yes.’’ We
have gone around and around and
around with the White House and made
little progress. Congressional leaders
have now been to the White House
three separate times for negotiations.
Each time, the President has been in-
transigent and uncompromising. He re-
fuses to back down from his position
that the price to reopen the govern-
ment is $5 billion of taxpayer money
for a wall that he promised Mexico
would pay for.
On multiple occasions, he has refused
our request to reopen unrelated parts
of the government and continue nego-
tiations on border security, revealing
that he is holding the American people
hostage as leverage, and he seems to
be—in his words—‘‘proud’’ of it. After
only a short time into yesterday’s
meeting, the President got up, said
‘‘bye-bye,’’ and left. Does that sound
like someone who is working to solve
this impasse?
Allies of the President pointed out
that he passed out candy to start the
meeting. With all due respect, Presi-
dent Trump, we don’t need candy. Fed-
eral workers need their paychecks.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.001 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S113
January 10, 2019
The Congress—the Senate in par-
ticular—can no longer wait for this
President to see the light of reason. We
gave it a good-faith effort. Staffers
worked over the weekend. Speaker
PELOSI and I have gone over to the
White House whenever we have been
asked, but the President is simply not
budging.
A few weeks back, we all thought
that the President, realizing he doesn’t
control the House, would come around
and support a true compromise before
hundreds of thousands of Federal work-
ers would miss their paychecks. Clear-
ly, that was wrong.
We need intervention, and Leader
MCCONNELL and Senate Republicans
have a responsibility not simply to
wait for the President but to intervene.
Leader MCCONNELL has voted for every
single one of the six appropriation bills
Democrats passed through the House.
He voted for all six of them in com-
mittee, and he voted for four of them
again on the floor, because two didn’t
get to the floor. There is nothing that
he or his party truly opposes in this
legislation.
They are refusing to vote on it be-
cause the President has bullied them
into his hostage-taking gambit. I know
that is not where most of my friends on
the other side want to be. I don’t even
believe it is where my friend Leader
MCCONNELL wants to be. Just listen to
Leader MCCONNELL from last year:
Well I’m in favor of border security. There
are some places along the border where [a
wall is] probably not the best way to secure
the border.
Here is Leader MCCONNELL in 2014:
Remember me? I am the guy that gets us
out of shutdowns . . . it’s a failed policy.
Fast-forward to today, and Leader
MCCONNELL—‘‘the guy that gets us out
of shutdowns’’—is aiding and abetting
the blockade against reopening the
government over a policy he doesn’t
fully support.
In a moment, my friends Senators
CARDIN and VAN HOLLEN will give the
Senate a chance to do the right thing
by asking this Chamber to vote on the
six appropriations bills already sup-
ported by Senate Republicans and a
short-term continuing resolution for
Homeland Security.
Frankly, even if President Trump
doesn’t support this legislation, his in-
transigence has forced our hand and
hurt America. We need to move for-
ward, and Leader MCCONNELL should
allow the vote to happen.
I yield to the Senator from Mary-
land.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, as
Leader SCHUMER has pointed out, start-
ing today, 800,000 Federal workers are
going to be missing their paychecks. In
this region, there are 140,000. Senator
VAN HOLLEN and I, representing Mary-
land, and Senators WARNER and KAINE,
representing Virginia, have made the
point of what this is going to mean for
families in our communities.
This shutdown is outrageous and dan-
gerous—caused by President Trump.
Workers are not going to be receiving
their paychecks and are going to be at
risk. Our whole country is at risk. Let
me put this in perspective, if I might.
It is like AT&T, General Motors,
Apple, Lockheed Martin, Google, and
ExxonMobil laying off their entire
workforce at one time. That is the im-
pact we have now with 800,000 workers
not receiving their paychecks. Kevin
Hassett, who is the Chair of the White
House Council of Economic Advisers,
points out that this will cause a $1.2
billion-per-week hit on our economy.
America is being held hostage by
President Trump—held hostage over
his desire to have a wall built. It is not
about border security. We have already
appropriated funds for border security,
and we are prepared to continue to pro-
tect our borders. This is about Presi-
dent Trump and his wall. We should
open government and work together
for the American people.
There are seven appropriations bills
that have not yet been acted upon.
With six of those appropriations bills,
there is no controversy. They have
nothing to do with the border wall.
They have nothing to do with home-
land security. These are six appropria-
tions bills that this body has already
acted on in one way or the other. They
include Financial Services and General
Government, Agriculture, Interior and
Environment, and Transportation-
HUD. Those four appropriations bills
passed this body by a vote of 92 to 6.
Then, there are State-Foreign Oper-
ations, which passed the Appropria-
tions Committee unanimously, and
Commerce-Justice-Science, which
passed by a vote of 30 to 1.
These six appropriations bills have
already been acted on under Repub-
lican leadership in a bipartisan manner
in this body. That is exactly what H.R.
21, which is pending before this body,
incorporates. It is not a Democratic ef-
fort; it is to reaffirm what this body
has already done and allow these six
appropriations bills to pass and for
those workers and those Agencies to be
fully operable without the hostage-tak-
ing by the President of the United
States.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—
H.R. 21
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 5, H.R. 21, mak-
ing appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019. I further ask
that the bill be considered read a third
time and passed and the motion to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The majority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
reserving the right to object, there is a
lot of important business the Senate
could be tackling. We have typically
done that during these government
shutdowns. The last thing we need to
do right now is to trade pointless—ab-
solutely pointless—show votes back
and forth across the aisle.
Just a few days ago, very recently—
not years ago—before the latest shifts
in political winds, my good friend the
Democratic leader completely agreed
with me on this. In fact, he and I made
an explicit commitment to several of
our Members on this very point. We an-
nounced it here on the floor. We agreed
that we wouldn’t waste the Senate’s
time on show votes related to govern-
ment funding until a global agreement
was reached that could pass the House,
pass the Senate, and which the Presi-
dent could sign.
Here is how the Democratic leader
himself stated his position, and re-
member, this was very recently: In
order for an agreement to be reached,
all four congressional leaders must
sign off and the President must endorse
it and say he will sign it. That is how
you make a law. Most importantly, the
President must publicly support and
say he will sign our agreement before
it gets a vote in either Chamber—be-
fore it gets a vote in either Chamber.
That was my good friend the Demo-
cratic leader just recently. I intend to
keep my word, and I intend to hold him
to his.
Yesterday, the White House made
clear that the President opposes piece-
meal appropriations that neglect bor-
der security and would veto them, so
obviously that isn’t going to become
law. This proposal flunks the Demo-
cratic leader’s own test of a few days
ago.
Look, the political stunts are not
going to get us anywhere. Senate
Democrats should stop blocking the
Senate from taking up other urgent
matters, like the pending bills con-
cerning Israel and the Syrian civil war.
In previous government shutdowns, the
Senate has done business. The Senate
hasn’t been shut down. That is what we
ought to be doing and actually at the
same time negotiate with the Presi-
dent on border security because noth-
ing else is going to get a solution.
Therefore, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, if I
could, very briefly.
I am extremely disappointed. I can
assure you, the majority leader, this is
not a show vote issue with 800,000 Fed-
eral workers being denied their pay-
checks. The last time I checked the
Constitution, we are a coequal branch
of government, and we should act as a
coequal branch of government and pass
legislation that is overwhelmingly sup-
ported by this body.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
colleagues on the Democratic side of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.002 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S114 January 10, 2019
the aisle apparently pledged to oppose
proceeding to other important bills—
we have experienced that at least to
this point—during the government
shutdown even though there is no
precedent for that.
All but four yesterday voted against
the motion to proceed to S. 1, and I am
assuming they will vote against it
again this afternoon. S. 1—the bill they
are preventing us from going to—has
wide bipartisan support and is a crit-
ical step in supporting our allies in the
Middle East and securing peace in
Syria.
I have talked to many Americans
who are intensely interested in the
Israel issues. They don’t understand
why this important legislation would
be stymied over a dispute over some-
thing entirely different.
Through the Chair, I ask Senator
CARDIN if this blockade against busi-
ness on the floor is absolute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection.
The Senator from Maryland may re-
spond.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I
might return the question and ask the
distinguished majority leader whether
his objections to reopening the govern-
ment with action we have already
taken previously is absolute. I can as-
sure the majority leader that it is my
commitment to our Federal workers
and to our country that the first order
of business here should be the reopen-
ing of government. There are other im-
portant issues we need to do that I
strongly support. I, quite frankly, do
not understand the majority leader’s
position as to why he would deny us a
vote on reopening government that
passed this body unanimously in the
past.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I say to my friend from Maryland—I
will repeat the question in a minute,
but the answer to his question to me is,
because this will not produce a result.
It has been perfectly clear that the
only way to produce this result is for
the President, the Speaker of the
House, and the minority leader to
agree, because we need votes from
Democrats both in the Senate and the
House in order to pass a measure that
the President will sign.
My question of the Senator from
Maryland was, is this blockade against
business on the floor absolute?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, of
course I would repeat my request of the
distinguished majority leader whether
his objections are absolute.
Let me just point this out. We passed
the bill that I asked unanimous con-
sent—basically that has been passed
nearly unanimously by this body—92 to
6 for these appropriations to pass. The
last time I checked the Constitution,
that is enough even for a veto override.
I don’t think anything has changed.
These bills have nothing to do—zero to
do with the Homeland Security wall
issue. Zero. So why doesn’t our distin-
guish majority leader, as the leader of
a coequal branch of government, allow
us to speak on behalf of our respon-
sibilities under article I of the Con-
stitution? Let us take our action that
we can take right now, today, at this
very moment, and pass six appropria-
tions bills where there is no con-
troversy whatsoever in this body.
Mr. MCCONNELL. As I said, Madam
President, repeatedly, it will not solve
the problem because the President has
made it clear he won’t sign it.
Let me try one more time. Does the
Senator, through the Chair—
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ate will come to order.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Can we have order
in the Senate?
Does the Senator intend to vote
against proceeding to other measures
during the government shutdown?
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. My first order of pri-
ority right now, since we can do this at
this very moment, is to reopen the gov-
ernment. It is outrageous that the gov-
ernment is closed. People’s lives are
being affected every minute. I heard
just yesterday of a layoff of another 180
jobs in my State because the Depart-
ment of Agriculture is closed. We have
an important economic development
program in Baltimore, and HUD can’t
act on the papers right now. That is
being delayed.
To me, that is something we can get
done right now. As a Senator from
Maryland, I am going to use every op-
portunity I can to reopen government
in a responsible manner. I am dis-
appointed that the majority leader is
not using the opportunity we have
right now to pass six appropriations
bills that are not in controversy.
If the majority leader could answer
for me, why are we holding up these six
bills that have nothing to do with the
central debate argument? We can put
enough votes on the board to show the
President of the United States that he
doesn’t have the support in the Senate,
and we have the votes to override his
veto. To me, that should be our first
order of business.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I think since the Senator from Mary-
land is unwilling to answer my ques-
tion, the assumption should be—and I
say this to the broad pro-Israel com-
munity in America that we all interact
with on issues related to the U.S.-
Israel relationship—the Senator is say-
ing he might well vote to proceed to
something else but not vote to proceed
to these important Israel bills and this
important Syria bill.
I want to make sure everybody un-
derstands where we are. The Senator is
refusing to answer the question as to
whether or not this blockade against
Senate business applies to everything
or just to these pro-Israel bills. So I
think the refusal to answer provides
the answer for our colleagues, and I as-
sume we can anticipate the Democrats
will try to get votes on other matters
during the government shutdown but
just not the Israel issue and the Syria
issue.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I
will express my views on issues. I don’t
need the majority leader trying to ex-
press how I will vote on future issues.
I will answer to the people of Maryland
on how I will act on issues that are up
before the Senate.
My top priority right now is to re-
open the government, and I am very
disappointed that the majority leader
will not allow us to act as a coequal
branch of government.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
would my colleague from Maryland
yield?
I will just say three words to my
friend the majority leader: Open the
government. It is in your hands.
I yield the floor.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
through the Chair, I have a question of
Senator VAN HOLLEN. He is going to
propound a consent agreement, I as-
sume.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, I think we all know the Constitu-
tion of the United States, under article
I, says the Senate and the House of the
United States are separate and coequal
branches of government with the exec-
utive branch.
We are now seeing more and more
Americans hurt every day by the gov-
ernment shutdown, Americans losing
access to services. We just saw that the
Food and Drug Administration has
stopped routine food safety inspections
of seafood. We just saw that the EPA
has halted one of the Federal Govern-
ment’s most important health activi-
ties—the inspection of Federal fac-
tories, powerplants, oil refineries,
water treatment plants. Eight hundred
thousand Federal employees are not
getting paid. Hundreds of thousands of
them are going to work every day, in-
cluding at our border, protecting our
border, not getting paid. Hundreds of
thousands more have been locked out
of work.
There is a Maryland mom who just
had to go on the internet to set up a
GoFundMe account to help pay her
son’s college tuition because they are
on a monthly installment plan. I
talked to the head of a community col-
lege in Maryland just the other day. I
went to see her, asked how things are.
The first thing she told me, her phone
had been ringing off the hook all morn-
ing because the parents of students of
the community college weren’t going
to be able to make their monthly in-
stallment payments.
Hundreds of thousands of Federal em-
ployees are one paycheck away from
not being able to pay their mortgage or
their rent, and tomorrow hundreds of
thousands of them are not going to get
a paycheck.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.004 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S115
January 10, 2019
So to the majority leader, I will just
say, we should not be contracting out
our constitutional responsibilities to
any President—certainly not a Presi-
dent who said he is proud to shut down
the Government of the United States.
There is nothing to be proud of in de-
nying important services and leaving
800,000 people without a paycheck. I
don’t think any of us should be proud
of that, and we shouldn’t be con-
tracting out our responsibilities to the
President of the United States.
We should vote on these measures we
have already voted for. Senator CARDIN
just asked us to vote on this at the
Senate desk. It has been supported in
various ways by a bipartisan majority
right here in the U.S. Senate.
I have in my hand H.J. Res. 1. This is
also on the Senate calendar. It is iden-
tical, with respect to the Department
of Homeland Security, to the measure
this Senate passed just a few weeks
ago.
Let’s reopen the Department of
Homeland Security at current funding
levels until February 8. In fact, if I re-
call, that was the majority leader’s leg-
islation. We passed it overwhelmingly
on a bipartisan vote.
The House, 1 week ago, as their first
order of business, passed this bill and
the bill Senator CARDIN asked us to
vote on.
This bill to open the Department of
Homeland Security, as we negotiate
the issue of border security—and there
is no dispute over whether we need bor-
der security. Of course we need secure
borders. The issue is over the most ef-
fective and smart way to accomplish
that.
So now this bill is right back in our
possession. It is on the calendar. The
question is, Why are our colleagues on
the Republican side refusing to allow a
vote on the very bill they proposed in
this body just a few weeks ago, and
how can you justify to the American
people that you are not going to vote
on something you yourself proposed as
the first order of business in the U.S.
Senate, when people are losing those
services, losing public safety protec-
tions, and 800,000 Federal employees
are not being paid?
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—
H.J. RES. 1
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that the
Senate proceed to the immediate con-
sideration of Calendar No. 6, H.J. Res.
1, making further continuing appro-
priations for the Department of Home-
land Security. I further ask that the
joint resolution be considered read a
third time and passed and the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. MCCONNELL. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I will not prolong
this because I know a lot of my Demo-
cratic colleagues on the floor may
want to speak, but there are two shut-
downs going on here. The first one re-
lated to the government can only be
solved with a Presidential signature,
supportive of the Speaker of the House
and supportive of at least 10 of our
Democratic colleagues—or 7 on the
other side. In other words, there has to
be a deal, an agreement.
There is a second shutdown going on
that, as far as my research can dis-
cover, is rather unprecedented. The
Senate itself is being shut down be-
cause of the refusal of our colleagues
on the other side to do business in the
Senate during this period. There is no
precedent for that. There is no reason
for that. We are all here.
The bill they are refusing to let us
get on relates to Israel, our great
friend Israel, and addresses the atroc-
ities that have been occurring in Syria.
I am having a hard time under-
standing why the Senate should be
shut down as well as the government.
We are all here. In fact, attendance
looks pretty good, and I don’t know
why we can’t process bills that the vast
majority of us support.
I had hoped to pass all of these bills
at the end of last session. We had some
last-minute objections—and I will say
on our side—and so we were unable to
do it, but the vast majority of the
Members of the Senate do want to
process these bills.
So I would hope, no matter how you
view the government shutdown, that
there is no real significant reason to
shut down the Senate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. We are clearly
not shut down. We are all here.
I would say to the majority leader, if
you go to a lot of Federal Agencies
right now, no one is there. They are
shut down. They can’t do the work of
the American people, which is why the
FDA is no longer doing important food
inspections on seafood. It is why the
EPA is not able to inspect major pol-
luters to protect the public health. We
are open.
All we are saying is, we want our
first order of business to be to also
open the eight of nine Federal Depart-
ments that have nothing to do with a
wall or border security. The EPA’s
work has nothing to do with a wall.
The work the FDA does on food inspec-
tion has nothing to do with a wall. So
pass the measures that have already
been agreed to in the U.S. Senate on a
bipartisan basis. Open those eight of
nine Departments at funding levels the
Senate supported to the end of the fis-
cal year. Then, with the Department of
Homeland Security, do exactly what
the majority leader proposed right here
and which we supported just a few
weeks ago so we can work with the
President. I mean, he walked out the
other day, but we would like to work
with the President to resolve that.
What we are saying is, we are open,
and we want to focus on the urgent
business of reopening the rest of the
Federal Government, both to provide
the American people with the services
they paid for and to make sure Federal
employees don’t go without paychecks.
I will tell you, your phones will all be
ringing off the hook tomorrow when
Federal employees begin to miss that
first paycheck. I will tell you, GS–2s,
GS–3s in the Federal Government, they
are one paycheck away from not being
able to pay their bills.
On top of that, you have small busi-
nesses all over the country—I have
heard from my Republican colleagues,
small businesses that contract with the
Federal Government, they are being
squeezed. One in the State of Mary-
land, nonprofit small business, laid off
173 people just yesterday. The Federal
contractors’ employees? They are not
coming to work. They are shut out, and
they are not getting paid.
So this is having an increasingly
harmful effect every day on people
throughout the country, and we have it
in our power today to vote on bills we
have already voted for in the U.S. Sen-
ate on a bipartisan basis to reopen.
We should not be accomplices to the
shutdown the President said he would
be proud of. We should say today, we
are proud to cast our first vote, as the
House did, to reopen the Federal Gov-
ernment and get people back to work.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Motion to Proceed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of the motion to
proceed to S. 1, which the clerk will re-
port.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (S.1) to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance provi-
sions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, now,
President Trump is right about one
thing. There is a crisis in America, and
I want the President to know I agree
with him, but I would note it is not fic-
titious hordes of illegal immigrants
crashing into our southern border.
That is nothing more than the imagi-
nary invasion of a President obsessed
with constructing a wasteful monu-
ment to himself; the obsession of a
President who, long before the Trump
shutdown, began resorting to misin-
formation and stoking fear among the
American people for political gain.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.005 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S116 January 10, 2019
There is a crisis in America, but it is
not the crisis the President wants us to
believe. It is a crisis at the kitchen
table of Americans.
Hundreds of thousands of American
families are preparing to miss their
first paycheck through no fault of their
own. These families are trying to fig-
ure out how they are going to make
ends meet, how they will pay their
mortgage or heating bills or, God for-
bid, whether they can afford both food
for their table and medicine for their
children next week. That is not fiction.
That is a real choice in America today.
That is the crisis in America.
These are the adjustments President
Trump has glibly said our country’s
public servants are ‘‘willing’’ to make
on behalf of his wasteful border wall;
incidentally, a wall the President re-
peatedly promised—gave his word—
that Mexico would pay for.
I have been privileged to be here for
a long time, but in my 44 years in the
U.S. Senate, I have never seen some-
thing so tone deaf from a President of
the United States of either party. Even
during his address to the Nation on
Tuesday night—which was more of an
exercise in data-distorting dema-
goguery than informing the American
people—President Trump refused to ac-
knowledge the real pain the Trump
shutdown is causing.
Dozens of Vermonters have contacted
my office to share how they are suf-
fering under the Trump shutdown.
These Vermonters are urging the Presi-
dent and my Republican colleagues in
the Senate to stop playing politics
with their lives and reopen the Federal
Government. These are not just people
who are Federal employees; these are
people who have contracts with the
Federal Government. These are people
who have to rely on the Federal Gov-
ernment being open.
I will give you one example. Like
many Americans affected by the
Trump shutdown, one of the
Vermonters who contacted my office is
a veteran. He spent more than two dec-
ades serving his country in the Navy.
He is now a Federal employee in charge
of more than a dozen people who are
coming to him with questions he can-
not answer.
He writes:
I have run out of words to tell the 15 em-
ployees who work for me when asked how
they are supposed to provide food, heat, and
electricity for their families here in
Vermont.
Keep in mind, the weather in
Vermont is projected to drop well
below zero this weekend with enough
snow to close down all of Washington.
This Navy veteran continues:
We are real people, with real families, and
real bills. Creditors do not ‘‘understand’’ [as
the President claimed they would]. They
want their money.
Try to explain to the bank why you
cannot pay your mortgage this month.
Go to the bank and say: Well, the
President of the United States is
throwing a tantrum, and he is holding
my paycheck hostage. Try explaining
that to the bank. Try explaining that
to your children.
Another Vermonter wrote to me ex-
pressing concern for his 88-year-old
aunt. She recently moved to a new
nursing home to be closer to the fam-
ily. Because the phones at the Treas-
ury Department are going unanswered,
approval for the transfer of his aunt’s
benefits from one facility to another
has been delayed. Thankfully, we heard
that the transfer had been approved
just this morning, but that doesn’t de-
tract from the uncertainty and the
anxiety caused for this family.
The new home allowed her to stay
while we in Washington were sorting
out this mess caused by President
Trump, but the bills are piling up, and
the delays are placing a burden on
what is a small local nursing home
that has to pay its bills, including
when it is 5 below zero.
The Vermonter said in his letter: ‘‘To
be sure, we do not believe that capitu-
lation to the Republican demand for
the Wall is the answer; yet, the toll on
the people of holding the government
hostage to such outrageous demands
must not be ignored.’’
Finally, today, let me share the story
of a Vermonter who wrote to me about
her sister. Her sister joined the U.S.
Forest Service. In the wake of the re-
cent hurricanes and typhoons, she used
a government credit card issued in her
name, following orders to travel with
the service to assist in the aftermath
of these disasters. But now the bills for
her official travel—travel she was or-
dered to take by the Federal Govern-
ment—are due. Guess what. There is no
one at the Forest Service to pay them.
She is now stuck with more than $5,500
in government bills in her name for
carrying out her duties for the Federal
Government. Now she has to pay them
or risk damaging her own financial
record.
In her letter to me, she writes:
This, though, is one very small story in a
flood of credit disasters, unpaid mortgages,
Christmas debts, anxieties, and uncertainties
among government employees affected by
the shutdown.
I’m writing you to suggest that this kind
of government shutdown should not be on
the negotiation table, because it holds out
the possibility that the suffering of the
American people can be used as political le-
verage. There are other ways.
I agree. This is just a handful of sto-
ries from my small State of Vermont.
Think of the fear and anxiety today of
American families as they sit around
the kitchen table trying to figure out
what to do when the check does not ar-
rive tomorrow. Think about the impact
this has on the talented young student
who is thinking about taking a pay cut
to work for their government out of a
sense of duty. Think about the morale
of the American people who serve this
country when the President of the
United States says that their liveli-
hoods are worth risking over his border
wall—and I say ‘‘border wall’’ on pur-
pose. If this were about border secu-
rity, the men and women who protect
our borders and patrol our coastlines
would be receiving their paychecks,
not forced to be pawns in the Presi-
dent’s political game.
Think about that. If this were really
about border security, these people
protecting us would be paid. The great
irony of the Trump shutdown is that it
has made our borders less safe, not
more safe. Today, 88 percent of the De-
partment of Homeland Security, in-
cluding 54,000 Customs and Border Pa-
trol agents are working without pay.
At our airports, where the over-
whelming majority of the ‘‘suspected
terrorists’’ President Trump’s wall is
meant to stop are actually inter-
cepted—keep that in mind. He keeps
talking about all of the suspected ter-
rorists. They are not coming across the
border. They are being stopped at the
airports. So what has happened at our
airports? More than 51,000 TSA agents
at our airports are working without
pay. Morale is so low that many just
stopped showing up for work, leading
to longer wait times and straining se-
curity measures.
(Mr. SULLIVAN assumed the Chair.)
Take another area. More than 42,000
members of our Coast Guard—and the
Coast Guard is an effective investment
in securing our borders and stopping
the flow of drugs. But 42,000 members
of our Coast Guard are working with-
out pay as I stand here today. The
Coast Guard are deployed along the
coasts of the distinguished Presiding
Officer’s State and are deployed in my
State.
What does President Trump say to
all of this? Nothing. It has been widely
reported that instead of sitting down
and negotiating with Democrats, Presi-
dent Trump simply stood up and
walked out of the room like a bully
yesterday, tweeting shortly afterwards,
‘‘bye-bye.’’
Does anybody think he hadn’t
planned to do this before he went
there? This is what you do on so-called
reality TV. Well, this is not reality TV;
this is reality. He should try to act
Presidential.
There is a real crisis in our country.
It is a crisis at the kitchen table as
families struggle over how they will
make it through the next week. It is a
crisis of morale as dedicated men and
women who serve our country debate
whether to stop serving our country
and look instead for a career where
they cannot be used as a political
pawn. It is a crisis of confidence in the
young men and women, doubting a ca-
reer in public service, and it is a crisis
of leadership when the President sim-
ply walks away so that he can send an-
other tweet. This is a crisis created by
one man, President Trump.
We have bipartisan bills before us
that could reopen the government. We
have passed them in this body before
by an overwhelming veto-proof major-
ity. Well, I would call upon our Repub-
lican leader to bring up these bipar-
tisan bills to reopen the government. It
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.007 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S117
January 10, 2019
is time for Republicans and Democrats
to join together to tell the President to
put a stop to this self-inflicted wound
on this great country, and he needs to
hear it from both Democrats and Re-
publicans. I implore Leader MCCON-
NELL: Bring up H.R. 21 and H.J. Res. 1.
Send them to the President. Send them
to the President. Show the rest of the
world that the United States is a great
country and can act like a great coun-
try, not act like a pawn in a temper
tantrum.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, first of
all, I want to thank my colleague the
Senator from Connecticut for giving
me a chance to very briefly—less than
1 minute—add my voice as well.
I echo what my friend the Senator
from Vermont has said. I want to com-
mend the leadership of my friends the
Senators from Maryland, Mr. CARDIN
and Mr. VAN HOLLEN. The Common-
wealth of Virginia is experiencing the
same kinds of challenges and crisis
that Maryland is. We have a dispropor-
tionate number of Federal employees,
and I think we underestimate what is
going to happen when these employees
don’t get their paychecks on Friday—
that coming on top of countless num-
ber of contractors. I have small busi-
ness contractors who have had to shut
down their business because they can’t
make the payroll. Even reopening the
government will not mean those busi-
nesses will come back into operation.
I simply wanted—I am sorry the ma-
jority leader is not here. The majority
leader keeps saying, you know, that we
are powerless in this body to do any-
thing, that the only way we can pass
any legislation is if the President
agrees.
I do not want to overstate the case,
but I would simply refer the majority
leader to article I, section 7, clause 2 of
our Constitution, which gives this
body, if it reaches a two-thirds vote,
the ability to override a Presidential
veto and make the legislation, which
has already passed this body by a 96 to
2 vote. If those same votes stand by the
legislation that we all agreed to before
Christmas—if it was a good idea before
Christmas to reopen the government
and continue the debate on national se-
curity on a separate path, how is it not
a good idea today, when Federal em-
ployees are going without their pay?
So the majority leader’s unwilling-
ness to allow us to vote, to have our
voices be heard—and if that vote would
in any way appear close to where this
same body voted before Christmas, we
would have a solution to this crisis. I
simply wanted to point that out.
I know the majority leader knows
our laws and knows our Constitution,
but I find it a little bit rich when he
says that we have no ability at all to
weigh in on this process and he refuses
to take any action that will not meet
with the agreement of this President.
The Constitution of the United
States gives the Senate the ability to
have their voices heard. We have al-
ready voted in margins that would well
exceed the veto requirements laid out
by the Constitution. I hope he will give
us the right to vote and let us have our
voices heard and potentially be able to
have the government of the United
States reopened.
With that, I thank my colleagues for
giving me the chance to add that small
item to the debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mi-
nority whip.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I was
happy to yield to the Senator from Vir-
ginia because I know this issue of the
government shutdown is particularly
acute in Virginia and in the State of
Maryland, but we feel it all across the
United States of America.
Just a few minutes ago, I was on the
phone with Dr. Scott Gottlieb of the
Food and Drug Administration, and I
asked him: What is the impact of the
Trump shutdown on the Food and Drug
Administration? Dr. Gottlieb was very
explicit. He said that the area that was
hardest hit was food safety.
Food safety is a responsibility that
was assumed by the Federal Govern-
ment over 100 years ago after publica-
tion of the novel ‘‘The Jungle’’ by
Upton Sinclair. We decided to create a
Federal Agency with the responsibility
of inspecting food so that people across
America would not suffer foodborne ill-
ness or worse.
We have a great Agency, and it does
a great job when it is fully funded oper-
ationally, but the fact is, over 40 mil-
lion Americans will end up with a food
illness in any given year, and over 3,000
will die. The responsibility of this
Agency is not some bureaucratic func-
tion; it is quite literally a life-and-
death responsibility.
I asked Dr. Gottlieb: What does the
government shutdown do to the Food
and Drug Administration when it
comes to food safety? He said: We have
had to suspend operations at the high-
est risk food operations.
I asked him for an illustration, and
he said: For example, the facilities
that make baby food, high-risk food in-
spection responsibilities at the FDA.
He said: We decided we had to call back
150 employees to make sure that we re-
sume inspections at these high-risk fa-
cilities, such as those that make baby
food.
Thank goodness.
He told me he has a problem. Here is
the problem. The people he is going to
call back are in the lower income cat-
egories of Federal employees. Many of
them are making a decent wage, but
only a decent wage, and, certainly,
they are not wealthy by any stretch,
nor do they have savings to turn to.
He said: I have to call back these
folks who are literally out of work be-
cause of the government shutdown—
some of whom have applied for unem-
ployment compensation—and tell them
they have to come to work. Commis-
sioner Gottlieb said: When I declare
them essential, that is the law. They
have to return to work and come here
for no pay.
We have an important responsibility
of the government, food safety, which
is now being ignored—or I should say
diminished—because of the shutdown,
and as they try to resume some part of
it, Commissioner Gottlieb has the
awful responsibility of trying to pick
those employees who will be hurt the
least if they are called back to work.
This is America. This is the U.S.A.
This is a great country, perhaps one of
the greatest in the history of the
world, and this is where we stand when
it comes to making certain that baby
food is safe for American families
across the United States. Now we have
to pick and choose those who will be
asked to come to work for nothing to
perform that function.
That is not the only area that he
mentioned. He went on to talk about
areas that are not covered by user fees.
You see, some of the pharmaceutical
companies and medical device compa-
nies actually pay for inspections. As
long as user fees are coming in, the in-
spections continue. But it doesn’t
apply to every aspect when it comes to
medicine. For example, when it comes
to compounding medicines, which is
done at the State level, primarily, the
Federal Government has a responsi-
bility in some areas to make sure that
those medicines are safe. Do you recall
a few years ago, in the State of Massa-
chusetts, when the compounding stand-
ards were lax and innocent people died
because the injections they were given
were not sterile? Those are exactly the
responsibilities of the Food and Drug
Administration. They are the respon-
sibilities that are not being met as
they are supposed to be met today be-
cause of this government shutdown.
If you think this is just about a lot of
bureaucrats who are not showing up to
work and are sitting by some swim-
ming pool, you are dead wrong. These
are people who are doing important
things for America and keeping us safe
in the process.
There is also one other thing I want
to mention to you. If you are in the
midst of a clinical trial to approve a
new drug—an important drug for some-
one whose life depends on it—the clin-
ical trials continue through the gov-
ernment shutdown. But if you com-
pleted your trials and you want to
make an application to sell this drug in
America, you are stopped cold by this
government shutdown. Commissioner
Gottlieb says we can’t processes these.
Those potential lifesaving drugs have
to sit on the shelf because of the gov-
ernment shutdown, which this Presi-
dent has proudly declared he believes is
in the best interest of America. Tell
that to the families who are waiting
for that drug. Tell that to the people
who labored for years to get it ready
for market—that they just have to
wait until the President is ready to
move.
I was there yesterday. I was at the
meeting of the leaders with the Presi-
dent, Vice President, and members of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.008 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S118 January 10, 2019
his Cabinet. It was not a long meeting.
I think it lasted 17 minutes. The Presi-
dent came in and distributed candy
bars to the people who were in attend-
ance, and then started his speech. It
basically came down to this: Unless
you are prepared to give me this wall,
I will keep the government shut down.
That is what he said. When we made it
clear that the government shutdown
should not be a bargaining chip in this
process, the President stood up after 17
minutes, and said: This is a total
waste, turned, and, in a fit of pique,
left the room. To me, that was a sad
moment in the history of this country,
when the Chief Executive of the U.S.
Government, a man who was elected to
manage and lead our government, has
voluntarily shut down important and
critical functions of that government
for a political purpose. He is not serv-
ing the American people as he was
elected to serve.
The victims, of course, will not be
the President and his family, nor many
of the people who were in that room. It
will be the 800,000 Federal employees
who are victims of the shutdown. It
will be half of them who are showing
up for work today with no pay and will
not receive a paycheck over the week-
end.
Many of us will travel home over the
weekend and go through an airport. We
will go through the TSA inspection, as
all passengers do, to make sure we
travel safely on airplanes. It is tough
to look those TSA agents in the eye be-
cause we know what is happening.
Many of them, barely making enough
money to get by—paycheck to pay-
check—will not receive a paycheck this
weekend. I called a group of them to-
gether at the O’Hare Airport on Tues-
day. We held a press conference. I
asked them to explain what this means
to you. They talked about being unable
to come up with the money to pay for
gasoline to drive back and forth to
work 39 miles each way. They talked
about the difficulties the families are
going to face when it comes to daycare
for their children. What are they going
to do with their kids if they are coming
to work for no pay and they can’t pay
the daycare service? For those who
have mortgage and rental payments,
some real consequences can follow. If
you fail to make that mortgage pay-
ment on a timely basis, you may face
an increase on the interest rate on
your mortgage, and you may even face
a downgrade on your credit rating.
That is the real world for people who
don’t live in the White House. That is
the real world for the victims of this
prideful shutdown, which President
Trump believes is in the best interest
of this country. He is wrong. It is in
the best interest of this country to
open this government. It is in the best
interest of Democrats and Republicans
to sit down together and work out our
differences when it comes to border se-
curity. We are all dedicated to border
security. We just see it differently. We
have to find middle ground to come to
a conclusion on this important issue.
The last point I want to make is this.
I am concerned that the majority lead-
er—the Republican leader, Senator
MCCONNELL—has made it clear that he
is waiting for a permission slip from
President Trump to be the leader of the
Senate. We are a separate and proud
branch of government. We are given
authority under this Constitution
which the President does not have. We
do not wait for a permission slip from
him to exercise that constitutional au-
thority. The votes to pass these appro-
priations bills, I believe, are on the
floor of the Senate today, and that is
what has led Senator MCCONNELL to
the conclusion that he wouldn’t dare
call the bill. I think there are enough
Republican Senators who have spoken
to me privately who are ready to step
forward and say: End this mindless
shutdown. They are ready to vote for
the spending bills. Will it reach 67 to
override a Presidential veto? It just
might do that. But let’s test it by
being the Senate under the Constitu-
tion, not by waiting for a permission
slip from President Trump to exercise
the constitutional responsibilities
which each of us swore to uphold when
we became Members of this important
body.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
the Senator from Illinois is absolutely
right. The votes are there to pass these
six bills. The majority leader, in effect,
is acting as a buffer for the President.
He is not serving this body because he
knows that his own Members would
vote for it and vote to reopen the gov-
ernment. That is because they are
hearing the American people tell them,
as they are telling us: Reopen the gov-
ernment.
That was the message that Senator
SCHUMER delivered. It is simple, direct,
and it is true. The American people
want the government reopened. They
know we have disagreements all the
time. We disagree about policy and pol-
itics, proposals and legislation, but we
don’t shut down the government sim-
ply because we disagree. The govern-
ment continues to do its work and
serve the American people even as we
have disagreements.
Our friends on the other side, the Re-
publican leadership, are complicit in
this shutdown by refusing to permit us
to do our duty and our work, which is
to consider and pass legislation that
will keep the government serving the
people of the United States. If the
President vetoes those bills, there may
well be enough votes here to override
them. That is our job as well.
The reason the American people want
us to reopen the government is that
they know the crisis here is one that
Donald Trump has made himself. It is a
manufactured crisis involving dedi-
cated public servants who are missing
paychecks, taxpayers denied critical
government services, economic hard-
ship for small businesses, and low-in-
come Americans. It is a crisis that is
spreading.
It is not a crisis at the border in se-
curity that the President, supposedly,
is witnessing as we speak here. There is
a humanitarian crisis at the border,
which is also of Donald Trump’s mak-
ing, but the broader crisis throughout
this country will affect our economy,
our education system, our transpor-
tation, and the real security of this
country, which is our ability to help
each other.
I have looked at those folks in the
face, most recently the day before yes-
terday, at Foodshare, our food bank in
Connecticut, which will soon be unable
to meet the challenges and needs of the
food insecure in Connecticut because
the Commodities Distribution Program
will be crippled. Their cost and trans-
portation and storage will be over-
whelming and unmet. Children and sen-
iors will begin to go hungry because
their reserves will be exhausted by the
end of this month.
I have spoken to the Coast Guard
members who will be unpaid. Alone
among our military services—unfairly,
unfortunately, unacceptably—they will
be unpaid. We know in Connecticut the
value of our Coast Guard as a military
branch of our government. We are
home, proudly, to the Coast Guard
Academy, with over 2,000 Active-Duty
servicemembers, cadets, and civilian
employees who are feeling the direct
effect of this Trump shutdown.
In reality, it is a Trump lockout, not
a shutdown. He is locking out so many
dedicated workers of our Federal Gov-
ernment. But the Coast Guard is con-
tinuing to work. It is the only branch
of the military that isn’t guaranteed
pay during this Trump shutdown be-
cause, by a quirk of history, it is now
part of the Department of Homeland
Security, not the Pentagon. These Ac-
tive-Duty Coast Guard members based
in New Haven and New London and
across the country are continuing to
protect our Nation’s security, con-
tinuing to rescue Americans at sea,
continuing to interdict drugs that
threaten our Nation, and they are
going unpaid.
That is why a bipartisan group of
Senators—and I want to thank Sen-
ators THUNE, CANTWELL, and others—
have introduced legislation to pay
them during this Trump shutdown and
any other shutdown going forward. I
call on the Senate leadership to imme-
diately approve this bill and allow it
for a vote. Our military members in
the Coast Guard deserve better, but so
do all of the homeowners of this Nation
who are seeking mortgages and must
put those efforts on hold, so do the
community development block grant
projects that create jobs and economic
growth, and so do law enforcement, es-
sential to our security, who are going
untrained.
Food safety inspections have been
suspended. Housing safety inspections,
like the ones at Barbour Garden in
Connecticut and Infield apartments,
have stalled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.010 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S119
January 10, 2019
Breweries, like many in Con-
necticut—and I am hoping to visit a
number tomorrow—are unable to de-
liver their products to market and onto
store shelves.
The National Parks have been left
unsupervised.
Last week, the Hartford Courant
highlighted the story of Bryan
Krampovitis. He is a resident of West
Haven and an air traffic controller at
Bradley International Airport. A num-
ber of traffic controllers are here in
Washington, DC, and they will be out-
side this building later today. He is
continuing the work, but he told the
Hartford Courant:
I’m a single father of my daughter, and she
relies on me to be her sole provider. I have a
home and mortgage. It’s a hard time to be
in. I’m forced to continue to go to work or
face the possibility of losing my job.
If the Federal Government is still
closed at the time of his next scheduled
pay, he will receive ‘‘a zero dollar pay-
check.’’
Like him, so many of these Federal
workers are living paycheck to pay-
check, and they will be without that
paycheck. The effect, though, will be
on Americans as a whole.
The President continues to divide us
with rhetoric that is distorted and divi-
sive, with misleading, malign men-
dacity. I am reminded of the sign I saw
on TV: ‘‘Stop truth decay.’’ The Presi-
dent should stop truth decay as he vis-
its the border today. He should recog-
nize that there is no crisis, insecurity
at the border; that it is manufactured
by him. The idea that drugs are im-
ported across the border is correct, but
it is at the ports of entry. The idea
that terrorists are coming across the
border is factually absurd. In fact, the
3,700 figure the President broached has
been completely debunked. The idea
that the wall will be effective or prac-
tical has been abandoned by members
of his own administration who have
recognized that a wall from sea to shin-
ing sea is simply impossible and im-
practical.
So we are left with a vanity prob-
lem—an applause line in the Presi-
dent’s campaign—that has become a
wall to progress. It is a wall to progress
only in the President’s mind, as every-
body in this body knows there is a path
forward to reopen the government.
That is what the American people
want—to reopen the government, to
adopt the bills that are necessary for
these agencies to go back to work, and
to reopen the Department of Homeland
Security as well while we debate those
disagreements we have and do our jobs.
The Congress must do its job and
send to the President the bills that are
necessary to reopen the government
and save America from this manufac-
tured, unnecessary, unacceptable crisis
that has come to us and our country
from 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Mr. President,
many Federal workers in Nevada and
across this country will miss their first
paychecks tomorrow due to this shut-
down. Our President’s govern-by-chaos
approach has pulled the rug out from
hundreds of thousands of Federal work-
ers and contractors across the country
who are currently furloughed or who
are being forced to work without pay,
including over 3,000 of them in my
home State of Nevada. It is outrageous.
I have heard from many Federal
workers in Nevada who didn’t sign up
to live in constant fear that their pay-
checks would be held for political gain.
They didn’t sign up to wonder if they
will be able to pay their rent on time,
cover childcare costs for their young
children, or put food on the tables for
their families. They certainly didn’t
sign up to be used as pawns in this
President’s political game. They signed
up to serve the American people, and
they deserve the certainty of a func-
tioning government and steady pay-
checks. Instead, hard-working Nevad-
ans are writing and calling me to say
they are worried about paying their
bills, supporting their children, and
keeping up with their mortgage pay-
ments.
One Nevadan who is currently work-
ing without pay told me he and his col-
leagues are struggling to pay for the
gas to drive to their unpaid jobs.
Another Nevadan is a mother who
told me that her son, who is newly en-
listed in the U.S. Coast Guard, is now
facing eviction just 1 month after re-
porting for duty.
A Las Vegas government contractor
who is working to help the Department
of Justice reduce its immigration court
case backlog told me how discouraged
he and his colleagues are that this
shutdown is hurting the very people
who are trying to help fix our immigra-
tion system.
Nevada’s veterans, park rangers, and
TSA agents have also all contacted my
office and asked for an end to this
senseless shutdown so they can con-
tinue to provide for themselves and
their families.
This is one of the major impacts on
Nevada, but it is not the only major
disruption we are seeing.
At our national parks and monu-
ments, there is overflowing trash,
which threatens the wildlife and public
safety because the park rangers and
maintenance staff have been fur-
loughed.
In Nevada’s Tribal communities,
lapses in funding threaten to close the
doors of health clinics, food pantries,
and childcare centers.
The Small Business Administration
has stopped processing loans that help
Nevada’s small businesses and job cre-
ators thrive. Over 7,850 Nevada seniors
who are enrolled in nutritional food
programs and over 437,000 Nevadans
who receive SNAP benefits are at risk
of losing access to the food assistance
that keeps them and their families
healthy.
Real people, families, and commu-
nities are hurting. These are the people
who do an honest day’s work. They do
an honest day’s work, and they expect
steady paychecks and a government to
be led by a President who cares about
their needs and their families’ safety.
The solution to this is simple. Re-
open the government and stop holding
Federal workers hostage for political
gain. They are not leverage. These are
hard-working people who are com-
mitted to going to work every single
day, if that is what they are told to do,
to make sure our services run and that
we are protected, for they are standing
guard even though they are not getting
paid.
As we go on about our day, I ask
every single one of us, if you see them,
to thank them. They are actually
going to work and are not getting paid
and can’t pay their rent. For those who
are furloughed and staying home, they
are still struggling in the same way.
That is why I support what my col-
leagues have done in introducing legis-
lation that provides the backpay that
will be necessary to protect these fami-
lies and make sure they get paid, legis-
lation so we may look out for them and
ensure that their credit does not get
dinged because of a government shut-
down they had no control over. Don’t
forget, there are going to be thousands
of workers out there who will never get
paid because they are contract work-
ers, and we should be doing everything
in this Congress to ensure that they
are getting the support they need. Peo-
ple are having to look for second jobs,
and some can’t even look for second
jobs because the Federal jobs they have
don’t even allow them to look for sec-
ond jobs.
This is outrageous. This whole proc-
ess is outrageous. There is a simple an-
swer to all of this, and we know it. It
is doing our jobs. I came to this Con-
gress as a U.S. Senator. I believe in ar-
ticle I. I believe we are a coequal
branch of government. We should not
be abdicating to the executive branch.
We should be doing our jobs. We know
we can pass legislation that opens this
government. We have already done it.
We did it in the last session of Con-
gress. There are many, in a bipartisan
way, who want to do this. Let’s just do
our jobs. Let’s show the rest of the
country that this branch of govern-
ment can govern and protect everyone.
It is very simple because I know, if
we were to get together, pass these
bills, and send them over to the Presi-
dent, then he would make his decision.
If he were to decide to veto it, then we
would override that veto. That is the
process. That is the process our Found-
ers and our Framers set up so no one
branch of government could control. I
hate to see the leadership here abdi-
cating our role to another branch of
government.
It is time for us to come together.
Let’s open this government. Let’s do it
now, and let’s show these Federal
workers they are not political pawns,
that they are not leverage. Let’s show
them the respect and dignity they de-
serve.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.011 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S120 January 10, 2019
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to discuss the ways
in which this pointless shutdown has
done real harm to American workers
and families. I appreciate the words of
my colleague from Nevada as she ex-
plained how devastating this has been
in her State.
We are now in day 20, and the stories
are flooding in, in the calls to my of-
fice, as to how this political games-
manship from the White House is
harming the American people.
The Washington Post estimates that
6,100 Federal workers in Minnesota
have been affected by the shutdown.
This includes 1,700 who work for the
Department of Agriculture—right when
the farm bill has passed. We have many
small dairy farmers in Minnesota for
whom we had worked so hard to get
this bill passed. Now they need to un-
derstand it, and they need to figure out
what programs to sign up for, but they
have no one to talk to. These aren’t big
milking operations. These are places
with a couple of dozen cows, with 50
cows, and they have no one to talk to.
As I said, the Washington Post has
cited 6,100 Federal workers. Some of
these employees are furloughed and are
forced to stay away from work. Others
are forced to work without pay. Here
are a few of their stories.
Sandy Parr works as a food service
supervisor and nurse at the Federal
Medical Center Rochester in Rochester,
MN. She has been asked to work 60-
hour shifts during the shutdown and to
fill in for dozens of absent colleagues—
all without being paid. She told one of
our newspapers that she may soon be
forced to choose between groceries and
medication for her 14-year-old son who
has autism.
Celia Hahn is a transportation secu-
rity officer at our airport, the Min-
neapolis-St. Paul International Air-
port. It is a major airport, a hub. She
told our local newspaper that she has
canceled her plans to sign up her twin
9-year-old boys for a soccer clinic. If
the shutdown drags on, she will have to
call her mortgage lender to negotiate
payments, which is a step many of her
colleagues have already had to take.
It goes from the small—a soccer
signup that might not seem that im-
portant, but anyone who is a parent
knows it is a really important thing for
kids—to the big, are you going to be
able to afford your house? Then it goes
to the even bigger as you look at a
major airport that has lines and people
who are working without pay and
where you have law enforcement on the
frontline, whether it is Homeland Secu-
rity or whether they are FBI agents
who are going to be working without
pay.
Of course, my State is by no means
unique in being hurt by this shutdown.
I have heard the stories from so many
of my colleagues.
Senator KAINE told us about Alan, a
veteran and civil servant in Yorktown.
He has had to work without pay since
the shutdown began. His emergency
savings are exhausted, and he is behind
in his bills.
Senator DURBIN of Illinois talked
about a Transportation Security Ad-
ministration worker, a TSA worker,
who fears the impact of missing a
mortgage or a rent payment. The man
told the Senator that if he can’t make
one of those payments on time, it will
hurt his credit rating, which could af-
fect the interest rates he will pay on
loans and mortgages for the rest of his
life.
These are real people with real-world
problems.
Senator HEINRICH of New Mexico told
the story of Nicholas, a firefighter. If
the shutdown isn’t resolved, he told the
Senator, he will not be able to support
his family.
On Tuesday night, I joined Senator
SHAHEEN, who talked about how fur-
loughs have slowed down the work at
the Office of National Drug Control
Policy and about how the continued
delays in funding will pull the rug out
from first responders who rely on this
funding.
Senator WARNER of Virginia talked
about the shutdown’s impact on Fed-
eral contractors, including custodians,
cafeteria workers, and security guards
who work as Federal contractors who
will never see backpay for the shut-
down unless we do something about it.
This is what is happening.
The public IRS office is closed. That
is in my State. A woman is trying to
make a payment for taxes due and is
concerned about the interest and pen-
alties because of the time it will take
to process her payment by mail.
The Neighborhood Development Cen-
ter in St. Paul, MN, a community lend-
er, has two projects awaiting construc-
tion funding from the SBA, the Small
Business Administration. That is shut-
down.
A young man needs his tax tran-
scripts for a late enrollment in college.
With the IRS not providing this serv-
ice, he will not be able to attend the
first day of his classes.
A woman who was the victim of iden-
tity theft in my State was trying to re-
port it to the IRS but to no avail.
These are basic services that our con-
stituents are being forced to go with-
out. These are promises we made to our
constituents and to the men and
women who serve the public as Federal
employees. It is time for the President
to end this pointless shutdown and re-
open the government.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Louisiana.
THE MIDDLE EAST
Mr. KENNEDY. Mr. President, I want
to talk for a few minutes today about
America’s foreign policy, I want to
talk about interests, and I want to talk
about values.
As you know, Congress is about to
consider our foreign policy priorities in
the Middle East. As we do that, I want
to draw attention to some of our most
vital allies in the Middle East. These
allies have stood by America and we
have stood by them for decades,
through thick and thin. As a result,
American interests in the Middle East
have been protected, and their people
have been protected as well. I am talk-
ing about the Syrian Kurds. I am talk-
ing about Israel. I am talking about
Jordan.
In my judgment, America must now
stand by the Syrian Kurds, Israel, and
Jordan—all of whom have paid a heavy
price for the destabilization in Syria
over the past 5 years—to make sure
that this fight stays won.
Once the Senate turns our attention
to S. 1—and we will eventually—I plan
to offer an amendment to S. 1 that will
allow the U.S military to defend the
Kurds in Syria, if need be. It would
give the President the authority to use
the U.S. Armed Forces as he deems fit
to keep our promise and to protect our
allies. That is all my amendment
would do. It wouldn’t require anything,
but it would give the President of the
United States the authority to protect
one of our allies in the Middle East—
the Syrian Kurds—because, after all,
the Kurds contributed mightily to the
fight against ISIS, and we owe them.
We owe them some peace of mind as we
draw down our presence in the region.
The Kurdish-led Syrian Democratic
Forces—better known as SDF—have
been another set of boots on the ground
in our fight against ISIS. In the words
of former Secretary Mattis, Kurdish
fighters ‘‘shredded’’ ISIS. We couldn’t
have done it without them. With the
help of coalition supplies, weapons, and
airstrikes, the SDF—the Syrian
Kurds—have been able to recapture
large parts of both northern Syria and
eastern Syria from ISIS’s iron grip.
That is just a fact. Four years ago,
there were nearly 100,000 ISIS fighters.
Thanks to our Kurdish allies and oth-
ers, including American blood and
treasure, those numbers have now
dwindled to just 5,000.
Today, ISIS has surrendered 99 per-
cent of its territory. Let me say that
again. Today, ISIS has surrendered 99
percent of its territory, including its
former capital of Raqqa. To put that
accomplishment in perspective, in Jan-
uary 2015, ISIS controlled more than
34,000 square miles of Syria and Iraq.
Thirty-four thousand square miles of
Syria and Iraq was ISIS-controlled ter-
ritory. The world looks a lot different
today. Less than 3 weeks ago, the so-
called caliphate—the ISIS caliphate—
withdrew from their last major urban
stronghold in Syria. They are now
being held to a small sliver of territory
on the eastern border with Iraq, near
the Euphrates River.
I think it is plain to see that the Syr-
ian Kurds have been indispensable in
our fight against the Islamic State.
Today, the SDF—the Syrian Kurds—
control nearly a quarter of Syria. That
land no longer belongs to ISIS. That
land is being lived in peacefully by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.013 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S121
January 10, 2019
Syrian Kurds. It doesn’t belong to Rus-
sia, and it doesn’t belong to Iran. It is
land where the Kurds know they will
be free from persecution and slaughter.
There are 30 million Kurds in the
world, as the Presiding Officer well
knows. They are living in Iraq, Iran,
Syria, and Turkey. In each country,
the Syrian Kurds have been subjected
to discrimination, massacres, forced
relocation, and countless other human
rights violations.
The Kurdish people are one of the
largest, if not the largest ethnic minor-
ity in the world that doesn’t have a
state or a country to call its own. After
World War I, when Western interests
carved up the Middle East, the Kurds
were left without a state, despite Presi-
dent Woodrow Wilson’s argument that
this would be—and indeed is—unfair.
The truth is that the Kurds in the
world today, no matter where they are,
are not completely safe anywhere. The
Turkish Defense Minister made that
clear just this last December when he
said that when the time comes—when
the time comes, the Turkish Defense
Minister said, the Kurds ‘‘will be bur-
ied in the ditches they dug. No one
should doubt this.’’ That is a direct
quote.
Just last week, Secretary of State
Pompeo said that ‘‘ensuring that the
Turks don’t slaughter the Kurds [and]
the protection of religious minorities
there in Syria’’ are ‘‘still part of the
American mission set.’’ Secretary
Pompeo is a wise man.
Our troops there in the region who
stand beside our Kurdish friends do
more than simply offer supplies and
logistical support to the Kurds; they
are a visible sign of our solidarity in
the fight against Islamic terrorism.
Without assurances of our support, the
Kurds will be left to fend for them-
selves. Without the Kurds, we cannot
be certain who will step in to fill the
power vacuum in the areas of Syria
that they currently control. We just
cannot. We can only guess, and the an-
swers aren’t good.
The threat of U.S. military force has
been a major deterrent for the reemer-
gence of jihadists like ISIS and al-
Qaida. We know that. Our presence has
held back Assad, Turkey, Russia, and
Iran from gaining stronger footholds in
the area. If the Kurds are vulnerable to
attack from Turkey or Syrian rebels, I
fear they may turn to our enemies for
protection. Even if the Kurds didn’t,
they can’t fight off Turkish troops and
pursue the remnants of ISIS at the
same time. For America to abandon
the Kurds in Syria now would com-
promise the security of our allies,
would compromise the security of
Israel and Jordan, and would risk ex-
posing the region to more turmoil.
I think it was the late, great Ambas-
sador George Kennan, writing, of
course, during the Cold War, who said:
‘‘If the policies and actions of the U.S.
government are to be made to conform
to moral standards’’—not self-interest,
to moral standards—‘‘those standards
are going to have to be America’s own,
founded on traditional American prin-
ciples of justice and propriety.’’ The
Ambassador was correct.
As I read his words, as I have read his
words, and as I have studied his words,
I thought long and hard about what he
meant by ‘‘American principles of jus-
tice and propriety.’’ If justice is get-
ting what you deserve, as C.S. Lewis
said, and propriety is doing what is
right, as I think most of us believe,
then we should give the President the
authority to protect the Kurdish peo-
ple. That is what my amendment would
do. We have to do it because they are
our friends. We also have to do it be-
cause it is the right thing to do for
America’s interests and for the Middle
East peace process.
Once we take up the bill, I want to
urge my colleagues in the Senate to
consider my amendment and to help
me make sure that American foreign
policy continues to have that impor-
tant moral component. Standing with
our friends in the face of evil despots
and dictators is just as important
today as it was during the Cold War.
I understand President Trump’s deci-
sion with respect to Syria. I under-
stand his concern about mission creep.
I understand his concern about Amer-
ica’s failure in our efforts at nation
building. I think all of the American
people are frustrated with the Middle
East. All of us want a prosperous
America, but all of us in America want
a prosperous world. And we have been
disappointed time and again by totali-
tarian governments in the Middle East.
I don’t want any of my remarks
today to be construed as critical of the
President’s decision with respect to
Syria. Frankly, I don’t know whether
he is right. I am still listening to both
sides. I know this: American foreign
policy never has been and never should
be based solely on self-interest. Cer-
tainly, self-interest is part of it, but
American foreign policy also has to
have a moral component. Morality in
this case dictates that if we withdraw
from Syria, we do not allow our Kurd-
ish allies in Syria to be butchered and
gutted like a fish.
Thank you.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
FISCHER). The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. SMITH. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Ms. SMITH. Madam President, today
and for the last 19 days, men and
women across the country are being
hurt by a government shutdown that
President Trump said he was proud to
cause for the wall. I rise today on be-
half of Minnesotans, on behalf of more
than 4,790 hard-working Federal em-
ployees and low-wage contractors
going without pay in Minnesota right
now, and I rise today on behalf of the
taxpayers of our country who just want
the government to work for them.
Since I became a Senator, just a lit-
tle over a year ago, the government
has been closed three times over the
President’s obsession with building an
expensive, ineffective wall on our
southern border. I am all for border se-
curity, but we need to focus on real so-
lutions, not symbols.
So let us start with the facts. In my
home State of Minnesota, the Federal
Government employs about 32,000 peo-
ple as food safety inspectors, prison
guards, postal workers, and more. Of
this total number, the Center for
American Progress estimates that 4,790
people are impacted by the shutdown
today in Minnesota and are furloughed
or working without pay. Over 750 of
these workers have already filed for
unemployment benefits, and hundreds
more are being forced to make tough
decisions about how to cover basic ex-
penses, feed their children, and take
care of their families.
A couple of days ago, I asked Min-
nesotans how they are being hurt by
this shutdown because I wanted to un-
derstand how this is affecting people in
their everyday lives. In just the last 48
hours, I have heard from Minnesota
farmers who can’t cash checks because
the Farm Service Agency offices are
shut down and Tribal law enforcement
officers who are working without pay.
I have heard from air traffic control-
lers in Minnesota who came by my of-
fice earlier this week with dozens of
handwritten letters full of stories. The
letters I am about to read come from
these air traffic controllers, and I real-
ly want to thank them for sharing
their stories. These are public servants
who have dedicated their careers to
making our airports safe.
Tomorrow, January 11, marks the
first day when these folks—Americans
who show up at work every day to pro-
tect us—will miss their first paycheck.
What is going to happen to these fami-
lies? How will they be able to cover
their credit card bills, their childcare
payments, their mortgages? These are
the questions that are keeping them up
at night.
I wanted to share some of their sto-
ries with you today so that those of us
in Congress and the President can keep
these people uppermost in our minds
and the human impact of what is a
wasteful and increasingly harmful
shutdown.
The first story comes from Michael,
in Rochester, MN. Michael writes:
My wife stays at home to care for our 3
year old daughter. She is also currently ob-
taining a master’s degree in education so she
can be a teacher when our daughter finally
goes to school.
I am the sole income in my home. Needless
to say, the prospect of not receiving a pay-
check in a week has us wondering how we
will make mortgage payments, buy food, etc.
We are more fortunate than some of my co-
workers, however. Many of them are won-
dering how they will pay for day care while
they continue to go to work as unpaid, essen-
tial employees.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.015 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S122 January 10, 2019
The next letter is from Jonathan,
from Lino Lakes, MN. This is what
Jonathan wrote:
For the last two weeks, air traffic control-
lers have remained on the job, dedicated to
the safety of every flight. But we don’t know
when we will receive our next paycheck. My
wife is due with our fourth child in two
weeks and this uncertainty only adds to an
already stressful situation.
Here is another one from Mike, from
Minnetonka, MN. He is describing the
impact of the shutdown on his family’s
future.
I am a father to twin four-year-old boys
(Jax and Finn) and had to close their college
fund account in order to pay bills through
the end of the month. The shutdown has also
prevented me from training and certifying
on my last few positions to receive a $5,000
pay raise. These hardships are going to affect
my family for years to come. The replenish-
ment of my boys’ college fund alone could
take years as a single income family.
Mike goes on to say:
This is going to have a lasting negative im-
pact on me and my family. Please help stop
the shutdown to lessen the already great im-
pact it has had on me and my family. My
kids’ future and our current financial hard-
ship depends on it.
Next is Christopher, from Dundas,
MN. He writes:
As a cancer survivor, I have a huge stack
of medical bills on structured and negotiated
payments. My colleagues and I have suffered
the sudden loss of our income due to this
shut down. It will be very hard to meet all of
my financial obligations.
Finally, I want to share this really
heartbreaking note that I received
from a brand-new father, Joe, from
Lakeville, MN. Joe enclosed two photos
of his beautiful brand-new baby boy,
Oliver. Here is a picture of Oliver. This
is the picture Joe sent to me. This is
what he wrote:
This is a picture of my son, Oliver. He was
born on New Year’s Eve, 10 weeks early. The
only local hospital to take babies born before
32 weeks is not in network for our insurance.
I cannot change our insurance with this
qualifying life event because those govern-
ment services are closed due to the shut-
down.
Further, because there is no paid leave
during a shutdown, I am spending my days in
the NICU on unpaid furlough status. I don’t
know when I’ll be able to change my insur-
ance, or when I’ll get paid again. I take sol-
ace in what matters most: Oliver is getting
a little stronger and a little closer to home
every day.
Joe closed by saying:
Please do what you can to reopen the gov-
ernment and leave us with one less worry.
President Trump and my Republican
colleagues, listen to these stories and
think about the consequences of this
reckless and increasingly harmful
shutdown.
The Senate could put an end to this
right now. We could take up and pass
the bipartisan bills passed by the
House—bills that have already passed
the Senate, bills that would help baby
Oliver and his dad Joe and the hun-
dreds of thousands of other people
around the country who never asked
and don’t deserve to be pawns in this
fight. It is our job to do this.
Colleagues, we can do this. I don’t
just sit in this Chamber and say wheth-
er my vote is what the President wants
me to do. I think about what Minneso-
tans want me to do. We must reopen
government.
I know, colleagues, that each of you
has thousands of families with stories
like this in your State and I know that
you are hearing them. Let’s resolve
this. Let’s end this shutdown now and
not let American families down.
To the Minnesotans who are speaking
up and sharing your stories, I want to
thank you, and I want to tell you to
keep it up. You deserve to be heard by
our President, and you deserve a gov-
ernment that works for you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority whip.
Mr. THUNE. Madam President, yes-
terday President Trump and Repub-
lican leaders once again tried to sit
down with Democrats to break the im-
passe over border security funding and
fully reopen the government. Yet,
again, Democrats proved unwilling to
offer any serious solution or agree to
work with the President in any way.
When the President asked Speaker
PELOSI yesterday if she would be will-
ing to commit to funding the border
wall if the government was reopened,
she said no—no.
Democrats are saying that we need
to end this partial shutdown and re-
open the Federal Government. I com-
pletely agree with that, but it is Demo-
crats who are standing in the way of
that happening. Instead of seriously
trying to resolve this shutdown, they
are holding show votes in the House
and trying to score political points.
The administration made an offer on
Sunday. Yet 4 days later, Democrats
have yet to respond. If they really
want to reopen the government, they
will sit down and negotiate in good
faith with the President to arrive at a
solution that both parties can support
and that the President will sign.
I have to ask: When did securing our
borders become immoral?
It used to be that Members of both
parties recognized that border security
was a basic obligation of our govern-
ment and that we had a duty to ensure
that our borders were protected and
that dangerous individuals or goods
were not entering our country, but ap-
parently—apparently—Democrats
don’t agree with that anymore.
According to Speaker PELOSI, build-
ing barriers to protect our border is
‘‘immoral.’’ That is right—‘‘immoral.’’
According to the Speaker of the House,
protecting our border with barriers to
prevent illegal entry is ‘‘immoral.’’
Contrary to what Democrats would
like people to believe, border security
isn’t an issue dreamed up by hard-
hearted Republicans to oppress various
groups of people. Border security is a
national security imperative—some-
thing that both parties recognized,
until recently. No country can be se-
cure if dangerous individuals can creep
across its borders unchecked and
unobserved.
Democrats talk about border barriers
as if they are meant to prevent anyone
from entering our country. That is just
false. America is a land of immigrants,
and we will always welcome new faces
to America with open arms. In fact, I,
like many others in this Chamber, am
the grandson of immigrants who came
through Ellis Island. My grandparents
obviously came and settled in South
Dakota, but we have to make sure that
individuals who are coming to this
country are coming here legally and
that we know who they are and why
they are coming. We do that by enforc-
ing our laws and by securing our bor-
ders—with physical barriers, Border
Patrol agents, and technology—so that
individuals can’t cross our borders ille-
gally and undetected.
Leaving our borders open to any
criminal, drug dealer, or human traf-
ficker who wants to sneak across isn’t
compassion. It is an abdication of our
responsibility.
Right now, we are facing a security
and humanitarian crisis along our bor-
der. Tens of thousands of individuals
try to cross our southern border ille-
gally each month. That is a serious se-
curity problem. It is also a humani-
tarian problem. Individuals attempting
the journey to come here illegally are
vulnerable to exploitation, to illness,
and to abuse. One out of every three
women attempting the journey to the
United States is sexually assaulted. A
staggering 70 percent of individuals be-
come victims of violence along their
way. Illness and other medical issues
are a serious problem. By failing to dis-
courage illegal immigration, we are
perpetuating this humanitarian crisis.
The inadequate state of our border
security—both around barriers and
through our ports of entry—also allows
other problems to flourish, like the
flow of illegal drugs pouring into the
country. Every week in this country,
300 Americans die from heroin. Ninety
percent of the heroin supply—90 per-
cent—flows across our southern border.
Democrats will say it doesn’t come
across, that it comes through ports of
entry. A lot of it does come through
ports of entry—that is part of our bor-
ders—and the President in his proposal
has advanced measures that would also
deal with those drugs coming through
our ports of entry. But the fact of the
matter is, we have to secure our bor-
der, and that requires a whole range of
measures as a part of that solution.
Democrats didn’t always think that
securing our borders was immoral. In
fact, in 2006, the Democratic leader and
the ranking member on the Senate Ju-
diciary Committee voted for legisla-
tion to authorize a border fence. They
were joined in their vote by then-Sen-
ator Biden, then-Senator Clinton, and
then-Senator Obama. In 2013, every
Senate Democrat, bar none, supported
legislation requiring the completion of
a 700-mile fence along our southern
border. This legislation would have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.016 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S123
January 10, 2019
provided $46 billion for border security
and $8 billion specifically for a physical
barrier.
As recently as last February, nearly
every Senate Democrat—46 out of 49—
supported $25 billion for border secu-
rity—just last February.
In 2009, the Senate Democratic leader
said in a speech: ‘‘Any immigration so-
lution must recognize that we must do
as much as we can to gain operational
control of our borders as soon as pos-
sible.’’
Let me repeat that. In 2009, the
Democratic leader said: ‘‘Any immigra-
tion solution must recognize that we
must do as much as we can to gain con-
trol of our borders as soon as possible.’’
Then he went on to discuss progress
that had been made on our border secu-
rity between 2005 and 2009, including
‘‘construction of 630 miles of border
fence that create a significant barrier
to illegal immigration on our southern
land border.’’
That is right. In 2009, the Democratic
leader not only didn’t oppose border
fences; he was praising them for their
effectiveness.
So what has changed? The need to se-
cure our borders certainly hasn’t
changed. Everybody says: Is it a crisis
or isn’t it a crisis? I would say that
having 300 people a day dying from her-
oin in this country is a crisis, particu-
larly given the fact that 90 percent of
that heroin is coming across our south-
ern border. That strikes me as a crisis.
The President has changed, and that,
more than anything else, is the thing
that has changed the minds of a lot of
Democrats in the Senate because we
used to have a President Democrats
like; now we have one they don’t like
and, in many cases, they are openly
hostile to.
For Democrats opposing this Presi-
dent and catering to the far-left, anti-
border-security wing of their party
seem to be more important than ad-
dressing the security and humanitarian
crisis we are facing at our border.
I venture to say that deep down, a lot
of Democrats still realize we need to
secure our borders. I think many real-
ize how important the physical struc-
ture—some sort of barrier—is in mak-
ing sure that the border is secure. Cer-
tainly, those who protect our border
would tell you that, and certainly
those who have observed what has hap-
pened over the past 20 or 30 years—a
border fence has been built in certain
areas of our southern border—would
tell you that has been very effective.
I think it is important for us to lis-
ten to the experts and allow the opin-
ions of the experts to shape the policies
we put in place. I think what the ex-
perts have been telling us is that, yes,
we need a comprehensive solution, one
that includes a physical barrier, one
that includes technology, one that in-
cludes manpower—all of which this
President, his team, have been willing
to negotiate but none of which the
Democrats in the Senate or the House
have been willing to sit down at the
table and be a partner in working out.
With their partial shutdown now into
its 20th day, I hope they will soon end
this political theater and fulfill their
obligations to keep Americans safe.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
Mr. TESTER. I thank the Presiding
Officer for recognition.
Madam President, look, we have
heard a lot about the shutdown today.
We have heard a lot about the impacts
on families and on businesses and on
our society in general. We heard a
speech recently on the floor of the Sen-
ate on how Democrats don’t want bor-
der security, which cannot be further
from the truth.
The fact is, last year, we appro-
priated $21 billion for border security.
That was in 2017. For 2018, it was $21.5
billion. The truth is, everybody I know
of who serves in this body, whether a
Democrat or Republican, wants to
make sure our borders are secure.
Unfortunately, the President—or for-
tunately, however you want to look at
it—came in with his budget request
last year to the Homeland Security
Subcommittee of Appropriations, on
which I serve as ranking member, and
asked for $1.6 billion for a wall. Guess
what that subcommittee did, and guess
what the Appropriations Committee
did. We gave him $1.6 billion for that
wall. The Senate didn’t pass that bill, I
might add. Sometime later, the Presi-
dent came in and said: No, I want $5
billion for a wall. And now it is $5.7 bil-
lion for a wall.
We asked for a report on how this
money was going to be spent, and they
sent us a report on how the $1.6 billion
was going to be spent, with no com-
parative analysis on how technology or
manpower or anything else to secure
that border might work more bene-
ficially to keep our borders secure and
be more cost-effective for the Amer-
ican taxpayer.
What did the President do? Twenty-
five times he said: I am going to shut
down the government.
Guess what. The government is shut
down. It doesn’t take a genius to do
that. We have heard the stories—and
they will continue, especially after to-
morrow when working folks will not
get their paycheck—of the impacts on
this country, on average Americans,
who could lose their homes, their
autos, not be able to send their kids to
school, and not be able to afford
healthcare. The list goes on and on.
I ask: Is this how you make America
great again? Is this how it is done? It is
not working.
Senator CARDIN came to the floor a
bit ago, and he said: I want to put up
not show bills; I want to put up Repub-
lican bills that this body has already
passed and that the House passed this
last week so that the Senate would do
their job and hopefully reopen the gov-
ernment. I think there are enough
votes to do it. I think there are enough
votes to override a veto.
The majority leader’s response was:
No, we are not going to do this; we
want to take up a bill on Israel.
I am telling you, I am a big supporter
of Israel, but I took an oath of office to
protect this country first, and we are
turning our back on this country.
We can continue to have the debate
about the best way to secure the bor-
der, but it should not be done by hold-
ing the American people hostage. It
should be done by having a debate in
this body—the most deliberative body
in the world, I was told before I got
here. I got to serve with great Sen-
ators, got to serve with Robert C. Byrd,
Richard Lugar, Kennedy, and Baucus.
The list goes on and on. We don’t de-
bate. We don’t even vote. In fact, we
don’t even live up to the Constitution’s
goals for us, its requirements for us—
whatever you want to call them.
We are a coequal branch of govern-
ment. We shouldn’t be allowing—as
Senator DURBIN said, asking for a per-
mission slip from the President to be
able to do our business. Bring the bills
to the floor to open this government,
and vote on it. If they go down, they go
down. I think they will pass. If the
President vetoes them, bring them
back for a veto override. It is as simple
as that.
I wonder what the forefathers would
think today if they saw this body—a
shell of its former self. And it is not
due to the rules; it is due to the fact
that we have leadership that will not
live up to the obligation of this body as
set up to begin with.
We have work to do here. We have a
lot of work to do, and that work starts
with opening the Government of the
United States. If we don’t do it or if we
say we are only going to do it with per-
mission from the President, then we all
ought to hold our heads in shame.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LANKFORD. Madam President,
we are in day 20 of a government shut-
down. It is exceptionally avoidable, but
it is also exceptionally painful and dis-
tracting to the American people.
At the USDA, the Farm Service
Agency loans have stopped.
TSA employees are working without
pay. If we can’t get this resolved by to-
morrow, they will miss a paycheck, but
they will still be at work.
Home lending programs have halted.
For the FAA, new air traffic control-
lers are not being trained. We still have
air traffic controllers in the tower who
are working now—by tomorrow, with-
out pay coming in—but new training
has stopped. That means a year from
now, when we need to have those new
air traffic controllers take their spot in
that tower, there won’t be someone in
that tower because we have halted the
training at this point.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.017 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S124 January 10, 2019
IRS taxpayer advocate services are
closed.
Indian Health Service is being
stretched.
At the Bureau of Indian Affairs, most
employees have been furloughed.
The Department of Commerce and
many others have been affected.
While this doesn’t affect most Agen-
cies in the Federal Government, it af-
fects a lot, and it affects real lives and
real people. Let me give some examples
from just my State of Oklahoma.
There is a technology company in
Tulsa that will have to begin fur-
loughing employees because it is a con-
tractor for the Federal workforce.
Those folks who are selling their cat-
tle right now and who have a relation-
ship with Farm Service can’t cash that
check because they can’t get a second
cosigner for the check, and that defi-
nitely affects them.
A Federal worker contacted us and
said that she is a contractor, and as of
a couple days from now, she is not
going to be able to pay her son’s tui-
tion so he can go back to college, be-
cause it will be too far a stretch.
The food banks in my State have al-
ready started stocking up and reaching
out to Federal employees who may not
get a check starting tomorrow and
may be stretched and need some addi-
tional assistance, many of them for the
first time ever.
We have a family in the Norman
area, south of Oklahoma City, who
typically handles the contract for
housing for students who are coming to
the FAA, to the academy. Well, obvi-
ously those academy students have all
gone home, and they are losing $5,000 a
week due to the shutdown and the lack
of housing for those folks. And it is not
just empty facilities; employees who
are contractors there are now being
furloughed.
See, this affects real lives and real
people. This was an exceptionally
avoidable shutdown. Months and
months ago, the President of the
United States announced publicly and
repetitively that he was not going to
sign a funding bill at the end of the
year that does not add additional bor-
der security. Over and over again, in
public speeches and in private con-
versations on this Hill, the President
repeated over and over: I am not going
to sign a funding bill unless it adds ad-
ditional border security.
For some reason, half of this Hill ig-
nored it and said: He is just kidding. He
is not just kidding. He sees the issue of
border security—as I do, by the way, as
well—as being a serious issue that has
been talked about for decades but has
not been addressed. Now all of these
families are being impacted because
half of this Hill said they thought the
President was kidding.
We should be able to do basic border
security. This used to not be a partisan
issue. It was just a decade ago that this
body voted to add 650 miles of addi-
tional fencing along the border be-
tween Mexico and the United States
because at that time, a decade ago, this
body said: There is a serious issue with
border security. We should add fencing
to the border.
Outspoken liberals like Senator Clin-
ton and Senator Obama voted to add
fencing to the border in 2006 and said
that is the right thing to do. But sud-
denly now, a decade and a couple years
later, it is a partisan issue and we can’t
allow President Trump to have addi-
tional fencing. It seems very odd to me.
This seems like a personal attack on
the President rather than a realization
of where we have been as a country for
a long time. We should have basic bor-
der security.
For the President to be actually very
malleable on this—shockingly so, to
some people—he stepped out and said: I
want $5.7 billion for a wall or for fenc-
ing or for steel barriers or whatever
you want to call it. We need some addi-
tional barriers on it.
To negotiate during the Christmas
time period and to be stuck because
the White House makes an offer to Sen-
ator SCHUMER, and Senator SCHUMER’s
response apparently was, we will wait
to negotiate this after NANCY PELOSI
becomes speaker—so for 10 days we sat
with no negotiations going because we
had to wait until there was a Speaker
PELOSI.
Now Speaker PELOSI steps up and
says: We are going to do nothing on
this. And the President says: No, we
need to do something. And suddenly
something that the American people
saw as obvious—why wouldn’t we do
basic things for border security—has
suddenly become political and con-
troversial.
The President, even in his speaking
earlier this week from the Oval Office,
started by saying we should do addi-
tional technology at the border. I fully
agree. In fact, just in the last 2 years,
the Department of Homeland Security
has added 31 new fixed surveillance
tower units to the southern border, has
added 50 mobile surveillance systems
to the southern border, and has added
ground sensors and tunnel detection
capabilities to the southern border.
Those are all technology aspects of
helping the southern border. The Presi-
dent stepped up and said we need to do
more in that area.
He said we need to add additional
agents, which, again, has not been a
partisan issue in the past.
He said we need to add additional im-
migration judges, which, again, has not
been controversial. We have 800,000 peo-
ple waiting in immigration courts to
get due process right now. Many of
them will wait 3 years or more just to
get to a court. That is because we have
too few judges handling the many im-
migration cases that are out there. It
should be common sense to say ‘‘Let’s
add additional judges so people can get
to due process faster,’’ but suddenly
that has become controversial.
The President said we need to add a
steel barrier. Now, I am fully aware he
has talked about a wall in the past, and
he said wall, wall, wall over and over,
and some people have this picture that
it is going to be the Berlin Wall, com-
plete with graffiti on the side of it.
That is not what DHS is putting up,
nor what they have put up. They put
up these big steel slats because the
Customs and Border Patrol folks don’t
want a solid wall. They need to be able
to see through it to see whether there
is a threat coming to them.
Has it made a difference? It has abso-
lutely made a difference. Some of my
team were down at the border in San
Diego just a month ago. They visited
with the Customs and Border Patrol
folks there. They stated that the old
fencing that is there—and there is
some very old fencing in that area—
that old fencing had more than a dozen
penetrations through it a day—a day.
It was meaningless. But the new fenc-
ing that they are putting up, these big
steel slats, that steel barrier has one
person a month. So it moved from 10 to
12 a day to 1 a month. That is a pretty
big difference. That is helping manage
our border. That is why fencing actu-
ally does work.
I am fully aware of folks saying, if
you put up a 30-foot fence you get a 31-
foot ladder, but what happens is, when
you have to climb a 31-foot ladder, you
have to slow down in the process, and
it gives time for the Border Patrol to
be able to interdict. That is what a
fence is about, to say: You can’t cross
here easily. You have to slow down
through the process—and we can inter-
dict folks.
This is a completely avoidable and,
quite frankly, very recognizable prob-
lem. We should not have a government
shutdown happening right now. Inter-
estingly enough, some of my Demo-
cratic colleagues I have spoken with
over the last 2 days were quietly whis-
pering in these hallways: I hope the
President will just declare a national
emergency so the fencing can get built,
and we can say we fought it, rather
than actually bringing a piece of legis-
lation here to solve it.
There are real families and real lives
getting affected by this. Let’s resolve
this. This is not a big number. This is
not a complicated issue. We can come
to common agreement on basic border
security to protect our communities
and our cities. We should have the abil-
ity for individuals to come into the
United States to work. We have always
been that way.
Interestingly enough, I remind people
all the time that the 5,000 people com-
ing from the migrant caravan from
Honduras are camped out 250 yards
from the largest legal border crossing
in the world, the San Ysidro crossing.
We have 5,000 people who are trying to
illegally cross the border literally 250
yards from where 100,000 people a day
cross legally every single day, but the
cameras are all focused on the 5,000
people trying to cross illegally, not
turning the camera 90 degrees to focus
in on the 100,000 people a day who filled
out the forms and did it right and are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.019 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S125
January 10, 2019
coming into our country. We are still a
country with open immigration, and
we should be; we just ask people to do
it the right way. I don’t think it is that
unreasonable.
So how do we get out of this? The
most basic way to get out of this is just
to do what we talked about for
months—let’s sit down and figure out
how to do border security—just the
simple process of that. Some of my col-
leagues have said the President needs
to open the government, and then we
will talk about border security. That
will be the same argument we have had
for a couple of years now, where they
say: Some other time, some another
time. The President said, after months
and months, this is the time to talk
about this. So let’s resolve it as quick-
ly as we possibly can.
Let’s not complicate it. I have heard
people say: Let’s add all these addi-
tional things to the conversation and
make the deal bigger. Making the deal
bigger just slows down the process even
more. Federal employees and all these
families need answers right now. Let’s
not continue to try to make this a big-
ger and bigger argument that stretches
out longer and longer in debate. Let’s
solve the issue we have in front of us
right now and keep debating the other
issues.
Finally, let’s get a permanent resolu-
tion to this issue of government shut-
downs. It has been interesting to me to
see the media comparing this shutdown
to the one that happened during the
Jimmy Carter Presidency or the Clin-
ton Presidency or the three that hap-
pened during the Reagan Presidency or
those that happened in the Bush Presi-
dency. This is a bad habit Congress is
in. There were 16 of us who met this
last year, from April all the way
through December—eight Democrats
and eight Republicans, half from the
House and half from the Senate—to try
to resolve the budget process. Many of
us spoke up, myself included, over and
over again, saying that this is a broken
budgeting process, saying we have to
end the government shutdowns. By the
time we got to the middle of December,
that group of 16 could not come to a
resolution to address this problem.
Well, how about now? Are we willing to
admit now that there is a problem with
budgeting?
Here was one of the solutions I
brought to that committee. I think it
is straightforward. The simple solution
is, if you get to the end of the budget
year and if we don’t have things re-
solved at that point, go into a con-
tinuing resolution; that is, continue to
fund the government, hold the Agen-
cies and employees harmless, but Mem-
bers of Congress have to stay in Wash-
ington, DC, and the Cabinet and the
White House have to stay in Wash-
ington, DC—no travel for anyone. We
have to be here.
If you want to hit Members of Con-
gress where it hurts, don’t let anyone
go home for the weekend to see their
families. We have families we want to
see, too, but we shouldn’t be able to
walk away when there is still work to
be done. The greatest pressure point we
can have in this body is that we would
have to stay in continuous session
until the negotiations are finished.
Make everyone stay here.
That may sound overly simplistic,
but when I bring that up to other Mem-
bers of Congress, they are like: Whoa.
That is too much. Really? Everyone
needs to stay here, keep the negotia-
tions—from the House, the Senate, the
Cabinet of the White House, and the
White House staff itself.
The second measure we can take is,
each week, through any kind of fight
that goes on to get the budgeting done,
cut everyone’s budget in the House,
Senate, and White House’s operating
budget 5 percent that week. Now,
again, holding all the Agencies harm-
less, but for those who are doing the
negotiations, they start feeling the
pressure. Not only can you not travel,
you can’t see your families. You have
to stay in continuous session, but your
budget is getting cut every week by 5
percent, each week until it gets re-
solved. Again, the pressure is on the
people it should be on, holding harm-
less the American people who aren’t in
the middle of this fight in the process.
There are ways to solve this—simple,
commonsense ways—and I will con-
tinue to bring those up again and again
because when this shutdown is com-
plete, there will be a fight over another
one coming. In the meantime, we need
to try to end this loop we are in that
destabilizes our system.
Let’s do border security. Let’s not
fight over, ‘‘OK. Let’s open up the gov-
ernment, and we will talk about it
later.’’ Everyone knows that really will
not happen. Everyone knows that
game. Let’s resolve what all the Amer-
ican people know needs to be resolved—
basic, functional, real commonsense se-
curity, not putting up a big wall across
the whole border. No one wants to see
a 2,000-mile-long wall. It is not even
needed, but in areas where there is a
city on both sides of the border, and
you literally cross the border within
seconds unless there is a barrier there,
it makes sense to have a barrier in
those locations. It makes sense to put
technology in other areas to be able to
monitor folks who are illegally cross-
ing the border in other areas. We can
do this in a commonsense way. We can
do this quickly. Let’s get it resolved.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
S. 1
Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, in a few
minutes here—in 45 minutes or so—the
Senate is going to vote to decide
whether we want to begin debate on
the bill that is before us, S. 1,
Strengthening America’s Security in
the Middle East Act of 2019. I remind
everybody of why we began with this
bill.
I don’t know what the number is, but
I would say the overwhelming majority
of the Members of the Senate did not
agree when the President decided to
pull us out of Syria for various dif-
ferent reasons. Everybody was asking
us: Well, why don’t you guys do some-
thing about it? As you know, it is dif-
ficult. The Congress cannot order the
President to take military action. It
can authorize it, it can fund it, and it
can defund it, but it cannot compel it.
That is the role of the Commander in
Chief. There are some things we can do.
However, because there are things we
were concerned about with his deci-
sion, there are things we can do to sort
of deal with the consequences of what,
I believe, would be a mistake, and this
bill endeavors to do that.
We went through and said: Let’s find
some bills that would help our allies in
the region—Israel, Jordan—and that
deal with the human rights catas-
trophe in Syria. Let’s find things that
are bipartisan and have widespread
support so that we are not starting
with something controversial. Then
let’s put it all together in one bill so
that the country will be able to see
that the Senate is engaged in the for-
eign policy of this country and is act-
ing out its constitutional role as a
check and balance on the Executive.
That is what we did. No good deed
goes unpunished, though, because as
that bill was filed, apparently, the
Democratic leader and others in the
leadership asked their Members to vote
against even beginning debate on a bill
that an overwhelming number of them
supported, that a majority of the
Democrats supported. They asked them
to vote not to proceed on the bill, and
the argument is because of the govern-
ment shutdown.
I still don’t know how it makes any
sense to respond to a government shut-
down by shutting down the Senate. In
essence, why did we even come up here
this week? It appears they are not
making any progress on the negotia-
tions, and we are not moving on any
bills or legislation. I don’t know if it
gives people any comfort to know that
at least the Senate is shut down too. I
don’t know how that fixes the govern-
ment shutdown situation. This should
be a place that can walk and chew gum
at the same time, meaning a place that
works on solving and ending this shut-
down, which is bad for everybody, that
works on securing our borders, which is
something we need to do for our coun-
try, but that also works on dealing
with something like this, especially as
timely as the decision is that was just
made last month and the threats that
are facing our allies in the region. That
is what this bill is about.
We are going to have another vote
here for the second time this week. So
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.020 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S126 January 10, 2019
that everybody understands, this vote
is not even in favor of or against the
bill; it is just to the question of wheth-
er we can start debate on this bill. I
hope a few more Democrats will join us
so that we can get the 60 votes we need
just to begin debating the bill. If you
still want to make your point at the
end of the day, then go ahead and vote
against it or whatever. I hope you
don’t, but let’s at least begin debate on
it. We will see what happens here in
about 30 minutes. My sense is that we
still won’t have the votes to do that,
and it is unfortunate.
I do want to address two things that
have been brought up with regard to
this bill—one thing that has been
brought up and one element of the bill
that I hope will change people’s minds
in terms of beginning the debate on it.
First, let me talk about a provision
in this bill that deals with BDS. BDS—
boycott, divestment and sanctions—is
an international effort to wage eco-
nomic war on Israel in order to punish
it for its supposed treatment of Pal-
estinians. It boycotts companies that
do business in Israel until they cut
ties. It boycotts or pressures banks and
investment firms until they divest of
any investments that help Israel. It
then asks governments to impose sanc-
tions on Israel. That is BDS.
Some people support it. There are
two newly elected Members of the
House who openly support it. I assume
that is their right. I think they are
wrong, but that is their right. The vast
majority of people do not support it.
What has happened across America is
that there are States and counties and
cities that have decided they don’t sup-
port BDS. It is not illegal and we are
not going to make it illegal if you want
to be a company that participates in
BDS. Yet we—the government, the cit-
ies, and the States—are not going to
buy services or goods from any com-
pany that is boycotting Israel. All this
bill does is protect them from lawsuits
if they make that decision.
The argument against this has been—
and I have seen this now in numerous
statements from those on the other
side of the aisle—that it infringes on
the First Amendment rights of individ-
uals. I don’t know what bill does that,
but it isn’t this one.
To begin with, this bill doesn’t even
apply to individuals. Individuals can do
whatever they want. If you don’t want
to buy stock in a company that does
business in Israel, I think it is short-
sighted, but no one is stopping you
from doing that. If you want to divest
your investments from companies that
do business in Israel, no one is stopping
you from doing that. If you don’t want
to shop at or buy from companies that
do business with Israel, that is not ille-
gal. This doesn’t apply to any individ-
uals.
By the way, it doesn’t even make it
illegal for companies to make that de-
cision. This is not banning partici-
pating in BDS. You have every right to
support it. You are wrong, but you
have every right to support it. You
have every right to carry it out if you
are a company or an individual.
This bill does not apply to individ-
uals. Any time people say they are pro-
tecting the individual First Amend-
ment rights of Americans by opposing
this legislation, I don’t know what
they are talking about because this
does not apply to individuals.
All this says is to go ahead and do it.
If you, company X, want to boycott
Israel or divest investments from
Israel, you can, but the people who dis-
agree with you can boycott and divest
from you. You see, free speech is a two-
way street. If you want to proclaim
something or say something, you have
every right to do it, but the people who
disagree with you have a right to do
that as well. If there is a First Amend-
ment right to companies to boycott or
divest from Israel, then there has to be
a First Amendment right to boycott or
divest from those companies.
If you oppose this bill, then you are
in favor of shielding from counter-boy-
cotts anyone who decides to take these
actions. That is what you are for,
which is de facto support for BDS, be-
cause what you are basically saying is
to go ahead and boycott Israel and di-
vest from Israel, but no one can do that
to you. That is not what the First
Amendment is. The First Amendment
protects your right to speech, and it
protects from government infringe-
ment an individual’s right to speak. It
does not protect you from people who
disagree with you. It does not protect
you from people who speak out against
you. So if you are a boycotter, you
yourself can be boycotted. If you are a
divestor, people can divest from you. I
am talking about the elected rep-
resentatives of our cities and counties.
If the members of that community do
not agree with that decision, they can
vote them out of office.
Why does a city or a county have to
be forced to buy products from compa-
nies that are undertaking a foreign pol-
icy action, which is what this is? This
is not an effort to influence domestic
policy; this is an effort to influence the
policies of a foreign country. Why
should a city or a county be forced by
law to have to do business with those
that a city or a county or a State dis-
agrees with? That is all this bill is.
When people go around talking about
how this infringes on the First Amend-
ment rights of individuals, it is just
not honest. It is just not true. This
doesn’t even apply to individuals. In
fact, the bill says very clearly in writ-
ing—right there—that nothing under
this act shall be construed to infringe
upon the First Amendment rights of
any American.
As they continue to say that, just
know that this bill only applies to cit-
ies, counties, and States being able to
not buy things from companies. This
doesn’t give you the right to fire an
employee who posts a pro-BDS thing
on Facebook. This doesn’t give you the
right to refuse to sell a home to or pro-
vide housing for or discriminate in any
way against individuals who support
BDS. This doesn’t give anyone the
right to put you in jail for supporting
BDS. It doesn’t do anything to infringe
on anyone’s First Amendment right.
All it does is protect the First Amend-
ment right to be against BDS and to do
to the boycotters what the boycotters
are doing to Israel. It is a two-way
street. Those are the facts. If you are
hiding behind that in order to oppose
this bill, you are not being frank about
what the bill does.
The second part of this bill that I
wanted to talk about today shouldn’t
be controversial at all because we are
all now painfully familiar with the
grave humanitarian crisis we have seen
in Syria. I would say and most would
agree that what we have seen over the
last 8 years of this conflict is the worst
humanitarian crisis since the end of
the Second World War. It began as
anti-government protests, but it led to
the fighting for political freedoms that
has now escalated into a bloody civil
war with a bunch of foreign fighters
flowing in. It is a mess of all kinds of
different groups from foreign countries
and of radical jihadists.
Caught in the middle are innocent
people who have been bombed and
gassed. In fact, this administration has
had to take action to punish militarily
the Assad regime for dropping chlorine
bombs and chemical weapons on civil-
ian populations. We have seen these
images of children, babies, and every-
day people—bakers and plumbers and
small business owners and profes-
sionals—who 1 minute were walking
around and the next minute were chok-
ing to death because their own govern-
ment, with the support of Russia and
Iran, dropped chemical weapons on
their communities and killed countless
people.
Not only is this sort of activity hor-
rifying, it is a war crime. It is a war
crime to deliberately target civilian
populations, and it is particularly cruel
to do it with a gruesome form of
death—that is, death by chemical
weapon. That is what we have seen.
That is what we have seen supported,
by the way, by Vladimir Putin. He
knows for a fact what they are doing
and doesn’t care. He gives them cover,
and he makes up these ridiculous sto-
ries about how it is the opposition that
has done it. Everyone knows who has
done it. There is zero doubt about it.
That is why they don’t allow inspectors
to go in and find evidence and point it
out. But it is abundantly clear who is
doing it, and they have done it.
Even as this administration is decid-
ing to pull out, the prospects grow and
the likelihood grows every day that the
people who have made these decisions
will never be held accountable for what
they have done. These war criminals—
these savages—will never be held ac-
countable for what they have done if
trends continue the way they are
going. This bill tries to address that.
The now chairman of the Foreign Re-
lations Committee, the Senator from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.021 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S127
January 10, 2019
Idaho, Mr. RISCH, filed a bill last year,
called the Caesar Syria Civilian Pro-
tection Act, that is now included in
this bill. I believe he will be here short-
ly to speak about it. It is called the
Caesar bill—it has nothing to do with
Rome—because it is named after a Syr-
ian military defector. It is named after
someone who was in the Syrian mili-
tary whose code name was ‘‘Caesar’’
who smuggled out tens of thousands of
pictures of what was going on inside of
Syria, the images of the thousands of
people who were killed while being de-
tained in Syria. They were images of
the torture, of the brutalization of
women and innocent men and even
sometimes children by the Assad re-
gime and by those who supported them.
The pictures show the true face of
what we are dealing with here—the
face of an evil and criminal regime, a
regime that needs to be held to ac-
count. All those who support them and
are allowing them to do it should also
be held accountable.
What Senator RISCH’s bill does is it
provides the Trump administration
new legal authority to bring some ac-
countability for the people who have
done this.
First, it requires a determination and
a report by the Treasury on whether
the Central Bank of Syria is a financial
institution of primary money laun-
dering concern. Why does that matter?
Because they are using that bank to
clean and launder money to fund their
operations, to remain in power, and, ul-
timately, to gas and kill their own peo-
ple.
The other thing it does is it imposes
new sanctions on anyone who does
business with or who provides financ-
ing to the Government of Syria, includ-
ing Syrian intelligence and security
services, or the Central Bank of Syria;
who provides aircraft or spare aircraft
parts that are used for military pur-
poses in Syria; who does business with
transportation or telecom sectors con-
trolled by the Syrian Government; or
who supports Syria’s energy industry.
These aren’t just about punishing
them. It is about hurting them in their
pocketbooks so they can’t afford to put
those planes up there to drop these
bombs on innocent people. It gives the
administration the authority to do
this.
By the way, this bill also requires the
administration to brief Congress. You
hear them talking about holding the
administration accountable and con-
ducting oversight. This bill requires
them to come before us and tell us
what their plan is to deliver humani-
tarian aid.
By the way, I want to know how we
are going to deliver humanitarian aid
if there is no U.S. presence on the
ground and the only people left are the
Russians, the Turks, the Iranians, and
the Assad regime. It would be inter-
esting to be briefed on that plan with
us not there, but it requires them to
come forward and either tell us what
their plan is or admit that there isn’t a
plan because we are not there anymore.
That is what this bill does. I would
love for everyone here to support it,
but before you can even vote for it, we
have to start debate on it through the
rules of the Senate. In about 15 min-
utes, we are going to vote on this
thing, and there are going to be people
who vote against even starting a de-
bate on it, and the argument is that it
is because of the shutdown.
I hope people reconsider. I don’t un-
derstand the logic of it, but when you
talk about the threats that are facing
Israel, which the overwhelming major-
ity of the Senators here say they are
strong supporters of, and when you
talk about the importance of Jordan
and our alliance with Israel, something
that every single person here basically
agrees with, for the most part, and
when you talk about these horrifying
war crimes for which there should be
some accountability, which I believe
everybody here was outraged by, how
does stopping a bill or refusing to move
on to debating a bill that deals with
those things help end the shutdown? It
doesn’t. It makes no sense, but, appar-
ently, that is what some are willing to
do.
They probably aren’t watching at
this point. They are probably off at
their caucus lunches or doing some-
thing else, but I hope that over the last
48 hours, some of my colleagues on the
Democratic side have thought about it
and have said to themselves that it
really doesn’t make any sense to deal
with the government shutdown by
shutting down the Senate.
I hope they will reconsider and vote
differently this time. If they don’t,
then, I am just not sure how we can ex-
plain to people why it is that we will
not agree to even begin debate on
something almost all of us agree on for
reasons completely unrelated to it. In
essence, that is what happened earlier
this week and what could potentially
happen here very shortly.
I actually, oftentimes, wonder what
must go through the minds of visitors
to the Capitol. I understand most peo-
ple in America aren’t watching this.
Very few people probably are. I wonder.
You come up here, and these groups
from Close Up were here. It is a great
organization. It brings high school kids
up here. You try to explain to normal,
regular human beings that there is a
bill that 90 of the 100 Senators support,
but we are not even going to be able to
debate it because they are voting
against debating it. They would look at
you like you have three heads and say:
What are you talking about? They sup-
port the bill, but they don’t want to
have a debate on the bill yet? Why? Be-
cause of the government shutdown.
Well, what does that have to do with
it?
There are no other aspects in our
lives where we would do that. I have
never heard that in my life. I have
never heard someone say: I am not
going to work today because I am
upset that my favorite team lost the
game yesterday, or I am not paying my
bills this month because I don’t like
the fact that they charged me too
much for changing my tires. If you did
that in any part of your life, people
would think you were crazy. Yet that
is what is happening here.
What kind of leverage is this—that
you are going to hold up a bill we all
agree on as leverage to force us to ne-
gotiate? The Democratic leader and the
Democratic Members know that in
order for a bill to become law, it needs
the support of the House, which their
party controls, 60 Senators, which they
can keep us from getting, and the
President who will sign it. They know
full well that this has nothing to do
with that, but, nonetheless, a majority
of them seem to be prepared to vote
against even debating it.
I don’t know how to explain that. I
certainly don’t know how to explain it
to high school students up here visiting
from Close Up or to anyone else, for
that matter, but that is what happened
earlier this week, and that is what
might happen today here in a few min-
utes.
I hope I am wrong. I hope people have
reconsidered because, honestly, this is
an issue that deserves our earnest at-
tention.
I will close with this. Please do not
go around saying that Congress needs
to do more to hold the administration
accountable or to conduct oversight of
our administration policy, when we
started this Congress trying to do that
and you decided to keep us from doing
it for some other reason. Don’t say
that Congress needs to be more in-
volved in the foreign policy of the
United States, when this is exactly
what we are trying to do here today
and you will not let us for reasons un-
related to it.
This country needs a strong Senate
more than ever before, not one that is
shut down. I hope people will change
their minds so we can get to work on
this right now.
The Senate should be able to walk,
chew gum, write, and read at the same
time—or a lot of us. There are 100 peo-
ple here. We should be able to do mul-
tiple things at the same time. We do it
all the time.
You don’t need to shut down the Sen-
ate, and you don’t need to stop debate
on this bill to solve the government
shutdown. One has nothing to do with
the other. Everyone knows that. Amer-
icans understand that. Normal people
recognize that.
Let’s act normal. Let’s stop being
weird about these things, and let’s
move on something like this and get
the debate going, even as we work on
the government shutdown and on bor-
der security.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.022 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S128 January 10, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I rise
today, again, to discuss S. 1 and to urge
my colleagues to vote in favor of this.
We had a vote just the other day on
this, and it has been reconsidered. All
Republicans voted for it. Four of our
friends on the other side of the aisle
also voted with us on this, and I would
urge a few more to do so. If that hap-
pens, we will actually pass this pack-
age of bills, which is so important.
These have been kicked around for
some time. The substance of these bills
have near—although not complete—
unanimous approval of this body. In-
deed, Members of this body have voted
for these, both in committee and on
the floor, individually in the past, but
they have not gotten across the finish
line because we ran out of time in the
last Congress.
Essentially, it is a package of three
bills that support our friends. One, of
course, supports Israel. One supports
Jordan, one of our best friends in the
Middle East. And, lastly, one of the
bills refreshes and strengthens the
sanctions against Bashar al-Assad and
his government in Syria.
These should pass. You might ask
yourself: Well, what is going on here?
Why are we having these party-line
votes on this? Well, my friends on the
other side of the aisle have said: We are
not going to vote on anything while
the government is shut down, and we
should be focused on this. I would re-
mind my friends that there are a lot of
us around here who are veterans of the
2013 Obama-Harry Reid shutdown.
During that shutdown, the U.S. Sen-
ate continued to do its job, continued
to consider resolutions, continued to
pass bills, and continued to do con-
firmations, as it was required to do.
That is what we have here today—
something that we should be doing
that reinforces our friends in the Mid-
dle East. Particularly with times being
somewhat tumultuous there, it is im-
portant that we support our friends in
the Middle East, and it is important
that we put these sanctions on the peo-
ple of Syria.
I would also remind my friends on
the other side of the aisle that they are
forcing a vote on the Treasury regula-
tions surrounding Mr. Deripaska, the
Russian person who has had sanctions
placed on him and who has gone
through the process of getting them re-
moved. My friends on the other side are
requiring that we debate and then vote
on those, which is a good thing to do.
First of all, there are some issues that
need to be aired there, and, secondly, it
is important that we have the process
for reviewing actions by the Treasury
Department under the sanctions legis-
lation in the past. It is good that we do
that. But to say ‘‘We can’t do this, but
we can do that’’ because they want to
do it really doesn’t make sense. They
also want to do this. I think if we had
a straight-up vote on this, I would sus-
pect the Democrats would vote unani-
mously to do this.
This is just the wrong way to do busi-
ness. We are the U.S. Senate. We are
open for business. We are doing busi-
ness. In the last shutdown, we did busi-
ness, and there is no reason we can’t do
this.
Mr. President, fellow Senators, for
all of the reasons I have just said, I
urge an affirmative vote on this good
legislation. Get it on its way, and get
it doing the things that we want to see
done.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 1, S. 1, a bill
to make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel,
to reauthorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people,
and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, John Hoeven, Roger F.
Wicker, John Cornyn, Rick Scott, Mitt
Romney, Cory Gardner, Marco Rubio,
John Thune, Chuck Grassley, Todd
Young, John Barrasso, Deb Fischer,
Lindsey Graham, Johnny Isakson,
James E. Risch, John Boozman.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on the motion to
proceed to S. 1, a bill to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes,
shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Texas (Mr. CORNYN), the Senator
from Texas (Mr. CRUZ), the Senator
from Kansas (Mr. MORAN), and the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. PERDUE).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Texas (Mr. CORNYN)
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 53,
nays 43, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 2 Leg.]
YEAS—53
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Murkowski
Paul
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NAYS—43
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Markey
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Cornyn
Cruz
Moran
Perdue
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 53, the nays are 43.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn not having voted in the
affirmative, the motion is rejected.
f
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 1, S. 1, a bill
to make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel,
to reauthorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to halt the
wholesale slaughter of the Syrian people,
and for other purposes.
Todd Young, Mike Rounds, Richard C.
Shelby, James E. Risch, Mike Lee,
Josh Hawley, John Boozman, Shelley
Moore Capito, Mike Crapo, Tim Scott,
Cory Gardner, Roy Blunt, Steve
Daines, Marco Rubio, Rob Portman,
John Barrasso, Mitch McConnell.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from South Carolina.
CIVILITY, FAIRNESS, AND OPPORTUNITY
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Mr.
President, each new year brings with it
a range of different emotions. We look
back on what we have accomplished in
the last year, what we hope to achieve
in the year to come, and think of ways
we can better ourselves.
Some of our objectives may include
eating just a little less. For me, that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.024 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S129
January 10, 2019
means eating a little less sour cream
pound cake or sweet potato pie, which
is something I can completely control,
and I am trying.
As a nation, though, we need to look
at some goals for the new year that
will help us move forward together—
goals that may be a little tougher and
require all of us to work together.
While we may have some uncomfort-
able conversations—and we will—we
must recognize that at the end of the
day, we are family, both inside our
homes and as Americans, in the land of
the free and the home of the brave.
As we look to 2019, I am hopeful we
can take three lessons and carry them
forward. Those who follow me know I
have focused my time in the Senate on
an opportunity agenda that focuses on
helping people rise from poverty in dis-
tressed communities, helping folks who
are living paycheck to paycheck to ex-
perience the greatness that is, in fact,
the American dream, and I will con-
tinue to focus on those issues in 2019,
but you will also hear from me in 2019
what I believe are some missing keys
to American progress. Those keys are
civility, fairness, and opportunity.
So when you are having dinner and a
family member tries to tell you that
the reigning Super Bowl Champion
Philadelphia Eagles—lucky, of course,
to be in the playoffs at all—are in fact
the best football team in America, we
all know the truth: It is America’s
team, the Dallas Cowboys. You will
have a discussion with your family
friend who believes otherwise, and I
hope you will disagree strongly, that
you will argue with facts, history—the
history of Roger Staubach or Troy
Aikman or Emmitt Smith or Tony
Dorsett or ‘‘Too Tall’’ Jones—and you
argue that with history and with pas-
sion, but you know, at the end of the
day, your crazy uncle is still your
crazy uncle. You will see each other
next weekend. You will hug, and you
will start the same fight all over again,
but you see what you have done is you
have agreed to disagree without being
disagreeable. That, at its core, is the
civility our Nation is sorely missing
right now.
Too often too many seem too focused
on saying whatever they want to say
and saying it more loudly, without any
concern for the actual content. We
need to return to civility, where the
other side isn’t evil or a traitor or try-
ing to destroy our country, but they
simply have a different vision for how
to achieve success.
Second, sometimes we struggle to
make sure our loved ones, especially
our kids around Christmastime, are
treated fairly. So as they open their
presents, we want to make sure every-
one has a chance to play with every-
thing. This is what we call trying to be
fair. As a parent—or in my case as the
giver of cool gifts—we want to make
sure the kids are being fair with their
siblings as they play with the new toys.
There is something in each and every
one of us that yearns for fairness, but
too often, when we leave the comfort of
those mornings, we tend to want more
for ourselves than we want for others.
We want people to treat us in a way
that gives us the benefit of the doubt,
but sometimes we don’t want to give it
in return. Being fair means first seek-
ing to understand before being under-
stood.
Finally, opportunity. I want to look
back at a Christmas tradition in my
hometown of North Charleston, a place
where we see amazing things happen
around the Christmas holidays. We see
police officers, firefighters, and com-
munity volunteers coming together
about 6 a.m. on Christmas morning to
go knock on doors, where they know
definitively there are kids without
Christmas trees, much less Christmas
presents. These police officers, fire-
fighters, and community volunteers
join hands and raise a ton of dollars
and bring presents to the doors. Any-
one who has experienced this, as I
have, cannot fully describe the joy on a
child’s face, the emotion and the tears
of happiness for someone who didn’t ex-
pect a single thing for the holidays, be-
cause opportunity is just not about
ourselves and our families. While we
certainly strive to be successful, the
true meaning of the Christmas and the
holiday season lies in what we do for
others.
For Congress, that means everything
we do—everything we do—should be
with an eye toward improving the lives
of all Americans. For folks at home, re-
member, there are folks in your com-
munity who are less fortunate. This be-
came the greatest Nation on Earth be-
cause of our hearts and our minds, the
hearts and minds of the American peo-
ple, the power and endurance of the
American dream, and the graciousness
and strength of the American spirit; in
other words, American exceptionalism.
Civility, fairness, and opportunity are
three words that can help our Nation
heal and move us forward toward a bet-
ter future.
My hope this year is that we will
take some time to think about what
each of us can do to further these
goals. Resolutions are good. Being res-
olute in our mission to strengthen our
Nation is great. Soon I will speak
about my vision for the future, my
America 2030 plan.
I want to say happy new year and ask
everyone to remember the true spirit
of what makes America great.
RECOGNIZING THE CLEMSON TIGERS’ 2019 NCAA
CHAMPIONSHIP VICTORY
Mr. President, before I close, I would
like to talk, just for a few minutes,
about an epic celebration in a small up-
state city in the great State of South
Carolina—a celebration that is because
of a game. Now, in South Carolina, we
have real division. The divisions can be
seen between those who support the
Clemson Tigers and those like myself
who support the Carolina Gamecocks.
After the Clemson national champion-
ship victory, both sides of the great
State of South Carolina—at least most
of us—are celebrating the absolute
overwhelming success of the Clemson
Tigers. You can’t help but appreciate
and admire the amazing leadership at
Clemson University, the leadership of
Jim Clements, the President of
Clemson University.
Clemson has been an amazing testa-
ment to the goodwill and good effort of
programs focused on character first. As
Coach Swinney has created an absolute
powerhouse in Clemson, it is hard to
deny that he is not one of the best
coaches in college football in America
today. He has surrounded himself with
amazing players such as Deshaun Wat-
son, DeAndre Hopkins, Vic Beasley,
and now Trevor Lawrence, Travis
Etienne, and Christian Wilkins.
I want to extend my congratulations
to Clemson University on their second
national championship in just the last
4 years and their third overall national
championship. I wish I could be in
Clemson on Saturday morning at 9
a.m. as they—they don’t have to paint
the streets orange because they are al-
ready orange—but as they blow out the
great city they live in. I will say that
not only am I heartened and excited
about the success of Clemson Univer-
sity on the field, I thought, listening to
Dabo Swinney as he talked about suc-
cess in life, it reminded me of my civil-
ity, fairness, and opportunity agenda
for 2019.
He said something to this effect.
When asked about his success and the
greatness of his football team and the
wonders of winning a national cham-
pionship, what did he celebrate the
most? He said it in this fashion. He
said: When I think about being selfless,
when I think about real success, it is in
this order. First, it is about honoring
the Lord Jesus Christ, his Lord and
Savior; second, it is about honoring
others; and third, finally, it comes
down to self. There is something to
learn about putting others before our-
selves as we look toward a more civil
society, filled with fairness, brimming
with opportunity.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Thank you, Sen-
ator, and if I may congratulate the jun-
ior Senator from South Carolina on the
spectacular win that Clemson had and
also congratulate him about being so
true to the spirit of civility he dis-
cussed and not trash-talking the other
team involved.
It was a truly splendid victory be-
tween two extraordinarily talented and
capable teams, and I congratulate the
Senator.
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. Would
the Senator yield for a moment?
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Gladly.
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina. I will
concede that while I am exuberant and
excited for the enthusiasm for
Clemson’s success this year, I am
aware that next year Clemson and Ala-
bama may meet again. So the more
you celebrate this year, perhaps the
more you will regret it next year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.030 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S130 January 10, 2019
Thank you, Senator.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Rhode Island.
CLIMATE CHANGE
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Thank you, Mr.
President, and happy new year. The
new 116th Congress brings new hope for
the Senate to face up to the clear and
present danger of climate change. The
House of Representatives being in
Democratic hands augments that hope.
The Senate Republican majority has
failed to address climate change. This
is no accident. This is the Senate in
the Citizens United era. I was here be-
fore Citizens United, and for years we
saw Senate climate bipartisanship, be-
fore Citizens United. After Citizens
United, what we see is immensely pow-
erful climate-denying, dark-money
front groups for the fossil fuel indus-
try, all likely funded by fossil fuel in-
terests, and we see no Republican Sen-
ator willing to cross them. The spend-
ing they do in politics—and the more
silent threat of spending—is a block-
ade. It reeks.
Here is a case study on how dark and
unlimited money play in Senate elec-
tions. In 2016, in Ohio, Indiana, and
Wisconsin, three Democratic Senate
candidates stood a good early chance of
winning Republican-held seats in 2016.
All were solid, experienced candidates
who had been Senators before. All were
ahead in early polling. Then the big
influencers came in hard, launching at-
tack ads, in some cases, well more than
1 year before the election. It is a little
like strafing the other side’s planes
while they are still on the airfield.
The pile-on of so-called outside group
spending against these three can-
didates came to almost $70 million. All
three ultimately lost their races, and
their losses meant Republicans kept
majority control of this Chamber.
Let’s look at that $70 million that ac-
quired the continued Republican ma-
jority control of this Chamber. Of that
$70 million, only about $11 million
came from donors and PACs that ap-
pear unconnected to the fossil fuel in-
dustry. At least two-thirds of that out-
side spending—more than $46 million—
can be directly traced to groups that
received significant funding from fossil
energy, and $12 million, the remainder
of that 70, came through dark money
channels. In this day and age in Amer-
ica, powerful influencers can obscure
their identities by running their polit-
ical spending through these dark
money channels so it is impossible for
us to know whether or how much of
this remaining $12 million was from
polluter dollars—fossil fuel dollars. I
strongly suspect all of it was. In any
event, when one industry can deliver
that kind of political artillery, the vast
majority of a $70 million barrage
against three specific candidates, that
gives that industry remarkable polit-
ical power with the side that is advan-
taged—climate action stopping polit-
ical power, it would seem.
As the mounting effects of climate
change have grown ever more dire and
the scientific understanding has grown
ever more clear, what has the Senate
done? Nothing. Let’s look at what we
learned and what we witnessed and
what we failed to do in 2018.
Mr. President, 2018 saw the release of
two landmark climate science re-
ports—one from the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change on the effects
of warming 1.5 degrees Celsius above
preindustrial levels, and the second,
the Trump administration’s own ‘‘Na-
tional Climate Assessment.’’ Together,
these reports delivered the starkest
warning on climate change to date.
Damage from climate change is al-
ready occurring. Economies are now at
risk, and we are almost out of time to
prevent the worst consequences.
The IPCC report told us that ac-
counting for the costs of carbon pollu-
tion by charging a price for carbon
emissions is the ‘‘central’’ policy that
will allow us to hold the global tem-
perature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius
or less. Even this dire endorsement was
not enough to move a single Repub-
lican colleague to join a bill to estab-
lish a carbon fee.
More telling was the spectacle of the
Trump administration’s ‘‘National Cli-
mate Assessment.’’ This report, writ-
ten by 13 Federal Agencies, described
the monumental damage the United
States is facing from climate change,
flatly contradicting the climate denial
assertions of the President and his fos-
sil fuel-flunky Cabinet. The adminis-
tration tried to bury the report by re-
leasing it on Black Friday during the
Thanksgiving holiday. That cynical
move happily backfired, with more
than 140 newspapers around the coun-
try featuring the report’s stark find-
ings on front pages and Google
searches for ‘‘climate change’’ hitting
their highest level for the year.
Tellingly, the fossil fuel industry and
its bevy of stooges in the Trump ad-
ministration did not contest the
science in the report—an admission by
inaction that they know their science
denial campaign is phony. They know
the real science is irrefutable. It is bet-
ter to hide from it.
Unfortunately, we witnessed the ir-
refutable contribution of climate
change to the most devastating natural
disasters of 2018.
‘‘Irrefutable,’’ by the way, is one way
to describe climate science. Another
way to describe it is ‘‘incontrovert-
ible.’’ The description of climate
science as ‘‘incontrovertible’’ was pub-
lished in a New York Times full-page
advertisement in 2009 that was signed
by, among others, Donald Trump, Don-
ald Trump, Jr., Ivanka Trump, Eric
Trump, and the Trump Organization.
How things change.
Anyway, out West, wildfires in Cali-
fornia broke records. The Mendocino
Complex Fire in July and August was
the largest in the State’s recorded his-
tory. The Camp Fire—this photo-
graph—was the deadliest and most de-
structive wildfire in California history,
killing 86 people. Scientists linked
California’s increasing wildfires to cli-
mate change, estimating the area
burned by wildfires across the Western
United States since 1984 at twice what
would have burned without the human-
driven changes.
Michael Mann, the professor of at-
mospheric science at Penn State Uni-
versity, told PBS recently:
It’s not rocket science. . . . You warm the
planet, you’re going to get more frequent
and intense heat waves. You warm the soils,
you dry them out, you get worse drought.
You bring all that together, and those are all
the ingredients for unprecedented wildfires.
Mr. President, 2018 saw the east coast
slammed by hurricanes that were su-
percharged by warming oceans. Hurri-
canes gain strength from heat energy
in the oceans they pass over. Warmer
oceans also evaporate more water up
into the storms, generating more
storm rainfall. So stronger and wetter
storms then ride ashore on higher and
warmer seas and push larger storm
surges ahead of them.
Hurricane Florence intensified over
water 1 to 2 degrees Celsius above aver-
age and dumped record rainfall and
flooding on the Carolinas. Preliminary
analysis suggests that its rainfall was
more than 50 percent higher due to cli-
mate change.
When Hurricane Michael hit Florida,
it passed over water 2 to 3 degrees Cel-
sius warmer than average. Passing over
that heat, its winds spun up by 80 miles
per hour in just 48 hours, becoming the
strongest storm ever to make an Octo-
ber landfall in the United States and
almost completely flattening the town
of Mexico Beach, FL.
Scientists are increasingly able to
identify the role of climate change in
extreme weather. The American Mete-
orological Society reported in Decem-
ber that 15 extreme weather events in
2017 were made more likely due to
human-caused climate change, includ-
ing a devastating marine heat wave off
the coast of Australia that would have
been ‘‘virtually impossible’’ without
human-induced warming. The report
drew attention to the role of oceans in
many of these extreme events. Jeff
Rosenfeld, the Meteorological Soci-
ety’s editor-in-chief, said that ‘‘the
ocean is actively playing a role in the
extremes that we’re seeing’’ and that
‘‘we’re seeing the oceans as a link in a
chain of causes that ultimately tie
human causes to extreme weather
events on land.’’
The changes occurring in the ocean
are imposing an increasing threat to
our coastal communities, from gulf
communities in Louisiana to shoreline
communities in Rhode Island.
The Union of Concerned Scientists
released a report last year finding that
over 300,000 coastal homes, with a col-
lective market value of over $130 bil-
lion, are at risk of chronic flooding by
2045. By the end of the century, 2.4 mil-
lion homes, worth more than $1 tril-
lion, are expected to be at risk.
A 2018 report from Climate Central
and Zillow found that thousands of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.032 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S131
January 10, 2019
homes continue to be built in risky
coastal areas that are expected to suf-
fer annual floods by 2050.
Freddie Mac, the big U.S. housing
corporation, has taken a look at this
and warned of a coastal property val-
ues crash as those houses become unin-
surable or unmortgageable to the next
buyer.
A second economic crash we face is a
‘‘carbon bubble’’ in fossil fuel compa-
nies. The ‘‘carbon bubble’’ collapse
happens when fossil fuel reserves now
on the books of fossil fuel companies
turn out to be undevelopable ‘‘stranded
assets.’’ Research published by econo-
mists in the journal Nature Climate
Change estimated that in a world
where we succeed in limiting warming
to 2 degrees Celsius, $12 trillion of fi-
nancial value could vanish from bal-
ance sheets globally in the form of
stranded fossil fuel assets. That is over
15 percent of global GDP, and that is
why the Bank of England calls this a
systemic risk—i.e., a risk to the entire
global economy.
Financial managers are waking up to
these risks. At the recent U.N. climate
summit in December, a group of 415
global investors, managing $32 trillion
of investments—these are men and
women who have been trusted with
managing $32 trillion worth of invest-
ments—came together to warn that the
world faces a financial crash worse
than the 2008 crisis unless carbon emis-
sions are urgently cut. The group
called for the end of fossil fuel sub-
sidies and the introduction of substan-
tial prices on carbon emissions. They
understand that to limit the worst cli-
mate risks, including economic catas-
trophes, we must cut carbon emissions
immediately and substantially.
But back home, the Trump adminis-
tration—clearly and completely cor-
rupted by the fossil fuel industry—has
now taken more than 90 actions to
weaken climate policies. Regrettably,
after years of decline, U.S. carbon
emissions grew 3.4 percent in 2018.
Global carbon emissions also grew by
2.7 percent to reach a new carbon emis-
sions record.
If the Trump administration’s 2018
regulatory actions read like a fossil
fuel industry wish list, it is because
they are. Just one example is the fuel
economy rollback for automobiles. It is
a perfect example. The new, weaker
standards were pushed by—guess who—
the largest oil refiner in the country,
Marathon Petroleum. Marathon also
distinguished itself as a top donor to
ethically challenged EPA Adminis-
trator Scott Pruitt during his time in
political office in Oklahoma. Marathon
worked with the creepy Koch Brothers’
network and oil industry lobby groups
to run a stealth campaign, including a
Facebook ad campaign using a phony
front group called Energy4US that hid
its oil industry origin.
Fossil fuel energy companies claim
to be cleaning up their act. They issue
statements voicing support for carbon
pricing. Look at what they do when the
prospect of getting a carbon price on
the books becomes real, as it did in
Washington State’s carbon fee ballot
initiative. The campaign against the
carbon fee outspent the campaign sup-
porting it by 2 to 1, dumping more
money into this ballot fight than any
ballot initiative campaign in the
State’s history. And who funded the
campaign against the initiative? Oil
companies. BP, Phillips 66, and, of
course, our friends Marathon Petro-
leum were the top spenders by far.
Oil companies claim to support car-
bon pricing, but the giant trade asso-
ciations they fund to go out and do
their political work—the American Pe-
troleum Institute, the so-called U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the National
Association of Manufacturers—all op-
pose any proposals to reduce carbon
pollution. The CEOs say one thing, and
their political electioneering and lob-
bying apparatus is instructed to go out
and do the exact opposite.
Another telling aspect of the Wash-
ington State ballot initiative is who
did not show up. Conspicuously absent
are any of the good-guy corporations
from the tech, financial, and food and
beverage sectors that talk such a good
game on climate change. That is tell-
ing because it matches what happens
here in Congress. The good-guy cor-
porations do not lift a political finger
to advance climate legislation here in
the Senate. In fact, these are the good
guys. Set aside the fossil fuel pirates
and what they are all up to through
their front groups and their dark
money and all the nonsense that they
drive. These are the supposed good
guys. In fact, they have a net negative
presence here in the Senate on climate
legislation because they do virtually
nothing, and the trade associations
they help to fund, like the Chamber of
Commerce, lobby against climate ac-
tion.
So you have American corporations
with good climate policies taking sus-
tainability seriously within their cor-
porate precincts. Then, those compa-
nies come to the Senate, and their po-
sitions, as they appear here in the Sen-
ate, are against the climate policies
they claim to support because they
work through these intermediary
groups that have been co-opted by fos-
sil fuel interests and because they
don’t show up themselves. In 2019, let’s
hope the good-guy American corpora-
tions get off the bench, clean up the
acts of their trade groups, and get onto
the field on the good side of the cli-
mate policy fight.
Let me wrap up, through all of that
gloom, with the good news for the new
year and beyond.
Record low prices for wind and solar
projects are now cheaper than fossil
fuels in many places. Battery costs are
falling rapidly. Amazing electric vehi-
cles keep coming to market. New car-
bon capture technologies emerge. Xcel
Energy, a Colorado-based utility that
serves over 3 million customers, has
announced a commitment to reduce
carbon emissions 80 percent by 2030 and
to have zero carbon emissions by 2050,
which shows that players in the energy
industry know to make this transition.
Out of the States, California has
passed a law requiring 100-percent zero
carbon electricity by 2045—100 percent.
The Governors of New York and Wash-
ington States recently announced 100
percent zero carbon electricity goals.
Hawaii has a law requiring 100 percent
renewable electricity by 2045. On the
same day in late December, the Dis-
trict of Columbia passed a bill requir-
ing 100 percent renewable electricity by
2032, and nine Northeastern States—I
am proud to say it includes my Rhode
Island—committed to cap emissions
from the transportation sector.
Here in the Senate, we can expect the
new Democratic House to send climate
legislation our way. Whether my Re-
publican colleagues like it or not and
whether the fossil fuel industry likes it
or not, this will be an issue in the 116th
Congress.
My new year’s wish is that my Re-
publican Senate colleagues will finally
wake up to the damage that climate
change is causing, to the looming
threat that climate change presents,
and will help us to pass bills addressing
the huge climate risk that we face.
This is not impossible. This is the
way the Senate behaved until January
of 2010. From when I was sworn in in
2007, through the rest of that year and
through 2008 and 2009, we had bipar-
tisan climate bills. We had bipartisan
climate hearings. We had bipartisan
climate negotiations. We had bipar-
tisan climate discussions. It was pos-
sible to do that because the five Repub-
lican judges on the Supreme Court had
not yet given the fossil fuel industry
the massive, new political artillery
they had given them in the Citizens
United decision. Once the fossil fuel in-
dustry had that new artillery, the
game changed, and it brought it to
bear on our friends on the other side,
and there has not been a single Repub-
lican Senator on a single serious car-
bon emissions bill since that moment.
It shows what happens when you give a
big special interest a massive, new
piece of political weaponry.
It doesn’t mean it has to be this way.
The good guys could show up and coun-
terbalance the political hydraulics
here of the fossil fuel industry’s power.
Our colleagues could say: Guys, we
gave you a heck of a good run. For
years, we did nothing, but it is time
now. We have taken a look at where
voters are. We have even taken a look
at where Republican voters are. We
have taken a look at where the science
is, and we are going to do something.
There are a lot of ways that we can
go back to the bipartisan legislation,
the bipartisan hearings, and the bipar-
tisan conversations that characterized
this issue before Citizens United. It has
been too long that big polluter donors
have had their way around here. They
pay the fee, but our Nation pays the
price. We have a responsibility here to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.034 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S132 January 10, 2019
protect future generations from an
avoidable disaster of our own making.
It is time for us to wake up and do our
job.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk pro-
ceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
REMEMBERING LARRY WEINBERG
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today to talk about Larry
Weinberg, who was beloved by many
Oregonians, one of the original owners
of our wonderful basketball team, the
Portland Trail Blazers—the owner who
won eternal gratitude from the people
of my State as he guided our Trail
Blazers to their first title. He passed
away last week at the age of 92. He was
a soft-spoken man who was never one
to drone on, so in that spirit, I am
going to keep these remarks brief.
The first thing we want everybody to
know about Larry is that he was a
wonderful family man. I met him for
the first time in the early 1980s. I was
a young Member of the other body, the
House of Representatives, and Larry
could have made our first conversation
about politics. We were very inter-
ested, for example, in ways to promote
a strong U.S.-Israel relationship. There
were plenty of things we could have
talked about with respect to politics,
but he made the conversation about
basketball, which was one of the great
loves of his life, and I think people
know around here that my great hope
was to play in the NBA. Larry knew
that.
Because Larry was a family man,
that first conversation we had was
about family, and he had an enormous
family. If you look at the family photo
on the holiday cards that Larry and his
wife Barbi sent each year, you would
think about half of the 320 million peo-
ple in our country were actually
Weinbergs. The cards were wonderful,
and they just seemed to go on and on
and on.
During that first conversation, Larry
asked me about my family. I told him
about my great-uncle Max, who was
one of last Jews to be murdered in
Auschwitz. I told him about my par-
ents, who fled Nazi Germany as refu-
gees and settled in America before they
pitched in to the war effort during
World War II.
That was one of the first bonds I had
with Larry Weinberg, and I think that
was true of many of his friends. We had
family who were veterans themselves,
loved ones who had wanted to make
sure the United States prevailed in
World War II, and that was Larry. He
served in Europe during the war and
sustained serious injuries in France.
Throughout his life, he carried that
dedication to service that was so char-
acteristic of so many of his generation.
Larry Weinberg applied the lessons of
the war to his leadership of the Amer-
ican Jewish community. He worked to
promote understanding between reli-
gious groups while demonstrating a
firm commitment to the Jewish tradi-
tion of tikkun olam—improving the
world. That is something Jews feel
very strongly about. Whether it is
healthcare or foreign relations, what-
ever, we want to be part of making the
world a better place, perfecting the
world. That is what tikkun olam
means.
Larry and Barbi Weinberg supported
the development of concrete scholar-
ship on issues that face not only Israel
but the entire Middle East, under-
standing that the difficulties affecting
one’s neighbors are really part of a
shared burden, demanding a shared so-
lution.
Portlanders like myself know Larry
for another reason. If you are a
Portlander of my age and an ardent
Blazer fan, you cheered on Bill Wal-
ton’s Trail Blazers because they won a
championship for Rip City in 1977. If
you are a young basketball fan in Port-
land today, you probably root for
Dame—that is Mr. Lillard—or C.J.—
that is C.J. McCollum. All of us in
Portland and in Oregon owe Larry
Weinberg a debt of gratitude because
he brought the NBA to our State, and
had he not done that, all of us who root
for the Trail Blazers today wouldn’t be
able to turn out and see Dame and C.J.
and all of our wonderful players who
are really community leaders.
I remember back then seeing Larry
and his wife Barbi cheering at our
home games, and they were always
wearing our colors. I particularly saw
that bright-red blazer. Whether it was
back in the seventies at the Memorial
Coliseum or even in their later years at
Moda Center, when you looked at Barbi
and Larry Weinberg, you got a sense of
what it meant not just to be a fan, but
the Weinbergs really looked at our
town and those Trail Blazers as part of
their extended family.
With respect to sports and the inter-
section of sports and how sports fit
into the world, I want to relate some-
thing that happened in the late 1980s
when Larry approached me with a par-
ticular request, something he wanted
me to do.
I was traveling to the Soviet Union
with a group of Jewish community
leaders from Portland. At that time,
the Trail Blazers were very interested
in bringing a wonderfully talented cen-
ter, Arvydas Sabonis, to Portland.
There was a discussion. It was a period
when the United States and the Soviet
Union were still talking about the rela-
tionship being so ambiguous. Reagan
and Gorbachev were trying to sort it
out. Larry asked me to present a letter
to the Soviet Sports Federation about
Arvydas Sabonis. He had actually been
drafted a few years before, and the idea
was that the Trail Blazers hoped to
bring Mr. Sabonis from the Soviet
Union to the United States to play for
the Trail Blazers in the NBA.
Now, as I mentioned, relations be-
tween the United States and the Soviet
Union were still somewhat ambiguous,
but they were improving. A lot of peo-
ple believed that a Soviet-born player
coming to play professional basketball
in my hometown in Portland would
help that along. So on this trip to the
Soviet Union, Larry asked me to meet
with the Soviet Sports Federation. I
was to, in effect, hand over a letter to
the Soviet Sports Federation, making
it clear—and this was a courtesy let-
ter—that if Mr. Sabonis were permitted
to come to Oregon to play basketball
for the Trail Blazers—the letter indi-
cated—Mr. Sabonis would be well
treated. He would have comfortable ac-
commodations, good training facilities,
and there would be people to advise
him on nutrition and get him accli-
mated to our country.
Well, when I walked into this meet-
ing in Moscow, I really felt like I was
starring in Rocky IV. There I was—a
young Congressman from the United
States, a former basketball player my-
self—trying to make the case on behalf
of my hometown and the Portland
Trail Blazers to these men, all of whom
were at least 20 or 30 years older than
me. I was trying to make the case that
if the Soviet Sports Federation were
willing to allow Mr. Sabonis to come,
he would be well treated.
What I got from these stern looking
Soviet Sports Federation officials were
essentially monosyllabic answers,
much like you heard in the Rocky
movies—maybe somebody would say
‘‘nyet.’’ I didn’t know everything about
the language of my host, but I got the
sense that wasn’t a good thing when
they said that. I could get the sense
about their skepticism as if they be-
lieved that this young American Con-
gressman in front of them was pulling
some sly trick of geopolitical strategy
as we tried to bring Arvydas Sabonis to
Portland.
I tried to make the point to these So-
viet leaders that we were not exactly
talking about arms control. We were
talking about playing basketball, and
we were talking about building bridges.
That, if anything, is what Larry
Weinberg’s life was all about. He was
about building bridges in sports. He did
it in terms of housing, when he was
trying to create housing opportunities
for people of modest means, when he
was creating opportunities for people
to learn from each other. There he was
with this young Congressman, just
wanting to offer a guarantee that Mr.
Sabonis, the best Soviet player of his
time, would be well cared for. It took a
few more years. Eventually he made it
to Portland, where Larry and Trail
Blazer fans got to watch him play and
play well.
I cannot find the picture, but back
then there was a picture that ensured
that Oregonians across the State were
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.035 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S133
January 10, 2019
laughing at their breakfast tables. One
day it came out that Mr. Sabonis and I
were strolling along the waterfront in
Portland. I am 6 feet 4 inches—not as
tall as Senator COTTON, but 6 feet 4
inches—and I was standing next to Mr.
Sabonis, who was as tall as a typical
building. I mean, we thought he might
have been 7 feet 5 inches, which was
much taller than was listed.
It was a wonderful experience for me,
and it was a chance to see what Larry
Weinberg was all about. He always told
me: It is a chance for you to learn a lit-
tle bit more about the world, RON, a
chance for you to go to the Soviet
Union—it was the Soviet Union at that
time—and see the connection between
reforms and what Ronald Reagan and
Gorbachev were trying to do and the
role of sports in terms of bringing peo-
ple together.
I was so honored that Larry Weinberg
would give me a window into that kind
of opportunity and allow me, in a real-
ly small way, as a young Congressman
to be part of what his life was always
about, which is building bridges.
So I am going to close this way. I
think some of my colleagues are going
to speak about Larry as well. When the
Jewish people really want to com-
pliment somebody and say somebody is
really special and has exceptional char-
acter, what we say is that person is a
mensch. What I am here to tell the
Senate today is my friend Larry
Weinberg, whom we lost just a few days
ago, was really a super mensch, a true
mensch, a person of enormous integ-
rity, decent at his core. I just want to
say that Larry and his wife Barbi were
the essence of Rip City pride. He was a
soft spoken guy, but he was Portland’s
loudest fan.
Tonight, I want to say to his family
and friends—all, seemingly, 100 million
of them—that we are always going to
remember Larry Weinberg with great
fun and appreciation for his enormous
contributions to our city and for all
that he did during his lifetime to be in
that bridge building business, for work-
ing to perfect the world—tikkun
olam—a wonderful, wonderful man.
Our Larry Weinberg we Oregonians
will always remember in our hearts.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will the call roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, in a few
moments I am going to yield the floor
to Senator KAINE to make a unanimous
consent request that has been cleared
by both sides, and I am very pleased
about that. This is in regard to S. 24,
legislation that I have filed with sev-
eral of my colleagues.
I particularly thank Senator KAINE,
but I also want to thank my colleagues
Senator VAN HOLLEN and Senator
MARK WARNER for their work, as well
as Senator COLLINS and others in this
body who cosponsored that legislation.
It is legislation very similar to what
we passed in the last hours of the 115th
Congress by unanimous consent. It
does what I think all of us have said we
want to make sure is done; that is,
when we reopen government, those who
have been working without pay and
those who are on furlough without pay
will get their backpay. I think that is
at least some assurance to our govern-
ment workforce that when we finally
reopen government, they know they
will be getting their paychecks. I think
it is a very important point to give
them at least that comfort.
I don’t want to minimize the risk fac-
tors that we have for the 800,000 Fed-
eral workers who are not getting their
paychecks. Just today, I found a letter
from a constituent. I am going to read
it very briefly.
‘‘Dear Senator CARDIN, As an Air
Traffic Controller and Maryland con-
stituent, I want you to know how the
partial government shutdown is affect-
ing me and my family. Today, I re-
ceived my Earnings and Leave state-
ment from the Department of Trans-
portation, indicating I received $0 for
my last 2 weeks of working at the
FAA-Washington Enroute Air Traffic
Control Center in Leesburg, VA. I have
proudly gone to work for this job that
I love, and always maintain the highest
level of safety. My husband Brad is also
a controller with me at Washington
Center, and his Earnings and Leave
Statement was for $1.34. We cannot
sustain our financial obligations on a
total of $1.34 for our last two weeks of
work! We recently were able to build a
new house to try to start a family, and
we still have increased financial obli-
gations because of that and all that en-
tails. In addition, my family, my
brother and father, has minimal in-
come now, and we are supporting them.
My father is 69 years old and currently
has an enlarged hernia that requires an
operation, he has no health insurance,
and no income. He lives in NH, and is
on even more medication now. The side
effects are greatly affecting him. He
needs my help, and I don’t have the re-
sources now to help him. He is suf-
fering so much, and I love him greatly.
My brother recently had to weather a
separation from his wife, and has been
unable to find affordable housing in
MD on a single income for him and my
niece and nephew—Ayden 10 years and
Ava 7 years old. They have been living
in our basement since August 2018, and
we have been supporting them in every
way we can until he can get back on
his feet. I love them so much, and now
I can’t continue to help them. This
hurts so much, we need our pay checks
to support our family now!’’
It ends by saying: ‘‘Please help in
any way you can to END THIS SHUT-
DOWN NOW!’’
I couldn’t agree more. I urge our col-
leagues, hopefully in the next couple of
days—even before that—to end the
shutdown. But at least, as a result of
the unanimous consent request that
will be made very shortly, which has
cleared both sides, we can tell them
that the pay is coming.
I see the distinguished majority lead-
er is here. We had some words earlier.
I want to thank the majority leader for
accommodating this unanimous con-
sent. It is consistent with what the
leader has said in the past, that we will
make sure our workers get paid when
the government is open.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE FAIR
TREATMENT ACT OF 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
had an opportunity to talk to Presi-
dent Trump a few moments ago and
wanted to indicate to our colleagues
that he will sign the bill that we have
been discussing here to guarantee that
government workers who have been
displaced as a result of the shutdown
will ultimately be compensated. So I
want to ease their anxiety about that
particular possibility.
With that in mind, I ask unanimous
consent that the Senate proceed to the
immediate consideration of Calendar
No. 3, S. 24.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
YOUNG). The clerk will report the bill
by title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 24) to provide for the compensa-
tion of Federal and other government em-
ployees affected by lapses in appropriations.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I know of no fur-
ther debate on the bill.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
further debate?
Hearing none, the bill was ordered to
be engrossed for a third reading and
was read the third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The bill
having been read the third time, the
question is, Shall the bill pass?
The bill (S. 24) was passed, as follows:
S. 24
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Government
Employee Fair Treatment Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. COMPENSATION FOR FEDERAL AND
OTHER GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
AFFECTED BY A LAPSE IN APPRO-
PRIATIONS.
Section 1341 of title 31, United States Code,
is amended—
(1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘An of-
ficer’’ and inserting ‘‘Except as specified in
this subchapter or any other provision of
law, an officer’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(c)(1) In this subsection—
‘‘(A) the term ‘covered lapse in appropria-
tions’ means any lapse in appropriations
that begins on or after December 22, 2018;
‘‘(B) the term ‘District of Columbia public
employer’ means—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.040 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S134 January 10, 2019
‘‘(i) the District of Columbia Courts;
‘‘(ii) the Public Defender Service for the
District of Columbia; or
‘‘(iii) the District of Columbia government;
‘‘(C) the term ‘employee’ includes an offi-
cer; and
‘‘(D) the term ‘excepted employee’ means
an excepted employee or an employee per-
forming emergency work, as such terms are
defined by the Office of Personnel Manage-
ment or the appropriate District of Columbia
public employer, as applicable.
‘‘(2) Each employee of the United States
Government or of a District of Columbia
public employer furloughed as a result of a
covered lapse in appropriations shall be paid
for the period of the lapse in appropriations,
and each excepted employee who is required
to perform work during a covered lapse in
appropriations shall be paid for such work,
at the employee’s standard rate of pay, at
the earliest date possible after the lapse in
appropriations ends, regardless of scheduled
pay dates.
‘‘(3) During a covered lapse in appropria-
tions, each excepted employee who is re-
quired to perform work shall be entitled to
use leave under chapter 63 of title 5, or any
other applicable law governing the use of
leave by the excepted employee, for which
compensation shall be paid at the earliest
date possible after the lapse in appropria-
tions ends, regardless of scheduled pay
dates.’’.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I further ask that
the motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Virginia.
GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEE FAIR TREATMENT ACT
OF 2019
Mr. KAINE. Mr. President, just brief-
ly, I also want to extend my gratitude
to the majority leader for working
with us on this matter. I alerted both
caucuses yesterday that I planned to
object to adjourning for the weekend
on the grounds that tomorrow more
than 800,000 Federal employees will
stop getting paychecks. This has al-
ready started, according to the words
of my colleague from Maryland.
Also, on Saturday the shutdown will
achieve the dubious distinction of
being the longest shutdown in the his-
tory of the United States. So yesterday
I alerted both caucuses that my plan
was to object to an adjournment. I filed
that objection. The majority leader
then engaged in discussion, together
with the minority leader and others,
about whether there is something we
can do to send a message to these peo-
ple, many of whom are under very dire
circumstances. They have written me,
too, about postponing medical proce-
dures and not buying medication for
their kids. Is there something we can
do that can send them some message of
comfort that they will receive their
paychecks, if not tomorrow, but they
will be made whole?
Over the course of the afternoon, as
we have talked about it, we thought
the best message we could send—and I
am glad we are able to send it by voice
vote unanimously from this body—is
that they will be paid. When we reopen,
they will be paid.
That is not the same comfort as get-
ting the paycheck. It is not the same
comfort as knowing when the shut-
down will be over and when they can go
back to try to keep serving American
citizens, but having the certainty that
it will be paid is something that we can
do for these people. I appreciate the
majority leader’s working with us on
the S. 24 bill that Senator CARDIN is
the sponsor of and I am a cosponsor of.
It does good work in this regard, and I
think we can send some people a little
bit of a signal on what will be a tough
day tomorrow. We can send them a lit-
tle bit of a signal that we are going to
be there, and they can count on the
paycheck.
With that, I thank my colleagues for
working together on this.
I yield floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I am
glad I had the opportunity to vote with
my colleagues, the majority leader,
and my colleagues from Virginia and
Maryland on the bill we just passed
here on the Senate floor to ensure the
backpay for Federal workers who will
be without pay, and I hope we can get
to a resolution soon on this partial
government shutdown that gets all ele-
ments of the government open and
fully funds the border and the signifi-
cant amounts requested by the White
House that I think most Americans
and most Alaskans need and want.
TRIBUTE TO URBAN RAHOI
Mr. President, I hope that you and
all the pages here—we have some new
pages in the staff here—had a great
holiday season and that everybody lis-
tening back home and watching back
home in Alaska around the country
also had a wonderful holiday. I cer-
tainly did. It is always great to be
home in my State—spending time with
family and my wife, my daughters, and
with friends—which to me is the great-
est State in the greatest country in the
world.
Winter is a special time in Alaska.
The sun may be low or in some places
it may not rise above the horizon at
all, but there is a certain glow that
comes with the snow. With that glow
and the Northern Lights dancing in the
sky, particularly in the interior—the
place I am going to talk about in a
minute—it is magical. We want to as-
sure anyone watching to come to Alas-
ka and you are going to have the trip
of a lifetime.
As I have said so many times on the
floor of the Senate, it is the people who
make my State so special—tough,
hearty, resilient people who have lived
some of the most amazing, meaningful,
purposeful lives and who have the wis-
dom, the character, the toughness, and,
yes, even the scars to prove it. Stories
of character, stories of lives well-trav-
eled, and stories of lives well-lived
abound my State.
Last Saturday, in the great city of
Fairbanks, AK, I had the great oppor-
tunity and the honor to attend the
100th birthday party—I am looking at
the pages, who all just said ‘‘wow’’—of
a legend in Alaska, a man, certainly, of
great stories but also of heart, of patri-
otism, and of everything that makes
Alaska and America great.
As you know, Mr. President, I come
to the floor nearly every week, while
we are in session, to honor someone
that I refer to as the Alaskan of the
Week, someone who makes our State
and our country very special. I want
America right now—if you are watch-
ing on C–SPAN, in the Gallery, or the
press—to meet Urban Rahoi, our Alas-
kan of the Week—a husband, a father,
a veteran, a pilot, a hunting guide, a
developer, and a builder, just to name a
few of his defining characteristics.
Urban has lived a dozen lives, all in
only one century—100 years old. He
helped to save America, and he helped
to build Alaska—to save this great Na-
tion of ours and to build one of our
greatest States. He is our Alaskan of
the Week.
I believe he may even be watching in
Fairbanks—I hope you are, Urban—in
the pioneer home there, maybe with
some of the Laundry House Gang mem-
bers, maybe even my father-in-law,
Bud, and, Craig Compeau. I hope you
are all watching right now.
Urban has had such a full life that it
is hard to know where to start—100
years. Let me give you some of the
highlights.
He was born on January 7, 1919, the
day after Teddy Roosevelt died, in Iron
Mountain, MI. He grew up during the
height of the Depression, but Urban re-
cently told a reporter with the Fair-
banks Daily News-Miner that the De-
pression for him and for his family
wasn’t that bad. His family hunted.
They grew their own food. They
worked hard. He said: ‘‘We had a gar-
den and we had 100 rabbits.’’ In many
ways, that is how they got through the
Depression.
He began to get interested in air-
planes and in flying. When he was just
15 years old, he took his first solo
flight—at 15, a solo flight—and he was
forever hooked.
He was also hooked on the love of his
life, whom he met when he was 21 years
old, Vienna—Vi, everyone called her—
and they got married in 1940.
In 1943, Urban joined the U.S. mili-
tary during World War II, in the Army
Air Corps, and he flew bombers in
North Africa and Italy. ‘‘From Italy,
we would fly bombing missions into
southern Germany, Austria, Romania,
and wherever they needed us’’—dozens
of bombing combat missions.
And what did he fly? Appropriately,
Urban Rahoi flew the B–17s, also known
as the ‘‘Flying Fortresses.’’ Those air-
planes stayed in the air even after
some of the toughest battles and some
of the most vicious flak—tough as can
be, just like Urban. Again, he was a B–
17 pilot in World War II, part of the
greatest generation, which saved
America and saved this institution,
among others, the U.S. Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.018 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S135
January 10, 2019
Eventually, as it does with a certain
kind of an adventurous person, Urban
heard the call of Alaska, and he flew to
the State in a PA–12 Cub. He and Vi
homesteaded on the Tanana River,
near the Richardson Highway, and
began to make a life for themselves in
Alaska.
What a rich life it was. They began a
family, eventually having three chil-
dren—Rick, Eugene, and Holly. Urban
also stayed active in the military, as a
member of the Air Force Reserve 449th
Fighter Squadron, in Alaska. He com-
manded the C–47 squadron and co-
piloted several historic military air-
craft, including the North American F–
82 Twin Mustang, the Lockheed F–94
Starfire, and the Northrup F–89 Scor-
pion.
This is a great pilot for America. He
began offering private flying services,
and he also built two areas in terms of
developments. Together, they made up
these trailer parks with 172 lots. Urban
designed the development of these
areas and installed all of the electrical
lines, the water lines, and the septic
system—all himself.
Think about that. What American
can do that today? He also built a
lodge in an inholding in Wrangell-St.
Elias National Park and Preserve. If
that were not enough, he became a big
game guide in Alaska, running a suc-
cessful big game guiding business, and
he built Ptarmigan Lake Lodge, an
inholding in Wrangell-St. Elias Na-
tional Park and Preserve.
When Alaska became a State, guides
were required to become registered,
and they had registration numbers.
Urban Rahoi was issued big game Alas-
ka’s State license No. 1—No. 1, the
first.
All told, during his career as a pilot,
he racked up an incredible 20,000 hours
of flying—20,000 hours of flying. That is
probably older than some of you pages.
He has seen so much, nearly every part
of Alaska. ‘‘If someone’s there, I’ve
been there,’’ he said recently, about all
the flights he has taken all over the
great State of Alaska.
In 2012, the FAA presented Urban
with the Wright Brothers Master Pilot
Award. Here is what the FAA wrote:
He has used his skill as an aviator to train
airmen, fight a war [for America], and main-
tain the safety standard in commercial avia-
tion. He has rescued people in trouble and
supplied people in . . . Bush [Alaska] with
the necessities of life. He has contributed to
the state of Alaska, and provided many peo-
ple a chance to see the wild and beautiful
Alaska we all love.
The party for Urban’s 100th birthday
last Saturday in Fairbanks was so re-
flective of the impact that he has had
on the State, his community in Fair-
banks, and, of course, his country.
Fairbanks is a tough, tough place. I
love Fairbanks. Fairbanks has been ex-
periencing a bit of a cold snap. Last
Saturday, at Urban’s 100th birthday
party, it was 30 below zero in Fair-
banks. That is a dangerous tempera-
ture for some but not for the people of
interior Alaska, who deal with that on
a regular basis. Despite 30-below tem-
peratures, hundreds of people from the
interior of Alaska and beyond, from all
walks of life, were there at the Pioneer
Parks’ Centennial Center to honor this
legend, this great Alaskan, and this
great American.
There were family and friends. We
even had a special guest—the football
fans watching know him very well—
former Miami Dolphins football player
and Hall of Famer Larry Csonka was
there to celebrate Urban’s 100th birth-
day. Csonka had been sheep hunting at
Urban’s lodge, and the two remained
very, very close friends ever since.
One of Urban’s goals is to be the first
100-year-old to participate in a
snowmachine race in Fairbanks—a race
that Urban rides in every year. Larry
Csonka gave him an autographed
Miami Dolphins football helmet to
wear as the helmet when Urban partici-
pates in this race this year.
There was a life-sized cake with 100
candles, a slide show of pictures of
Urban and Vi at different phases of
their lives—so many different adven-
tures, World War II, Alaska as a State,
so much love, so much life, so many
people celebrating this great Amer-
ican.
I had the opportunity to talk a little
bit about Urban at the birthday party
last Saturday in Fairbanks, and I men-
tioned that here was a man who had so
many qualities—patriotism, service,
sacrifice, perseverance, and, yes, even
tougher than Larry Csonka. The foot-
ball fans watching know there are not
many people in America who are
tougher than Csonka. Urban is, and
Csonka acknowledged this.
The one person missing from this
great celebration was his beloved wife,
who passed in Urban’s arms on January
3, 2010, 3 days before their 70th wedding
anniversary.
She was 92 years old. Vi’s memory
lives on in their 3 children, 7 grand-
children, 16 great-grandchildren, and 1
great-great-grandchild, and her mem-
ory lives on in Urban’s heart.
At the ceremony, my good friend who
put it together, Craig Compeau, was
the emcee of this wonderful birthday
party, and he interviewed Urban. To-
ward the end of it, he asked him what
the secret for such a long life was—100
years old.
Urban said it could be summed up in
two words: My wife.
Now, isn’t that beautiful, America?
Isn’t that beautiful?
What a great man. What a great life.
So, Urban, here is to flying free, liv-
ing well. Here is to the State and the
country we all—you—love so much.
Here is to being part of the ‘‘greatest
generation’’ that saved America and
built Alaska, and here is to the exam-
ple you have set for all of us, whether
U.S. Senators, whether pages, 100 years
old, service to your country, dedication
to your wife. Thanks for all you have
done. Thanks for all you have done to
protect and defend this great Nation,
to build our great State, and thank
you, Urban, for being our Alaskan of
the Week from the floor of the U.S.
Senate. Happy 100th birthday.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to a period of morning
business, with Senators permitted
therein to speak for up to 10 minutes
each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
BUDGET SCOREKEEPING REPORT
Mr. ENZI. Mr. President, I wish to
submit to the Senate the budget
scorekeeping report for January 2019.
The report compares current-law levels
of spending and revenues with the
amounts the Senate agreed to in the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, BBA18.
This information is necessary for the
Senate Budget Committee to deter-
mine whether budgetary points of
order lie against pending legislation.
The Republican staff of the Budget
Committee and the Congressional
Budget Office, CBO prepared this re-
port pursuant to section 308(b) of the
Congressional Budget Act, CBA.
This is my first scorekeeping report
this year. My last filing can be found in
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD for Novem-
ber 15, 2018. That report included final
budgetary levels for fiscal year 2018.
The information included in this report
is current through January 7, 2019.
Several bills have cleared Congress
since my last filing. The three with the
largest direct spending and revenue ef-
fects were the Frank LoBiondo Coast
Guard Authorization Act of 2018, P.L.
115–282; the Agriculture Improvement
Act of 2018, P.L. 115–334; and the First
Step Act, P.L. 115–391.
Budget Committee Republican staff
prepared Tables 1–3.
Table 1 gives the amount by which
each Senate authorizing committee ex-
ceeds or is below its allocation for
budget authority and outlays under the
most recently adopted budget resolu-
tion and the fiscal year 2019 enforce-
able levels filing. This information is
used for enforcing committee alloca-
tions pursuant to section 302 of the
CBA. For this reporting period, 8 of the
16 authorizing committees are not in
compliance with their allocations.
Over the current 10-year enforceable
window, authorizing committees have
increased outlays by a combined $3.4
billion.
Tables 2 provides the amount by
which the Senate Committee on Appro-
priations is below or exceeds the statu-
tory spending limits. This information
is used to determine points of order re-
lated to the spending caps found in sec-
tions 312 and 314 of the CBA. Appropria-
tions for fiscal year 2019, displayed in
this table, show that the Appropria-
tions Committee is currently compli-
ant with spending limits for fiscal year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.047 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S136 January 10, 2019
2019. As of this filing, 7 of the 12 annual
appropriations bills have not been en-
acted with full-year spending.
The fiscal year 2018 budget resolution
contained points of order limiting the
use of changes in mandatory programs
in appropriations bills, CHIMPS. Table
3, which tracks the CHIMP limit of $15
billion for fiscal year 2019, shows the
Appropriations Committee has enacted
$7.7 billion worth of full-year CHIMPs
for fiscal year 2019. The fiscal year 2019
CHIMPs were contained in the Labor,
Health and Human Services, Education
and Related Agencies division of P.L.
115–245. This information is used for de-
termining the point of order under sec-
tion 4102, overall limit, of H. Con. Res.
71, 115th Congress.
In addition to the tables provided by
Budget Committee Republican staff, I
am submitting CBO tables, which I will
use to enforce budget totals approved
by Congress.
For fiscal year 2019, CBO annualizes
the effects of the last continuing reso-
lution, P.L. 115245, which provided
funding through December 21, 2018. For
the enforcement of budgetary aggre-
gates, the Budget Committee histori-
cally excludes temporary funding. As
such, the current-law levels are $305.5
billion and $196.7 billion below enforce-
able levels for budget authority and
outlays, respectively. Revenues are
$302 million below the level assumed in
the budget resolution. Further, Social
Security revenues are at the levels as-
sumed for fiscal year 2019, while Social
Security outlays are $4 million above
assumed levels for the budget year.
CBO’s report also provides informa-
tion needed to enforce the Senate pay-
as-you-go, PAYGO, rule. The PAYGO
scorecard shows deficit increases in FY
2019 of $1,797 million—$302 million rev-
enue loss, $1,495 million outlay in-
crease—over the fiscal year 2018–2023
period of $3,045 million—$665 million
revenue loss, $2,380 million outlay in-
crease—and over the fiscal year 2018–
2028 period of $416 million—$625 million
revenue loss, $209 million outlay de-
crease. The Senate’s PAYGO rule is en-
forced by section 4106 of H. Con. Res.
71, 115th Congress.
This submission also includes a table
tracking the Senate’s budget enforce-
ment activity on the floor since the
May 7, 2018, enforcement filing. Since
my last report, no new budgetary
points of order were raised.
All years in the accompanying tables
are fiscal years.
I ask unanimous consent that the ac-
companying tables be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
TABLE 1.—SENATE AUTHORIZING COMMITTEES—ENACTED
DIRECT SPENDING ABOVE (+) OR BELOW (¥) BUDGET
RESOLUTIONS
[In millions of dollars]
2019
2019–
2023
2019–
2028
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry
Budget Authority ............................... 2,414 4,249 3,123
Outlays .............................................. 1,406 1,820 70
Armed Services
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
Budget Authority ............................... 21 285 382
Outlays .............................................. 20 285 382
Commerce, Science, and Transportation
Budget Authority ............................... 41 77 91
Outlays .............................................. 11 74 90
Energy and Natural Resources
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 ¥14
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 ¥14
Environment and Public Works
Budget Authority ............................... 2 4 ¥333
Outlays .............................................. 2 4 ¥333
Finance
Budget Authority ............................... 206 991 ¥919
Outlays .............................................. 119 988 ¥919
Foreign Relations
Budget Authority ............................... 0 ¥5 ¥20
Outlays .............................................. 0 ¥5 ¥20
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs
Budget Authority ............................... 0 2 4
Outlays .............................................. 43 48 49
Judiciary
Budget Authority ............................... 11 194 467
Outlays .............................................. 11 190 462
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions
Budget Authority ............................... 0 ¥36 ¥84
Outlays .............................................. 0 ¥36 ¥84
Rules and Administration
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Intelligence
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Veterans’ Affairs
Budget Authority ............................... 4 3 ¥729
Outlays .............................................. 4,402 4,400 3,668
Indian Affairs
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Small Business
Budget Authority ............................... 0 0 0
Outlays .............................................. 0 0 0
Total
Budget Authority ...................... 2,699 5,764 1,968
Outlays ..................................... 6,014 7,768 3,351
TABLE 2.—SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE—
ENACTED REGULAR DISCRETIONARY APPROPRIATIONS 1
[Budget authority, in millions of dollars]
2019
Security 2 Nonsecurity 2
Statutory Discretionary Limits .............. 647,000 597,000
Amount Provided by Senate Appropriations Subcommittee
Agriculture, Rural Development, and
Related Agencies .............................. 0 9
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies .................................. 0 0
Defense ................................................. 606,340 129
Energy and Water Development ............ 22,440 22,200
Financial Services and General Govern-
ment ................................................. 0 0
Homeland Security ................................ 0 9
Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies ........................................... 0 0
Labor, Health and Human Services,
Education and Related Agencies ..... 0 178,076
Legislative Branch ................................ 0 4,836
Military Construction and Veterans Af-
fairs, and Related Agencies ............. 10,332 86,804
State Foreign Operations, and Related
Programs .......................................... 0 0
Transportation and Housing and Urban
Development, and Related Agencies 0 4,400
Current Level Total ............. 639,112 296,463
Total Enacted Above (+) or Below
(¥) Statutory Limits .............. ¥7,888 ¥300,537
1 This table excludes spending pursuant to adjustments to the discre-
tionary spending limits. These adjustments are allowed for certain purposes
in section 251(b)(2) of BBEDCA.
2 Security spending is defined as spending in the National Defense budg-
et function (050) and nonsecurity spending is defined as all other spending.
TABLE 3.—SENATE APPROPRIATIONS COMMITTEE—EN-
ACTED CHANGES IN MANDATORY SPENDING PROGRAMS
(CHIMPS)
[Budget authority, millions of dollars]
2019
CHIMPS Limit for Fiscal Year 2019 ................................. 15,000
Senate Appropriations Subcommittees
Agriculture, Rural Development, and Related Agencies 0
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies ....... 0
Defense ............................................................................ 0
Energy and Water Development ....................................... 0
Financial Services and General Government ................... 0
Homeland Security ........................................................... 0
Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies .................. 0
Labor, Health and Human Services, Education and Re-
lated Agencies ............................................................. 7,715
Legislative Branch ........................................................... 0
Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related
Agencies ...................................................................... 0
State Foreign Operations, and Related Programs ........... 0
Transportation and Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies ................................................. 0
Current Level Total ........................................ 7,715
Total CHIMPS Above (+) or Below (¥) Budget
Resolution ........................................................... ¥7,285
U.S. CONGRESS,
CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE,
Washington, DC, January 10, 2019.
Hon. MIKE ENZI,
Chairman, Committee on the Budget,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: The enclosed report
shows the effects of Congressional action on
the fiscal year 2019 budget and is current
through January 7, 2019. This report is sub-
mitted under section 308(b) and in aid of sec-
tion 311 of the Congressional Budget Act, as
amended.
The estimates of budget authority, out-
lays, and revenues are consistent with the
allocations, aggregates, and other budgetary
levels printed in the Congressional Record on
May 7, 2018, pursuant to section 30103 of the
Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–123).
Since our last letter dated November 15,
2018, the Congress has cleared and the Presi-
dent has signed the following legislation
that has significant effects on budget au-
thority, outlays, and revenues in fiscal year
2019:
Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authoriza-
tion Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–282),
Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (Pub-
lic Law 115–334); and
First Step Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–391).
Sincerely,
KEITH HALL,
Director.
Enclosure.
TABLE 1.—SENATE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT FOR SPEND-
ING AND REVENUES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019, AS OF
JANUARY 7, 2019
[In billions of dollars]
Budget
Resolution
Current
Level
Current
Level Over/
Under (¥)
Resolution
On-Budget
Budget Authority ............. 3,619.2 3,634.5 15.3
Outlays ............................ 3,546.4 3,540.7 ¥5.7
Revenues ......................... 2,590.5 2,590.2 ¥0.3
Off-Budget
Social Security Outlays a 908.8 908.8 0.0
Social Security Revenues 899.2 899.2 0.0
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
a Excludes administrative expenses paid from the Federal Old-Age and
Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the Federal Disability Insurance Trust
Fund of the Social Security Administration, which are off-budget, but are
appropriated annually.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.019 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S137
January 10, 2019
TABLE 2.—SUPPORTING DETAIL FOR THE SENATE CURRENT LEVEL REPORT FOR ON-BUDGET SPENDING AND REVENUES FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019, AS OF JANUARY 7, 2019
[In millions of dollars]
Budget
Authority
Outlays Revenues
Previously Enacted a,b
Revenues ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 2,590,496
Permanents and other spending legislation .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2,337,789 2,232,677 n.a.
Appropriation legislation .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 573,950 n.a.
Offsetting receipts ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ ¥890,012 ¥890,015 n.a.
Total, Previously Enacted ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1,447,777 1,916,612 2,590,496
Enacted Legislation
Authorizing Legislation
Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protections Act (P.L. 115–174) d ........................................................................................................................................................................ 18 17 ¥5
VA MISSION Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–182) ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 4,400 0
American Innovation $1 Coin Act (P.L. 115–197) .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3 3 0
Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–239) ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 0 ¥304
Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–251) ............................................................................................................................................................................... 4 2 0
FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–254) e ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 1 44 0
America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–270) ................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2 2 0
SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (P.L. 115–271) b ............................................................................................................................................................................................................. 206 119 0
Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–282) .............................................................................................................................................................................................. 40 10 0
Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–334) ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2,414 1,406 7
First Step Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–391) ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 11 11 0
Subtotal, Authorizing Legislation ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2,699 6,014 ¥302
Appropriation Legislation a
Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 115–244) ............................................................................................................ 191,127 145,276 0
Department of Defense and Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education Appropriations Act, 2019 and Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019 (P.L. 115–245) a,b .............................................. 1,691,001 1,223,855 0
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief, 2018 (P.L. 115–254, Division I) e ..................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,680 25 0
Subtotal, Appropriation Legislation ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,883,808 1,369,156 0
Total, Enacted Legislation ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1,886,507 1,375,170 ¥302
Continuing Resolution
A joint resolution making continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes (P.L. 115–298) a,b,c ............................................................................................................................ 320,763 190,949 0
Entitlements and Mandatories .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. ¥20,585 57,981 0
Total Current Level b .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3,634,462 3,540,712 2,590,194
Total Senate Resolution ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 3,619,159 3,546,419 2,590,496
Current Level Over Senate Resolution ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 15,303 n.a. n.a.
Current Level Under Senate Resolution .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. 5,707 302
Memorandum
Revenues, 2019–2028
Senate Current Level c ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 33,272,529
Senate Resolution f ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 33,273,213
Current Level Over Senate Resolution .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. n.a. n.a. n.a.
Current Level Under Senate Resolution ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... n.a. n.a. 684
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
n.a. = not applicable; P.L. = Public Law.
a Sections 1001–1004 of the 21st Century Cures Act (P.L. 114–255) require that certain funding provided for 2017 through 2026 to the Department of Health and Human Services—in particular the Food and Drug Administration and
the National Institutes of Health—be excluded from estimates for the purposes of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (Deficit Control Act) or the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974
(Congressional Budget Act). Therefore, the amounts shown in this report do not include $771 million in budget authority, and $767 million in estimated outlays.
b For purposes of enforcing section 311 of the Congressional Budget Act in the Senate, the resolution, as approved by the Senate, does not include budget authority, outlays, or revenues for off-budget amounts. As a result, current level
does not include those items.
c Public Law 115–298 amended the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019 (Division C of P.L. 115–254), to continue the appropriations and authorities contained in Divisions A, B, E–G, and K–M of the Consolidated Appropriations Act,
2018, through December 21, 2018. As of January 7, 2019, those appropriations and authorities have not been further extended. This report includes the annualized levels of estimated budget authority and outlays that were provided by
P.L. 115–298, as it was in effect on December 21, 2018.
d Pursuant to section 232(b) of H.C. Res. 290 (106th Congress), the Concurrent Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2001, the budgetary effects related to the Federal Reserve’s surplus funds are excluded. As a result, the amounts shown
do not include estimated increases in revenues of $655 million in fiscal year 2019, $570 million over the 2019–2023 period, and $454 million over the 2019–2028 period.
e Division I of P.L. 115–254 provided $1.68 billion in supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and designated those amounts as being for emergency requirements pursuant to section 251 of the Deficit Control Act. In general,
the budgetary effects of authorizing legislation are recorded as direct spending or revenue. However, consistent with the language in Division I, and at the direction of the Senate Committee on the Budget, those budgetary effects are clas-
sified as discretionary spending.
f Section 30103 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 required—in the absence of a concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2019—that the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Budget publish the aggregate spending and
revenue levels for fiscal year 2019; those aggregate levels were first published in the Congressional Record on May 7, 2018. The Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 also allows the Chair of the Senate Committee on the Budget to revise the
budgetary aggregates:
Budget Au-
thority
Outlays Revenues
Original Aggregates Printed on May 7, 2018: ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,547,094 3,508,052 2,590,496
Revisions:
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ............................................................................................................................................................ 921 0 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ............................................................................................................................................................ 69,464 38,556 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ............................................................................................................................................................ 0 ¥214 0
Pursuant to sections 311 and 314(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ............................................................................................................................................................ 1,680 25 0
Revised Senate Resolution .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3,619,159 3,546,419 2,590,496
TABLE 3.—SUMMARY OF THE SENATE PAY-AS-YOU-GO SCORECARD AS OF JANUARY 7, 2019
[In millions of dollars]
2018 2019 2018–2023 2018–2028
Beginning Balance a ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 0 0
Enacted Legislation b,c
A joint resolution providing for congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule submitted by Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection relat-
ing to ‘‘Incident Auto Lending and Compliance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act’’ (S.J.Res. 57, P.L. 115–172) ................................................................................................... * * * *
Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protections Act (S. 2155, P.L. 115–174) d ......................................................................................................................................... * 22 329 490
Trickett Wendler, Frank Mongiello, Jordan McLinn, and Matthew Bellina Right to Try Act of 2017 (S. 204, P.L. 115–176) .............................................................................................. * * * *
An Act to amend title 38, United States Code, to authorize the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish assistance for adaptations of residences of veterans in rehabilitation pro-
grams under chapter 31 of such title, and for other purposes (H.R. 3562, P.L. 115–177) ............................................................................................................................................ * * * *
VA MISSION Act of 2018 (S. 2372, P.L. 115–182) c ............................................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Whistleblower Protection Coordination Act (S. 1869, P.L. 115–192) ..................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
All Circuit Review Act (H.R. 2229, P.L. 115–195) .................................................................................................................................................................................................................. * * * *
American Innovation $1 Coin Act (H.R. 770, P.L. 115–197) .................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 3 3 0
Small Business 7(a) Lending Oversight Reform Act of 2018 (H.R. 4743, P.L. 115–189) .................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Northern Mariana Islands U.S. Workforce Act of 2018 (H.R. 5956, P.L. 115–218) ............................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 0 ¥3
KIWI Act (S. 2245, P.L. 115–226) ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
To make technical amendments to certain marine fish conservation statutes, and for other purposes (H.R. 4528, P.L. 115–228) ................................................................................. * * * *
John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (H.R. 5515, P.L. 115–232) ................................................................................................................................ * * * *
Miscellaneous Tariff Bill Act of 2018 (H.R. 4318, P.L. 115–239) ......................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 304 690 ¥118
Tribal Social Security Fairness Act of 2018 (H.R. 6124, P.L. 115–243) ................................................................................................................................................................................ 0 * ¥1 ¥3
Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.R. 6157, Division B, P.L. 115–245, Division B) .................... 0 0 18 18
Nuclear Energy Innovation Capabilities Act of 2017 (S. 97, P.L. 115–248) ......................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Department of Veterans Affairs Expiring Authorities Act of 2018 (S. 3479, P.L. 115–251) ................................................................................................................................................. * 2 * ¥3
Elkhorn Ranch and White River National Forest Conveyance Act of 2017 (H.R. 698, P.L. 115–252) .................................................................................................................................. * * * *
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.029 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S138 January 10, 2019
—Continued
[In millions of dollars]
2018 2019 2018–2023 2018–2028
FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 302, P.L. 115–254) f ................................................................................................................................................................................................. * 44 42 26
Patient Right To Know Drug Act of 2018 (S. 2554, P.L. 115–263) ....................................................................................................................................................................................... * * ¥11 ¥52
Orrin G. Hatch-Bob Goodlatte Music Modernization Act (H.R. 1551, P.L. 115–264) ............................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 13 ¥24
Congressional Award Program Reauthorization Act of 2018 (S. 3509, P.L. 115–268) ......................................................................................................................................................... * * 2 4
America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 (S. 3021, P.L. 115–270) ................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 2 16 ¥230
SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6, P.L. 115–271) g ................................................................................................................................................................................. * * * *
Hizballah International Financing Prevention Amendments Act of 2017 (S. 1595, P.L. 115–272) ...................................................................................................................................... * * * *
To authorize the National Emergency Medical Services Memorial Foundation to establish a commemorative work in the District of Columbia and its environs, and for other pur-
poses (H.R. 1037, P.L. 115–275) ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 * * *
Gulf Islands National Seashore Land Exchange Act (H.R. 2615, P.L. 115–279) ................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Frank LoBiondo Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2018 (S. 140, P.L. 115–282) .................................................................................................................................................................. * 10 34 0
Making further continuing appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes (H.J.Res. 143, P.L. 115–298) ...................................................................................................... * * * *
Amy, Vicky, and Andy Child Pornography Victim Assistance Act of 2018 (S. 2152, P.L. 115–299) ..................................................................................................................................... * * * *
A bill to establish a procedure for the conveyance of certain Federal property around the Dickinson Reservoir in the State of North Dakota (S. 440, P.L. 115–306) ......................... 0 0 0 ¥4
A bill to establish a procedure for the conveyance of certain Federal property around the Jamestown Reservoir in the State of North Dakota, and for other purposes (S. 2074, P.L.
115–308) ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 0 0 0 ¥7
Anwar Sadat Centennial Celebration Act (H.R. 754, P.L. 115–310) ...................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Larry Doby Congressional Gold Medal Act (H.R. 1861, P.L. 115–322) .................................................................................................................................................................................. * * * *
Reciprocal Access to Tibet Act of 2018 (H.R. 1872, P.L. 115–330) ...................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Protecting Access to the Courts for Taxpayers Act (H.R. 3996, P.L. 115–332) ..................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 (H.R. 2, P.L. 115–334) ............................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 1,399 1,785 0
Nicaragua Human Rights and Anticorruption Act of 2018 (H.R. 1918, P.L. 115–335) ........................................................................................................................................................ * * * *
21st Century Integrated Digital Experience Act (H.R. 5759, P.L. 115–336) .......................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Chinese-American World War II Veteran Congressional Gold Medal Act (S. 1050, P.L. 115–337) ....................................................................................................................................... * * * *
USS Indianapolis Congressional Gold Medal Act (S. 2101, P.L. 115–338) ........................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
First Step Act of 2018 (S. 756, P.L. 115–391) ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 0 11 120 317
Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame Commemorative Coin Act (H.R. 1235, P.L. 115–343) .................................................................................................................................... 0 0 0 0
Sanctioning the Use of Civilians as Defenseless Shields Act (H.R. 3342, P.L. 115–348) .................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Correcting Miscalculations in Veterans’ Pensions Act (H.R. 4431, P.L. 115–352) ................................................................................................................................................................ * * * *
To authorize early repayment of obligations to the Bureau of Reclamation within the Northport Irrigation District in the State of Nebraska (H.R. 4689) ............................................. * * * *
Strengthening Coastal Communities Act of 2018 (H.R. 5787, P.L. 115–358) ...................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Walnut Grove Land Exchange Act (H.R. 5923, P.L. 115–361) ............................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
To amend the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to extend through 2023 the authority of the Federal Election Commission to impose civil money penalties on the basis of a
schedule of penalties established and published by the Commission (H.R. 7120, P.L. 115–386) ................................................................................................................................. * * * *
Abolish Human Trafficking Act of 2017 (S. 1311, P.L. 115–392) ......................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
CENOTE Act of 2018 (S. 2511, P.L. 115–394) ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
NASA Enhanced Use Leasing Extension Act of 2018 (S. 7, P.L. 115–403) ........................................................................................................................................................................... 0 0 5 5
Veterans Benefits and Transition Act of 2018 (S. 2248, P.L. 115–407) ............................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Stephen Michael Gleason Congressional Gold Medal Act (S. 2652, P.L. 115–415) .............................................................................................................................................................. * * * *
Veterans Small Business Enhancement Act of 2018 (S. 2679, P.L. 115–416) ..................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Forever GI Bill Housing Payment Fulfillment Act of 2018 (S. 3777, P.L. 115–422) ............................................................................................................................................................. * * * *
National Integrated Drought Information System Reauthorization Act of 2018 (S. 2200, P.L. 115–423) ............................................................................................................................ * * * *
75th Anniversary of World War II Commemoration Act (S. 3661) .......................................................................................................................................................................................... * * * *
Impact on Deficit .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. * 1,797 3,045 416
Total Change in Outlays .......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... * 1,495 2,380 ¥209
Total Change in Revenues ....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... * ¥302 ¥665 ¥625
Source: Congressional Budget Office.
Notes: P.L. = Public Law, * = between ¥$500,000 and $500,000.
a On May 7, 2018, the Chairman of the Senate Committee on the Budget reset the Senate’s Pay-As-You-Go Scorecard to zero for all fiscal years.
b The amounts shown represent the estimated effect of the public laws on the deficit.
c Excludes off-budget amounts.
d Pursuant to section 232(b) of H.C.Res. 290 (106th Congress), the Concurrent Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2001, the budgetary effects related to the Federal Reserve’s surplus funds are excluded. As a result, the amounts shown
do not include estimated increases in revenues of $655 million in fiscal year 2019, $570 million over the 2019–2023 period, and $454 million over the 2019–2028 period.
e The budgetary effects of this Act are excluded from the Senate’s PAYGO scorecard, pursuant to section 512 of the Act.
f Division I of P.L. 115–254 contains the Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Act, 2018, which provided $1,680 million in supplemental appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and designated as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to section 251 of the Deficit Control Act. At the direction of the Committees on the Budget, and consistent with the language in section 1701, those amounts are shown as discretionary spending.
g The budgetary effects of this Act are excluded from the Senate’s PAYGO scorecard, pursuant to section 8231 of the Act.
ENFORCEMENT REPORT OF POINTS OF ORDER RAISED SINCE THE FY 2019 ENFORCEMENT FILING
Vote Date Measure Violation Motion to Waive Result
127 June 18, 2018 ........................... H.R. 5515—John S. McCain National Defense Authorization Act
for Fiscal Year 2019.
4106(a)-Senate-Pay-As-You-Go
Violation 1.
Sen. McConnell (R–KY) 2 ........... 81–14, waived
192 August 23, 2018 ....................... S. Amdt #3695 to H.R. 6157, the Defense, Labor, HHS, and
Education Appropriations Act 3.
314(a) CHIMP with Net-Costs ... Sen. Leahy (D–VT) ..................... 68–24, waived
1 Senator Sanders raised a section 4106(a) of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress) point of order against the bill because the bill would increase the on-budget deficit.
2 By unamious consent the Senate proceeded to a roll call vote to waive the point of order.
3 This surgical point of order would have struck lines 7–8 of page 270 in Division B (Title III) of the substitute amendment, which was related to the Pell Grant program. This provision was a Change in Mandatory Program (CHIMP) esti-
mated to increase spending by $390 million over 10 years.
TRIBUTE TO MAE STEVENS
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I would
like to take this opportunity to thank
Mae Stevens, a member of my legisla-
tive staff, for her service on my behalf
to the people of Maryland and the Na-
tion. Mae Stevens has served as my en-
vironmental policy adviser since 2015.
In this role, she has advanced my prior-
ities as the ranking member of the
Transportation and Infrastructure Sub-
committee on the Senate Environment
and Public Works Committee. She has
dedicated much of her time as a mem-
ber of my staff to formulating and ad-
vancing sound policies at the intersec-
tion of drinking water, wastewater,
stormwater, source water protection,
equity, and affordability. I very much
appreciate all that we achieved during
her tenure in my office. Mae has spent
more than 7 years on Capitol Hill and,
9 years prior to that, at various non-
profit environmental organizations.
Mae enrolled at Columbia Univer-
sity’s School of International and Pub-
lic Affairs to earn a master of public
administration from Columbia’s Earth
Institute. After Mae received her MPA,
she worked as a policy adviser in the
clean energy program at Third Way.
From there, she joined the office of
Representative Russ Carnahan, who
represented Missouri’s Third Congres-
sional District. Later, she worked for
Representative MATT CARTWRIGHT of
Pennsylvania, who represented the 17th
Congressional District at the time.
Mae learned about hard work from
her parents. Her father Raymond ‘‘Art’’
Stevens owned an ice cream parlor in
Royal Oak, MI, and her mother Jaky
Van Dox dressed mannequins in cloth-
ing stores in the metro Detroit area.
They spent every extra penny they had
on ice skating lessons for their daugh-
ter, teaching her the grit, dedication,
and perseverance she uses every day in
my office. I know they are extremely
proud of the good work she has done in
my office and will continue to do in
private sector.
Mae believes that people in every
community across America—urban,
rural, and suburban—have a right to
expect that the water coming from
their tap is safe to drink and that Con-
gress will do everything within its
power to ensure that happens. Mae
helped me to ensure that, for the third
Water Resources Development Act—
WRDA—in a row, Congress included up-
dates to our Nation’s drinking water,
wastewater, and stormwater infra-
structure to meet our water infrastruc-
ture backlog demands, while address-
ing the needs of our communities and
our environment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.030 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S139
January 10, 2019
Mae also fought for Maryland prior-
ities in the Senate’s 2018 WRDA, in-
cluding helping me double the amount
of Federal funding spent on drinking
water infrastructure, nationally and at
the State level, and reauthorize the
Water Infrastructure Finance and In-
novation Act, WIFIA, a low-cost fi-
nancing mechanism for large water in-
frastructure projects. Baltimore, MD,
is one of 12 projects in nine States that
will receive the first of the WIFIA
grants in 2019. This will help the 1.8
million people served by the Baltimore
Department of Public Works continue
to have some of the cleanest, safest,
and more reliable drinking water in the
country.
Clean water is not a partisan issue,
and Mae worked with her colleagues on
both sides of the aisle and Capitol Hill
to develop legislation that will benefit
our aging water resources and infra-
structure. The Senate passed the 2018
WRDA reauthorization by a vote of 99–
1, a testament to the hard, bipartisan
work of the majority and minority
staff on EPW, personal staff like Mae,
and the committee members. I was
proud to be involved.
Mae conscientiously strives to reduce
her personal carbon footprint. One way
she does this is by commuting to and
from work on her bike. She helped me
to increase funding for the Transpor-
tation Alternatives Program, TAP, and
ensure that cities and counties con-
tinue to have a voice in how Federal
dollars are spent on these important
programs in the Fixing America’s Sur-
face Transportation—FAST—Act.
As the British primatologist and an-
thropologist Jane Goodall has said,
‘‘″You cannot get through a single day
without having an impact on the world
around you. What you do makes a dif-
ference and you have to decide what
kind of a difference you want to
make.’’ I want to thank Mae Stevens
for the difference she has decided to
make—and will continue to make—and
wish her the best of luck in her future
endeavors. Of course, even though she
is leaving the Hill, she will always be a
member of Team Cardin.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
REMEMBERING DICK BARCLAY
∑ Mr. BOOZMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to remember and pay tribute to
Dick Barclay. Dick was a friend and
civic leader from Rogers, AR, who
passed away from complications due to
Alzheimer’s last week at the age of 81.
Born in Oberlin, KS, Dick attended
Kansas State University before his
honeymoon brought him to Arkansas.
Dick and Jan eventually moved to Rog-
ers where Dick, along with his brother
Charles, opened a successful public ac-
counting firm that served the area for
decades. When I first moved to Rogers
in the 1970s, naturally, Dick was one of
the first people I met and someone I
quickly grew to lean on and turn to for
his consistently sound advice.
In addition to his successful career as
a trusted accountant in northwest Ar-
kansas, Dick put his belief in commu-
nity service into practice throughout
his entire life. He served in the Arkan-
sas House of Representatives from 1976
until 1992. In 1996, he joined Governor
Mike Huckabee’s administration,
where he put his financial expertise to
use as executive director of budget,
legislative affairs, and policy. He went
on to become Arkansas’s chief fiscal of-
ficer and directed the Arkansas Depart-
ment of Finance and Administration in
1999.
Dick didn’t believe that holding pub-
lic office alone was where his call to
service ended, though. He was active
among many different groups and orga-
nizations that worked to improve life
in Rogers and in greater northwest Ar-
kansas. A few such roles included serv-
ing on the board of the Northwest Ar-
kansas Community College Founda-
tion, as president and board member of
the Rogers Little Theater, chairman of
the Rogers-Lowell Chamber of Com-
merce, commissioner of the Arkansas
Economic Development Commission,
member and president of the Northwest
Arkansas Council, and chairman of the
Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce.
He also led the Benton County Repub-
lican Party for a time.
A man of strong faith, Dick was a
board chair and elder at First Christian
Church in Rogers. One of his sons went
on to lead services at Fellowship Bible
Church, and Dick, along with his wife,
was proud to attend services there to
show his support. He has already been
remembered by others as being a de-
voted family man and a person of prin-
ciple and integrity with the highest
ethics. He was all these things and
more, including a talented musician
who played in a bluegrass band with
friends and also performed with a bar-
bershop quartet.
As a former colleague described him,
Dick Barclay was a ‘‘quintessential
public servant.’’ He had a tremendous
impact across northwest Arkansas. His
example of leadership and dedication
are truly worthy of emulation by any-
one who wishes to do the important
work required to better their own
town, community, and entire state.
I greatly admired and respected Dick
and will feel his loss keenly, as will so
many others in Rogers and throughout
Benton County and northwest Arkan-
sas. My thoughts and prayers are with
Jan and the entire Barclay family at
this difficult time. Dick’s legacy of
service, his ever-present positivity, and
the difference he made in countless
lives will be remembered for years to
come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MARSHALL WILLIAMS
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Marshall Williams of Powder River
County for his impact on the commu-
nity of Broadus.
Marshall has spent the last 39 years
educating students in the small south-
east Montana community and ensuring
their future success. Mr. Williams re-
cently received the 2018 Montana Ca-
reer and Technical Education Lifetime
Achievement Award. The Association
for Career and Technical Education is a
nationwide organization who recognize
career and technical educators for
their professionalism and leadership in
their field. They are one of the largest
national education association dedi-
cated to the advancement of education.
This prestigious award is for dedicated
educators who have spent an extended
period of time in their respective
fields.
Mr. Williams has selflessly given to
each of his students, dedicating his
time and efforts to ensure their suc-
cess. Marshall is currently a teacher at
Broadus High School, where he teaches
ag education and shop. Mr. Williams is
constantly looking for ways to improve
student’s education, as he works close-
ly with teachers, administrators, and
even local businesses as a means of
open communication on how to
progress their communities’ education
system.
I congratulate Marshall on being a
selfless educator to the Broadus com-
munity. I look forward to seeing his
success continue to grow as each of his
students goes on to achieve their own
success.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO HOLLY GATLING
∑ Mr. GRAHAM. Mr. President, I ask
my fellow colleagues to join me in cele-
brating Ms. Holly Gatling’s dedicated
service as the executive director of
South Carolina Citizens for Life.
Holly earned a bachelor’s degree in
journalism from the University of
South Carolina in 1972. While at the
University of South Carolina, she
served as a copy editor for ‘‘The State’’
newspaper. She went on to work for
several newspapers across South Caro-
lina, including as a feature writer from
1976 to 1990 for ‘‘The State.’’
As a stalwart champion for the un-
born, Holly has effectively lobbied the
South Carolina General Assembly in
support of pro-life laws. Some of these
laws included Woman’s Right to Know,
Partial Birth Abortion Ban, and Safe
Haven for Abandoned Newborns. She
was also instrumental in ushering Pain
Capable Unborn Child Protection to
Governor Nikki Haley’s desk for signa-
ture in 2016.
I am proud to have worked closely
with her on many pro-life issues, in-
cluding the Pain Capable legislation in
the U.S. Senate. I know that one day
we too will pass this important legisla-
tion into law.
I am extremely proud of her work for
the unborn and know she has made a
difference in the lives of thousands of
South Carolinians. She is a model for
public servants, and I am honored to
congratulate my friend Holly Gatling
on her 25 years of service to others in
South Carolina, across the United
States of America, and around the
world.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.038 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S140 January 10, 2019
TRIBUTE TO ROBERT KRAFT
∑ Mr. MARKEY. Mr. President, today I
recognize Robert Kraft of Massachu-
setts, the 2019 Genesis prize laureate.
Recognized as the ‘‘Jewish Nobel’’
prize, organizers grant the award each
year to an extraordinary person recog-
nized for their outstanding professional
achievement and making a significant
contribution to improving the world
and inspiring young Jews through their
dedication to social justice and philan-
thropy. I believe the Genesis prize com-
mittee made an excellent choice in se-
lecting Mr. Kraft.
While known to most as the owner of
the New England Patriots, Mr. Kraft,
along with his late wife Myra, has for
decades spoke out and donated gener-
ously to organizations combating prej-
udices, including anti-Semitism. Most
recently, Mr. Kraft announced that all
proceeds of the match between his
Major League Soccer team, the New
England Revolution, and the Chelsea
Football Club will benefit initiatives to
combat the disturbing trend of rising
anti-Semitism and hate crimes in the
United States and around the world.
Upon receiving the Genesis prize, Mr.
Kraft announced he would donate the
$1 million monetary award to efforts to
combat anti-Semitism.
Mr. Kraft is a true ‘‘patriot’’ in all
senses of the word. The Common-
wealth, country, and global community
owe much gratitude to Mr. Kraft. I
congratulate my dear friend Robert
Kraft on his lifelong efforts to further
the Jewish value of tikkun olam, to
heal the world.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO TATUM ASHBY
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Tatum Ashby, a 2018 fall in-
tern in my Orlando office, for all of the
hard work she has done for me, my
staff, and the people of the State of
Florida.
Tatum is a student at Southeastern
University, where she is majoring in
political science. She is a dedicated
and diligent worker who has been de-
voted to getting the most out of her in-
ternship experience.
I would like to extend my sincere
thanks and appreciation to Tatum for
all the fine work she has done and wish
her continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CHARLIE GRAY
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Charlie Gray, a 2018 fall in-
tern in my Orlando office, for all of the
hard work he has done for me, my
staff, and the people of the State of
Florida.
Charlie is a student at Rollins Col-
lege, where he is majoring in environ-
mental studies with a minor in polit-
ical science. He is a dedicated and dili-
gent worker who has been devoted to
getting the most out of his internship
experience.
I would like to extend my sincere
thanks and appreciation to Charlie for
all the fine work he has done and wish
him continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO CAROLINE HUSEBO
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Caroline Husebo, a 2018 fall
intern in my Orlando office, for all of
the hard work she has done for me, my
staff, and the people of the State of
Florida.
Caroline is a graduate from Circle
Christian School and interned during
her gap year. She is a dedicated and
diligent worker who has been devoted
to getting the most out of her intern-
ship experience.
I would like to extend my sincere
thanks and appreciation to Caroline for
all the fine work she has done and wish
her continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO MARY PARK
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Mary Park, a 2018 fall intern
in my Orlando office, for all of the hard
work she has done for me, my staff,
and the people of the State of Florida.
Mary is a graduate of the University
of Florida, where she is majored in po-
litical science and African-American
studies. She is a dedicated and diligent
worker who has been devoted to get-
ting the most out of her internship ex-
perience.
I would like to extend my sincere
thanks and appreciation to Mary for
all the fine work she has done and wish
her continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO VICTORIA SCOTT
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Victoria Scott, a 2018 fall in-
tern in my Orlando office, for all of the
hard work she has done for me, my
staff, and the people of the State of
Florida.
Victoria is a student at Rollins Col-
lege, where she is majoring in political
science and international relations.
She is a dedicated and diligent worker
who has been devoted to getting the
most out of her internship experience.
I would like to extend my sincere
thanks and appreciation to Victoria for
all the fine work she has done and wish
her continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO RYLEIGH WOGOMAN
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
recognize Ryleigh Wogoman, a 2018 fall
intern in my Orlando office, for all of
the hard work she has done for me, my
staff, and the people of the State of
Florida.
Ryleigh is a student at the Univer-
sity of Central Florida, where she is
majoring in political science. She is a
dedicated and diligent worker who has
been devoted to getting the most out of
her internship experience.
I would like to extend my sincere
thanks and appreciation to Ryleigh for
all the fine work she has done and wish
her continued success in the years to
come.∑
f
RECOGNIZING OCEANA COFFEE
ROASTERS
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I wish to
recognize the first Small Business of
the Week of the 116th Congress. Each
week this Congress, I will honor a
small business that exemplifies the
hard work and perseverance of the
American entrepreneur. The great
State of Florida is home to businesses
of all types, from family-run farms in
Ocala to aerospace machinists in Cape
Canaveral. Today, it is my distinct
pleasure to honor a small business with
a strong commitment to the quality of
its products and a desire to give back
to its community. As chairman of the
Senate Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship, it is my pleas-
ure to recognize Oceana Coffee Roast-
ers as this year’s first Small Business
of the Week.
Amy and Scott Angelo founded
Oceana Coffee Roasters in 2009 with
only a $35 coffee roaster, converted
from a popcorn machine, and the goal
of bringing freshly roasted coffee to
their area. Located in Tequesta, FL,
Amy and Scott founded the company
after they were unable to find a local
coffee roaster that produced fresh,
small-batch coffee. Seeing an oppor-
tunity, the Angelos began by roasting
just a quarter-cup of coffee at a time,
experimenting with different types of
beans and roasting techniques.
From a popcorn popper in their
kitchen, to roasting 50,000 pounds of
beans a year, the Angelos have re-
mained focused on the details of pro-
ducing high-quality, small-batch,
whole bean and ground coffee. In order
to meet their high standards, Scott and
Amy learned all they could about how
coffee beans are grown, where the best
beans originate, and how to bring out
the best flavor in each type of bean.
They also researched the fair trade cof-
fee process, how coffee is harvested and
transported, and the logistics of im-
porting beans to their Florida small
business. Through their diligent study
and a trial and error process, the
Angelos harnessed their entrepre-
neurial spirit to understand their cus-
tomers’ desires and make a product
they are proud of. In 2016, the Palm
Beach North Chamber of Commerce
recognized Oceana Coffee as the Small
Business of the Year and SCORE of
Palm Beach County recognized them
for entrepreneurial excellence. Also in
2016, they were the overall winner for
the Golden Bean North America
Award, which is the world’s largest cof-
fee roaster competition.
As the business has grown, the com-
pany has periodically added new coffee
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.023 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S141
January 10, 2019
varieties from around the world to its
product line. Instead of focusing on
large production runs of one type of
coffee, Oceana produces small batches
of shade-grown, Guatemalan, Ethio-
pian, and Costa Rican coffee for all
types of coffee consumers. Their suc-
cess has also led to expansion, with
Amy and Scott adding a second loca-
tion in Palm Beach County while in-
creasing e-commerce sales and direct
shipments to reach approximately 100
wholesale customers.
The Angelos are committed to their
community and doing right by the peo-
ple they do business with. Every quar-
ter, Oceana makes a donation to a
charitable organization voted on by its
customers under an initiative they call
Cup of Kindness. Oceana Coffee also
gives back by offering internships to
adults with autism by partnering with
Jupiter, FL-based Els for Autism so
that affected individuals can gain
workforce experience. Additionally,
the Angelos provide a platform to local
artists, authors, and other small busi-
nesses in the area. Each month, the
shop hosts a showcase to help these en-
trepreneurs gain exposure.
The Angelos care about the commu-
nity of growers they work with, as they
purchase their coffee beans from small,
fair-trade farmers that they interact
with directly and visit regularly. They
have also made a commitment to re-
duce waste through the use of reusable
straws and recyclable cutlery and con-
tainers.
Oceana Coffee Roasters has found its
niche and expanded as a company,
while keeping its commitment to qual-
ity and principles. The Angelos’ love of
quality coffee, commitment to their
community, and painstaking review of
the coffee making process has made
the company a leader in its community
and created a loyal customer base.
Again, I would like to congratulate
Scott, Amy, and all of the employees
at Oceana Coffee Roasters for being
named the Small Business of the Week.
I wish you continued success in your
future endeavors.∑
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:02 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 226. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to include best in class designations
in the annual report on small business goals
prepared by the Administrator of the Small
Business Administration, and for other pur-
poses.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bill was read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 226. An act to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to include best in class designations
in the annual report on small business goals
prepared by the Administrator of the Small
Business Administration, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Small Business
and Entrepreneurship.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bills were read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 251. An act to extend by two years the
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, and for other purposes.
H.R. 264. An act making appropriations for
financial services and general government
for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
and for other purposes.
H.R. 269. An act to reauthorize certain pro-
grams under the Public Health Service Act
and the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act with respect to public health security
and all-hazards preparedness and response,
to clarify the regulatory framework with re-
spect to certain nonprescription drugs that
are marketed without an approved drug ap-
plication, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES READ THE FIRST TIME
The following bill was read the first
time:
S. 109. A bill to prohibit taxpayer funded
abortions.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–58. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to Congress
Section 889 of the Fiscal Year 2018 NDAA Re-
port on Defense Contracting Fraud’’; to the
Committees on Armed Services; and Appro-
priations.
EC–59. A communication from the Director
of Congressional Relations, Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of
the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the Office of the Comptroller’s 2018 Annual
Report to Congress; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–60. A communication from the Program
Specialist (Paperwork Reduction Act), Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Community Reinvestment Act Regula-
tions’’ (RIN1557–AE54) received in the Office
of the President of the Senate on January 8,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–61. A communication from the Program
Specialist (Paperwork Reduction Act), Office
of the Comptroller of the Currency, Depart-
ment of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Ex-
panded Examination Cycle for Cerain Small
Insured Depository Institutions and US
Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks’’
(RIN1557–AE37) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 8, 2019;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–62. A communication from the Deputy
Assistant Secretary for Export Administra-
tion, Bureau of Industry and Security, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Control of Military Electronic Equipment
and Other Items the President Determines
No Longer Warrant Control Under the
United States Munitions List (USML); Cor-
rection’’ (RIN0694–AH64) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Janu-
ary 2, 2019; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–63. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Strategic Petroleum
Reserve Annual Report for Calendar Year
2017’’; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
EC–64. A communication from the Director
of Congressional Affairs, Office of Nuclear
Reactor Regulation, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘DI&C–ISG–06,
Licensing Process, Interim Staff Guidance,
Revision 2’’ (10 CFR Part 50) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Jan-
uary 4, 2018; to the Committee on Environ-
ment and Public Works.
EC–65. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Status of
Risk Adjustment in Medicare Advantage
2018’’; to the Committee on Finance.
EC–66. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Ryan
White HIV/AIDS Program Parts A and B
Supplemental Awards for Fiscal Year 2018
Report to Congress’’; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–67. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Tenth
Annual Report on Delays in Approvals of Ap-
plications Related to Citizen Petitions and
Petitions for Stay of Agency Action for Fis-
cal Year 2017’’; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–68. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Regulatory Services,
Office of General Counsel, Department of
Education, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Improving the
Effectiveness and Efficiency of FERPA En-
forcement’’ received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 2, 2019;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
EC–69. A communication from the Admin-
istrator, U.S. Agency for International De-
velopment (USAID), transmitting, pursuant
to law, the Uniform Resource Locator (URL)
for USAID’s Agency Financial Report for fis-
cal year 2018; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–70. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary for Legislation, Department of
Health and Human Services, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report entitled ‘‘Report to
Congress on the Social and Economic Condi-
tions of Native Americans: Fiscal Year 2015’’;
to the Committee on Indian Affairs.
EC–71. A communication from the Chair of
the Federal Election Commission, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
eleven (11) legislative recommendations; to
the Committee on Rules and Administration.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. KING, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.022 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S142 January 10, 2019
WHITEHOUSE, Ms. BALDWIN, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. REED, Ms. KLOBUCHAR,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Ms. WARREN, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. SMITH, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr.
DURBIN, Mr. BENNET, Mrs. FEINSTEIN,
Mr. MANCHIN, and Mr. LEAHY):
S. 73. A bill to amend the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 to deny the deduction for adver-
tising and promotional expenses for prescrip-
tion drugs; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Mr.
CORNYN):
S. 74. A bill to prohibit paying Members of
Congress during periods during which a Gov-
ernment shutdown is in effect, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Ms.
ERNST):
S. 75. A bill to prohibit certain business
concerns from receiving assistance from the
Small Business Administration, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 76. A bill to redesignate the Saint-
Gaudens National Historic Site as the
‘‘Saint-Gaudens National Historical Park’’,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 77. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to ensure small businesses affected by
the onset of transmissible diseases are eligi-
ble for disaster relief; to the Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Ms.
ERNST):
S. 78. A bill to ensure a complete analysis
of the potential impacts of rules on small en-
tities; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. RISCH (for himself and Mr.
CRAPO):
S. 79. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Agriculture to maintain or replace certain
facilities and structures for commercial
recreation services at Smith Gulch in Idaho,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
GARDNER, and Ms. SINEMA):
S. 80. A bill to repeal the annual fee on
health insurance providers enacted by the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act;
to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 81. A bill to adjust the eastern boundary
of the Deschutes Canyon-Steelhead Falls
Wilderness Study Area in the State of Or-
egon, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 82. A bill to designate the Frank and
Jeanne Moore Wild Steelhead Special Man-
agement Area in the State of Oregon; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Ms.
ERNST):
S. 83. A bill to amend section 203 of Public
Law 94–305 to ensure proper authority for the
Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Ad-
ministration, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Small Business and Entrepre-
neurship.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. COONS, and Mr. JONES):
S. 84. A bill to amend the Small Business
Act to require that consumer reporting agen-
cies and other credit reporting companies
provide certain protections to small busi-
nesses, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Small Business and Entrepreneur-
ship.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mrs. CAPITO, and Mr.
TILLIS):
S. 85. A bill to reauthorize the Family Vio-
lence Prevention and Services Act; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. 86. A bill to designate certain land ad-
ministered by the Bureau of Land Manage-
ment and the Forest Service in the State of
Oregon as wilderness and national recreation
areas and to make additional wild and scenic
river designations in the State of Oregon,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr.
PERDUE):
S. 87. A bill to adjust the boundary of the
Kennesaw Mountain National Battlefield
Park to include the Wallis House and
Harriston Hill, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. ISAKSON (for himself and Mr.
PERDUE):
S. 88. A bill to redesignate Ocmulgee Na-
tional Monument in the State of Georgia and
revise its boundary, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. ISAKSON:
S. 89. A bill to expand the boundary of Fort
Frederica National Monument in the State
of Georgia, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. LEE (for himself and Mr. ROM-
NEY):
S. 90. A bill to limit the establishment or
extension of national monuments in the
State of Utah; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and
Mrs. MURRAY):
S. 91. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to authorize per diem payments
under comprehensive service programs for
homeless veterans to furnish care to depend-
ents of homeless veterans, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Mr. YOUNG, Mr. CASSIDY, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. BLUNT, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. COTTON, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
DAINES, Mr. MORAN, Mr. BRAUN, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. JOHN-
SON, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr.
BARRASSO, Mr. INHOFE, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. SASSE, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. GARD-
NER, Mr. ENZI, Ms. MCSALLY, Mr.
ROBERTS, Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. LEE, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr.
ISAKSON, and Mr. MCCONNELL):
S. 92. A bill to amend chapter 8 of title 5,
United States Code, to provide that major
rules of the executive branch shall have no
force or effect unless a joint resolution of ap-
proval is enacted into law; to the Committee
on Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself and
Ms. HARRIS):
S. 93. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
the Interior to convey certain land and fa-
cilities of the Central Valley Project; to the
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself, Mr. BEN-
NET, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CRAPO, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. KING, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. ROUNDS, and Mr. SUL-
LIVAN):
S. 94. A bill to amend the Pittman-Robert-
son Wildlife Restoration Act to facilitate the
establishment of additional or expanded pub-
lic target ranges in certain States; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. GRASSLEY):
S. 95. A bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to designate certain medical fa-
cilities of the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs as health professional shortage areas,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Mr.
HOEVEN, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. LEAHY,
Ms. BALDWIN, Ms. SMITH, Mr. SAND-
ERS, Mr. PETERS, and Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND):
S. 96. A bill to revise the authorized route
of the North Country National Scenic Trail
in northeastern Minnesota and to extend the
trail into Vermont to connect with the Ap-
palachian National Scenic Trail, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. CASEY, Ms. BALDWIN, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BROWN, Ms. CANT-
WELL, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS,
Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HEINRICH, Mr. KING,
Mr. LEAHY, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. REED,
Mrs. SHAHEEN, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Ms. WARREN, and Mr. WHITEHOUSE):
S. 97. A bill to amend the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow for the im-
portation of affordable and safe drugs by
wholesale distributors, pharmacies, and indi-
viduals; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Ms.
BALDWIN, and Mr. CORNYN):
S. 98. A bill to authorize the President to
award the Medal of Honor to James
Megellas, formerly of Fond du Lac, Wis-
consin, and currently of Colleyville, Texas,
for acts of valor on January 28, 1945, during
the Battle of the Bulge in World War II; to
the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mr.
BOOKER, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms. HAR-
RIS, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. REED, Ms. SMITH,
and Ms. WARREN):
S. 99. A bill to amend title XVIII of the So-
cial Security Act to provide for the negotia-
tion of lower covered part D drug prices on
behalf of Medicare beneficiaries and the es-
tablishment and application of a formulary
by the Secretary of Health and Human Serv-
ices under Medicare part D, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr.
ROUNDS):
S. 100. A bill to direct the Secretary of Ag-
riculture to transfer certain National Forest
System land to Custer County, South Da-
kota; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. KING (for himself and Ms. COL-
LINS):
S. 101. A bill to clarify the boundary of
Acadia National Park, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. HARRIS, and Ms.
WARREN):
S. 102. A bill to significantly lower pre-
scription drug prices for patients in the
United States by ending government-granted
monopolies for manufacturers who charge
drug prices that are higher than the median
prices at which the drugs are available in
other countries; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. CRAPO (for himself and Mr.
RISCH):
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.008 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S143
January 10, 2019
S. 103. A bill to authorize an additional dis-
trict judgeship for the district of Idaho; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself, Mr.
ENZI, Mr. RISCH, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr.
LEE, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. DAINES, Mr.
ISAKSON, and Ms. MURKOWSKI):
S. 104. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
By Mrs. BLACKBURN (for herself, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. RISCH, Mr. SASSE, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. DAINES, Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH, Ms. ERNST, Mr. ROB-
ERTS, Mr. LANKFORD, Mrs. FISCHER,
Mr. CRUZ, Mr. PAUL, Mr. INHOFE, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. WICKER,
Mr. LEE, Mr. ROMNEY, Mr. CASSIDY,
and Mr. THUNE):
S. 105. A bill to amend title X of the Public
Health Service Act to prohibit family plan-
ning grants from being awarded to any enti-
ty that performs abortions, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BLUNT (for himself, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. SULLIVAN, Mr. CARPER, Mr.
GARDNER, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Ms. BALDWIN, Mrs. CAPITO,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. CORNYN, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. WICKER, Mr. TESTER,
Ms. COLLINS, Mr. KING, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. PETERS, and Mr. JONES):
S. 106. A bill to reauthorize and extend
funding for community health centers and
the National Health Service Corps; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mrs.
FEINSTEIN):
S. 107. A bill to provide any State with a
child welfare demonstration project that is
scheduled to terminate at the end of fiscal
year 2019 the option to extend the project for
up to 2 additional years; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
MORAN):
S. 108. A bill to provide deferred action for
certain individuals brought to the United
States and to establish a border security
trust fund, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Appropriations.
By Mr. WICKER:
S. 109. A bill to prohibit taxpayer funded
abortions; read the first time.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms.
CANTWELL):
S. 110. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for a permanent
extension of the lower income threshold for
the medical expense deduction; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
By Ms. MCSALLY:
S. 111. A bill to make continuing appro-
priations for certain employees of the De-
partment of Homeland Security and the De-
partment of Justice in the event of a shut-
down of the Federal Government; to the
Committee on Appropriations.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. RUBIO):
S. Res. 14. A resolution affirming that the
Government of Cuba’s foreign medical mis-
sions constitute human trafficking; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina):
S. Res. 15. A resolution commending the
Clemson University Tigers football team for
winning the 2019 College Football Playoff
National Championship; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. BENNET, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Mr. BRAUN, Mr. BROWN, Mr. BURR,
Ms. CANTWELL, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. CARPER, Mr. CASEY, Mr.
CASSIDY, Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COONS, Mr.
CORNYN, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. COT-
TON, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. DAINES, Ms. DUCKWORTH,
Mr. DURBIN, Mr. ENZI, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. GARDNER,
Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr. GRAHAM, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr. HAWLEY,
Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JOHNSON,
Mr. JONES, Mr. KAINE, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. KING, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. LEE, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. MARKEY, Mr. MCCON-
NELL, Ms. MCSALLY, Mr. MENENDEZ,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MORAN, Ms. MUR-
KOWSKI, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs. MURRAY,
Mr. PAUL, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. PETERS,
Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. REED, Mr. RISCH,
Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. ROMNEY, Ms.
ROSEN, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. SASSE, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. SHELBY, Ms. SINEMA, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. TESTER, Mr. THUNE, Mr. TILLIS,
Mr. TOOMEY, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER, Ms. WARREN,
Mr. WHITEHOUSE, Mr. WICKER, Mr.
WYDEN, and Mr. YOUNG):
S. Res. 16. A resolution relative to the
death of John Chester Culver, former United
States Senator for the State of Iowa; consid-
ered and agreed to.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 1
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1, a bill to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes.
S. 24
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from Mon-
tana (Mr. TESTER), the Senator from
Connecticut (Mr. MURPHY) and the Sen-
ator from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 24, a bill to
provide for the compensation of Fed-
eral and other government employees
affected by lapses in appropriations.
S. 39
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
names of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. BARRASSO), the Senator from
North Carolina (Mr. BURR), the Senator
from New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and
the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) were added as cosponsors of
S. 39, a bill to provide that Members of
Congress may not receive pay after Oc-
tober 1 of any fiscal year in which Con-
gress has not approved a concurrent
resolution on the budget and passed
the regular appropriations bills.
S. 71
At the request of Mr. GRAHAM, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 71, a bill to ensure
independent investigations and judicial
review of the removal of a special
counsel, and for other purposes.
S. 72
At the request of Mr. SCHATZ, the
names of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Senator from
Virginia (Mr. KAINE), the Senator from
New York (Mr. SCHUMER) and the Sen-
ator from Connecticut (Mr.
BLUMENTHAL) were added as cosponsors
of S. 72, a bill to suspend the enforce-
ment of certain civil liabilities of Fed-
eral employees and contractors during
a lapse in appropriations, and for other
purposes.
S.J. RES. 1
At the request of Mr. DAINES, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S.J.
Res. 1, a joint resolution proposing an
amendment to the Constitution of the
United States relative to limiting the
number of terms that a Member of Con-
gress may serve.
S.J. RES. 3
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the names of the Senator from Florida
(Mr. RUBIO) and the Senator from Iowa
(Mrs. ERNST) were added as cosponsors
of S.J. Res. 3, a joint resolution pro-
posing an amendment to the Constitu-
tion of the United States relative to
balancing the budget.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN (for herself
and Ms. HARRIS):
S. 93. A bill to authorize the Sec-
retary of the Interior to convey certain
land and facilities of the Central Val-
ley Project; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Natural Resources.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President,
today I am pleased to introduce the
Contra Costa Canal Transfer Act, a bill
that will assure the health and safety
of the residents of Contra Costa County
while also providing for the efficient
delivery of water from the Bay Delta to
the customers of the Contra Costa
Water District (CCWD). Senator HAR-
RIS is joining me in cosponsoring the
bill, and I understand that Representa-
tives MARK DESAULNIER, JERRY
MCNERNEY, and MIKE THOMPSON are in-
troducing a House companion measure
today as well.
I will be brief in explaining the rea-
sons I support the bill, which I intro-
duced with Senator HARRIS. The bill
would transfer title to the Contra
Costa Canal from the United States to
Contra Costa Water District (‘‘Dis-
trict’’). The District has fully paid off
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.010 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S144 January 10, 2019
the capital debt for constructing the
canal, so it is financially reasonable to
transfer the 48–mile long canal to it.
There is no known opposition to the
bill, and several good reasons to sup-
port it.
The District would like to convert
the existing open earthen canal to a
closed pipe at an estimated cost to the
district ratepayers of $650 million. The
District understandably wants to take
title to the facilities to have collateral
for issuing bonds to cover the expense
of the conversion.
There are a number of good reasons
to convert the existing canal to a pipe:
First, 82 people have drowned in the
earthen canal despite protective fenc-
ing in the 70 years since the Canal
began operation. This is about a death
per year on average, which would be
completely prevented if the canal were
converted into a pipe. Tragically, there
was another drowning in the canal just
last year.
A second reason is water conserva-
tion. Drought is always an issue in
California, and water is becoming more
and more expensive. About 6% of the
canal’s water is lost through evapo-
ration and seepage. A pipeline would
eliminate these losses.
A third reason is avoiding flood risk
from the earthen canal. When the canal
was built 70 years ago, much of the sur-
rounding land was farming country,
but more recently homes have been
built around it. These homes are at
risk from the types of floods that
earthen canals periodically experience.
Finally, the 70–year old canal is near-
ing the end of its lifespan and needs a
major facility upgrade or replacement.
Replacement with a pipeline is the best
option, for all the reasons set forth
above.
Besides the advantages of the bill,
there is no known opposition to it. The
District has reached an MOU with East
Bay Regional Parks District to con-
tinue the existing recreational uses of
the adjoining parks it manages. In ad-
dition, the District has received letters
of concurrence from the City Managers
of Walnut Creek and Antioch regarding
the smaller parks managed by the cit-
ies along the route of the existing
canal. Like East Bay Regional Parks,
these cities agree the bill would pre-
serve the existing recreational uses of
the adjoining lands.
The bill would not just transfer title
to Contra Costa Canal, but would also
authorize the transfer of the Rock
Slough intake and fish screen, one of
Contra Costa’s diversion points from
the Delta. This transfer will not affect
the applicability of the various biologi-
cal opinions that apply to the facility.
As I understand it, because the bill will
not affect the environmental manage-
ment of the canal, and because the Dis-
trict has paid off its capital debt, the
environmental groups NRDC and the
Defenders of Wildlife will not oppose
the bill.
In summary, this bill has no known
opposition and good reasons to support.
I ask my colleagues to join me in sup-
porting this bill. Thank you, Mr. Presi-
dent, and I yield the floor.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and
Mr. ROUNDS):
S. 100. A bill to direct the Secretary
of Agriculture to transfer certain Na-
tional Forest System land to Custer
County, South Dakota; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 100
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Custer
County Airport Conveyance Act’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) COUNTY.—The term ‘‘County’’ means
Custer County, South Dakota.
(2) FEDERAL LAND.—The term ‘‘Federal
land’’ means all right, title, and interest of
the United States in and to approximately
65.7 acres of National Forest System land, as
generally depicted on the map.
(3) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Custer County Airport Convey-
ance’’ and dated October 19, 2017.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting
through the Chief of the Forest Service.
SEC. 3. LAND CONVEYANCE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subject to the terms and
conditions described in subsection (b), if the
County submits to the Secretary an offer to
acquire the Federal land for the market
value, as determined by the appraisal under
subsection (c), the Secretary shall convey
the Federal land to the County.
(b) TERMS AND CONDITIONS.—The convey-
ance under subsection (a) shall be—
(1) subject to valid existing rights;
(2) made by quitclaim deed; and
(3) subject to any other terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary considers appropriate
to protect the interests of the United States.
(c) APPRAISAL.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 60 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall complete an appraisal to de-
termine the market value of the Federal
land.
(2) STANDARDS.—The appraisal under para-
graph (1) shall be conducted in accordance
with—
(A) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for
Federal Land Acquisitions; and
(B) the Uniform Standards of Professional
Appraisal Practice.
(d) MAP.—
(1) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be kept on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate office of the For-
est Service.
(2) CORRECTION OF ERRORS.—The Secretary
may correct any errors in the map.
(e) CONSIDERATION.—As consideration for
the conveyance under subsection (a), the
County shall pay to the Secretary an
amount equal to the market value of the
Federal land, as determined by the appraisal
under subsection (c).
(f) SURVEY.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the Federal land to be con-
veyed under subsection (a) shall be deter-
mined by a survey satisfactory to the Sec-
retary.
(g) COSTS OF CONVEYANCE.—As a condition
on the conveyance under subsection (a), the
County shall pay to the Secretary all costs
associated with the conveyance, including
the cost of—
(1) the appraisal under subsection (c); and
(2) the survey under subsection (f).
(h) PROCEEDS FROM THE SALE OF LAND.—
Any proceeds received by the Secretary from
the conveyance under subsection (a) shall
be—
(1) deposited in the fund established under
Public Law 90–171 (commonly known as the
‘‘Sisk Act’’) (16 U.S.C. 484a); and
(2) available to the Secretary until ex-
pended, without further appropriation, for
the acquisition of inholdings in units of the
National Forest System in the State of
South Dakota.
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 14—AFFIRM-
ING THAT THE GOVERNMENT OF
CUBA’S FOREIGN MEDICAL MIS-
SIONS CONSTITUTE HUMAN
TRAFFICKING
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and Mr.
RUBIO) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 14
Whereas, in 2015, the Government of Cuba
maintained more than 50,000 Cuban doctors
and medical personnel in foreign medical
missions in 67 countries under conditions
that represent forced labor;
Whereas the Department of States’ 2018
Trafficking in Persons (TIP) report noted
that Cuban authorities coerced some partici-
pants to remain in the foreign medical mis-
sions, including by—
(1) ‘‘withholding their passports [and] re-
stricting their movement’’;
(2) ‘‘using ‘minders’ to monitor partici-
pants outside of work’’;
(3) ‘‘threatening to revoke their medical li-
censes’’;
(4) ‘‘retaliat[ing] against their family
members in Cuba if participants leave the
program’’; or
(5) ‘‘impos[ing] exile if participants didn’t
return to Cuba as directed by government
supervisors’’;
Whereas, between 2013 and 2018, more than
20,000 Cuban medical professionals served in
Brazil and had their salaries garnished,
movement restricted, and family visits lim-
ited by the Government of Cuba;
Whereas investigative reporting by the dig-
ital platform Diario de Cuba, through an ac-
cess to information request, revealed that
Brazilian diplomatic cables detailed the
terms of the Government of Cuba’s medical
missions to Brazil;
Whereas, in early 2012, the Government of
Cuba proposed to the Government of Brazil
the establishment of a program to send
Cuban doctors to geographic regions of
Brazil that had an insufficient number of
medical personnel;
Whereas, during subsequent negotiations,
the administration of former Brazilian Presi-
dent Dilma Rousseff proposed an agreement
between the two governments to be imple-
mented through coordination with the Pan
American Health Organization (PAHO) in
order to avoid oversight by the National
Congress of Brazil;
Whereas the Government of Cuba stated
that implementing the agreement through
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.013 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S145
January 10, 2019
the United States headquarters of the Pan
American Health Organization would present
risks for potential violations of United
States sanctions;
Whereas, in July 2013, the Government of
Cuba, acting through the for-profit Cuban
Medical Services Trading Corporation
(Comercializadora de Servicios Medı́cos
Cubanos, Sociedad Anónima, or CMS), signed
an agreement with the Brazilian Ministry of
Health to formalize a commercial arrange-
ment for Cuban doctors to provide medical
services in Brazil;
Whereas the agreement between the Gov-
ernment of Cuba and the Government of
Brazil established—
(1) that the administration of former Bra-
zilian President Dilma Rousseff would pay
the Pan American Health Organization a
monthly fee, which would then pay the for-
profit Cuban Medical Services Trading Cor-
poration (CMS) for the medical services pro-
vided by each Cuban doctor serving in Brazil;
(2) that the for-profit Cuban Medical Serv-
ices Trading Corporation (CMS) would pay
each Cuban doctor approximately 25 percent
of the monthly payment received from the
Pan American Health Organization;
(3) that the Government of Cuba, acting
through the for-profit Cuban Medical Serv-
ices Trading Corporation (CMS), would re-
tain approximately 75 percent of the month-
ly payment received from the Pan American
Health Organization; and
(4) restrictions preventing participating
Cuban doctors from seeking employment in
Brazil outside of the formal structure of the
program;
Whereas, in July 2013, the Government of
Brazil announced the creation of the Mais
Medı́cos program, which included the par-
ticipation of Cuban doctors and doctors of
other nationalities;
Whereas the for-profit Cuban Medical Serv-
ices Trading Corporation (CMS) commenced
contracting Cuban doctors for the Mais
Medı́cos program, and the first Cuban med-
ical professionals arrived in Brazil in August
2013;
Whereas Cuban doctors were the only med-
ical professionals participating in the Mais
Medı́cos program to have their salaries di-
rectly garnished by their government, and
doctors of other nationalities serving in
Brazil received the full amount of their sal-
ary;
Whereas Cuban doctors participating in
the Mais Medı́cos program faced severe limi-
tations on their ability to travel inside
Brazil and a prohibition on travel to neigh-
boring countries;
Whereas Cuban doctors participating in
the Mais Medı́cos program were prohibited
from having their families accompany them
while stationed in Brazil;
Whereas the Cuban doctors frequently had
their passports taken by Government of
Cuba officials present in Brazil in order to
limit their ability to travel;
Whereas the Department of State’s 2018
Trafficking in Persons (TIP) report docu-
mented how the Government of Cuba also
confiscated Cuban doctors’ passports in
other countries, and stated that ‘‘the Cuban
government acknowledges that it withholds
passports of overseas medical personnel in
Venezuela’’;
Whereas the Pan American Health Organi-
zation’s external auditor, the Spanish Court
of Audit—
(1) stated in its January 2018 report that
198 Cuban doctors have presented 159 legal
challenges in the Brazilian court system
since the start of the program in July 2013
demanding extra free time in their contracts
and equal working conditions as doctors of
other nationalities participating in the Mais
Medı́cos program; and
(2) stated in its April 2014 report, in rec-
ognition of the legal risks associated with
the Mais Medı́cos program, that it would be
‘‘prudent that PAHO set a contingency plan
to face possible negative statements of [the]
lawsuits’’;
Whereas the Government of Cuba has stat-
ed that Cuban doctors unwilling to return to
the country after their participation in for-
eign medical missions will not be permitted
to return to their homeland for eight years;
Whereas the Government of Cuba directly
profits from exporting the services of Cuban
professionals, having earned more than
$8,000,000,000 from their work in 2016, of
which foreign medical missions represent the
majority of the income; and
Whereas the term ‘‘severe forms of traf-
ficking in persons’’ is defined under section
103(9)(B) of the Trafficking Victims Protec-
tion Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102(9)(B)) as ‘‘the
recruitment, harboring, transportation, pro-
vision, or obtaining of a person for labor or
services, through the use of force, fraud, or
coercion for the purpose of subjection to in-
voluntary servitude, peonage, debt bondage,
or slavery’’: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that—
(1) the Government of Cuba subjected
Cuban doctors and medical professional par-
ticipating in the Mais Medı́cos program to
state-sponsored human trafficking;
(2) Cuban doctors participating in the Mais
Medı́cos program should have been permitted
to work under the same conditions as all
other foreign doctors participating in the
program;
(3) the Government of Cuba should com-
pensate Cuban doctors that participated in
the Mais Medı́cos programs for the full
amount of wages that were garnished by the
Government of Cuba;
(4) foreign governments that sign agree-
ments with the Government of Cuba or the
for-profit Cuban Medical Services Trading
Corporation (CMS) or other companies affili-
ated with the Government of Cuba to pro-
cure the services of Cuban professionals di-
rectly assume risks related to participation
in forced labor arrangements;
(5) the Pan American Health Organization
must immediately provide greater trans-
parency about its participation in the Mais
Medı́cos program and its agreement with the
Government of Cuba and the for-profit Cuban
Medical Services Trading Corporation
(CMS);
(6) the United States Department of State
must downgrade Cuba to Tier 3 in its annual
Trafficking in Persons (TIP) report, given
new evidence on Cuba’s foreign medical mis-
sions and the Government of Cuba’s long-
standing failure to criminalize most forms of
forced labor; and
(7) the Department of State must reestab-
lish the Cuban Medical Professionals Parole
(CMPP) program.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 15—COM-
MENDING THE CLEMSON UNI-
VERSITY TIGERS FOOTBALL
TEAM FOR WINNING THE 2019
COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
Mr. GRAHAM (for himself and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina) submitted
the following resolution; which was
considered and agreed to:
S. RES. 15
Whereas, on Monday, January 7, 2019, the
Clemson University Tigers football team
won the 2019 College Football Playoff Na-
tional Championship (in this preamble re-
ferred to as the ‘‘championship game’’) by
defeating the University of Alabama by a
score of 44 to 16 at Levi’s Stadium in Santa
Clara, California;
Whereas the Tigers finished the champion-
ship game with 482 yards of total offense on
63 plays;
Whereas the victory by the Tigers in the
championship game—
(1) made Clemson the first Football Bowl
Subdivision (FBS)-level team to finish a sea-
son 15–0 since the University of Pennsylvania
in 1897; and
(2) marked the second time in 3 years that
Clemson won a National Championship
game;
Whereas the head coach of Clemson, Dabo
Swinney, has been an outstanding role model
to the Clemson players and the Clemson
community;
Whereas Trevor Lawrence, the first true
freshman starter to win a national title
since 1985, gave an outstanding performance
by throwing for 347 yards and 3 touchdowns;
Whereas Travis Etienne had 14 carries for
86 yards including 2 rushing touchdowns and
a passing touchdown;
Whereas the Clemson University football
team displayed outstanding dedication,
teamwork, and sportsmanship throughout
the 2018 collegiate football season in achiev-
ing the highest honor in college football; and
Whereas the Tigers have brought pride and
honor to the State of South Carolina: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) commends the Clemson University Ti-
gers for winning the 2019 College Football
Playoff National Championship;
(2) recognizes the on-field and off-field
achievements of the players, coaches, and
staff of the Clemson football team; and
(3) respectfully requests that the Secretary
of the Senate transmit an enrolled copy of
this resolution to—
(A) the President of Clemson University,
James P. Clements; and
(B) the head coach of the Clemson Univer-
sity football team, Dabo Swinney.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 16—REL-
ATIVE TO THE DEATH OF JOHN
CHESTER CULVER, FORMER
UNITED STATES SENATOR FOR
THE STATE OF IOWA
Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself, Ms.
ERNST, Mr. ALEXANDER, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. BENNET, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BLUNT, Mr. BOOKER, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr.
BRAUN, Mr. BROWN, Mr. BURR, Ms.
CANTWELL, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. CARDIN,
Mr. CARPER, Mr. CASEY, Mr. CASSIDY,
Ms. COLLINS, Mr. COONS, Mr. CORNYN,
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. COTTON, Mr.
CRAMER, Mr. CRAPO, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
DAINES, Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN,
Mr. ENZI, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs. FISCH-
ER, Mr. GARDNER, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Mr.
GRAHAM, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. HASSAN, Mr.
HAWLEY, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms. HIRONO, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. INHOFE,
Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JOHNSON, Mr. JONES,
Mr. KAINE, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. KING, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. LEAHY,
Mr. LEE, Mr. MANCHIN, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. MCCONNELL, Ms. MCSALLY, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MORAN,
Ms. MURKOWSKI, Mr. MURPHY, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. PAUL, Mr. PERDUE, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. REED, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. ROMNEY, Ms.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.014 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S146 January 10, 2019
ROSEN, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. RUBIO, Mr.
SANDERS, Mr. SASSE, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr.
SCHUMER, Mr. SCOTT of Florida, Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina, Mrs. SHA-
HEEN, Mr. SHELBY, Ms. SINEMA, Ms.
SMITH, Ms. STABENOW, Mr. SULLIVAN,
Mr. TESTER, Mr. THUNE, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
TOOMEY, Mr. UDALL, Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
Mr. WARNER, Ms. WARREN, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. WICKER, Mr. WYDEN, and
Mr. YOUNG) submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 16
Relative to the death of John Chester Cul-
ver, former United States Senator for the
State of Iowa.
Whereas John Chester Culver was born in
Rochester, Minnesota and grew up in Cedar
Rapids, Iowa;
Whereas John Chester Culver graduated
from Harvard University and Harvard Law
School;
Whereas John Chester Culver served his
country in the United States Marine Corps
from 1955-1958;
Whereas John Chester Culver was elected
to the United States House of Representa-
tives in 1964 and served 5 terms as a Rep-
resentative from the State of Iowa;
Whereas John Chester Culver was elected
to the United States Senate in 1974 and
served the people of Iowa in the Senate with
honor and distinction for 1 term;
Whereas as a Senator, John Chester Culver
spearheaded a commission to modernize the
procedures of the Senate, including an in-
creased use of computerized floor status up-
dates and committee schedules;
Whereas John Chester Culver was known
for his hard work and independence; Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate has heard with
profound sorrow and deep regret the an-
nouncement of the death of the Honorable
John Chester Culver, former member of the
United States Senate.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the Senate
communicate these resolutions to the House
of Representatives and transmit an enrolled
copy thereof to the family of the deceased.
Resolved, That when the Senate adjourns
today, it stand adjourned as a further mark
of respect to the memory of the Honorable
John Chester Culver.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I have a
request for one committee to meet dur-
ing today’s session of the Senate. It
has the approval of the Majority and
Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON ARMED SERVICES
The Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Thursday, January 10,
2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. WHITEHOUSE. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that Ryan
Edwards and Kim Binsted, AAAS fel-
lows in my office, be granted floor
privileges for the remainder of this
Congress.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
COMMENDING THE CLEMSON UNI-
VERSITY TIGERS FOOTBALL
TEAM FOR WINNING THE 2019
COLLEGE FOOTBALL PLAYOFF
NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the consideration of S.
Res. 15, submitted earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 15) commending the
Clemson University Tigers football team for
winning the 2019 College Football Playoff
National Championship.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 15) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
f
RELATIVE TO THE DEATH OF
JOHN CHESTER CULVER,
FORMER UNITED STATES SEN-
ATOR FOR THE STATE OF IOWA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of S. Res. 16, submitted earlier
today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 16) relative to the
death of John Chester Culver, former United
States Senator for the State of Iowa.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motion to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 16) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution is printed in today’s
RECORD under ‘‘Submitted Resolu-
tions.’’)
APPOINTMENTS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, on behalf of the Majority Lead-
er, pursuant to the provisions of Public
Law 99–93, as amended by Public Law
99–151, appoints the following individ-
uals to serve as members of the United
States Senate Caucus on International
Narcotics Control for the 116th Con-
gress: The Honorable JOHN CORNYN of
Texas, Chairman; The Honorable CHUCK
GRASSLEY of Iowa; The Honorable
JAMES RISCH of Idaho; The Honorable
DAVID PERDUE of Georgia.
The Chair, pursuant to the provisions
of section 1501 of Public Law 115–254, on
behalf of the Majority Leader of the
Senate and the Chairman of the Senate
Committee on Foreign Relations, ap-
points the following individual as a
member of the Syria Study Group:
Chris Tuttle, of Virginia.
f
MEASURE READ THE FIRST
TIME—S. 109
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk,
and I ask for its first reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the first time.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 109) to prohibit taxpayer funded
abortions.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I now ask for its
second reading and, in order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
visions of rule XIV, I object to my own
request.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The bill will receive a second reading
on the next legislative day.
f
ORDERS FOR FRIDAY, JANUARY
11, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Now, Mr. Presi-
dent, I ask unanimous consent that
when the Senate completes its business
today, it adjourn until 10 a.m., Friday,
January 11; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; finally, that following
leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration of the motion to proceed
to S. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
provisions of S. Res. 16 and do so as a
further mark of respect to the late
John Culver, former Senator from the
State of Iowa.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A10JA6.031 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S147
January 10, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order and pursuant to S.
Res. 16, the Senate stands adjourned
until 10 a.m. on Friday, January 11,
2019, and does so as a further mark of
respect for the late John Chester Cul-
ver, former Senator from Iowa.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 5:59 p.m.,
adjourned until Friday, January 11,
2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:12 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G10JA6.045 S10JAPT1
dlhill
on
DSK3GLQ082PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E29
January 10, 2019
HONORING WELLSPACE HEALTH
HON. AMI BERA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. BERA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize WellSpace Health for their commit-
ment to high quality comprehensive health
care in the Sacramento region and congratu-
late them as they celebrate over 65 years of
service in 2019.
The Family Service Agency of Greater Sac-
ramento (FSA) opened in 1953 as a mental
health treatment and prevention organization.
FSA provided treatment services, child abuse
prevention, and a suicide prevention crisis
line. In 2005, FSA merged with The Aquarian
Effort (The Effort), a free clinic designed to ad-
dress substance use disorders. The Effort be-
came a community clinic as their programs
drew more high need persons to preventive
health care. FSA’s emphasis on mental health
care has continued through its merger with the
Effort and in 2013, the Effort was renamed
WellSpace Health after their mergers with sev-
eral health care providers concentrated on the
underserved.
WellSpace Health’s development has fo-
cused on serving our region’s low income pop-
ulations alongside integration of services to
provide comprehensive health care for its pa-
tients. Between 2009 and 2017, WellSpace in-
creased its primary care service population
from 3,000 to 70,000 patients through 15
Community Health Centers in the Sacramento
region. Along with primary care for all ages,
WellSpace also provides adolescent dental
care, women’s health and prenatal care, and
behavioral health treatment.
I’ve known the great work WellSpace has
done for the region for many years as I had
the privilege to work with WellSpace back
when it was the Aquarian Effort Clinic.
WellSpace’s work is critical to achieving first
rate regional health care in Sacramento. I ex-
tend my sincere congratulations to the front-
line employees, staff, and all the nurses and
doctors at WellSpace. I ask my colleagues to
join me in honoring this organization and all it
has done to provide access to health care for
all in the Sacramento region.
f
RECOGNIZING THE RETIREMENT
OF OKLAHOMA STATE LIBRAR-
IAN SUSAN MCVEY
HON. MARKWAYNE MULLIN
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. MULLIN. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the retirement of Susan McVey,
State Librarian of Oklahoma. Susan McVey
will be retiring at the end of January after 32
dedicated years of service to Oklahoma. For
the past 18 years, she has served as the first
female State Librarian. Prior to that, Susan
served the Oklahoma Department of Libraries
in a number of different capacities. As Presi-
dent of the Oklahoma Library Association,
Susan received the Distinguished Service
Award, the highest honor given by the Asso-
ciation, for exemplary service to the state’s li-
brary community. She was honored as an
Oklahoma Library Legend. She has served as
President of the Chief Officers of State Library
Agencies and has received the designation of
Honored One from the National Association of
Tribal Archives, Libraries, and Museums.
Susan McVey has demonstrated her com-
mitment and dedication to the education of
Oklahomans time and time again. Under her
leadership, Oklahoma’s public libraries were
included in the Oklahoma Universal Service
Fund, providing rural Oklahomans access to
free high speed broadband in their local librar-
ies. She successfully secured the first state-
wide access to online reference resources for
Oklahoma’s nearly 1,300 private, public, and
school libraries. She is responsible for obtain-
ing $4 million from the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation to provide public access com-
puters in every public library in Oklahoma.
I am honored to recognize Susan McVey
today before the United States House of Rep-
resentatives. Well done on a lifetime of service
to Oklahoma and congratulations on your well-
deserved retirement.
f
RECOGNIZING JAY KOHN OF
BILLINGS
HON. GREG GIANFORTE
OF MONTANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. GIANFORTE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Jay Kohn of Billings for serving
as a reliable source for Montanans as a jour-
nalist and anchor for nearly four decades.
Kohn recently signed off the air after more
than 20 years as a news anchor with KTVQ in
Billings and the Montana Television Network
(MTN).
Kohn began his broadcast career in Helena
in 1978 and worked as MTN’s Capitol Bureau
chief and news director in Butte.
In 1998, Kohn assumed the anchor seat at
KTVQ in Billings, the city where he was born
and raised. Over the last two decades he has
been the face of Q2 news, anchoring the 5:30
p.m. and 10 p.m. newscasts. He has covered
countless news events, keeping the commu-
nity informed about local stories and others
that span the globe.
Kohn’s exceptional reporting earned him the
Montana Broadcasters Association’s Broad-
caster of the Year award in 2005.
Though Kohn has retired from his full-time
role at the anchor desk, Montanans will con-
tinue to enjoy his steady presence in his new
role as Anchor Emeritus for KTVQ.
Madam Speaker, for his outstanding profes-
sionalism, unwavering journalistic integrity,
and his decades of trusted service to the peo-
ple of Montana, I recognize Jay Kohn for his
spirit of Montana.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE EVER-
GLADES FOR THE NEXT GEN-
ERATION ACT
HON. ALCEE L. HASTINGS
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to introduce the Everglades for the Next
Generation Act.
Protection and restoration of the Everglades
is vital to the overall health of both South Flor-
ida’s ecosystem and economy. As America’s
largest sub-tropical wilderness, it is the source
of much of Florida’s drinking water, an impor-
tant flood barrier and a home for wildlife, in-
cluding a number of endangered species.
As we know all too well, this vital ecosystem
is facing a number of threats, and while much
progress has been made, including the recent
authorization of the Central Everglades Plan-
ning Project, there is still much work left to be
done. Congressional inaction has persevered
for far too long despite bi-partisan support for
restoration.
Regardless of any progress, it is clear that
restoration efforts will not succeed without the
next generation of projects, which cannot
begin without further Congressional authoriza-
tions. That is exactly what this bill does: au-
thorizes the shovel-ready projects which have
been awaiting another Water Resources De-
velopment Act (WRDA). Additionally, this leg-
islation will make it easier for the Army Corps
of Engineers to move on many of the remain-
ing projects in order to prevent future Con-
gressional bottlenecking.
Restoration is not a theoretical exercise.
The Central Everglades Restoration Project
(CERP) has demonstrable successes and bi-
ennial reports from the National Academy of
Sciences. We know that the federal and state
governments can successfully work together
with private businesses and landowners to
reach mutually beneficial agreements that re-
store the health of this unique, beautiful, wild,
and wonderful resource that is absolutely es-
sential for Florida.
Madam Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this critically important legislation.
f
IN HONOR OF THE REVEREND
DOCTOR CAMERON MADISON
ALEXANDER
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, it
is with a heavy heart and solemn remem-
brance that I rise today to pay tribute to a dis-
tinguished civil rights leader, an inspirational
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K10JA8.001 E10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E30 January 10, 2019
spiritual leader, and true man of God, Rev-
erend Doctor Cameron Madison Alexander,
the beloved Pastor of Antioch Baptist Church
North in Atlanta, Georgia. Sadly, Reverend
Alexander transitioned from labor to reward on
Sunday, December 30, 2018. He leaves in his
wake many heavy hearts among his church
family, community, and across the world. His
funeral service was held on January 7, 2019,
at 11 am at Antioch Baptist Church North lo-
cated at 540 Cameron M. Alexander Blvd NW,
Atlanta, GA, 30318. What a celebration of life
it was.
Rev. Cameron Madison Alexander was born
to the union of Reverend Homer M. and Au-
gusta (Hutchins) Alexander on February 12,
1932. A product of the Atlanta Public School
System, he graduated from Booker T. Wash-
ington High School in 1948, where he played
football, ran track, and played saxophone in
the band. After high school, he attended Flor-
ida A&M University, was in the Marching 100
band, and served his country in the United
States Air Force. He then attended Morehouse
College under President Dr. Benjamin E.
Mays, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree, re-
ceived his Master of Divinity degree from the
Morehouse School of Religion, served there
as the President and Treasurer as well as
Trustee of the Morehouse School of Medicine.
In recognition of his numerous contributions to
society, he was awarded Honorary Doctor of
Divinity degrees from the United Theological
Seminary (1978), the Interdenominational
Theological Center (1991), and Carver Bible
College (2007).
His pastoral ministry began at Mt. Olive
Baptist Church in Cartersville, Georgia. From
there he was called to the Flagg Chapel Bap-
tist Church in Milledgeville, Georgia, then in
1958 to New Pleasant Grove Baptist Church
in Macon where he became an activist leader
against injustice, resulting in desegregation of
the city buses, lunch counters, the Bowden
Golf Course, and Mercer University. In 1965,
Rev. Alexander was called to St. John Baptist
Church in Savannah where he took his min-
istry beyond the church walls and formed a
partnership with C&S Bank to improve 109
blocks of real estate in Savannah and provide
affordable housing and jobs.
In 1969, while visiting Antioch as a guest,
Reverend Alexander delivered a sermon so
powerful that the church voted by write-in the
next day to call him as Pastor. For almost 50
years, he was the driving force behind Antioch
Baptist Church North. Under his leadership,
the church grew from 600 members with an
annual budget of less than $40,000 to 14,000
members and a multi-million dollar annual
budget. He established over 75 ministries and
outreach programs touching communities in
Atlanta and across the world.
Rev. Alexander’s extraordinary servant lead-
ership was prolific. For 29 years, he served as
President of the General Missionary Baptist
Convention of Georgia which claims a mem-
bership of more than 800 churches; Vice
President of the National Baptist Convention,
USA, Inc.; and Dean for the Sunday School
and Baptist Training Union Congress. He
trained, licensed, and ordained 600 ministers,
150 of whom went on to pastor other church-
es. He established the Antioch International
Macedonian Missionaries (AIMM) ministry to
touch ‘‘the least of these’’ beyond our nation’s
borders, addressing issues of inadequate safe
drinking water, food, and medical care in Haiti,
South Africa, Turkey, Columbia, and Brazil
where AIMM facilitated opening the first uni-
versity for black Brazilians known as Afrobras.
The City of Atlanta honored Dr. Alexander
by naming a street for him. He was inducted
into Atlanta Business League’s Legends Hall
of Fame and the International Civil Rights Hall
of Fame at the Martin Luther King Jr. National
Historic Site. He was invited to submit one of
his inaugural sermons to the American Folklife
Center at the Library of Congress which be-
came part of the oral history and spoken word
collections that preserve Americans’ accounts
of and reactions to important cultural events.
On a personal note, I met Dr. Alexander 40
years ago through my Pastor and his good
friend, Dr. J.H. Flakes, Jr. of the Fourth Street
Baptist Church of Columbus. His friendship,
advice, and counsel were pivotal in my polit-
ical career in The Georgia General Assembly
and in Congress. I am better for having known
him.
Dr. Alexander accomplished much in his life;
yet, none of it would have been possible but
for the Grace of God and the love and support
of his family—including his beloved wife, Bar-
bara; their four children, Gregory (deceased),
Cameron, Kenneth, and Barbara; and his nine
grandchildren, all of whom will miss him deep-
ly.
Madam Speaker, my wife Vivian and I,
along with countless others throughout Geor-
gia and the nation salute Reverend Doctor
Cameron Madison Alexander for his out-
standing accomplishments in the ministry and
his service to humankind. I ask my colleagues
in the House of Representatives to join us in
extending our deepest sympathies to Rev-
erend Alexander’s family, friends, loved ones,
and all who grieve during this difficult time of
bereavement. We pray that they will be con-
soled and comforted by an abiding faith and
the Holy Spirit in the days, weeks, and months
ahead.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF MR.
ROBERT HAND
HON. SUZAN K. DelBENE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Robert Hand who was named
Teacher of the Year in Washington State. Mr.
Hand is a family and consumer sciences
teacher at Mount Vernon High School, in my
district. This award goes to teachers who dis-
play an unwavering commitment to the suc-
cess of their students.
Mr. Hand has been teaching at Mount
Vernon since 2013. He has taught Beginning
Foods, Life After High School, and Careers in
Education, Nutrition, and Leadership. Along
with being an outstanding teacher, he has also
held important roles throughout our commu-
nity, including as an adviser for Family, Ca-
reer, and Community Leaders of America and
for the Social Justice Club.
Mr. Hand’s outreach to students extends be-
yond the classroom. His teachings often relate
back to his students, in uplifting ways. Mr.
Hand is a champion of diversity and has rec-
ognized the diversity of his students by dis-
playing eleven flags in his classroom to cele-
brate their heritage.
He is working to continue critical invest-
ments in our teachers by helping to develop
the Recruiting Washington Teachers program
for the Professional Educator Standards
Board. Because of his work, Washington stu-
dents will have quality teachers and mentors
for years to come.
I want to thank Robert Hand for his commit-
ment to serving his students and enriching the
teaching profession in Washington State. Con-
gratulations, Mr. Hand.
f
TRIBUTE TO REVEREND DOCTOR
AZALEE C. BISHOP
HON. JAMES E. CLYBURN
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. CLYBURN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor and pay tribute to Rev. Dr.
Azalee C. Bishop, a faithful Christian servant
and a trailblazing humanitarian. Dr. Bishop
and I are of the same generation, and I am
honored to extend best wishes on the occa-
sion of her 80th birthday.
Dr. Bishop is an honors graduate of
Gallman High School, Class of 1956. She
went on to pursue her undergraduate degree
at Johnson C. Smith University in Charlotte,
North Carolina. Upon graduation, she com-
pleted graduate studies at Cornell University,
Caniusus College, State University of New
York in Buffalo, and Pentecostal Overcoming
Outreach School of Religion in Columbia,
South Carolina. She spent years as a dedi-
cated wife and mother, and then earned her
doctorate degree at Spirit and Truth Seminary
in Richmond, Virginia.
Her legacy is Grace Christian Church in Co-
lumbia, South Carolina, which was established
under the vision and leadership of Rev. Dr.
Bishop and her husband, Bishop Robert L.
Bishop. The initial worship service was held
on May 12, 1982 with seventy-seven faithfuls
in attendance. The Bishops grew the con-
gregation from its original location in a small
daycare facility and moved to a site at the Co-
lumbia Housing Authority’s Latimore Manor
Housing Complex in 1984. It continued to
thrive, and seven years later moved to 627
Dixie Avenue in Columbia. Grace Christian
Church established its current home on Octo-
ber 17, 1995 when it purchased property at
5010 Monticello Road.
Under the vision of Dr. Azalee C. Bishop,
the church expanded its mission and in 1998
launched the Grace Divinity College of Biblical
Studies. This divinity school is accredited both
by the Accrediting Commission International
and International Biblical Association. She is
also the founder and producer of Morning
Break with Jesus, a daily devotional broad-
cast, that reached thousands of South Caro-
lina listeners.
Dr. Bishop has also sought to improve the
quality of life in her community by establishing
Grandma’s House, an afterschool program for
low-income, academically-challenged youth,
and The Wisdom Center which is dedicated to
embracing wisdom and changing lives. In ad-
dition to her work as a pastor and civic leader,
Dr. Bishop spent 33–years as a Program Ad-
ministrator with the Department of Social Serv-
ices.
Her many memberships and accomplish-
ments include The Greater Columbia Inter-
denominational Ministerial Alliance (Board
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10JA8.003 E10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E31
January 10, 2019
Member), The Black Adoption Project (Board
Member), Christian Social Relations Women’s
Missionary Society of South Carolina (Chair-
person), Empire State Baptist Educational
Center (Instructor), National Baptist Edu-
cational Association (Member), State PTA
(Life Member) and the NAACP.
Madam Speaker, I invite you and our col-
leagues to join me in celebration of the life
and contributions of this extraordinary woman.
Rev. Dr. Azalee C. Bishop is a true civic and
spiritual leader. She has left a lasting legacy
that stands as a testament to her tremendous
life’s work and an example for others to emu-
late.
f
HONORING BEN FALKOWSKI FOR
HIS SERVICE TO INDIANA’S 2ND
DISTRICT
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Ben Falkowski for his serv-
ice to Indiana’s 2nd District as Chief of Staff
in my office. As Ben begins the next chapter
in his career, I want to take a moment to re-
flect on his many achievements and to ex-
press my sincerest appreciation for all he has
done over the last six years. Ben started work-
ing on my team in 2012, with sights set on
Washington, D.C. Those who know him would
agree that, when Ben sets a goal, he has a
knack for achieving it.
In my congressional office here in D.C., he
worked his way up from Legislative Cor-
respondent to Legislative Assistant, and he
never stopped looking to the future. Ben’s
hard work, determination, and keen knowledge
of public policy and constituent services
earned him a trip back to northern Indiana to
become my District Director. After two years of
steadfastly serving our constituents and lead-
ing our district operations, Ben returned to our
nation’s capital as my Chief of Staff.
In this role, Ben oversaw our team with out-
standing leadership that motivated, inspired,
and guided everyone to the finish line each
and every day.
I could always count on Ben. No matter the
time of day or the issue at hand, he was
wholeheartedly present and fully prepared to
get it done.
I thank Ben for always being my first call. I
thank him for never shying away from a chal-
lenge. I thank him for helping me fight for
hardworking Hoosiers. And I thank him for
building up a team of rock stars who share our
vision of a brighter future and his passion for
making a difference.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to ask my
colleagues to join me in congratulating Ben
and thanking him for the part he has played in
the historic things we have accomplished for
the 2nd District and for the United States of
America.
HONORING THE LIFE OF WILLIAM
G. FLANGAS
HON. DINA TITUS
OF NEVADA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Ms. TITUS. Madam Speaker, I am honored
to include in the RECORD the following excerpt
in remembrance of my longtime friend, Bill
Flangas. As you can tell from the following
obituary which was printed in the Las Vegas
Review Journal on December 30, 2018, Bill
was a legend in Nevada. His courageous work
at NTS, his generous philanthropy, and his
contributions to the local Greek community
and church leave a powerful legacy that long
will be remembered.
William G. ‘‘Bill’’ Flangas, 91, reposed in
the Lord December 23, 2018, surrounded by
his Family. Bill was born June 4, 1927, in Ely,
to Gust William and Poloxene Flangas, both
of whom were Greek immigrants from the
area of Thermopoly. Poloxene passed away
when Bill was just six months old, and Gust
was killed about year later in a tragic acci-
dent between his car and a train in the heart
of Ely. Bill was raised by his Aunt and Uncle,
Alexander J. and Fotene Flangas in Ely,
along with their three sons, John, Gus and
Ernest Flangas. Bill was a lifetime resident
of Nevada, having moved to Las Vegas in
1958 from Ely. Bill proudly served in the U.S.
Navy in World War II, and was part of the
initial occupation force in Tokyo. Bill grad-
uated in 1951 from the University of Nevada
at Reno with a degree in Metallurgical Engi-
neering, and went to work for the Kennecott
Copper Corporation in South America and
later in White Pine County. In 1958, Bill com-
pleted his Engineer of Mines Degree (E.M.),
and was recruited and hired by the Reynolds
Electric & Engineering Company (‘‘Reeco’’),
the prime contractor at the Nevada Test Site
in Mercury. After joining Reeco, Bill led the
initial efforts to move the atmospheric nu-
clear weapons testing program at the Nevada
Test Site underground. He led the first re-
entry teams into the tunnels after deto-
nating an atomic device. One such reentry
nearly cost him his life. Bill also led the first
ever underground recovery of a ground zero
after an atomic blast. Many of Bill’s efforts
in moving the testing of atomic weapons un-
derground are memorialized in a book enti-
tled: ‘‘Caging the Dragon.’’ Bill stayed at the
Nevada Test Site for 37 years, serving as
Tunnel Superintendent and Department
Manager, Division Manager, and Vice Presi-
dent. After leaving the Test Site in 1995, Bill
became an Underground Mining, Construc-
tion & Management Consultant primarily
working in Nevada. Bill also served as an un-
derground expert on the Treaty Monitoring
Teams for the Threshold Test Ban Treaty
(TTBT) and Peaceful Nuclear Explosions
Treaty (PNET), and traveled to Russia in
that capacity on the U.S. Treaty Teams. He
was also involved with the Comprehensive
Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) efforts. Bill was
also very active in the Community. He was
instrumental in youth athletics and in devel-
oping baseball and basketball leagues that
allowed thousands of kids to play ball. In
conjunction with these efforts, Bill led the
way in having 11 desperately needed baseball
fields lit up by putting the process in mo-
tion, putting together the volunteer labor
force, and getting all the equipment donated
that was necessary to dig power lines and set
the power poles. Bill also led the way in the
construction of a multimillion dollar gym
facility, which was completed in 1976.
Through his efforts, the gym was con-
structed using only volunteer labor. In addi-
tion, through his efforts all the equipment
for construction was donated as well as a
vast amount of the construction supplies.
The gym was sold to the Boys and Girls Club
in 1984 for one dollar, and is known today as
the Lied Boys and Girls Club, located on
Lindell and Edna in Las Vegas. Bill served as
a member, and as Vice Chairman and Chair-
man of the State Public Works Board from
1964 to 1985. He served on the Mackay School
of Mines Advisory Council, whose efforts
saved the school’s accreditation and kept Ne-
vada’s only mining school as one of the best
in the Country. He served on the UNLV Ath-
letic Commission, and on the Board of Direc-
tors for the Boys and Girls Club of Las
Vegas. He was a Trustee for the University
Medical Center Foundation which raised
over six million dollars for the Medical Cen-
ter. Foundation Projects included Southern
Nevada’s sponsorship of the Children’s Mir-
acle Network. He was also instrumental in
establishing a monument in Ely to honor
those from White Pine County who perished
while serving their Country in the Armed
Forces going back to 1898. He was appointed
by Governor Kenny Guinn to serve as a mem-
ber of the State Ethics Commission and
served as its Vice Chairman. He was the Ne-
vada Engineer of the Year in 1976. He re-
ceived the Las Vegas Exchange Club Book of
Golden Deeds Award in 1979. He received the
TV–3 Spirit Award in 1983. He was honored as
the 1984 Distinguished Nevadan by the Uni-
versity of Nevada Board of Regents. He re-
ceived the Award of Excellence in Support of
Nuclear Weapons Testing Program in 1992.
He received an Honorary Associate of Arts
Degree in Human Letters from the Commu-
nity College of Southern Nevada in 1999, and
was honored as the Mackay School of Earth
Sciences and Engineering Alumnus of the
Year in 2007. Bill was a member of St. John
the Baptist Greek Orthodox Church for al-
most 60 years, serving over the years on the
Church Parish Council, Building Committee
and Audit Committee, and working on many
other projects. Bill was an intensely devoted
and loving family man. He was preceded in
death by son, Albert (Trudi) Flangas. Bill is
survived by his wonderful wife, of over 62
years, Marilyn Flangas; his sons, Gus
‘‘Billy’’ (Tamara) Flangas and Gary (Aman-
da) Flangas; his 10 grandchildren; his broth-
ers, John (Carmen) Flangas and Ernest
Flangas; and many other relatives and
godchildren. Visitation will be Fri., Jan. 4,
at 4 p.m. with a Trisagion following at 5 p.m.
Services will be at 11 a.m. Sat., Jan. 5, all at
St. John the Baptist Greek Orthodox Church,
5300 El Camino Rd., Las Vegas, NV 89118. At
Bill’s request, burial will be at noon Mon.
Jan. 7, in Ely. In lieu of flowers, donations
may be made in his honor to the St. John
Building Fund. May his memory be eternal.
f
HONORING CENTRALIA SCHOOL
DISTRICT TRUSTEE STEVE HARRIS
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I would like
to take some time today to honor Steve Har-
ris, an elected Trustee for the Centralia School
District, who is retiring with honor and distinc-
tion, having been changing the lives of stu-
dents and teachers for decades.
After graduating from California State Uni-
versity Long Beach, Steve brought his talents
to teach some of the most academically and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10JA8.005 E10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E32 January 10, 2019
socially challenged students in the region, he
began his education career as a learning dis-
ability aid eventually becoming an elementary
school teacher. When Steve saw a need, he
acted, which is why he went back to school
himself, where he earned a master’s degree
with Second Language acquisition so that he
could bring a diverse language program to
English language learners.
Steve Harris went beyond the classroom
and began teaching teachers and developed
the prototype for standard-based evaluations,
including having served as Chair of the Los
Angeles County Consortium for Peer Assist-
ance and Review. Steve went on to become
a program specialist for Title I schools and a
teachers’ union official, where he lobbied
countless members of Congress and the Cali-
fornia State Legislature on issues relating to
advancing student achievement, including for
meaningful changes to No Child Left Behind.
Steve has been recognized by the President
of the United States, legislators, and the
countless students whose lives he has im-
pacted.
After retiring as a teacher, Steve first ran for
the Centralia School District board of trustees
in 2014 on a platform focused on serving the
entire child and their family, and won in one of
the largest margins of victory in the District’s
history. As a Trustee, Steve championed serv-
ing children more meals after school and dur-
ing the summer, expanding a local resource
center, ensuring adequate raises to employ-
ees, bringing improvements to special edu-
cation, and implementing a local hire agree-
ment on bond construction projects.
Steve retires from the Board of Trustees
ready to continue making a difference in his
synagogue, neighborhood watch, and most
importantly, with his three children. Steve’s
service will be missed, but his impact will con-
tinue.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE SERVICE
OF THE HONORABLE DAVID
O’SULLIVAN, AMBASSADOR OF
THE EUROPEAN UNION TO THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
HON. GREGORY W. MEEKS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. MEEKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor European Union Ambassador to the
United States David O’Sullivan, whose invalu-
able commitment to the bonds of friendship
between Europe and the American people has
left an indelible mark on the transatlantic alli-
ance. As Co-Chair of the Congressional EU
Caucus, I have worked on numerous occa-
sions with Ambassador O’Sullivan to strength-
en that alliance, and build upon the great his-
tory of partnership between Europe and Amer-
ica.
In November 2014, David O’Sullivan was
appointed Ambassador and Head of the Euro-
pean Union Delegation to the United States in
Washington, DC. Since then, Ambassador
O’Sullivan has worked tirelessly to promote
transatlantic unity, emphasizing people to peo-
ple contacts during his travels to all 50 of our
states in furtherance of his mission to spread
the European Union’s message of peace and
prosperity for all people. In February of this
year, when he retires from his Ambassadorial
role, he will conclude nearly 40 years of serv-
ice to the European Union. His time as EU
Ambassador is thus an appropriate capstone
to his long and distinguished career.
Born in Dublin, Ireland, and as a graduate
of Trinity College, Dublin and the College of
Europe in Bruges, Belgium, Ambassador
O’Sullivan has served in a number of senior
official posts in the European public service
over five decades that saw monumental
changes on the European continent. Prior to
his appointment as EU Ambassador to the
U.S., he was the Chief Operating Officer of
the ‘European External Action Service’, re-
sponsible for establishing this new EU diplo-
matic corps. His other notable positions within
the European Commission include Director
General for Trade, Secretary General of the
European Commission, and Head of European
Commission President Prodi ’s Cabinet.
The transatlantic community has always
been a community of values, and this is more
important now than ever before. Ambassador
O’Sullivan has continuously reminded us that
we cannot take the transatlantic alliance for
granted. We must build upon the common be-
liefs that have connected the peoples of Eu-
rope and America over the past century: our
commitment to democracy, our commitment to
the rule of law, and our commitment to the
dignity of all people in our own countries and
around the world. Today, I thank Ambassador
O’Sullivan and his wife Agnes O’Hare, for their
service to these ideals, and wish him a long
and happy retirement.
f
HONORING THE SELFLESS SERV-
ICE OF EVERETT FIREFIGHTERS
HON. SUZAN K. DelBENE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize two brave firefighters from Wash-
ington State. Earlier this year Firefighter Brent
Duckworth from South Everett and Capt. Nick
Adsero from Woodinville, in my district, res-
cued three-year old twin girls from their burn-
ing apartment building in Everett, Washington.
On December 13, 2018, both gentlemen were
recognized for their heroics by the American
Red Cross Northwest Region with the Fire
Rescue Award.
On January 29, 2018, on what had already
been a grueling day, Engine 6 of the Everett
Fire Department received their fifth call and
third fire of the day to the south end of Everett
at a 352-unit complex.
By the time first responders arrived, flames
had already fanned up to the third floor of the
complex.
A babysitter who had briefly left the apart-
ment desperately informed first responders
that the two young girls were still inside the
building.
When the crew of Engine 6 raced inside,
Firefighter Duckworth and Capt. Adsero knew
where to go but the apartment was filled with
smoke and visibility was zero. As the fire-
fighters felt around the apartment they were
able to find both young girls. Both were
rushed to Harborview Medical Center for
smoke inhalation and both survived.
Capt. Adsero has said he has seen a lot on
the job in his 14 years in the fire service, but
a rescue like this was a first for him. What is
even more amazing is that this was Firefighter
Duckworth’s first fire. Most firefighters will go
their whole career without such a feat as sav-
ing a child but on his first fire, Duckworth
helped save two.
I thank Capt. Adsero and Brent Duckworth,
and commend their bravery and service.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF WILLIAM
R. CARTEAUX
HON. JOHN SHIMKUS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. SHIMKUS. Madam Speaker, I rise to
recognize the life of William R. Carteaux (Bill),
the president and CEO of the Plastics Industry
Association and a renowned leader throughout
the decades he spent in the U.S. plastics in-
dustry.
Mr. Carteaux passed away on December
10, 2018, losing a hard-fought battle with
acute myeloid leukemia (AML) at the age of
59. Bill was a tireless advocate for the U.S.
plastics industry, which employs nearly one
million Americans across the country.
In addition to being a champion for one of
America’s largest and most important manu-
facturing industries, Bill was also a true son of
the Midwest—he was born in Avilla, Indiana,
was the son of an electrician, and spent high
school working the night shift at a local metal-
working plant. Eventually, he attended Purdue
University and Indiana Wesleyan before enter-
ing the business world and achieving success
in the plastics industry.
During his time leading the Plastics Industry
Association, Bill made recycling and sustain-
ability core priorities for his organization and
his industry. He presided over the foundation
of his association’s Recycling Committee and
Sustainability Advisory Board. He also played
a role in the design and execution of several
recycling projects which aimed to drive lasting
market-driven solutions to the industry’s and
the environment’s most serious waste man-
agement challenges.
Before he passed away he led the Wash-
ington-area Leukemia and Lymphoma Society
and became one of its biggest supporters—
raising hundreds of thousands of dollars for
research to find a cure.
Madan Speaker, Bill’s contributions to the
U.S. plastics industry, his tenacity, and his
passion made an impact on the lives of thou-
sands of Americans. He will be sorely missed.
I would like to extend my condolences to his
wife, Daniele Fresca; his daughter, Whitney
Taveras; her husband, Fernando; their son,
Liam; and his daughter, Mallory Carteaux.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF MR. SCOTT
M. ANDERSON
HON. ROBERT J. WITTMAN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. WITTMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Mr. Scott Marvin An-
derson, a compassionate man who will forever
be remembered for his deep love of God and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10JA8.008 E10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E33
January 10, 2019
his family. Scott’s spirit, passion, and drive
were second to none, and I am humbled to
have known him throughout his life.
Scott was born on April 15, 1975 in Min-
nesota but grew up traveling the country as a
part of his parents’ Air Force careers. He
graduated from Missouri’s Warrensburg High
School before continuing to Central Missouri
State University and Colorado Christian Uni-
versity. Scott spent much of his adult life pur-
suing one of his greatest passions, golf, by
working at several golf courses in Virginia, in
addition to others throughout the United
States. Scott devoted time sharing his passion
by serving as a teacher, coach, and caddie.
Scott was known for his strong presence in
his community: hosting the Eclectic Music
Hour for Allegheny Mountain Radio in Bath
County, Virginia for some time, as well as
being a dedicated disciple of Bethel Free Will
Baptist Church in Woodbridge. He was an ac-
tive reader of the Bible as well as novels, and
truly appreciated God’s Word. Beyond his pro-
fessional and community involvement, Scott
will be remembered as a lively and animated
man who loved to make other people laugh.
I can attest that Scott touched the lives of
everyone he met. He was truly a man of God,
and I am fortunate to have called Scott a
friend. I extend my deepest condolences to his
parents, Rich and Ruth; sisters, Brooke and
Bria; and grandmother, Sue. Scott’s memory
will most certainly be cherished by those who
knew him. As it says in the book of James,
‘‘Blessed is the man who remains steadfast
under trial, for when he has stood the test he
will receive the crown of life, which God has
promised to those who love him.’’
Madam Speaker, I ask you and my col-
leagues to join me as we honor the memory
of Mr. Scott Marvin Anderson.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. PETER A. DeFAZIO
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. DEFAZIO. Madam Speaker, on January
8 and 9, 2019, I missed the following votes
due to a medical appointment. Had I been
present I would have voted: on Roll Call Vote
13, on passage of H.R. 269, I would have
voted Aye; on Roll Call Vote 14, on passage
of H.R. 251, I would have voted Aye; on Roll
Call Vote 15, on approving the Journal, I
would have voted Aye; on Roll Call Vote 16,
on Ordering the Previous Question to H. Res.
28, I would have voted Yes; on Roll Call Vote
17, on agreeing to H. Res. 28, I would have
voted Aye; and on Roll Call Vote 18, on pas-
sage of H.R. 226, I would have voted Aye.
f
TRIBUTE TO DAVID ARIAN
HON. ALAN S. LOWENTHAL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. LOWENTHAL. Madam Speaker, on Jan-
uary 2, 2019, David Arian, a widely-respected
community, labor, and city government leader,
passed away at the age of 72.
I’m proud and honored to join so many oth-
ers in celebrating his life. We all know about
Dave the union leader—a man carrying on in
the footsteps of Harry Bridges. We also know
Dave the port commissioner—a man who
fought for workers as he was laying out a vi-
sion for the future of our ports.
I would like to add Dave the thinker and
mentor—who challenged not only me, but
many of us, to rethink our positions, learn to
defend them, and never give in when we know
we are right.
Dave’s life, like the man himself, was built
on determination and conviction.
Born December 4, 1946, Dave was 18
years old when he took a job at the Wil-
mington waterfront in 1965. He often joked
that at just 130 pounds, union supervisors
weren’t sure he’d be able to do the physically
demanding work of a longshoreman. But like
many aspects of his life, Dave proved his
skeptics wrong. That first day unloading ba-
nanas into boxcars was just the first of many
that he would spend working, organizing and
leading union workers and causes important to
the workers and the San Pedro Bay commu-
nity.
A proud and fiercely loyal member of the
International Longshoreman and Warehouse
Union (ILWU) Local 13, Dave would eventually
hold many leadership positions over the years,
including three terms as local president. In
1991, at the age of 44, he was elected inter-
national president of the ILWU. After his serv-
ice at the top of the union, Dave returned to
the docks at the Port of Los Angeles, eventu-
ally retiring in 2009. Within a year, he was ap-
pointed to the Los Angeles Harbor Commis-
sion by then-Los Angeles Mayor Villaraigosa
and reappointed by Mayor Garcetti in 2013.
During his tenure on the Board, the Port of
Los Angeles broke all-time cargo volume
records while reducing air emissions, two
goals on which Dave was particularly focused.
Concern and support for the community,
local workers, and residents were woven into
everything Dave did. A tireless community ac-
tivist from the start, Dave and his family
helped found the San Pedro Community Ac-
tion Center in 1966. Over the years, he was
also an active supporter of many local service
organizations, including the Toberman Neigh-
borhood Center, Harbor Interfaith Services
and the San Pedro Boys & Girls Club, the lat-
ter where he played as a youth.
Dave founded the Harry Bridges Institute,
an organization dedicated to educating young-
er workers about the labor movement’s rich
history and community organizing. He had
served as the organization’s president since
its founding in 1993. Dave also captured the
spirit of the Institute in his book ‘‘The Right to
Get in the Fight,’’ which focused on the ILWU
and its philosophies and culture that have kept
it alive and relevant over the decades.
His involvement in non-labor-related port
policy issues began even before his appoint-
ment to the Harbor Commission. In 2006,
Dave was named to the joint Port of Los An-
geles-Port of Long Beach advisory board for
the San Pedro Bay Ports Clean Air Action
Plan, which set the stage for the ports to
make unprecedented strides in improving air
quality in the San Pedro Bay. Dave also
served on the governing board of the Inter-
modal Container Transfer Facility (ICTF) Joint
Power Authority.
A long-time resident of the Harbor area,
Dave grew up on 8th Street in San Pedro, and
attended Cabrillo Elementary, Dana Junior
High School, and San Pedro High School. He
is survived by his two children and five grand-
children: son Sean and son-in-law Council
member Mike Bonin; daughter Justine and
son-in-law Ethan Edwards; and grandchildren
Jadyn Rose, Destan, Jacob, Aneka and Keira.
I, like so many others whose lives he
touched throughout his amazing life, will miss
Dave dearly.
f
HONORING THE 40TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF NGUOI VIET DAILY
NEWS
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in recognition of Nguoi Viet Daily News, the
first and largest daily newspaper published in
Vietnamese in the United States, and its 40
years of success.
Nguoi Viet Daily News was initially estab-
lished as a weekly four-page newspaper by
Mr. Yen Ngoc Do in 1978. On December 15,
1978, the first issue was dated and printed in
Mr. Do’s garage. With his own savings, he
was able to finance the press run of 2,000
copies and distributed them in San Diego,
California. In 1985, the publication officially be-
came ‘‘Nguoi Viet Daily News’’ and was relo-
cated to Santa Ana. In 2004, Nguoi Viet Daily
News became the only Vietnamese news-
paper to be audited and certified by the
Verified Audit Circulation.
Today, Nguoi Viet Daily News also pub-
lishes other editions including: Nguoi Viet
North-East, Nguoi Viet Houston, Nguoi Viet
San Francisco, and Nguoi Viet Utah. Having
its headquarter located in Westminster, Or-
ange County and two other locations in San
Gabriel and Gardena, Los Angeles, where
many Vietnamese Americans reside, Nguoi
Viet Daily News produces an average of
13,736 copies per day and has 50–60 readers
accessing its online news per day.
After four decades, Nguoi Viet Daily News
remains the largest Vietnamese newspaper in
the United States as it continues to make sig-
nificant impacts on the Vietnamese American
population overseas. On Nguoi Viet Daily
News’ 40th anniversary, it is with great pleas-
ure that I commend Nguoi Viet Daily News for
their devotion and contributions to the Viet-
namese community.
f
HONORING THE WORK OF MR.
BASELER
HON. SUZAN K. DelBENE
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Ms. DELBENE. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mr. Theodor Baseler, who will be re-
tiring next month from Ste. Michelle Wine Es-
tates.
Mr. Baseler began his career over thirty-four
years ago, serving as a marketing professional
before becoming the president and CEO of
Ste. Michelle in 2001. His vision and leader-
ship for Ste. Michelle, and the industry in gen-
eral, fueled the evolution of the Washington
wine industry.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10JA8.012 E10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E34 January 10, 2019
Ste. Michelle was almost exclusively a
Washington-focused company when Mr.
Baseler was named president and CEO.
Through his work, the company expanded to
become the third-largest premium wine com-
pany in the U.S., propelling Washington to be-
come the nation’s second-largest wine pro-
ducing state.
Mr. Baseler also attracted some of the
world’s greatest winemakers to come to
Washington to make wine; including Marchese
Piero Antinori of Italy, Ernst Loosen of Ger-
many, and Michel Gassier and Philippe
Cambie of France.
Mr. Baseler’s unwavering commitment to
quality resulted in wines lauded by critics, in-
cluding Wine Spectator magazine’s coveted
‘‘No. 1 Wine in the World’’ title for the Colum-
bia Crest 2005 Reserve Cabemet Sauvignon
in 2009.
For all of his success, Mr. Baseler has re-
ceived several awards including ‘‘Man of the
Year’’ from Wine Enthusiast magazine in
2009, being named one of the ‘‘20 Most Ad-
mired People in the North American Wine In-
dustry’’ by Vineyard & Winery Management
magazine in 2013, the Seattle-King County
First Citizen Award for community leadership
in 2015, and the Executive Excellence Award
by Seattle Business magazine in 2018.
Mr. Baseler is not only a business leader,
but remains a community advocate for higher
education. He spearheaded the establishment
of the world-class Wine Science Center at
Washington State University, which was later
named the Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Wine
Science Center, and is a member of the
Washington University Board of Regents. He
has also helped to generate more than $3 mil-
lion in scholarship funds to students in need.
I want to congratulate Theodor Baseler on
his well-deserved recognition, and I thank him
for being a leader in the local community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF WELLSPACE
HEALTH’S 65TH ANNIVERSARY
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize WellSpace Health as they cele-
brate their 65th Anniversary. As the members
of this community gather here today, I ask my
colleagues to join me in honoring their excep-
tional health care services provided to the
Sacramento region and its surrounding areas.
Since it first became designated as a Feder-
ally Qualified Health Center (FQHC) in 2009,
WellSpace Health has built a network of clin-
ics providing a broad range of services, includ-
ing primary care, Well Child Care, dental care,
and women’s services to the Sacramento re-
gion’s low-income and underserved families.
With its Integrated Behavioral Health model,
WellSpace Health is a true champion for par-
ity, blending physical health services with ad-
diction and mental health treatment. Its high
level of service integration has allowed
WellSpace Health to become one of very few
FQHC’s that have accreditation with The Joint
Commission, the gold standard of quality ac-
creditation nationwide.
WellSpace Health’s commitment to pro-
viding comprehensive and integrated care is
unparalleled in the Sacramento region.
Through collaboration with non-profit organiza-
tions and community partnerships, WellSpace
Health ensures that its services reflect the true
diversity and needs of the communities they
serve. With Immediate Care services oper-
ating 16 hours a day, 7 days a week,
WellSpace Health continues to offer expanded
access to care while, preventing unnecessary
emergency room visits.
Madam Speaker, as staff members of
WellSpace Health celebrate their momentous
years of service, I ask all my colleagues to
join me in honoring them for their dedication to
excellence in health care in the Sacramento
region and beyond.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. CAROLYN B. MALONEY
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York.
Madam Speaker, I regrettably missed a floor
vote on H.R. 264, the Financial Services and
General Government Appropriations Act of
2019, on January 9, 2019. Had I been
present, I would have voted yes. I was proud
to support an appropriations package that in-
cluded similar provisions and strongly support
the provision in H.R. 264 to ensure that fed-
eral workers are fully compensated once the
partial government shutdown is over. I will
continue to call for the passage of bipartisan
spending bills like this one to reopen the gov-
ernment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:44 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A10JA8.016 E10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D29
Thursday, January 10, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S111–S147
Measures Introduced: Thirty-nine bills and three
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S. 73–111,
and S. Res. 14–16. Pages S141–43
Measures Passed:
Government Employee Fair Treatment Act: Sen-
ate passed S. 24, to provide for the compensation of
Federal and other government employees affected by
lapses in appropriations. Pages S133–34
Commending the Clemson University Tigers
Football Team: Senate agreed to S. Res. 15, com-
mending the Clemson University Tigers football
team for winning the 2019 College Football Playoff
National Championship. Page S146
Relative to the Death of Former Senator John
Chester Culver: Senate agreed to S. Res. 16, relative
to the death of John Chester Culver, former United
States Senator for the State of Iowa. Page S146
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security In The Middle
East Act—Agreement: Senate continued consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S.
1, to make improvements to certain defense and se-
curity assistance provisions and to authorize the ap-
propriation of funds to Israel, to reauthorize the
United States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syr-
ian people. Pages S115–35
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 53 yeas to 43 nays (Vote No. 2), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
to close further debate on the motion to proceed to
consideration of the bill. Page S128
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill,
and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, a vote on clo-
ture will occur on Monday, January 14, 2019.
Page S128
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the motion to
proceed to consideration of the bill at approximately
10 a.m., on Friday, January 11, 2019. Page S146
Appointments:
United States Senate Caucus on International
Narcotics Control: The Chair, on behalf of the Ma-
jority Leader, pursuant to the provisions of Public
Law 99–93, as amended by Public Law 99–151, ap-
pointed the following individuals to serve as mem-
bers of the United States Senate Caucus on Inter-
national Narcotics Control for the 116th Congress:
Senators Cornyn (Chairman), Grassley, Risch, and
Perdue. Page S146
Syria Study Group: The Chair, pursuant to the
provisions of section 1501 of Public Law 115–254,
on behalf of the Majority Leader of the Senate and
the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Foreign
Relations, appointed the following individual as a
member of the Syria Study Group: Chris Tuttle, of
Virginia. Page S146
Messages from the House: Page S141
Measures Referred: Page S141
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Pages S111, S141
Measures Read the First Time: Pages S141, S146
Executive Communications: Page S141
Additional Cosponsors: Page S143
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S143–44
Additional Statements: Pages S139–41
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S146
Privileges of the Floor: Page S146
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—2) Page S128
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed, as a further mark of respect to the memory
of the late Senator John Chester Culver, in accord-
ance with S. Res. 16, at 5:59 p.m., until 10 a.m.
on Friday, January 11, 2019. (For Senate’s program,
see the remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S146.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:49 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10JA9.REC D10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D30 January 10, 2019
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
WITHDRAWAL OF U.S. FORCES FROM
SYRIA
Committee on Armed Services: Committee received a
closed briefing on President Trump’s recent decision
to withdraw United States forces from Syria from
John C. Rood, Under Secretary for Policy, and Lieu-
tenant General Richard D. Clarke, USA, Director for
Strategy, Plans, and Policy, J5, and Major General
Michael S. Groen, USMC, Director of Intelligence,
J2, both of the Joint Staff, all of the Department of
Defense.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 64 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 424–487, and 3 resolutions; H.J. Res.
25, and H. Res. 35 and 36; were introduced.
Pages H461–63
Additional Cosponsors: Page H465
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Swalwell (CA) to act as
Speaker pro tempore for today. Page H363
Recess: The House recessed at 11:18 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H371
Transportation, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act,
2019: The House passed H.R. 267, making appro-
priations for the Department of Transportation, and
Housing and Urban Development, and related agen-
cies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2019,
by a yea-and-nay vote of 244 yeas to 180 nays, Roll
No. 23. Page H438
Rejected the Diaz-Balart motion to recommit the
bill to the Committee on Appropriations with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with an amendment, by a yea-and-nay vote
of 193 yeas to 228 nays, Roll No. 22. Pages H437–38
H. Res. 28, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 264), (H.R. 265), (H.R. 266), and
(H.R. 267) was agreed to yesterday, January 9th.
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug
Administration, and Related Agencies Appro-
priations Act, 2019: The House passed H.R. 265,
making appropriations for Agriculture, Rural Devel-
opment, Food and Drug Administration, and Re-
lated Agencies programs for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 2019, by a yea-and-nay vote of 243
yeas to 183 nays, Roll No. 25. Pages H439–40
Rejected the Aderholt motion to recommit the
bill to the Committee on Appropriations with in-
structions to report the same back to the House
forthwith with amendments, by a yea-and-nay vote
of 197 yeas to 229 nays, Roll No. 24. Page H439
H. Res. 28, the rule providing for consideration
of the bills (H.R. 264), (H.R. 265), (H.R. 266), and
(H.R. 267) was agreed to yesterday, January 9th.
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Protecting Diplomats from Surveillance Through
Consumer Devices Act: H.R. 115, to require the
Department of State to establish a policy regarding
the use of location-tracking consumer devices by em-
ployees at diplomatic and consular facilities;
Pages H429–30
United States-Mexico Economic Partnership Act:
H.R. 133, to promote economic partnership and co-
operation between the United States and Mexico;
and Pages H430–32
Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Partnership
Act: H.R. 192, to establish an interagency program
to assist countries in North and West Africa to im-
prove immediate and long-term capabilities to
counter terrorist threats. Pages H432–34
Joint Economic Committee—Appointment: The
Chair announced the Speaker’s appointment of the
following Member on the part of the House to the
Joint Economic Committee: Representative Carolyn
B. Maloney (NY). Page H440
Suspension—Proceedings Postponed: The House
debated the following measure under suspension of
the rules. Further proceedings were postponed.
Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Anti-
Semitism Act: H.R. 221, to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to monitor
and combat anti-Semitism globally. Pages H434–37
Senate Referral: S. 24 was held at the desk.
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
today appears on page H454.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:49 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10JA9.REC D10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D31
January 10, 2019
Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H437–38, H438, H439, and H439–40.
There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:10 p.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR FRIDAY,
JANUARY 11, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:49 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D10JA9.REC D10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D32 January 10, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Friday, January 11
Senate Chamber
Program for Friday: Senate will continue consideration
of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 1,
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle East Act.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Friday, January 11
House Chamber
Program for Friday: Consideration of H.R. 266—De-
partment of the Interior, Environment, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bera, Ami, Calif., E29
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga, E29
Clyburn, James E., S.C., E30
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E31, E33
DeFazio, Peter A., Ore., E33
DelBene, Suzan K., Wash., E30, E32, E33
Gianforte, Greg, Mont., E29
Hastings, Alcee L., Fla., E29
Lowenthal, Alan S., Calif., E33
Maloney, Carolyn B., N.Y., E34
Matsui, Doris O., Calif., E34
Meeks, Gregory W., N.Y., E32
Mullin, Markwayne, Okla., E29
Shimkus, John, Ill., E32
Titus, Dina, Nev., E31
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E31
Wittman, Robert J., Va., E32
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:49 Jan 11, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D10JA9.REC D10JAPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
DIGEST
