Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H605
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019 No. 9
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. SIRES).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
January 16, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable ALBIO
SIRES to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
MARCH FOR LIFE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Alabama (Mrs. ROBY) for 5 minutes.
Mrs. ROBY. Mr. Speaker, 45 years
ago this month, the Supreme Court of
the United States offered its infamous
Roe v. Wade decision that legalized
abortion on demand in this country.
While many abortion activists cele-
brate this anniversary as a victory for
so-called women’s health, it represents
a particularly somber occasion for
those of us who advocate for life.
Since that 1973 ruling, more than 60
million unborn children in this country
have had their lives terminated by
abortion. To say this is a tragedy is an
understatement—60 million.
Mr. Speaker, it is no secret that I am
unapologetically pro-life. I believe that
life begins at conception and that we
should work harder to build a culture
that values life at every stage.
While not everyone shares my con-
victions about life or on certain poli-
cies surrounding rights of unborn chil-
dren, our pro-life momentum is still
strong. This Friday, thousands of
Americans will gather just outside of
this building at The National Mall to
participate in this year’s March for
Life, an annual event where the pro-life
community comes together to advo-
cate for the lives and rights of unborn
children. Some of the activists gath-
ered here on Friday will have traveled
from Alabama’s Second District, as far
as 900 miles, to stand up for life.
So, Mr. Speaker, I want to take this
opportunity to send a message to the
thousands of pro-life marchers, espe-
cially those from southeast Alabama I
have the privilege of representing in
Congress:
Thank you. Thank you for your dedi-
cation to this most worthy cause. It is
our responsibility to speak out for
those who cannot speak for themselves.
I am deeply grateful for your commit-
ment to this incredibly important
duty, and I, along with my pro-life col-
leagues here in Congress, stand with
you.
My promise to you is that I will con-
tinue to use this seat in Congress that
I have been given to be a vocal advo-
cate for the unborn. I will continue to
join you in defending the defenseless.
Our momentum is strong, especially
during this time each year, but our
work is far from being complete. I
won’t stop fighting until our laws and
policies protect life at every stage, and
I hope you won’t either.
THE TRUMP SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Mr. Speaker, as of
this week, the Trump shutdown has be-
come the longest government shut-
down in American history.
It is bad enough that the President
has doubled down on his demand for a
senseless, expensive, and hateful border
wall. It is even worse that he is holding
Federal workers hostage, needlessly in-
flicting pain and suffering on dedicated
public servants.
Last week, Federal workers began of-
ficially missing a paycheck. These
800,000 workers, both employees and
subcontractors, are fathers, mothers,
brothers, and sisters. They have
mouths to feed and mortgages to pay.
They must put groceries on the table
and gasoline in their car. Yet because
one person in Washington decided to
throw a political temper tantrum over
a foolish wall, many of them are now
having to cut expenses, endure sac-
rifices, and make tough choices in
their family budgets.
The latest outrageous development
occurred when, last week, Donald
Trump threatened to take disaster
funds away from the Army Corps of En-
gineers to pay for this wall. He even
suggested taking funding away from
Puerto Rico as the island struggles to
recover from historic hurricanes, the
aftermath of which cost 3,000 of our fel-
low citizens their lives.
Think about that. The President
wants to take money away from Amer-
icans who are suffering from natural
disasters in Puerto Rico, Texas, Cali-
fornia, and elsewhere to fund a hateful
wall aimed at demonizing immigrant
communities. This is shameful and it is
immoral.
Now we have gotten word that HUD
may be using the shutdown as a predi-
cate for reducing disaster funding to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.000 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H606 January 16, 2019
the people of Puerto Rico. Last week,
HUD put out a surprise notice claiming
that the shutdown is preventing them
from proceeding with disaster recovery
efforts, funds Congress allocated on a
bipartisan basis almost a year ago. Yet
HUD’s very own contingency plans dic-
tate that shutdowns, under no cir-
cumstances, should affect disaster-re-
lated operations.
I fear that Secretary Carson is play-
ing politics with the shutdown and the
people of Puerto Rico, putting the is-
land’s recovery at risk.
Mr. Speaker, this shutdown must
end. The President’s shameful insist-
ence on a border wall is harming our
workers and families. Everything, from
the food we eat to counterterrorism, to
travel safety, is impacted by the
Trump shutdown. And now HUD is
threatening to inflict greater pain on
those who have survived natural disas-
ters. That is unacceptable.
Mr. President, the American people
implore you: Stop holding Federal
workers and other Americans hostage.
Stop threatening parts of our Nation
that are recovering from natural dis-
aster. Don’t put people’s lives at risk.
Do your job. Reopen government, and
get back to work.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
HONORING THE SERVICE OF
FORMER GOVERNOR NATHAN
DEAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. COLLINS) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to discuss an individual
and honor an individual who was a
Member of this body for many, many
years from the State of Georgia, and he
just ended his term as Governor for the
last 8 years, Nathan Deal.
I saw yesterday, as I was looking
through some pictures on social media,
there was a picture that showed, as it
should properly show when you think
of Nathan Deal, him leaving the capitol
for the last time, arm in arm with his
beloved Sandra. That is the way they
have governed for the last 8 years.
Nathan Deal has brought a sense of
accomplishment; he has brought a
sense of pride. Not only did he do that
up here in the Halls of Congress where
he served us ably and was on the En-
ergy and Commerce Committee and
took the interests of Georgia to heart
in everything that he did, when he
went back to Georgia, though, and be-
came our Governor, I believe he hit his
stride that has brought Georgia so far
in the last 8 years.
When he first got there, I was in the
State legislature, and I was honored
that I was part of his team as the Gov-
ernor’s floor leader.
At that time, our rainy day fund was
basically nonexistent. It is now over $2
billion.
At that time, we had a fledgling be-
ginning industry in films and motion
pictures that has now become the envy,
literally, of the world and one of the
top places in all of the world to make
blockbuster films.
He has taken an aging infrastructure
and transportation plan and, now, has
given hope to that transportation plan
in Georgia.
But also, when I came here to Con-
gress, and last Congress, we were able
to work on criminal justice reform
with this President and this adminis-
tration. But in many ways, it would
not have happened up here if it had not
been for Governor Nathan Deal.
When he went to Georgia, he began
to look at our criminal justice system.
He began to look at how we were treat-
ing those who needed a second chance,
who needed the hope that was provided
in a system that was not providing
what it needed to.
Nathan Deal took a stand, and Geor-
gia has become an international leader
in how we deal with our criminal jus-
tice system and how we take care of
those individuals. We have seen crime
rates decrease; we have seen families
put back together; we have seen a bet-
ter Georgia.
Personally, I have known Governor
Deal for almost 35, 40 years. I played
basketball with his son. He and Sandra
and my mom and dad would actually
work in the concession stands together
at North Hall High School many years
ago.
That is Nathan Deal. He has never
been afraid to do the hard work, to not
take the claim or the glory, but he just
got the job done. As Governor, he
raised civil discourse in Georgia. He
made people think, and he made our
State better.
So, yesterday, as I saw the picture of
Governor Deal and Sandra arm in arm,
I could not help but think how this
man has touched so many lives, includ-
ing my own, with phone calls, with en-
couragement to be a better person, and
also, in our case, to be a better State.
Georgia has been honored to have Na-
than Deal as Governor for the last 8
years. We are looking forward to a new
administration with Brian Kemp, but I
will have to say, those are big shoes to
fill.
Governor Deal, you did us proud.
RECOGNIZING CAROL MARTIN, GAINESVILLE
CHIEF OF POLICE
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today in recognition of Carol
Martin, Chief of Police of the City of
Gainesville. Chief Martin is retiring on
January 31, 2019, after protecting and
serving our city for over 32 years.
First joining the Gainesville Police
Department in January 1987 as a patrol
officer, Chief Martin has dedicated her
life to public safety. She has advanced
through the ranks of investigator, ser-
geant, lieutenant, captain, and major,
until August of 2014, when she made
history as the very first female chief of
police for the city of Gainesville.
Chief Martin’s career in law enforce-
ment has been marked with excellence.
In 1997, she was recognized by the
Gainesville Elks Lodge as Police Chief
of the Year; and in 2003 and 2007, the
Gainesville Kiwanis Club presented her
with the John W. Jacobs, Sr., Memorial
Award for her excellence in law en-
forcement.
She is an active member of the Inter-
national and Georgia Associations of
Chiefs of Police and serves as a board
member on the Gainesville Rape Re-
sponse and the Georgia Law Enforce-
ment State Certification Program.
Her résumé is superseded only by her
character. For over three decades,
Chief Martin has made great sacrifices
to serve and protect our communities.
As the son of a Georgia State trooper,
I understand firsthand the dangers that
our law enforcement officers face each
and every day. Chief Martin has con-
tinually put her life on the line so that
the people of Gainesville do not have to
fear for their own.
I want to congratulate Chief Carol
Martin on her retirement. But most of
all, I want to thank her for her dedi-
cated life of service to the rule of law
and protecting the people of northeast
Georgia and for being a dear friend of
mine.
f
HONORING THE LIFE AND SERVICE
OF ALFRED NEWMAN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arizona (Mr. O’HALLERAN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life of Navajo
code talker Alfred Newman, who passed
away this week.
Mr. Newman was one of the last sur-
viving members of the Navajo code
talkers, a group of brave Navajo ma-
rines who used their native language to
create unbreakable codes that were
used in the Pacific during World War
II.
He served our Nation with honor,
from Guadalcanal to Iwo Jima. He was
recently honored with other code talk-
ers at a White House ceremony and was
awarded the Congressional Silver
Medal for his service in 2001.
Mr. Speaker, Alfred Newman was a
hero. He and his fellow code talkers
saved the lives of countless troops with
their unbreakable codes, and they de-
serve our respect and honor every day.
My prayers are with Alfred’s family
and loved ones and the entire Navajo
Nation as they mourn the passing of
this hero and celebrate his life.
b 1015
HONORING MILTON BLUEHOUSE, SR.
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, I
was saddened to hear of the passing of
former Navajo Nation President Milton
Bluehouse, Sr.
Raised in a traditional Navajo life-
style, President Bluehouse graduated
from Ganado Mission School and
served in the United States Army for 3
years.
Throughout his life, he represented
the interests of his community on the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.002 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H607
January 16, 2019
Tribal Council before serving as presi-
dent for a short time.
He had many ambitious plans to as-
sist at-risk youth, create good-paying
jobs, and expand programs to improve
safety in Tribal communities.
President Bluehouse will always be
remembered for his commitment to the
Navajo people and for ensuring the
Federal Government upheld its obliga-
tions to the Tribe.
My prayers are with his family and
loved ones and the entire Navajo Na-
tion as they mourn his passing and cel-
ebrate his life.
IT IS TIME TO OPEN UP GOVERNMENT
Mr. O’HALLERAN. Mr. Speaker, it is
time to open up government. We can no
longer think that we are not having an
impact on our economy. We can no
longer think that the safety of Ameri-
cans who fly in our skies or eat the
food in America is not at risk. We can
no longer imagine that the millions of
families who are being impacted are
not suffering.
It is time. This is the greatest Nation
on Earth. It is the only one in my en-
tire lifetime that I have seen that has
closed down government. Our counties
don’t do it; our States don’t do it; our
cities don’t do it. But the greatest Na-
tion on Earth can find a way to close
down government?
This should never, ever happen in our
country. We should never put our citi-
zens through this. We have the money
to pay the staff. We have to find ways
to get out of this problem and never let
it happen again.
f
RECOGNIZING MICHAEL WISNER
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to commend
a Franklin High School graduate from
Venango County on earning a pres-
tigious fellowship.
Michael Wisner, who graduated from
Franklin High School in 2015 and is ex-
pected to graduate from Princeton Uni-
versity in June, has been awarded the
Charles B. Rangel International Affairs
Fellowship following a nationwide con-
test.
The fellowship is funded by the U.S.
Department of State and administered
by Howard University right here in
Washington.
The Rangel Graduate Fellowship is a
program that aims to attract and pre-
pare outstanding young people for ca-
reers in the Foreign Service, where
they can help formulate, represent, and
implement U.S. foreign policy.
The Rangel program selects out-
standing fellows annually in a highly
competitive nationwide process and
supports them through 2 years of grad-
uate study, internships, mentoring,
and professional development activi-
ties.
Michael is completing certificates at
Princeton in African studies, history
and the practice of diplomacy, and
Latin American studies.
He spent a summer abroad in Greece
and a semester abroad in Argentina,
where he worked as an English as a
second language instructor. Since 2016,
he has taught English as a second lan-
guage at the resource center of Catho-
lic Charities in New Jersey.
Impressively, he also worked with
Engineers Without Borders to design
and install a water system in Peru. As
part of the project, he co-led a 12-per-
son team to author a Spanish language
water system manual for community
use.
During his time at Franklin High
School, Michael was committed to aca-
demics, sports, and community activi-
ties. He was named salutatorian of his
class. He played football and was cap-
tain of the team. He was also a wres-
tler and attained the rank of Eagle
Scout with Boy Scouts of America.
Michael is the son of Tom and Nancy
Wisner of Polk, Pennsylvania, in
Venango County.
Mr. Speaker, I am grateful for Amer-
ican men and women who are com-
mitted to serving this country at home
and abroad. I have no doubt that Mi-
chael will excel in his fellowship and
help promote positive change globally.
I congratulate Michael Wisner on this
outstanding achievement, and I wish
him the best as he pursues this oppor-
tunity.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New Hampshire (Mr. PAPPAS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. PAPPAS. Mr. Speaker, I rise to
share the stories of hardworking Gran-
ite Staters who are feeling the pain of
this shutdown on its 26th day.
Middle-class families in New Hamp-
shire are suffering because politicians
in Washington can’t complete the most
basic task of governing. They are fed
up with the gridlock and endless
delays. They are exhausted by the par-
tisan political excuses. They just want
us to do our jobs and reopen the Fed-
eral Government.
This weekend, I met with an air traf-
fic controller from Derry. He told me
that his coworkers are not going to be
able to pay their mortgages and keep
up with household bills if the shutdown
goes on any longer. He explained that
they are intensely proud of the service
they provide to the American people
and simply want to do their jobs and
get paid on time. Is that really too
much to ask?
Mr. Speaker, let’s reopen our govern-
ment for the sake of every Federal em-
ployee who works tirelessly to keep the
traveling public safe.
Two fire departments in my district,
in Goffstown and Hampton, have ap-
plied for SAFER grants through
FEMA. They needed the process to
begin in December in order to get ap-
proval at town meetings in March. The
shutdown has blocked the review of
these applications.
Mr. Speaker, let’s reopen our govern-
ment so local fire departments and
first responders can get the resources
they need to protect our communities.
The spiraling effects of this shutdown
are becoming more apparent each and
every day. The Manchester Transit Au-
thority is concerned about whether
they will be able to keep buses run-
ning, since they haven’t been able to
draw on Federal funds since December.
In addition, crisis centers in New
Hampshire haven’t been able to access
the funding they typically receive from
the Office of Violence Against Women
to assist survivors of sexual and domes-
tic violence. That is completely unac-
ceptable.
Mr. Speaker, let’s reopen our govern-
ment so people can get to work on time
and local organizations can continue to
support victims of crime and abuse.
The President says this shutdown is
necessary to protect the American peo-
ple, yet every story I hear in my dis-
trict demonstrates this shutdown is
making us less safe. The longer our
government remains closed, the less se-
cure our country will be.
Mr. Speaker, this shutdown has
shown us the worst of Washington, the
dysfunction and the political games-
manship that has no regard for people’s
lives. But it is also bringing out the
very best of people in my State, their
sense of decency and patriotism, their
willingness to lend a helping hand to
neighbors in need.
Granite Staters have been banding
together to help Federal workers in a
variety of ways, from offering no-inter-
est loans to offering food donations.
The Wood Island Life Saving Station
Association is giving gift cards to
Coast Guard personnel in Portsmouth
to help them make ends meet while
they work without pay.
People in our communities are com-
ing together to support everyday
Americans who are the victims of this
shutdown, so why can’t our leaders in
Washington do the same?
To my colleagues from across the
aisle, to our colleagues in the Senate:
End this shutdown now. Let’s move for-
ward with the people’s business. We
need to reopen the government, and we
need to do it before this bad situation
gets any worse.
f
SUPPORTING EGYPTIAN COPTIC
CHRISTIANS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. HILL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today on National Religious Free-
dom Day to announce that I am re-
introducing my resolution in the House
in support of the Coptic Christians in
Egypt.
I sponsored a nearly identical resolu-
tion last Congress, and I truly appre-
ciate the support I received from more
than 50 of my House colleagues who co-
sponsored that resolution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.005 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H608 January 16, 2019
Egypt and the United States are im-
portant partners in the fight against
terrorism in the region. Egypt’s role at
Camp David has led to some of the
closest ties between the United States,
Egypt, and Israel in their history.
I am reintroducing this resolution
because the Egyptian Government can
do more to protect its Christian citi-
zens.
I have great respect for President el-
Sisi, someone I have had the oppor-
tunity to meet with on two occasions,
and I applaud the changes and message
that el-Sisi has made in the areas of re-
ligious tolerance and plurality.
He continues to say and do the right
things at the top level of government:
having a good relationship with the
Coptic Pope, attending mass on mul-
tiple occasions, getting some churches
reconstructed while constructing the
largest Christian cathedral in the Mid-
dle East in the new administrative cen-
ter outside Cairo, and holding terror-
ists accountable for their atrocities.
But, Mr. Speaker, there is more to
do. I stress to the Egyptian foreign af-
fairs officials when I meet with them
that this is not an attack on President
el-Sisi. To the contrary, I acknowledge
the support and partnership and friend-
ship that we have with Egypt. But
there is more that can be done in the
area of protecting religious freedom
and human rights, especially in the
rural parts of the country.
The State Department’s 2018 reli-
gious freedom report on Egypt names
Minya province as a particular area for
concern. The Egyptians routinely
claim that they have no minorities in
Egypt. ‘‘We are all Egyptians, and we
all take our water from the Nile,’’ is
something that is frequently said.
But from my studies and in my view,
there is a population in Egypt that
does not have the same protections of
rule of law as others. The country must
do better in places like Minya prov-
ince.
Following Secretary Pompeo’s recent
visit to Egypt, Hamza Hendawi of the
Associated Press wrote: ‘‘El-Sisi’s
widely publicized policy to staunch
sectarianism, however, has done little
to protect Christians in rural Egypt,
where Muslim extremists frequently
attack their homes and businesses or
force them to leave their homes after
violent disputes.
‘‘Critics and activists say discrimina-
tion against Christians there is often
tolerated by local authorities and
branches of the security agencies.’’
Mr. Speaker, my resolution calls on
the Egyptian Government to end this
culture of impunity for attacks on
Christians and to undertake the arrest,
prosecution, and conviction of individ-
uals who carry out attacks on Copts
and other Christians in Egypt. It calls
on the government to hold accountable
these local government officials who
fail to enforce the law.
I stand with Secretary of State
Pompeo and support his message that:
‘‘More work certainly needs to be done
to maximize the potential of the Egyp-
tian nation and its people. I’m glad
that America will be a partner in those
efforts.’’
However, as the second highest re-
cipient of American military aid in the
world, the United States Government
must use the tools that it has to hold
our allies to a higher standard, if they
are to continue to receive our aid.
I encourage Egypt to live up to the
legacy of Camp David at home, work-
ing to achieve what former President
Anwar Sadat called ‘‘permanent peace
based on justice.’’
Today in America, we commemorate
Virginia’s 1786 adoption of Thomas Jef-
ferson’s Statute for Religious Freedom.
In his proclamation today, President
Trump urged all Americans to help
‘‘secure this blessing both at home and
around the world.’’
All people around the world, regard-
less of their religious affiliation, de-
serve the same freedom to practice
their chosen religion like we have en-
joyed here in the United States of
America for more than 200 years.
Permanent peace based on justice for
the Coptic Christians of Egypt, that is
my goal with this resolution.
As President Reagan said: ‘‘Respect
for human rights is not social work; it
is not merely an act of compassion. It
is the first obligation of government
and the source of its legitimacy.’’
Mr. Speaker, the respect for human
rights and religious freedom is funda-
mental to the American position, and I
will continue to promote this issue for
Coptic Christians and all Egyptians
who take their water from the Nile.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to speak about the irresponsible gov-
ernment shutdown that is hurting peo-
ple not only in my district, but
throughout California and our Nation.
There is no good reason for our govern-
ment to be shut down.
As national leaders, one of the most
important responsibilities as Members
of Congress is, in fact, to pass a budget
every year on time and always to keep
government open. But since 2010, we
have seen a phenomena take place
where groups on both sides think, well,
there can be justification to shut down
government for an agenda, usually po-
litically motivated, and put all of our
other responsibilities aside.
Over half the Members of Congress
have been here less than 6 years.
I say this government shutdown, any
government shutdown, is irresponsible.
We are supposed to have a budget for
our country, like every family has a
budget and every business has a budg-
et.
When the government shuts down,
people suffer, families suffer, veterans
suffer, all Americans suffer. Approxi-
mately 800,000 Federal employees are
currently furloughed or working with-
out pay across the country.
Last Friday, in my home State of
California, over 37,000 Federal employ-
ees did not receive their paychecks.
That is irresponsible.
b 1030
Yesterday was payday for the United
States Coast Guard. Protecting our
seas throughout our Nation is a vital
part of America’s national security.
They got a paycheck with a printed
‘‘0’’ on it for their wage.
Our national parks are operating
without full staff or guides. We have
had, already, Americans die as a result
of the shutdown, one in Yosemite close
to my district.
The government shutdown is putting
Americans in danger in other ways as
well. By shutting down the govern-
ment, the President is making border
security—supposedly the reason for all
of this—more difficult and has stopped
paying key law enforcement personnel,
including Customs and Border Protec-
tion officers, Federal prosecutors, im-
migration judges, Immigration and
Customs Enforcement agents, and
members, as I said earlier, of the Coast
Guard.
This is a manufactured crisis in order
to pursue a political agenda. It is just
not right. It is not the way our govern-
ment is supposed to function.
Within the United States, Homeland
Security investigation agents who in-
vestigate human trafficking, drug
smuggling, and transnational criminal
gangs are working without pay. Does
that make any sense? I thought this
was supposed to be about national se-
curity. We ought to be paying these
folks.
The Department of Justice has
stopped processing discretionary
grants that support State and local law
enforcement, which is critical, I can
tell you, in California, where we have
many of these challenges. I have been
listening to the people back home.
That is our job. We are supposed to lis-
ten.
For 25 days now, the shutdown has
been hurting the people of San Joaquin
Valley. Middle-class families are suf-
fering. We have IRS officers and large
numbers of Federal employees in my
district who are working or not work-
ing, and they are not receiving pay-
checks.
Many of these individuals have
shared that they don’t even know how
they are going to be able to feed their
children or pay their mortgage or their
car payment, because the majority of
families live—what?—from paycheck-
to-paycheck. In fact, a group of Federal
employees in my district is at the
point of needing to take out loans and
trying to find other jobs—which makes
no sense—to keep themselves and their
families afloat.
And the pain radiates, broadly affect-
ing our local economies. Small busi-
nesses in downtown Fresno, Madera,
Merced, and many other communities
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:21 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.006 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H609
January 16, 2019
throughout my district are being im-
pacted, along with the Federal officers
who are involved in the United States
Department of Agriculture and the
ability to operate their offices.
And there are those who contract
with the government who are looking
at not receiving paychecks. It is affect-
ing our Nation’s economy. And there is
clear proof of that.
Mr. Speaker, this harm must stop.
Let me say it again. There is no good
reason for a government shutdown. We
have our differences, to be sure, and we
ought to be negotiating those dif-
ferences on border security and other
matters.
On December 18, the Senate passed a
bipartisan agreement, unanimously, to
keep the government open that was ac-
ceptable to both Chambers and the
President, and it did not include fund-
ing for a border wall. The next day, the
President changed his mind.
This shutdown is not about securing
our border, but it is about consistently
providing funding to improve our bor-
der security, and we can do that. We
should do that.
I urge my colleagues to get to work.
The American people expect better.
f
HONORING BOB KIRK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Tennessee (Mr. KUSTOFF) for 5 minutes.
Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to honor and rec-
ognize a true public servant and a
friend of mine, Bob Kirk, from
Dyersburg, Tennessee.
Bob has served as an alderman for
the city of Dyersburg for 51 years. He
leaves this position this month not
only with many years of dedicated
service, but also as the longest serving
elected official in the State of Ten-
nessee.
Bob Kirk’s service to the Nation and
to our State started immediately fol-
lowing his high school graduation,
when he dedicated 4 years to the
United States Air Force. After serving
in the military, Bob returned home to
start his career at Colonial Rubber
Works, where he was a loyal employee
for 30 years until his retirement in
1996.
During Bob’s tenure as an alderman,
he played an instrumental role in se-
curing a Tennessee Highway Patrol of-
fice in Dyersburg, and he has been
present and active for so many eco-
nomic wins on behalf of the city of
Dyersburg.
In addition to his elected position,
Bob has remained extremely active in
numerous community organizations.
Last spring, the Tennessee Municipal
League honored Bob by creating a new
award in his honor that will bear his
name. It is the Bob Kirk Local Govern-
ment Leadership Award. This award is
going to be given annually to out-
standing public servants who not only
go above and beyond the call of duty,
but also do a great job in serving their
communities.
To Bob and to his wife, Carol, I speak
on behalf of west Tennessee and the
State of Tennessee and I say thank you
for your service to the city of
Dyersburg. Thank you for your service
to Dyer County. You epitomize public
service and your love for the commu-
nity.
f
OPPOSITION TO BIGOTRY AND
RACISM
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. GREEN) for 5 minutes.
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Mr. Speaker,
and still I rise, proud to have the pre-
eminent privilege of serving in the
Congress of the United States of Amer-
ica, a proud American, and proud to
say that, yesterday, this Congress went
on record indicating that it is opposed
to bigotry. It went on record saying it
is opposed to hate.
I read to you the style of the resolu-
tion, H. Res. 41. It reads: ‘‘Rejecting
White Nationalism and White Suprem-
acy.’’ That is the style of the resolu-
tion.
I will not read all of the whereases,
but I do think it appropriate to read
the resolved.
‘‘Resolved, That the House of Rep-
resentatives once again rejects White
nationalism and White supremacy as
hateful expressions of intolerance that
are contradictory to the values that
define the people of the United States.’’
I thank all of my colleagues. I heard
many of them speak, and much of what
was said really touched my heart. I
thank them for saying it, because it
was made very clear yesterday that we
reject bigotry. It was made very clear
that bigotry will not be tolerated.
I am appreciative that this happened
because there was a time in the history
of our country where such a resolution
would not have been brought before the
House of Representatives. There was a
time when people would deny the exist-
ence of racism and bigotry and hate,
xenophobia, homophobia, anti-Semi-
tism.
There was a time when people would
have denied the existence, and then
when you deny the existence of some-
thing, you don’t have to deal with it
because you say that it isn’t there and
it doesn’t exist. Why would you deal
with it? But yesterday, we went on
record not only saying that we reject
it, but we also acknowledged the exist-
ence of it, which is important.
I also have to single out just one
Representative, Congressman BOBBY
RUSH, who voted against the resolu-
tion—one vote against. I want to ac-
knowledge that he was right. He was
right because he said it wasn’t enough.
I concur.
I thank my colleagues for the resolu-
tion indicating that we oppose bigotry,
but the real question that we have to
answer at some point in the future is
the corollary that flows from being in
opposition to bigotry. The corollary is
this:
If you oppose bigotry, if you reject
bigotry, will you reject the bigot? If
you reject racism, will you go on
record rejecting the racist? If you are
antithetical to anti-Semitism, will you
go on record rejecting and opposing the
anti-Semite?
This is the question.
I appreciate greatly and I am going
to be eternally grateful to those who
brought this resolution. It was timely.
It was something that was necessary.
But I also appreciate Mr. RUSH’s posi-
tion, because the corollary has to be
addressed at some point.
We cannot continue to say we are op-
posed to something. That is a talking
point. We have to get to the action
item, which is: What are you going to
do about it if you oppose it? What will
you do about it?
What will you do about it when it
emanates from the highest office in the
land? What will you do about it? Will
you simply say ‘‘I oppose it,’’ or will
you take a vote to indicate that it is
an action item and you are going to re-
ject it?
One step closer to impeachment, yes-
terday’s resolution brought us one step
closer. The clock is ticking. Impeach-
ment is not dead.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
HERE ARE THE FACTS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kentucky (Mr. BARR) for 5 minutes.
Mr. BARR. Mr. Speaker, during a
meeting in the White House, our newly
elected Speaker of the House inter-
rupted Homeland Security Secretary
Kirstjen Nielsen, who was reciting sta-
tistics relating to the border.
‘‘I reject your facts,’’ Ms. PELOSI
said.
Well, here are the facts:
Fact: Last year, 17,000 people with
prior criminal convictions were
stopped trying to cross our southern
border.
Fact: The recent 8,000-plus caravan
that attempted to breach our southern
border contained over 600 confirmed
criminal migrants.
Fact: Approximately 90 percent of
the heroin seized by Customs and Bor-
der Protection is interdicted along the
southwest border of the United States
at and between the ports of entry, and
Mexico continues to be the primary
supplier of heroin to the United States.
Fact: The Department of Homeland
Security reports a 73 percent surge in
the deadly synthetic opioid fentanyl
interdicted at the southern border over
the last 2 years.
Fact: Over 72,000 Americans died of
an opioid overdose last year.
Fact: In my home State of Kentucky,
we suffer from the fifth highest opioid
overdose rate in America.
Fact: The administration’s request to
Congress is not funding for a sea-to-sea
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.008 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H610 January 16, 2019
concrete wall, as some falsely claim. It
is a commonsense request for a sophis-
ticated border wall system, including
strategically placed 30-foot steel bar-
riers, technology, lights, cameras, sen-
sors, and other infrastructure.
Fact: Currently, there are 700 miles
of physical barriers on our southern
border, a measure 90 Democrats, in-
cluding Barack Obama, Joe Biden, Hil-
lary Clinton, DIANNE FEINSTEIN, and
CHUCK SCHUMER supported in 2006.
Speaker PELOSI, it is interesting you
claim walls are ‘‘immoral,’’ when many
of the leading voices in your party
have a previous record of supporting
physical barriers on our southern bor-
der. Do you consider them immoral?
Fact: Border walls work. The Depart-
ment of Homeland Security reports
that, where a wall was built, illegal
crossings have dropped by 90 percent or
more. For example, apprehensions of il-
legal aliens crossing the border in El
Paso, Texas, dropped 72 percent in 1
year and 95 percent over 22 years. And
veteran Chief Border Patrol Agent Glo-
ria Chavez, a Hispanic American, not a
political appointee, a career profes-
sional with the Border Patrol agency,
has said that the newly constructed
border wall in her El Centro Sector of
California has already reduced illegal
border crossings.
Speaker PELOSI, you are entitled to
your own opinion, but you are not enti-
tled to your own facts. I certainly
agree with my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle who say we must end this
government shutdown and pay our Fed-
eral employees. It is wrong that these
workers are missing paychecks, espe-
cially essential government workers
who are required to work.
b 1045
After all, many of these people are
corrections officers, air traffic control-
lers, Federal court personnel, and Bor-
der Patrol agents. These are the very
people who are charged with the re-
sponsibility of keeping the American
people safe. That is why I cosponsor
the No Work Without Pay Act, which
would require us to pay these essential
Federal workers during the pendency
of a shutdown.
But as important as it is that we
timely fund these patriotic Americans’
paychecks, it is equally important, and
perhaps more important, that we fund
their mission. So by all means, we
must end this government shutdown,
but that objective won’t happen when
the Speaker of the House refuses to ac-
cept basic, irrefutable facts. It won’t
happen until both parties sit down and
offer a proposal, and a compromise, and
a counterproposal, something that the
Speaker of the House refuses to do.
So my other friends on the other side
of the aisle, many of them who I know
are equally committed to protecting
the American people, to Speaker
PELOSI, and Senator SCHUMER: Stop the
partisan games. Do your job. Protect
the American people from drugs and
criminals. End this shutdown, and fund
commonsense border security.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
f
SHUTDOWN STORIES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
New Hampshire (Ms. KUSTER) for 5
minutes.
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire. Mr.
Speaker, I rise to call for an immediate
end to President Trump’s irresponsible
and unnecessary government shutdown
which has now entered its 26th day.
People in my home State of New
Hampshire and across this country are
suffering and they are put at risk be-
cause of this manufactured crisis.
One woman wrote into my office:
‘‘My two girls and I count on the auto
deposit from their dad. If this goes on,
we will not be able to buy food, pay
bills, or buy gasoline.’’
Another constituent wrote: ‘‘We are
not okay with a shutdown for a wall or
for any other reason. We are not pawns
on a chessboard.’’
The wife of a Coast Guard member
spoke of the sacrifices that their fam-
ily has already made for this country.
And now they are facing the uncer-
tainty of even being able to pay their
mortgage.
We take an oath to protect and de-
fend this country. Safety is our number
one job. And, yet, air traffic control-
lers, TSA agents, DEA agents, and
even, ironically, Border Patrol agents
are not receiving their pay, and our
safety is at risk.
One of the most heart-wrenching sto-
ries that I have heard is that domestic
violence shelters in New Hampshire
and across this country are cutting
services to women and children whose
lives are at risk. These stories go on
and on.
Who in our society are truly being
hurt by President Trump’s shutdown:
women and children; seniors; and vet-
erans, whose health, safety, and well-
being are put at risk by his intran-
sigence.
Here in the House we have voted re-
peatedly to reopen the government and
the Senate should follow suit. I urge
the President to end this shutdown so
we can focus on the hard work that is
expected of us by the American people.
Democrats and Republicans in this
Congress agree that we need com-
prehensive immigration reform and
21st century border security.
Now is the time to reopen the gov-
ernment so that we can work together
in good faith to advance meaningful
legislation that will strengthen and
protect our country. Mr. MCCONNELL
and President Trump, do your job.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are again reminded to address
their remarks to the Chair.
f
RECOGNIZING THE SERVICE OF
NORVAL REECE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, on
Monday we recognize Martin Luther
King Day and we celebrate his legacy
of civil rights and his promotion of op-
portunity for all.
Today, I am proud to recognize an in-
dividual from Bucks County, Pennsyl-
vania, who has spent his life and career
dedicated to the advancement of equal-
ity.
Norval Reece of Yardley remembers
witnessing Dr. King’s ‘‘I Have a
Dream’’ speech and marching with him
on the third march from Selma to
Montgomery. He worked closely with
Dr. King to enact change and in 1967
spent several hours with Dr. King in
Philadelphia.
Norval credits his devotion to civil
rights activism to his Quaker faith. He
served in India with the American
Friends Service Committee, and later
continued to work on their behalf upon
his return home. He later became a
successful businessman, building his
own media company that helped bring
cable television to then-Communist
Poland.
Mr. Speaker, Norval’s life and dedica-
tion to the service of others is truly in-
spiring, and we thank him, his wife,
and their sons, Tim and Stockton, for
their service to their community and
our country.
RECOGNIZING THE FOOD CENTER AT THE
MORRISVILLE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise to recognize a faith community in
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, that is
going the extra mile to minimize the
negative impact felt by Federal work-
ers and their families during this pro-
longed government shutdown.
Last Friday, an estimated 800,000
Federal employees missed their pay-
checks. Understanding the undue hard-
ship these Federal employees are fac-
ing, the Food Center at the Morrisville
Presbyterian Church stepped up to the
plate, opening their door to furloughed
Federal workers and their families
with the opportunity to receive food.
Mr. Speaker, I am truly blessed to
represent such thoughtful and compas-
sionate constituents.
As I did in this same exact spot yes-
terday, I urge my colleagues to put
aside their differences and reopen our
government. Our inaction is putting
Federal workers in an untenable posi-
tion.
We would like to extend our heartfelt
thank you to the Reverend Rachel
Rhodes and all the staff and volunteers
at the Food Center at Morrisville Pres-
byterian Church for their work. Each
and every one of them makes our com-
munity a special place.
STALKING AWARENESS MONTH
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker,
January is Stalking Awareness Month,
and I rise today to bring attention to
the critical need for action to empower
survivors and protect victims of this
crime.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.010 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H611
January 16, 2019
Yesterday, I proudly joined my friend
and colleague Representative STEPH-
ANIE MURPHY from Florida along with
Pennsylvania Senators PAT TOOMEY
and BOB CASEY to reintroduce the Com-
bat Online Predators Act.
This bill would increase criminal
penalties for the stalking of children
and help ensure law enforcement offi-
cials evaluate and update practices to
combat online stalking of children.
Mr. Speaker, there are few things
more sinister than preying on innocent
children. Millions of Americans, in-
cluding the most vulnerable among us,
are harmed each year by stalkers. Here
in Congress, we must work in a bipar-
tisan manner to eliminate the digital
footprint of predators to protect the
kids in our communities and in our Na-
tion.
I am deeply grateful for the support
and advocacy of the Zezzo family of
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, who
serve as an inspiration for this piece of
legislation, the Combat Online Preda-
tors Act, and for survivors everywhere.
Mr. Speaker, I pledge to work with
all of my colleagues, Democrat and Re-
publican alike, to advance this legisla-
tion and other solutions to stop stalk-
ing in all of its forms.
f
DEMOCRATS AND REPUBLICANS
MUST COME TOGETHER TO RE-
OPEN THE GOVERNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
New Jersey (Mr. MALINOWSKI) for 5
minutes.
Mr. MALINOWSKI. Mr. Speaker, I
rise as a freshman who came here to
get things done on the 26th day of the
longest government shutdown in Amer-
ican history.
For 26 days, we have had to explain
to 800,000 dedicated, patriotic Ameri-
cans why we will not pay them for
their service to our country, even as
they must keep paying for their rent,
their medicine and their kids’ edu-
cations.
For 26 days, we have had to explain
why small business owners can’t get
loans; why food safety inspections are
suspended; why lines are growing and
terminals are being shut down at our
airports; why we are willing to jeop-
ardize the safety of air travelers; why
we can’t protect our National Parks
from desecration; and why, if securing
our country is so important, we aren’t
paying the Coast Guard, and Customs
and Border Protection officers whose
job it is to secure it.
In the last few days, I have been
hearing from college students in my
district who have until February 1 to
apply for financial aid, but they can’t
access their tax transcripts from the
IRS.
Mr. Speaker, I ask: Why are we doing
this to ourselves? The President says it
is because of border security. But if we
are honest, we know that that is not
what this is about. If getting $5.7 bil-
lion for a border wall is important
enough to inflict this much suffering
on Americans, why didn’t the Presi-
dent pick this fight in the 2 years when
his party controlled both Houses of the
Congress?
Why is he doing this now? I think we
know the answer. I fear that for the
President the chaos is sometimes not a
means to an end, but an end in itself.
He doesn’t want a wall, he wants a
fight over the wall; not a compromise
to open the government, but a conflict
that dismantles the government. And
that raises the stakes for all of us.
For this is not about how we secure
the border, as important as that is to
all of us. It is about how we govern our
country. We have a chance now to say,
once and for all, Presidents are entitled
to try to persuade us to support their
priorities, but if they fail to persuade
us, they are not entitled to shut the
government down to get their way.
None of us, not Democrats or Repub-
licans, are entitled to hold hostage the
basic functions of our government to
force our will on others. And if we give
into this tactic now, it will be used
again, and again, and again. We will
have chaos in our government for as
far as the eye can see.
So how do we solve this problem? We
will not solve it by abdicating our re-
sponsibility in the Congress and wait-
ing for the President to agree on some-
thing. If we wait for that, we will be
waiting forever.
We will not solve it by encouraging
him to use emergency powers or to use
our military to defy the Congress. That
would tear another hole in our con-
stitutional fabric.
We will solve it when the House and
the Senate Democrats and Republicans
come together to say: This is not how
we do business in a democracy.
Mr. Speaker, instead of enabling this
abdication of responsibility by the
White House, let us rise to our respon-
sibility in the Congress. Let us work
together to reopen the government by
passing the same bills we were all will-
ing to vote for across party lines last
year, and then let’s sit down together
as adults to talk about immigration
and the border as part of the debate
about funding the Department of
Homeland Security when both sides
can put their ideas on the table and
find common ground.
If we do that, we will not only ad-
dress border security, we will break
this pernicious practice of taking the
American people hostage when we
don’t get our way.
We can make this the shutdown to
end all shutdowns.
f
LIFE BEGINS AT CONCEPTION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Kansas (Mr. MARSHALL) for 5 minutes.
Mr. MARSHALL. Mr. Speaker, I grew
up in a small town in Kansas, and per-
haps the most respected person in the
city was our family physician, Dr. Nor-
man Oberholtzer.
Dr. Oberholtzer delivered my brother,
my sister, and, of course, me. He saved
my life. He had saved many people’s
lives. By the time I was in 9th grade, I
knew I wanted to be a physician just
like Dr. Oberholtzer. I worked hard and
with the support of my family and
friends was able to get into medical
school, and by the time I was a second-
year resident, I was supposed to decide
what type of physician was I going to
be.
Go back to February of 1987, and we
had our first baby, a little girl named
Lauren. And the second she was born,
the moment I heard her first cry, I
said: This is what I want to do. I want
to deliver babies the rest of my life.
So as an obstetrician for the next 30
years, every day I got to see 10, 20, 40,
sometimes 50 pregnant women. It was a
great experience and there were some
very special visits that I really looked
forward to with those moms. Their
first visit for a first-time mom was al-
ways a special moment.
The moms came in. They had a twin-
kle in their eyes and they may have
been throwing up for 3 or 4 or 5 days al-
ready, but there was still a sparkle in
their eye and excitement.
b 1100
Sometimes I would get to do a
sonogram at that first visit. Believe it
or not, about a month after conception,
Mr. Speaker, you can see a baby’s
heartbeat. They would come back at
about 12 weeks for their next visit. By
then, their nausea was improving, and
we could hear a baby’s heartbeat on
the Doppler for the first time.
They came back again at about 18
weeks, and I would ask them: Do you
feel the baby move yet?
Again, the mom’s eyes would sparkle
that they are feeling that baby move. I
would notice when I would touch the
mom and when I would touch the baby,
the baby would push back. If there was
maybe a brother or a sister in the
room, if that brother or sister spoke, I
could feel the baby move, and I could
actually hear the heart rate increase of
that little baby inside that mom.
Then, of course, later on, the favorite
moment of my entire life was always
getting to hear that first cry of that
newborn and give that baby to a proud
mom and dad.
So those are great, great times.
Mr. Speaker, I am often asked when
I think life begins. I hope you can re-
late from the stories I just shared that
I don’t have any other choice but to be-
lieve that life begins at conception and
that those babies are people, and they
deserve our respect and our protection.
Mr. Speaker, this week, we will be
welcoming 200,000 people to Wash-
ington, D.C., for the March for Life.
I especially salute some students who
are coming from Beloit, Kansas, and
Concordia, Kansas. Like many stu-
dents, they will be riding a bus for 24
hours. I am so proud of them, and I
look forward to seeing them. I appre-
ciate their efforts to put their words
into actions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.012 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H612 January 16, 2019
Mr. Speaker, as a doctor for over 25
years, I have delivered thousands of ba-
bies. I certainly understand the respon-
sibility I have as a Member of Congress
to protect the life of the unborn. In the
last 2 years, this House, thanks to a
Republican majority, has passed count-
less bills to limit abortion, end tax-
payer-subsidized abortion, and prohibit
abortions of unborn babies over 20
weeks. Unfortunately, these bills never
made it to the President’s desk.
Today, the United States is one of
seven countries in the world that al-
lows babies old enough to feel pain and
survive outside the womb to be torn
limb from limb. This list of seven in-
cludes China, North Korea, Singapore,
Vietnam, and a list of other human
rights offenders that our Nation, this
country, should not be proud to be part
of.
Each year, more than 600,000 abor-
tions are performed across this coun-
try, costing our country precious lives.
The fact is, only one in seven Ameri-
cans support legal-under-all-cir-
cumstances Roe v. Wade, and still,
Congress refuses to act.
Over the course of my first term, I
made it a top priority to fight for those
who can’t fight for themselves, and I
will continue to do so. Abortions are an
injustice to the unborn and are a com-
plete disregard for life. Congress should
prevent taxpayer money from ever
being funneled into immoral organiza-
tions like Planned Parenthood and fi-
nally put an end to abortion. I will
unapologetically stand with the chil-
dren, with these babies, who do not
have a voice of their own to fight.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF DIONNE
PHILLIPS BAGSBY
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. VEASEY) for 5 minutes.
Mr. VEASEY. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of my dear
friend, Dionne Phillips Bagsby.
Dionne was a very strong leader in
the Fort Worth community. She served
as a role model to so many people, in-
cluding myself, and she really was driv-
en by her work to desegregate the Fort
Worth schools when she first came to
Fort Worth. That really spurred her to
run for the county commissioner’s seat
in precinct one in 1988.
When she ran, she became the first
woman and the first African American
to become a Tarrant County commis-
sioner. She did a tremendous job for
Tarrant County and the city of Fort
Worth.
Throughout her 16-year tenure,
Dionne fought to improve public edu-
cation and increase access to health re-
sources for women and children. Her
former precinct administrator, who is
now the county commissioner, Roy
Charles Brooks, said it best when he
said that Dionne was not a politician,
she was a public servant.
In 2005, I was proud to be a part of
the Texas Legislature and honor her
for a lifetime of service.
Again, she was a mentor and
mentored so many young women
throughout Fort Worth who sought to
replicate her success. She helped them
aspire to careers that would challenge
the norm. She always encouraged those
young women to never give up. Dionne
broke barriers for the African Amer-
ican community, for women, for the
disadvantaged, for the disabled, and for
so many others, including myself.
Mr. Speaker, I will tell you and will
be honest with you, if you ever met
Dionne, you will know that she was
very much into straight talk. She did
not mince words, and she always cut
right to the chase. But I will also tell
you, as I mentioned before, that
Dionne was a tremendous mentor.
When I was elected to the State Leg-
islature in 2004, Dionne was the first
person to call me up, and we went and
had lunch. When I got married later,
she called my wife and me up, and we
went and had lunch with her. When I
came to Congress and was elected in
2012, she was one of the first people to
call me up, and she; Lorraine Miller,
who was a former Clerk of the House
here; my wife; and I all went and had
dinner. She was more than happy to
dispense good advice that was very,
very helpful to me.
Mr. Speaker, Dionne was also very
instrumental in bringing a lot of firsts
to Fort Worth. I mentioned her work
with the schools, her being the first
Black and first woman on the county
commissioners court. But her legacy
still lives today through The Links.
She was one of the legacy members of
The Links in Fort Worth. The Greater
Fort Worth Area Negro Business and
Professional Women’s Club, she got a
national charter for that venerable or-
ganization and had the first meeting in
her living room in southeast Fort
Worth.
Mr. Speaker, if you ever went to any
of Dionne’s receptions while she was
still in office between that 1988 and 2005
time period, you will know that one of
the things that she liked to do was give
shout-outs. She gave shout-outs to ev-
erybody from people in her family to
the person who was her trainer.
I am going to give a shout-out to
some of her family members and spe-
cial friends today—and everybody back
home, please forgive me if I have left
out anyone—her daughter, Dionne
Anne Jones; her son, Jimmy Bagsby;
her husband who preceded her in death
who was also on the Fort Worth City
Council, Jim Bagsby; her grand-
children, Kirbe, Josiah, Kelli, and Eli-
jah; and her brother, Paul Phillips.
She had so many friends whom she
would like to give shout-outs to, in-
cluding one who preceded her in death,
Dr. Erma Johnson Hadley, her dear
friend; Norma Roby; Bob Sanders;
Jesse Gaines; again, Lorraine Miller;
Gwendolyn Morrison; Viney Chandler;
and, again, County Commissioner Roy
Charles Brooks, who was also someone
Dionne mentored and who was her pre-
cinct administrator before he became
county commissioner. He also was a
very, very dear friend.
We lost a giant in Fort Worth by los-
ing Dionne. She will be missed because
she was a friend to so many and always
had so many colorful, wonderful, and
humorous things to say. But I can tell
you that our city is better off and our
county is better off because Dionne
Bagsby moved to Fort Worth with her
husband and helped make it a better
place for everybody.
f
MARCH FOR LIFE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER) for 5 minutes.
Mrs. WAGNER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to stand with the hundreds of
thousands of Americans who are trav-
eling to Washington for the 46th an-
nual March for Life.
Fighting for the rights of the most
vulnerable Americans has been my
most precious responsibility since long
before I was elected to Congress. Most
notably, I can remember marching to
defend our unborn children when I was
pregnant with my son Stephen in Janu-
ary of 1990. Last year, I was proud to
march just days after my first grand-
daughter, Isabella Marie, was born.
This Friday, the day of the March, we
will celebrate Isabella’s first birthday.
Again and again, I am reminded that
life is beautiful, that children are a
blessing, and that we must do all we
can to support our Nation’s mothers.
Though now we have a divided Con-
gress, there is still so much we can do
to lift up women and children. This
month, my colleagues and I called on
President Trump to veto any legisla-
tion that weakens Federal policies
against abortion.
We are fortunate that the adminis-
tration is taking action to protect life.
The President has reinstated President
Reagan’s title 10 protect life rule, so
that our tax dollars don’t fund abor-
tion providers like Planned Parenthood
and others. This is widely popular pol-
icy.
In fact, Mr. Speaker, new public poll-
ing shows that millennials prefer that
their tax dollars go to federally quali-
fied health centers rather than abor-
tion providers like Planned Parenthood
by a 3–1 margin. Only 7 percent of
millennials share the position of the
Democratic Party platform that abor-
tion should be available without any
exceptions and funded by your tax dol-
lars.
The administration is heeding the
concerns of the American people. Just
last month, the National Institutes of
Health announced it will fund up to $20
million to find alternatives to using
human fetal tissue in research projects.
The U.S. Government should end all
contracts that use baby body parts. We
must preserve the integrity in sci-
entific research by protecting pregnant
women and their children.
This month, I am introducing two
bills to defend life. The first is the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.014 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H613
January 16, 2019
Born Alive Act, which will require all
healthcare providers to give babies who
survive abortions the same level of
care as other newborns and to ensure
that they are immediately admitted to
a hospital. The illegal fetal tissue traf-
ficking industry profits most from
abortions that increase the likelihood
of a live birth. Congress must provide
born-alive infants with lifesaving care,
not exploit, kill, and sell them to the
highest bidder.
I am also introducing the Prenatal
Nondiscrimination Act, or PRENDA,
which will prohibit sex-selection abor-
tions or forcing a woman to obtain a
sex-selection abortion. The sad truth is
that victims of sex-selected abortions
are overwhelmingly female. It is esti-
mated that 117 million girls are demo-
graphically missing from around the
world due to sex-selection abortions,
infanticide, and other forms of gender-
based violence.
Girls are targeted for abortions not
only in countries like China and India,
but right here in the United States.
These abortions victimize both mother
and daughter and have no place in a
just society.
Mr. Speaker, there is so much bipar-
tisan work we can do to protect Amer-
ica’s mothers and babies, and I hope we
can act together to serve and protect
all God’s children.
I thank all of those who will march
for life this week. I stand with them,
and I will continue to fight and pray
for the day when abortion is not only
illegal but is unthinkable.
f
RECOGNIZING SAM JOHNSON FOR
DECADES OF SERVICE TO
UNITED STATES
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Texas (Mr. TAYLOR) for 5 minutes.
Mr. TAYLOR. Mr. Speaker, I am hon-
ored to stand here today as the Rep-
resentative for Texas’ Third Congres-
sional District. This district was first
represented by William Thomas Clark,
a general in the Union Army in 1870.
Since then, 19 people have represented
the district, including myself. Most re-
cently, a true American hero, Con-
gressman Sam Johnson, represented
the Third District in the Congress for
28 years.
Prior to that, Congressman Johnson
was in the U.S. Air Force. As I like to
say, he shot down his first MiG in
Korea. He served a ground tour in Viet-
nam, and in his second tour of Viet-
nam, on his 46th mission, he was flying
his jet over an enemy gun position
when his gun jammed. He did a circle
around. He flew a second time, and
that time, he was shot down. He then
went to the Hanoi Hilton. There, he
survived pernicious beatings and tor-
ture.
But, Mr. Speaker, do you know what?
Despite the tremendous pressure that
he was under, Sam Johnson was unique
among the prisoners of the Hanoi Hil-
ton in that he never broke; he never
gave in; and he never wavered in his
patriotism, his faith in God, his cour-
age, his sacrifices, and his commitment
to this country.
America is eternally grateful for his
service.
After he got back from the Hanoi Hil-
ton, he came back to his beloved Shir-
ley and his children back in Texas. He
was in the Air Force for a while, and
then he went into business.
But he wanted to continue to serve.
In 1984, he ran for the Texas House of
Representatives, and he was elected in
the Third District in a special election
in 1991.
Here in the United States Congress,
he served for 28 years. He served on the
Ways and Means Committee and con-
tinued to be an icon of virtue, a par-
agon of service, and a man whose shoes
I can never truly fill but in whose foot-
steps I resolve to try to walk in.
f
RIGHT TO LIFE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Arkansas (Mr. WESTERMAN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to talk about a fundamental
human right, a right declared to be an
inalienable right by our Founders who
proclaimed we are all created equal
and have the God-given right to live—
to live freely and to pursue happiness.
Our Founding Fathers carefully ar-
ticulated that life, liberty, and the pur-
suit of happiness are the human rights
that encompass the American way and
are the logical foundation for freedom.
b 1115
Unfortunately, it seems that Planned
Parenthood has a logic problem. The
CEO of Planned Parenthood tweeted
just last week that the organization’s
‘‘core mission is providing, protecting,
and expanding access to abortion and
reproductive healthcare.’’ And she
called the procedure of an abortion a
‘‘fundamental human right.’’
Mr. Speaker, abortion is not a human
right. Abortion, to the contrary, is
death. Abortion is the antithesis of
life, the fundamental human right.
For years, we have been fed the same
argument that Planned Parenthood op-
erates to ensure women’s health and
prenatal care, but straight from their
CEO, we know this is not the truth.
Planned Parenthood’s mission is abor-
tion. Planned Parenthood’s mission is
death, and their actions prove it.
Planned Parenthood ended the funda-
mental right to life through 321,384
abortions in 2016. That is 881 abortive
deaths per day. This means that every
98 seconds a life was extinguished by
Planned Parenthood.
The CEO said in the same tweet that
the organization ‘‘will never back down
from that fight’’ to not only expand ac-
cess to abortion but to deem it a
human right.
Mr. Speaker, as freedom-loving
Americans, we must stand on our core
principles that all are created equal,
and we cannot back down from the
fight to preserve life and to protect
those who can’t protect themselves.
I look forward to continuing work to
ensure that our taxpayer dollars do not
fund death and abortion, a procedure
that denies the right to live and con-
tradicts the core founding principles of
our freedom and our Nation.
f
IN SUPPORT OF LIFE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Wisconsin (Mr. GROTHMAN) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to support life.
Mr. Speaker, 46 years ago when I was
a senior in high school, it was decided
by the U.S. Supreme Court, or the U.S.
Supreme Court felt, that the United
States Constitution required abortion
be legal in this country, despite the
fact that, for much of the past century,
every State in the Union felt that abor-
tion should be made illegal. This deci-
sion directly led to the deaths of over
40 million children who should have
been living a full life.
John Adams said that our Constitu-
tion was meant for moral and religious
people. How can a country built for a
moral, religious people living under
our Constitution allow this to happen?
We know how it happened. About 10
years ago, Justice Ruth Bader Gins-
burg let the cat out of the bag. This de-
cision was meant to prevent the
growth in populations we don’t want to
have too many of, the progressives’
dream.
But how did the progressives get
their dream? Some politicians some-
times talk about science and say we
don’t take into account science enough
around here.
It is interesting that, in 1973 when
this decision was reached, we didn’t
have ultrasounds. Now, with
ultrasounds, it is more apparent than
ever that every new baby in that womb
is a unique individual, with its heart
beating, with its feeling pain. Never-
theless, we continue to ignore that
science and continue to allow this hor-
rible stain on our culture.
Indeed, right now, the United States
is one of only seven countries to allow
late-term abortions. There we are, in
the same list as North Korea, China,
and Vietnam. I guess you can kind of
look back and see why, in the sixties,
the progressives would talk about Ho,
Ho, Ho Chi Minh and why they wanted
the Communists to win in Vietnam.
This is probably one of the reasons, the
type of country that they like.
Our forefathers wanted this country
to be a country that would shed a light
on the world. Nevertheless, we appear
to be going backwards. The new major-
ity recently brought a bill to the floor
to allow the United States to pay for
abortions abroad again.
Is this what we want America to be
known for: the United States telling
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:45 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.015 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H614 January 16, 2019
countries all around the world that
abortion should be legal and the gov-
ernment should be paying for abortion?
What a stain on the moral record of the
United States of America.
This is the week of the March for
Life. I would like to thank all the peo-
ple from the State of Wisconsin who
are there and come here diligently
every year, hoping the people in this
city, both the justices and the politi-
cians, realize that this murder of al-
most a million people a year must end.
I would like to thank them and hope
that this is the last year that we have
to continue this debate and that, fi-
nally, by this year, this time, we one
more time think that life is precious
and our government will not continue
to allow the premature snuffing out of
life.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 11 o’clock and 21
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
f
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. DEGETTE) at noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Thank You, O Lord, for giving us an-
other day.
We call upon You this day to be with
our Nation during these difficult times.
Thousands are without work, services
are diminishing, futures are increas-
ingly precarious.
May Your spirit impel those who are
empowered to do so to bring resolution
to the current shutdown. In such a con-
tentious time, may humility be mani-
fest in the exchange of opposing posi-
tions, that all might find relief, and
those charged with serving to secure
our safe travel and our borders can be
properly compensated in a timely fash-
ion.
Lord, have mercy on us.
May everything we do be for Your
greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Indiana (Mr. BANKS)
come forward and lead the House in the
Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. BANKS led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Ms. JOHNSON of Texas asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas. Madam
Speaker, today marks the 26th day of
President Trump’s irresponsible and
destructive government shutdown. Not
only has the shutdown resulted in hun-
dreds of thousands of Americans being
put on furlough, but it has also in-
flicted long-term damage to our Na-
tion’s research and development enter-
prise.
During my 26 years on the Science
Committee, I have witnessed the con-
sequences of our Federal science and
technology agencies being forced to
shut their doors; namely, science suf-
fers and U.S. innovation falters. We fall
behind and fail to compete globally as
our competitors strengthen their own
investments in R&D.
Researchers who rely on regular
funding from now-closed agencies are
struggling to keep their projects afloat
as they miss important deadlines and
have crucial gaps in data. We are see-
ing contractors that work in coordina-
tion with the Federal Government
being furloughed, with no promise of
back pay when the President’s temper
tantrum is finally over.
We hope to get back on course. If we
want to remain a global leader in inno-
vation, we must end this shutdown.
f
REMEMBERING MOFFATT BURRISS
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, South Carolinians are
celebrating the life and achievements
of Moffatt Burriss, Sr., who passed
away last week at the age of 99.
He should always be remembered for
his valiant service in the Army, liber-
ating Europe during World War II. This
was chronicled in his autobiography,
‘‘Strike and Hold.’’ His heroism led to
the capture of the Nijmegen bridge in
the Netherlands. It is the basis of the
movie, ‘‘A Bridge Too Far.’’
Upon his return, he established an
extraordinary family, business success,
and, as the first State house caucus
leader, was a pioneer in developing the
modern Republican majority in South
Carolina.
My wife, Roxanne, and I offer our
deepest sympathy to the Burriss fam-
ily.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th in the global war on terrorism.
f
DISASTER RELIEF AMENDMENT
(Mr. HARDER of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute and to revise
and extend his remarks.)
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Speaker, today, I rise on behalf of the
communities affected by the dev-
astating wildfires in northern Cali-
fornia.
These past few months have been a
trying time for our community. Entire
towns were destroyed, crops were
burned, and thousands of families were
left with nowhere to call home. My rel-
atives’ home was completely destroyed
in the Paradise fire.
In my district, we had to wear masks
because of the terrible air quality.
Farmers throughout our region took a
huge hit with missing livestock and
crops ruined by thick ash.
Today, I am proud to lead a bipar-
tisan amendment bringing $1.9 billion
in relief to our farmers for crop and
livestock losses during the fire. This is
incredibly important to my district,
and it is just the start in helping our
communities rebuild. It is also a per-
fect example of how we can put party
labels aside, actually work together,
and do what we were sent here to do:
help people.
I know a lot of people in my district
are frustrated we can’t even work to-
gether to keep our government open. I
am frustrated, too. Let this be an ex-
ample and a sign that, out of tragic
loss, we can remember what actually
unites us.
f
BORDER SECURITY
(Mr. WILLIAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WILLIAMS. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to call attention to the cri-
sis on the southern border. I stand with
the President and my colleagues in the
House and Senate in their calls for se-
curing our southern border.
As the former secretary of state of
Texas, I was the chief liaison for the
Texas Border and Mexican Affairs. My
experience in that role taught me that
our border was vulnerable, and, sadly,
that remains true today.
While I was Texas’ secretary of state
and now as the representative for
Texas’ 25th District, I am encouraged
by all that our Border Patrol and Fed-
eral law enforcement agents do to pro-
tect this great Nation. However, I am
disappointed that my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have abandoned
reason and asked these patriots to do
more with less.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.017 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H615
January 16, 2019
The Federal Government should pro-
vide all resources necessary to secure
our border, not make it more vulner-
able. Our agents need more boots on
the ground, more advanced technology,
and, ultimately, a barrier to keep those
who may not want to do the right
thing out.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle to come
back to the table, negotiate in good
faith, reopen our government, and pro-
tect the sovereignty of the United
States of America.
In God We Trust.
f
PAYING TRIBUTE TO OUR COAST
GUARD
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
today I pay tribute to our Coast Guard.
One of my favorite sayings in life is,
if you want to talk the talk, you have
to walk the walk.
Politicians like to talk, we like to
give speeches, yet we talk about our
Coast Guard, how noble they are, how
brave they are, how they stand up for
us, these strong men and women, but,
currently, our Coast Guard men and
women are suffering and are without
pay.
It is also true for our FAA and our
Federal corrections officers.
I ask everyone to support my bills,
H.R. 350 and H.R. 419, so that they can
get paid.
Whether Democrat or Republican,
our duty as Americans is to treat these
men and women who serve our great
Nation with decency and with honor
and respect, and may God always bless
them.
f
REMEMBERING MEL
STOTTLEMYRE, SR.
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker,
Mel Stottlemyre is a household name
for baseball fans across the country,
but to us in central Washington, he is
a hometown hero.
Hailing from the small town of
Mabton in the Yakima Valley, Mel’s
career skyrocketed to the heights of
becoming a star pitcher for the New
York Yankees and one of the most im-
pressive pitching coaches in all of base-
ball.
Mel shared his passion for baseball
with all of those around him, from his
sons, who followed in their father’s
footsteps to pitch in the major leagues,
to the young players he coached at
baseball camps in Yakima and in
Ellensburg.
Throughout his career, he pitched for
five All-Star teams. He went on to se-
cure five World Series rings as a pitch-
ing coach before returning to his home
State to coach for the Seattle Mari-
ners.
Mel passed away on January 13 after
a long battle with cancer, but his spir-
it, perseverance, and compassion will
not be forgotten.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in celebrating Mel
Stottlemyre and the legacy he leaves.
My prayers go out for his wife, Jean,
and his sons, Mel, Jr., and Todd, at this
difficult time.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Mr. LUJÁN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LUJÁN. Madam Speaker, New
Mexicans are working tirelessly to pro-
vide for their families. They do not
have the luxury of ignoring their bills
until the President figures out what it
takes to run a government.
President Trump clearly does not un-
derstand the anxiety that comes from
choosing between a mortgage payment
and gas in the tank or not being able to
pay your bills at the end of the month.
I have heard from many in my dis-
trict who are hurting because of the
Trump shutdown, constituents like An-
drea. Her family became a one-income
household after her 4-year-old son was
diagnosed with autism spectrum dis-
order and epilepsy.
Her husband is a furloughed USDA
employee. Because of her son’s medical
needs, their family has already been
living paycheck to paycheck, and the
shutdown immediately put them into
survival mode.
The shutdown must end. Democrats
have put multiple bipartisan plans on
the table to open the government.
Madam Speaker, I implore MITCH
MCCONNELL to let the Senate vote to
end this shutdown for the hundreds of
thousands of families being hurt, fami-
lies just like Andrea’s.
f
MARCH FOR LIFE
(Mr. BANKS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise
today because I believe there is a pur-
pose and a God-given right to every
life.
It has been nearly 46 years since the
tragic Supreme Court decision of Roe
v. Wade, a decision that has denied the
inalienable right to life to over 61 mil-
lion innocent children.
While we mourn the loss of millions
of innocent lives, we reflect on the
work left to be done. We gather to-
gether this week for the March for Life
to celebrate the progress of the last 2
years. From the continuation of Presi-
dent Trump’s expanded Mexico City
policy to the landmark Protect Life
Rule, the pro-life movement is making
major strides promoting a culture of
life in America.
Friday, I will march alongside hun-
dreds of thousands of Americans from
all corners of this country in honor of
those who never had a chance to march
for themselves, but leading the march
will be students from Bishop Dwenger
High School in my district in Fort
Wayne, Indiana, who will be joining us
there that day. I can’t wait to join
them tomorrow as they carry out this
honor on The National Mall, and I ask
my colleagues to join me as we reaf-
firm the sacred nature of all life.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Ms. FRANKEL asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. FRANKEL. Madam Speaker, I
stand with millions of Americans who
say it is time to end this irresponsible
and cruel Trump shutdown.
In Florida, where our borders are sur-
rounded by water, we rely on men and
women like Coast Guard Petty Officer
Seth to keep us safe. Now, like 800,000
other government workers, our Coast
Guard is not getting paid, and that
leaves Officer Seth and his wife, Beth,
and their two sons at home worried
about money for food, for diapers, for
paying their mortgage, for getting
their gas.
Now, lawmakers, we can debate
about what is needed for a secure bor-
der, but innocent people who show up
to work every day to serve the public
should not be held hostage by the polit-
ical whim of a President.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Mrs. WAGNER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, we
were sent to Congress to lead, but this
partial government shutdown is not
leadership. It speaks to a bigger prob-
lem in Washington: the reluctance to
reach across the aisle and serve in the
best interests of our constituents.
Playing political games should not
take precedence over securing our bor-
der and keeping Americans safe, but it
seems to me that is exactly what is
happening right now.
I call on my colleagues on both sides
of the aisle to come to the table so we
can find a solution to this partial gov-
ernment shutdown and make sure Fed-
eral workers get paid for the work they
are doing and the work they have done.
This inability to come together on
commonsense border security funding
has gone on too long and affected too
many Americans. We must put par-
tisanship aside, secure our border, and
reopen this government.
f
b 1215
REOPEN GOVERNMENT
(Ms. ESCOBAR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker,
today, on the 26th day of the Trump
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.020 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H616 January 16, 2019
shutdown, I rise on behalf of Lauren,
an El Pasoan in my district on the
U.S.-Mexico border.
Lauren is married to one of our DEA
agents, and he is one of nearly 10,000
Federal employees in El Paso. Every
day, her husband puts his life on the
line to serve El Pasoans and our Na-
tion, and, last week, he missed his pay-
check.
Lauren describes the shutdown as
discouraging and scary. They are
struggling to make ends meet for their
family of three small children.
Lauren and her family, and the hun-
dreds of thousands of Federal employ-
ees in America, should not have to face
this dire reality and don’t deserve this
treatment.
We must reopen the government now
and give our public servants the pay
they have earned for their honorable
work.
And I will repeat what I know to be
true: The border has never been more
secure or safer.
Madam Speaker, we, in the House,
have voted on a number of bipartisan
bills to reopen the government. I urge
my colleagues in the Senate to come
together, end this absurdity, have some
compassion, and do the same.
f
MARCH FOR LIFE
(Mr. ARRINGTON asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. ARRINGTON. Madam Speaker,
America is great because America is
good. But I ask the question: What is
good about terminating the God-given,
sacred life of unborn Americans?
Madam Speaker, on Friday, thou-
sands of students, pastors, priests, and
patriotic Americans from all across our
great land will gather here in our Na-
tion’s Capital to take part in the 46th
annual March for Life.
Madam Speaker, written into the
Declaration of Independence is our
founding faith and principle that all
are created by God, created equally,
endowed by a creator, created as a gift,
created as an American, to have the
right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.
However, since Roe v. Wade, we have
fallen short of that national ethic by
not acknowledging that life at every
stage is precious, valuable, sacred, and
ought to be protected.
Madam Speaker, this March for Life
is a call to conscience, and it is a chal-
lenge for all of us to work toward a fu-
ture where every life, born and unborn,
is celebrated, cherished, and protected.
May God continue to bless those who
are marching for their passion and
their love for the unborn, and may God
continue to bless these United States.
f
REOPEN GOVERNMENT
(Ms. CASTOR of Florida asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend her remarks.)
Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Madam
Speaker, the House will vote again
today to reopen the United States Gov-
ernment and end President Trump’s
government shutdown.
It is unwarranted and wrong to force
our Coast Guard, TSA, Customs and
Border officers, air traffic controllers,
and others to work without pay.
One of my neighbors who runs a
small business in Tampa in her retire-
ment years to support her son with
mental disabilities advised me that: As
a tax preparer, I cannot get responses
from the IRS that affect my clients.
Another neighbor, who hoped to re-
tire by year’s end and is also running
out of hope, says: We are told there is
no more funding after January 18 for
the courts, and our colleagues in the
U.S. Attorney’s Office were not paid
today, although they stay on the job
prosecuting criminals.
Our TSA officers, Customs and Bor-
der officers, and air traffic controllers
at Tampa International Airport are
outstanding. Twelve-year Officer Luis
Mendoza advised me that: I have expe-
rienced previous shutdowns and close
calls, but I really feel that this one is
going to be a tough one to get through.
The officers in Tampa are trying to
hang in there because we do believe in
the oath we took to protect the flying
public and guard against threats. But
many are trying to figure out how to
get through this.
Madam Speaker, I urge our Senate
colleagues and President Trump to
take up our bipartisan bill and reopen
this government.
f
MARCH FOR LIFE
(Mr. RUTHERFORD asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker,
I rise today to recognize the 46th an-
nual March for Life.
In Congress, I believe I have the re-
sponsibility to support life beginning
at conception, which is why I voted
last Congress to defend life and defund
Planned Parenthood. However, I am
disheartened this legislative body con-
tinues to funnel taxpayer money to the
abortion industry.
The often repeated talking point that
Planned Parenthood exists as a wom-
an’s health organization has now been
refuted by its very own president. She
had this to say about Planned Parent-
hood: ‘‘Our core mission is providing,
protecting, and expanding access to
abortion and reproductive healthcare.’’
Madam Speaker, I am a proud co-
sponsor of the Defund Planned Parent-
hood Act, which reroutes Federal dol-
lars to community health centers,
where women can still get the care
they need while protecting the sanctity
of life. An organization whose core mis-
sion has taken the lives of 61 million
unborn children should not be receiv-
ing taxpayer funds.
BE OUTRAGED
(Mrs. KIRKPATRICK asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute and to revise and extend
her remarks.)
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK. Madam Speak-
er, I stand here today on behalf of
southern Arizonans and all our Federal
employees. I stand here as their public
servant because I work for them. They
have called, sent letters, and shown up
in our offices, pleading for action. They
are scared, and not because of immi-
gration. They are scared they can’t pay
rent, and they are scared they might
not be able to feed their children.
To our constituents at home, I am
sorry, but be outraged.
It is outrageous that John from
southern Arizona, a Customs and Bor-
der Patrol agent, is furloughed and
worried about how he is going to keep
the lights on.
It is outrageous that Cochise County
Community College students, many of
whom are veterans, are worried they
may not receive their financial aid.
It is outrageous that over 900,000 Ari-
zona participants in SNAP, 72 percent
of them with children, are in jeopardy
of losing their nutrition assistance.
Madam Speaker, the majority in this
House has publicly stated our willing-
ness to work with the President. We
must reopen government. Be outraged,
because I sure am.
f
DISASTER RELIEF AND RECOVERY
FUNDING
(Ms. GABBARD asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Ms. GABBARD. Madam Speaker, 2018
was a tough year for so many Ameri-
cans. We had families and farmers and
people all across California whose
homes were destroyed, people who lost
their lives, lost their farms, lost their
businesses. In other parts of the coun-
try, there were storms and hurricanes
that similarly devastated commu-
nities.
My home State of Hawaii was one of
them. We were battered by natural dis-
asters of all types last year on nearly
all of our islands, from major flooding
and landslides on Kauai and Oahu in
April, an erupting volcano throughout
May and June, and flooding and
wildfires on multiple islands in August.
But, time and again, in Hawaii and
across the country, people have proved
their resilience and strength, living
aloha, taking care of each other, even
when they have lost everything.
Today, we are voting to pass funding
that is sorely needed by communities
like mine, where people are still strug-
gling to get back on their feet with
limited resources.
This bill provides funding for things
like crop insurance, reconstructing fa-
cilities, water infrastructure projects,
crisis counseling, rebuilding homes,
small businesses, and more.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to pass this necessary funding
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:37 Jan 16, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.023 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H617
January 16, 2019
bill and provide a helping hand to those
whose lives will never be the same be-
cause of these disasters.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Mrs. DAVIS of California asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Madam
Speaker, this Trump shutdown is forc-
ing servicemembers and retirees to go
without pay.
Yes, our President is withholding
Coast Guard pay because of his reck-
less demands. Who does that?
A constituent wrote to me: As a
Coast Guard retiree, I am facing no pay
during the shutdown. It is outrageous
that, after 26 years of service, I face fi-
nancial troubles due to my country not
facing its obligations.
I agree. This is unacceptable for
those who served our country, and it is
unacceptable for those currently serv-
ing and not getting paid.
Can’t we agree that supporting the
Coast Guard is better than having a
stalemate on a political issue?
We must take action to help our
servicemembers and hardworking gov-
ernment employees, and our whole
economy, which is being hurt even
more than we thought.
Madam Speaker, how can the Presi-
dent think it is a good idea for national
security to not pay those who protect
us?
f
NO WAY TO RUN A COUNTRY
(Mrs. LEE of Nevada asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Madam Speak-
er, on behalf of the people of Nevada’s
Third District, I rise today to say it is
time to end the shutdown.
This weekend, I had the opportunity
to meet with Federal workers in my
district who are dealing with the very
real consequences of this unnecessary
shutdown.
One employee is now driving for
Uber. Another one has been forced to
sign up for food stamps at the age of 51.
A high-tech employer in Nevada who
employs Federal contractors is dealing
with his third Federal Government
shutdown in 12 months. His highly
skilled employees are sick and tired of
the uncertainty and missed paychecks.
If this shutdown persists, he will lose
employees, which will not only hurt his
company, but our overall economy as
well.
Madam Speaker, this is no way to
run a country. The government should
never be shut down over a single pol-
icy, any policy.
f
END THE GOVERNMENT
SHUTDOWN
(Ms. DEAN asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. DEAN. Madam Speaker, a con-
cerned constituent recently sent me
this hand-written letter about Presi-
dent Trump’s shutdown:
‘‘As an air traffic controller . . . I
want you to know how the partial gov-
ernment shutdown is affecting me. For
the last 2 weeks, we have remained on
the job, dedicated to the safety of
every flight. But we don’t know when
we will receive our next paycheck. . . .
‘‘I was putting my 7-year-old daugh-
ter to bed and I could tell something
was bothering her. She had heard my
wife and I . . . worrying about our next
mortgage payment and the credit card
bills. . . . My daughter looked me in
the eye and told me she was scared and
what would happen if we couldn’t pay
for our home and our bills.
‘‘I have been teaching her the value
of commitment and responsibility. I
have showed her that by hard work and
excellence you can make a good life for
. . . your family. . . . My daughter
should not have to worry about bills
when we have valuable jobs and are
doing our work.
‘‘Please, Representative DEAN, help
me teach my daughter about commit-
ment and responsibility and help end
the government shutdown.’’
f
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT LAWSUIT
(Mr. LEVIN of Michigan asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Speaker, while Republican attempts to
repeal the Affordable Care Act went
down in flames, their Texas v. United
States lawsuit seeks to subvert the will
of the American people and take our
healthcare away.
In December, a judge ruled in favor of
Republicans, issuing a decision that
would strike down the entire ACA. If
that ruling stands, every American will
lose vital protections, like those for
people with preexisting conditions.
I have cosponsored Congressman
COLIN ALLRED’s H. Res. 14, which au-
thorizes the House to intervene in this
case and defend the law of the land, be-
cause my family and I, like so many
others, are no strangers to the costs of
preexisting conditions.
Madam Speaker, I am a two-time
cancer survivor. Two of my four kids
have Crohn’s disease, and they have
been living with it for 14 years. Bills
upward of $10,000 are not unusual in my
household.
Despite all this, I consider us lucky.
Why? Because, thanks to the ACA, my
sons and I cannot be turned away or
charged more because of our medical
histories. All of that will change if Re-
publicans and President Trump got
their way.
Madam Speaker, I thank my friend
from Texas, Congressman ALLRED, for
introducing this important resolution.
b 1230
REOPEN THE GOVERNMENT
(Mr. JEFFRIES asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, this
is day 26 of the reckless Trump shut-
down. Coast Guard officers and their
families are suffering; Border Patrol
agents and their families are suffering;
TSA agents and their families are suf-
fering because the President has de-
cided to hold 800,000 Federal employees
and the American people hostage.
We are prepared to have a conversa-
tion about infrastructure on the bor-
der, prepared to have a conversation
about personnel, and prepared to have
a conversation about technology. We
are prepared to have a conversation
about border security in a comprehen-
sive way; prepared to have a conversa-
tion about our broken immigration
system and how we fix it in a bipar-
tisan fashion.
But, Madam Speaker, we are not pre-
pared to have a conversation about
these issues in the midst of a reckless
shutdown where the President has de-
cided to hold the American people hos-
tage and try to force us to pay a $5 bil-
lion-plus ransom note.
Madam Speaker, it is time for the
adults in the room to get their act to-
gether and reopen the government so
we can continue the business of the
American people.
f
ELECTING MEMBERS TO A CER-
TAIN STANDING COMMITTEE OF
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTA-
TIVES
Mr. JEFFRIES. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Democratic Caucus, I
offer a privileged resolution and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 46
Resolved, That the following named Mem-
bers be, and are hereby, elected to the fol-
lowing standing committee of the House of
Representatives:
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY: Ms. Lofgren,
Ms. Jackson Lee, Mr. Cohen, Mr. Johnson of
Georgia, Mr. Deutch, Ms. Bass, Mr. Rich-
mond, Mr. Jeffries, Mr. Cicilline, Mr.
Swalwell of California, Mr. Ted Lieu of Cali-
fornia, Mr. Raskin, Ms. Jayapal, Mrs.
Demings, Mr. Correa, Ms. Scanlon, Ms. Gar-
cia of Texas, Mr. Neguse, Mrs. McBath, Mr.
Stanton, Ms. Dean, Ms. Mucarsel-Powell, and
Ms. Escobar.
Mr. JEFFRIES (during the reading).
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the resolution be considered
as read and printed in the RECORD.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
The resolution was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:45 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.024 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H618 January 16, 2019
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 268, SUPPLEMENTAL AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019, AND
WAIVING A REQUIREMENT OF
CLAUSE 6(a) OF RULE XIII WITH
RESPECT TO CONSIDERATION OF
CERTAIN RESOLUTIONS RE-
PORTED FROM THE COMMITTEE
ON RULES
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, by di-
rection of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 43 and ask for
its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 43
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 268) making
supplemental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for other
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall
be dispensed with. All points of order against
consideration of the bill are waived. General
debate shall be confined to the bill and shall
not exceed one hour equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking minority
member of the Committee on Appropriations
or their respective designees. After general
debate the bill shall be considered for
amendment under the five-minute rule. An
amendment in the nature of a substitute
consisting of the text of Rules Committee
Print 116-2, modified by the amendment
printed in part A of the report of the Com-
mittee on Rules accompanying this resolu-
tion, shall be considered as adopted in the
House and in the Committee of the Whole.
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as
the original bill for the purpose of further
amendment under the five-minute rule and
shall be considered as read. All points of
order against provisions in the bill, as
amended, are waived. Clause 2(e) of rule XXI
shall not apply during consideration of the
bill. No further amendment to the bill, as
amended, shall be in order except those
printed in part B of the report of the Com-
mittee on Rules. Each such further amend-
ment may be offered only in the order print-
ed in the report, may be offered only by a
Member designated in the report, shall be
considered as read, shall be debatable for the
time specified in the report equally divided
and controlled by the proponent and an op-
ponent, shall not be subject to amendment,
and shall not be subject to a demand for divi-
sion of the question in the House or in the
Committee of the Whole. All points of order
against such further amendments are
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of
the bill for amendment the Committee shall
rise and report the bill, as amended, to the
House with such further amendments as may
have been adopted. The previous question
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as
amended, and any further amendment there-
to to final passage without intervening mo-
tion except one motion to recommit with or
without instructions.
SEC. 2. The requirement of clause 6(a) of
rule XIII for a two-thirds vote to consider a
report from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House is
waived with respect to any resolution re-
ported through the legislative day of Janu-
ary 23, 2019, relating to a measure making or
continuing appropriations for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2019.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Maryland is recognized
for 1 hour.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE),
pending which I yield myself such time
as I may consume. During consider-
ation of this resolution, all time yield-
ed is for the purpose of debate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may be given 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, on
Tuesday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 43,
providing for consideration of H.R. 268,
making supplemental appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes.
The rule provides for consideration of
the legislation under a structured rule.
The rule makes in order 15 amend-
ments from Members on both sides of
the aisle. The rule provides for 1 hour
of debate equally divided and con-
trolled by the chair and ranking mem-
ber of the Appropriations Committee.
The rule also waives the requirement
for two-thirds vote to consider a report
from the Committee on Rules on the
same day it is presented to the House
with respect to any resolution reported
through the legislative day of January
23, relating to a measure making or
continuing appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019.
Madam Speaker, I rise now in sup-
port of the rule for H.R. 268, our emer-
gency disaster relief bill, to provide
$12.14 billion in recovery and relief as-
sistance for millions of Americans suf-
fering from the damage caused by re-
cent hurricanes, typhoons, mudslides,
flooding, earthquakes, and wildfires.
These national disasters follow dec-
ades of scientific warnings to Congress
that accelerating climate change
would bring us extreme weather events
characterized by unprecedented feroc-
ity and violence, and here we are in the
middle of the global crisis of climate
change dealing with profound natural
catastrophes like these.
Last year, Hurricane Michael, the
most intense hurricane ever to strike
the Florida panhandle brought winds
surpassing 125 miles per hour and gusts
of up to 200 miles per hour, killing 45
people who were crushed and drowned
by the hurricane, and inflicting $40 bil-
lion in economic damages, and $5 bil-
lion in insured losses.
In 2018, the people of California, who
have lost 10 million acres of forest in
the last decade to wildfires, experi-
enced the deadliest and most destruc-
tive wildfire season in recorded history
with more than 8,500 fires burning an
area of 1,893,913 acres, the largest area
of burned acreage ever recorded in a
fire season in the United States of
America.
An astonishing 7,100 structures
burned to the ground. In July and Au-
gust, it seemed like the entire State
was ablaze with the worst damage tak-
ing place in northern California which
was declared a disaster area. Millions
of people in San Francisco and the bay
area were forced to wear gas masks to
go to school or to go to work.
In November, yet another round of
wildfires visited massive destruction of
life, limb, and property on the people of
California. One fire, the so-called Camp
fire, displaced tens of thousands of peo-
ple and killed at least 86 men, women,
and children, burning many of them to
death in their cars or as they sought
refuge and tried to flee from their cars
and run down the road.
The fire, which lasted many days, an-
nihilated more than 18,000 structures
and buildings and destroyed the entire
town of Paradise, turning it into an in-
ferno, a hell on Earth. This was in our
country.
The same kinds of astonishing events
that destroyed entire communities in
Florida and in California were experi-
enced by people all over America last
year: hurricane devastation in Puerto
Rico, Texas, and the Carolinas; unprec-
edented flooding and drought all over
America; and typhoons in the terri-
tories, a catalogue of climate-change
intensified misery and suffering that
the entire Congress should see as call-
ing upon the decency and resources of
the American people to address.
The $12 billion legislation the major-
ity brings forward today in H.R. 268
will ensure that communities across
the land can recover from these disas-
ters with the resources that they need
to rebuild.
The bill helps farmers suffering from
crop and livestock losses, coastal com-
munities rebuilding their infrastruc-
ture and preparing to weather future
storms; dislocated workers, veterans,
students, and other Americans dis-
placed and uprooted by these catas-
trophes.
The bill invests in restoration of dis-
aster-damaged forests. It sends aids to
local communities to restore more
than 250,000 acres of watershed. It funds
restoration of rural communities. It of-
fers $600 million to continue disaster
nutrition benefits to the hard-hit peo-
ple of Puerto Rico, still reeling from
Hurricane Maria, and it allocates crit-
ical funding for social services, mental
health, education, nutrition assistance,
and infrastructure resiliency in com-
munities across the land.
We will rebuild our transportation
systems with this legislation. We will
repair housing. We will repair busi-
nesses and public infrastructure. We
will repair and reconstruct hurricane-
damaged Veterans Administration and
Department of Defense bases and facili-
ties across the country.
But the majority is not stopping
there. We are not just offering aid to
States and local communities across
the land to rebuild and renew. We are
reopening the Government of the
United States so we can actually send
this aid, so we can offer the expert
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:45 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.027 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H619
January 16, 2019
technical assistance these commu-
nities need, and so we can use the full
apparatus of our government, including
the currently closed down Department
of Homeland Security and the Coast
Guard where our hardworking per-
sonnel are not being paid, to get Amer-
ica moving again.
The National Governors Association,
a bipartisan group of Governors from
the 50 States called for an immediate
reopening of the government that will
allow for the release of $85 billion in
Federal aid and loan assistance that is
being held up because a third of the
government has been shut down. That
is the Governors of our States, the peo-
ple closest to surveying the damage on
the ground.
Indeed, by reopening the Government
of the United States of America, we are
not just helping to address the disas-
ters that have befallen our people
across the country; we are ending the
manmade disaster of the government
shutdown.
And when I say it is manmade, I
don’t mean to use archaic sexist lan-
guage, Madam Speaker. I am trying to
be precise. This is the shutdown that
one man, President Donald Trump,
gave us and proudly claimed as his own
in the December 11 White House meet-
ing when he said, ‘‘I am proud to shut
down the government, Chuck. I will
take the mantle. I will be the one to
shut it down,’’ said the President of the
United States. ‘‘I’m not going to blame
you for it.’’
So far this shutdown that the Presi-
dent is proud to have delivered to his
people has closed nine Federal depart-
ments: Department of State, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, Department of
the Interior, Department of Commerce,
Department of Justice, Department of
Homeland Security, Department of the
Treasury, HUD, and Department of
Transportation.
It has caused 800,000 Federal workers
to be furloughed or compelled to work
with no pay at all. It has threatened
public safety in national parks which
are overflowing with garbage and
backed up waste in the bathrooms. It
has threatened the tax refunds of mil-
lions of Americans. It has threatened
38 million low-income Americans who
depend on SNAP benefits for proper nu-
trition for their families, and it has un-
leashed profound chaos and anxiety in
the land.
In my congressional district, tens of
thousands of Federal workers have
been denied pay; air traffic controllers,
Coast Guard personnel, NIH research-
ers, scientists at NOAA. I have heard
from scientists at the FDA who have
been furloughed and prevented from
working on the prevention and con-
tainment of E. coli, salmonella, and in-
sect infestation of our food supply.
I have spoken to an Army veteran
who has spent the rest of his career
after leaving the Army as an air traffic
controller who now must raid his own
retirement plan and his daughter’s 529
college plan with a 10 percent penalty
in order to pay his mortgage.
I have spoken to several constituents
who have been forced to pay their
mortgages with credit cards or loans
from other family members, and I have
talked to constituents who have been
forced to forego medical treatments be-
cause they can’t balance their check-
books, when they are ordered to work
but receive a pay stub like many have
emailed to me, showing zero net pay,
zero gross pay.
Hundreds of thousands of people who
work for private contractors and small
businesses working with the govern-
ment across America have been injured
as well; many furloughed, laid off, or
fired with no real promise of making
their money back, unlike the Federal
workers who at least, I hope, should be
getting their money back because of
legislation that the majority has
brought forward.
But the 172,000 Federal workers in my
State are losing $778 million every 2
weeks, and the State has already lost
more than $60 million in taxes.
The economic reverberations are
awful, and they are spreading.
b 1245
Now, this shutdown is a brutal as-
sault on the separation of powers and
the Constitution of the United States:
It does not form a more perfect
Union. It does not establish justice. It
shuts the Justice Department down.
It does not ensure domestic tran-
quility. It defunds the Department of
Homeland Security.
It does not provide for the common
defense, but it robs our Coast Guard
personnel of their paychecks.
It does not promote the general wel-
fare, but it furloughs food inspectors.
It cheats civil servants out of their
salaries; it promotes tax fraud by lock-
ing IRS agents out of their offices; and
it idles environmental scientists, dip-
lomats, air traffic controllers, and TSA
agents who are calling in sick because
they can’t even afford to get to work
now.
This policy is not in service of ‘‘we,
the people,’’ and that is why every pub-
lic opinion poll shows the American
people overwhelmingly rejecting the
Trump shutdown, this scandalous as-
sault on the public good.
In America, we don’t hold the gov-
ernment or the workforce or the people
hostage over a policy dispute. That is
an absolute betrayal of the separation
of powers and how government is sup-
posed to work in the United States of
America.
Now, my good friends across the aisle
should be confronting the shutdown
with us. We are asking them to join us
in getting the emergency aid to our
people all across the land and in re-
opening the government.
I know it wasn’t their idea, Madam
Speaker. I know they were backed into
this situation by President Trump and
FOX News and Ann Coulter, whom the
President apparently saw on TV and
then changed his mind and decided to
shut the government down.
But now, I am afraid that our friends
across the aisle have become enablers
of the President, and now they own a
piece of the shutdown. The party of
Abraham Lincoln, who saved the Union
with malice for none and charity for
all, has become the party of Donald
Trump, who shut down the government
with charity for none and malice for
all.
Let’s put an end to it right now,
Madam Speaker. In the age of climate
change, we have no time left for these
foolish and self-destructive games. We
must act as first responders for the
American people.
Our new majority in the House of
Representatives is up to the task. We
are ready to govern. We are ready to
lead. Let’s help our people recover from
the natural disasters which have been
exacerbated by climate change, and
let’s end the manmade disaster of the
shutdown of our own government right
now.
Americans know the truth of this sit-
uation. Let’s act together to end the
Trump shutdown, which the American
people rightfully despise and deplore.
Let’s put the government back to work
for the general welfare, starting with
the millions of Americans still buffeted
by the terrifying weather calamities of
2018.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I thank
the gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
RASKIN), my good friend, for yielding
the customary 30 minutes, and I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I want to begin by
congratulating my friend on his recent
appointment to the Rules Committee,
where we have already had the oppor-
tunity to interact with one another.
And I want to again congratulate him
for bringing his first rule to the floor
as well. I know we are going to have a
good relationship in the next couple of
years as we work together.
Madam Speaker, we are back here in
appropriations; only this time, the ma-
jority has taken what was an impor-
tant, likely bipartisan disaster relief
appropriations bill and turned it into a
partisan football.
Last night, the Committee on Rules
was scheduled to meet on a $12.1 billion
supplemental appropriations bill. At
the last minute, the majority chose to
make in order and self-execute an
amendment that would tack on an ad-
ditional measure, a continuing resolu-
tion to fund the government through
February 8.
I don’t know if I can fully convey
how disappointed I am that the major-
ity is seeking to play politics with this
important issue and use an otherwise
noncontroversial disaster appropria-
tions bill as a vehicle to pass a con-
troversial spending bill that is going
absolutely nowhere.
Last year, the Nation faced a wide
variety of disasters, from wildfires in
the West to hurricanes that hit Puerto
Rico and the Virgin Islands and the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:08 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.028 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H620 January 16, 2019
Southeastern United States, and the
volcanoes in Hawaii.
When disaster strikes, we have an ob-
ligation to help each other. I don’t
think there is a single Member of the
House who would disagree with that
fundamental principle.
Before the Rules Committee acted
last night, we were on our way to a bi-
partisan bill that fulfilled that prin-
ciple. But today, we are considering a
partisan bill that will not resolve the
shutdown, and it holds up crucial aid
for disaster victims.
To that end, Madam Speaker, I have
to say that the original version of the
bill was actually very good. It took
roughly what the House had passed at
the end of the last Congress and added
to it.
In December, we passed a bill that
provided $7.38 billion in disaster relief.
The original bill up today would pro-
vide $12.1 billion in disaster relief, with
additional money going mostly to in-
crease existing accounts and to provide
nutrition assistance to Puerto Rico.
Frankly, I was prepared to be fully sup-
portive of that measure.
Moreover, I was especially pleased
that the majority took the steps to-
ward an open process. They issued a
call for amendments, considered them,
and made some very good amendments
in order.
I want to commend Chairman
MCGOVERN for taking these steps and
giving Members on both sides of the
aisle an opportunity to present the
case for their amendments to the Rules
Committee and, in many cases, to the
full House.
But instead of moving forward on a
joint disaster relief bill, the majority
decided at the last minute to turn this
noncontroversial piece of legislation
into a controversial one by attaching a
self-executing manager’s amendment
which adds a continuing resolution to
fund the government through February
8.
Madam Speaker, I want to be clear. I
want to end the government shutdown
as well. I have said countless times on
this floor and elsewhere that the pri-
mary responsibility of legislators is to
fund the government and keep it open.
Our constituents deserve no less than
the full amount of government services
we have promised them.
At the end of December, I voted in
favor of a bill that would have done ex-
actly that. It would have funded the
government through February 8. It
would have funded disaster relief, and
it would have provided funding for bor-
der security. A majority of the Senate
favored that bill, and the President had
said he would sign it. Unfortunately,
the Democratic minority in the Senate
blocked consideration of the bill, a bill
that could have stopped this shutdown
before it ever happened.
This, now, is the fourth proposal by
my friends across the aisle to reopen
the government. Tomorrow, we will be
likely considering a fifth proposal. Un-
fortunately, each of these items has in
common the same flaws.
The Senate made it clear that it will
not take up any spending bill that the
President cannot sign, and the Presi-
dent has made it clear that he will not
sign any bill that does not address bor-
der security. Yet my friends across the
aisle continue to put forward measure
after measure that simply do not pro-
vide funding for border security.
Today, the majority is seeking to
one-up itself. They have taken a dis-
aster relief bill to provide funding for
victims of hurricanes, wildfires, and
volcanoes, and they are attaching to it
the same funding bill the House pre-
viously passed. The House may have
passed it, but the Senate won’t, and the
President won’t sign it.
Why, then, does the majority insist
on using disaster victims as leverage to
avoid addressing border security?
Madam Speaker, I want to reopen the
government. I want us to provide for
disaster victims, and I want us to pro-
vide for border security. We can accom-
plish all three of these things. The
House can do all three of these things.
In fact, the House has done all three of
these things as recently as December.
Why the majority only wants to ac-
complish one of those and wants to do
so by using disaster victims as leverage
is beyond me.
I know my friends think they can
force the Senate and the President to
bend to their will, but they cannot, and
they will not. In divided government,
negotiation and compromise are indis-
pensable in governing. So far, my
friends have engaged in neither.
Madam Speaker, today, we should be
happy to provide needed relief to dis-
aster victims. Instead, we are here on
the fourth proposal from the majority
on government funding and a fourth
proposal that does not address funda-
mental problems, does not negotiate
with the majority, and does not put
forward a bill that can become law.
To quote the baseball legend and phi-
losopher Yogi Berra, ‘‘it’s deja vu all
over again.’’
So I would suggest my friends go to
the bargaining table with the United
States Senate and with the President
of the United States and see if they can
actually work with the other bodies
and help us come to some resolution,
the differences between the two.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
the rule, and I reserve the balance of
my time
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I thank the distin-
guished gentleman from Oklahoma
(Mr. COLE), my friend, for his very
thoughtful words and that kind wel-
come to the Rules Committee.
I have heard nothing but wonderful
things about how he operates on the
Rules Committee, and we are indeed
fortunate to have him serving in this
capacity. I really do look forward to
working with him in the months and
years ahead.
And I admit that it has been a some-
what awkward process trying to reopen
the government of the United States.
This shutdown is unique for at least
two reasons I can think of. One is it is
already the longest shutdown in the
history of the United States; and the
second is that, when the shutdown
began last year under the 115th Con-
gress, it was the only time that the
Congress adjourned during a shutdown.
So rather than stay and try to work
it out, we were adjourned before recess,
and the Congress went home, so it was
left in the hands of the new majority
and the new 116th Congress to try to
get it going again, which is why, yes, it
is the absolute first order of business
for us to open up the Government of
the United States.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from Florida (Ms.
SHALALA), who is also a new and a dis-
tinguished member of the Rules Com-
mittee.
Ms. SHALALA. Madam Speaker, by
providing more than $12 billion in dis-
aster relief to various Federal depart-
ments and agencies, we can ensure that
communities have the resources and
funds that they need to rebuild. H.R.
268 confirms our commitment to com-
munities like my district and my State
that are often hardest hit by natural
disasters.
This rule funds crucial infrastructure
projects that will better equip our hur-
ricane centers in tracking, predicting,
and forecasting large storms. It in-
creases nutrition assistance programs,
including $600 million for Puerto Rico.
In addition, over $1 billion will be
available to cover crop losses in many
parts of the country.
But critical to implementing this bill
is an amendment to reopen the govern-
ment. Without the government open,
Federal agencies, States, and commu-
nities are having difficulty accessing
disaster aid. Anyone who cares about
disaster relief should be voting for this
bill, which will end the shutdown, open
the government, and help people across
this country who have been victims of
national disasters.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the distinguished gen-
tleman from the State of Washington
(Mr. NEWHOUSE), my good friend and
former member of the Rules Com-
mittee.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Madam Speaker, I
thank my friend from Oklahoma for
yielding some time.
Madam Speaker, today I regretfully
rise in opposition to this rule. The base
text of the legislation before us is vi-
tally important. I will admit that. It
demonstrates bipartisan—in fact, I
would say, really, nonpartisan—efforts
negotiated over months between both
sides of the aisle to provide desperately
needed resources to communities rav-
aged by hurricanes, typhoons,
wildfires, and other disasters in 2018.
But, unfortunately, Madam Speaker,
as is becoming all too familiar under
Democratic control of the people’s
House, Democrats are now pulling po-
litical stunts, jeopardizing these vital
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:08 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.030 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H621
January 16, 2019
resources from reaching communities
who need them the most.
Last night, Democrats on the House
Rules Committee stuck a continuing
resolution into this appropriations
package, thereby sealing the fate that
it will not be taken up by the Senate
nor signed into law by the President.
Madam Speaker, I find it shameful
that House Democrats are playing par-
tisan politics with disaster relief. It is
so unfortunate and shameful that
Chairman MCGOVERN and Rules Com-
mittee Democrats are jeopardizing
these funds from reaching the areas
that so desperately need them.
Communities pummeled by hurri-
canes in the Southeast, families dev-
astated by wildfires across the West,
territories struck by typhoons in the
Pacific will now have to face the fact
that help is not on the way.
Madam Speaker, when I learned that
the Rules Committee was going to be
considering this disaster relief package
and allowing amendments on the legis-
lation, I, frankly, was looking forward
to coming to the House floor to com-
mend Chairman MCGOVERN for allow-
ing a vigorous process with amendment
consideration.
b 1300
Unfortunately, they chose to play
politics with disaster aid, and not only
is it disappointing, Madam Speaker,
but it is wrong.
Vote no on this rule. Let us send a
message to communities devastated by
disasters that we will not play politics
with the resources they so desperately
need to rebuild.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Washington
State for his comments. I would urge
him to stick with his original instinct
to support the legislation.
He said that he finds lots of impor-
tant stuff in it, aiding the victims of
hurricanes and earthquakes and floods
and so on. All of that is absolutely
right. That is why we are voting for it.
We urge him to vote for it, too.
He says that we are playing politics
in a shameful way, that we are engaged
in partisan politics, by adding a meas-
ure to reopen the Government of the
United States that will allow us to get
aid to all of these people and to allow
all our workers to be paid.
What I consider shameful is holding
the Government of the United States of
America, the Federal workforce, pri-
vate contractors, and the people hos-
tage over a policy debate.
We have never seen anything like
this before, and now it is the longest
shutdown in history.
So let’s reopen the government. And
we are willing to debate anything you
want, but we can’t do it in a hostage-
taking, ransom-type situation.
Since when did opening the Govern-
ment of the United States become a
poison pill? I just don’t see that.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Texas (Ms.
ESCOBAR).
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Speaker, I
thank Congressman RASKIN for yield-
ing.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the rule for H.R. 268, the Dis-
aster Supplemental Appropriations Act
of 2019.
This bill would provide over $12 bil-
lion in necessary funds to help affected
communities recover from natural dis-
asters, including Puerto Rico, the Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands, and farmers who lost crops due
to Hurricanes Michael and Florence.
I would like to thank my colleagues
for introducing the underlying bill and
for making in order an amendment to
prevent these funds from being used to
plan, develop, or construct a new bor-
der barrier.
Sadly, this amendment is necessary
because this administration wants to
divert critical disaster aid meant for
other projects to go toward border wall
construction.
The reality is that our country needs
help recovering from some of the great-
est natural disasters we have seen in
our lifetimes. Puerto Rico is still re-
covering from the devastating after-
math of Hurricane Maria, a storm that
claimed the lives of nearly 3,000 people.
I am glad to see that the underlying
text provides $600 million in disaster
nutrition assistance to the island
where over 3 million U.S. citizens re-
side.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support this measure, the
underlying text, and this important
amendment. Let’s hold this adminis-
tration accountable and ensure they do
not deceive the American people by
pulling a bait-and-switch.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. MEUSER), my good friend
and a new member of this body.
Mr. MEUSER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Oklahoma
(Mr. COLE) for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to voice
the frustration of the residents of my
district in Pennsylvania.
Two weeks after the start of the
116th Congress, the Democrat leader-
ship in the House continues to refuse
to come to the table, negotiate a com-
promise, secure our borders, and put an
end to the shutdown.
I have been hearing every day from
hundreds of people in my district: do
our jobs, secure the border, put par-
tisanship aside, and get things done.
Reopen the government, yes, and build
a barrier securing the most vulnerable
parts of our southern border and put an
end to this humanitarian and national
security crisis.
It is in our hands. This is what the
people want, and this is what they ex-
pect. Instead, Democrat leadership ap-
pears to be treating this like a game,
like we have taken an important
issue—disaster relief for tragedy-
stricken parts of our country—and
poisoned it with partisanship.
This is a messaging bill that makes
for good talking points on TV, but does
nothing to make our country safer or
end the shutdown. Let’s negotiate and
do what the people expect of us.
We were sent here to serve the peo-
ple, not our political ambitions. It is
long past time we start doing it.
Madam Speaker, I urge a no vote on
the rule and on the underlying bill, and
I thank the gentleman from Oklahoma
for yielding me the time.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, the
first thing I am afraid I need to point
out is that certain of our friends on the
other side of the aisle are experiencing
a kind of a political speech impediment
where they are unable to correctly pro-
nounce the name of our party. We are
the Democratic Party, not the Demo-
crat Party.
I was reading a biography of Frank-
lin D. Roosevelt recently called ‘‘Trai-
tor to His Class,’’ which was very inter-
esting. He said:
If you don’t want to call us the Democratic
Party, call us the democracy.
So those would be the two choices
that would be the most suitable, at
least from our side of the aisle.
The second thing I want to point out
is this is a clean continuing resolution.
We have not loaded it up with a bunch
of partisan sweeteners or ideological
‘‘gotcha’’ resolutions.
This is a clean continuing resolution
to get disaster assistance to our people,
the people of the United States, and it
opens up our government to make that
assistance possible so we can end the
manmade disaster of the shutdown.
So I think that it well suits those
who are saying they both want to get
the aid to Americans and they want
the government of the United States to
be reopened.
Madam Speaker, I yield 1 minute to
the gentlewoman from Nevada (Mrs.
LEE).
Mrs. LEE of Nevada. Madam Speak-
er, I thank the gentleman for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in sup-
port of the rule and the underlying bill.
I am proud to help these communities
recover and families rebuild their lives
after the devastating effects of extreme
weather.
But this bill is also a reminder of the
cost of ignoring climate change. As the
planet continues to warm because of
manmade causes, more and more com-
munities are at risk of extreme weath-
er.
In my home State of Nevada, Lake
Mead is 50 percent as large as it was in
the year 2000. As the water level con-
tinues to fall, water prices will con-
tinue to rise for families across south-
ern Nevada.
According to the GAO, climate
change has already cost taxpayers over
$350 billion over the past decade.
We must take concrete steps to curb
climate change. The costs—both
human and financial—are already too
high.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support the rule and the un-
derlying bill.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:08 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.032 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H622 January 16, 2019
(Mr. RUTHERFORD), my very good friend
and former law enforcement profes-
sional and sheriff.
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker,
I rise today in opposition to the polit-
ical ultimatum that has now poisoned
this bill.
I had anticipated originally that I
would support Chairwoman LOWEY’s
proposal to provide disaster relief to
American families who were struggling
to rebuild from these recent disasters,
like Hurricane Michael that tore up my
State of Florida. However, last night,
the majority slipped into this bill an-
other short-term continuing resolution
that they know will hold this bill back
from ever becoming law.
Instead of doing the right thing and
passing a clean disaster relief bill, the
other side of the aisle continues to play
games in an effort to resist the Presi-
dent’s call for border security with
Mexico.
The Senate and the President have
made it clear that government funding
bills brought to the floor without bor-
der security will not be signed into
law.
It is time to accept the reality of the
situation that we find ourselves in.
Compromise is the only path forward.
But the other side of the aisle seems
content to blame the President while
punishing victims of natural disasters,
including those in the Speaker’s own
home State of California, who des-
perately need this relief as they re-
cover from devastating wildfires. At-
tempting to score political points at
the expense of innocent disaster vic-
tims is despicable and no way to legis-
late.
This bill before us today could have
provided much-needed relief for Florida
families recovering from Hurricane Mi-
chael. And it is not just families who
will suffer; it is also the Florida farm-
ers, and many Americans who rely on
them, who had their crops devastated
by this storm.
It is 26 days into the shutdown, and
we are still playing these games.
Madam Speaker, if you are serious
about providing disaster relief to
Americans, bring a clean supplemental
funding bill to the floor. Stop playing
these games with constituents in the
northeast and the Panhandle of Flor-
ida.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I continue to be baffled about why
some of my colleagues think that open-
ing the Government of the United
States—our government—is a poison
pill and something they can’t support.
Look how far we have fallen, Madam
Speaker. We are voting for billions of
dollars in aid to the people of Florida,
and the people of Texas and California
and Puerto Rico, so we can deal with
the mounting natural crises and emer-
gencies around the country. We need to
open the government to do it, and
there are those who say that is too
high a price. They want to get the aid
to the people, but it is too high a price
to reopen our own government.
We can’t find an example of another
democratic country where the chief ex-
ecutive has shut down his own govern-
ment the way that President Trump
has done in this case.
We know that he expresses a lot of
admiration for Vladimir Putin in Rus-
sia and for Orban in Hungary and for
Duterte in the Philippines and the
Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, who re-
cently ordered out for the assassina-
tion of a journalist for The Washington
Post.
Those are his friends. Those are the
people he looks up to. So maybe he
thinks this is a normal way of doing
business.
Well, it is not in the United States of
America. Let them close the govern-
ment in Russia. Let them send the
workforce in Hungary home. Let them
put the civil servants in the Phil-
ippines at rest. Why don’t they shut
down the government of Saudi Arabia?
Why are they doing this to the people
of the United States of America?
We are not playing games. He is play-
ing a game with us. He is holding us
hostage over his pet obsession, and the
American people know it.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the gentlewoman from Oregon (Ms.
BONAMICI).
Ms. BONAMICI. Madam Speaker, I
thank my colleague from Maryland for
yielding time.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
the rule and the Disaster Supplemental
Appropriations Act of 2019, which will
provide relief and recovery assistance
for those affected by natural disasters.
I am pleased that this bill includes
$150 million for commercial fishery and
fishery resource disasters declared by
the Secretary of Commerce.
Oregon’s commercial salmon fish-
eries were devastated in 2016 and 2017
when they saw more than a 70 percent
decline in their salmon catch compared
to the 5-year average.
Despite considerable Federal and
State investment in Chinook salmon
recovery, many factors outside of the
control of the fishing industry, includ-
ing drought and changing ocean condi-
tions exacerbated by climate change,
continue to impede salmon popu-
lations. In Oregon, the 2016 salmon
catch levels were so low that they
measured among the worst nationwide
fisheries disasters of the year. And 2017
was even worse, at less than half of the
2016 value.
These disastrous salmon seasons
have already hurt the distressed econo-
mies of the coastal communities that
rely on the commercial fishing indus-
try.
I have heard from salmon fishermen
like Jeff Reeves. He fishes, he farms,
and he logs to make ends meet. He
scraped, and he invested $200,000 in a
boat. Then the back-to-back disaster
seasons arrived, and he had to sell it.
As Jeff points out, fishermen are
small business owners, and a bad sea-
son can be devastating for their liveli-
hoods.
I was proud to lead my Oregon col-
leagues in calling on Secretary Ross to
declare a disaster declaration for ocean
troll Klamath River fall Chinook salm-
on fisheries, and I was glad to see that
the secretary issued that declaration
last fall.
The $150 million included in this bill
will allow those hard-hit communities
that depend on fisheries revenue, like
those in the Pacific Northwest, to seek
Federal assistance and begin the recov-
ery process.
b 1315
I thank Chairman MCGOVERN and
Chairwoman LOWEY for their leader-
ship, and Mr. RASKIN, as well, on this
commonsense bill to support commu-
nities affected by natural disasters
across the country. I urge all of my
colleagues to support this bill.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I wish to notify the House, Madam
Speaker, that if we defeat the previous
question, I will offer an amendment to
the rule that will bring up the appro-
priations package the House passed in
December, including full funding for
the government through February 8,
$7.8 billion for disaster relief, and $5.7
billion for border security.
Madam Speaker, that is a bill that
the Senate will actually take up and
pass. That is a bill that the President
has said he will actually sign.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to insert the text of the
amendment in the RECORD, along with
extraneous material, immediately
prior to the vote on the previous ques-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I urge a
‘‘no’’ vote on the previous question,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, may I
ask how much time I have remaining.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Maryland has 61⁄2 minutes
remaining. The gentleman from Okla-
homa has 16 minutes remaining.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, our beloved col-
leagues across the aisle have asked us
to come back to the negotiating table
and to compromise.
Madam Speaker, we have com-
promised. The bills that we started out
passing were bills that were over-
whelmingly or unanimously passed by
the Republicans in committee or on
the floor of the Senate, so we are pass-
ing their bills to reopen the govern-
ment. The very first order of business
is to reopen the government.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I thank my friend
again for the time; I thank him for par-
ticipating in the debate; and I con-
gratulate him on being close to fin-
ishing his first rule.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:08 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.034 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H623
January 16, 2019
Madam Speaker, in closing, I want to
respond to a couple of things that my
good friend said. First of all, he said he
brought ‘‘their’’ bills to the floor,
meaning our bills, I presume. He didn’t
bring our bills to the floor. He brought
Senate bills to the floor.
Actually, those bills are nothing like
the bills that the House had passed
and, in many cases, are quite inferior
to the product that had been jointly
compromised between the two bodies.
Just speaking from something I
know very well, which is Indian
healthcare, the bill that he presented
to us had absolutely no House input
from either Republican or Democratic
Members, had $135 million less for the
Indian Healthcare Service, had $26 mil-
lion less for the Bureau of Indian Af-
fairs. I can go on and on and on.
The bills actually that, frankly, we
were pretty close to having
conferenced and done were, honestly,
quite superior. They had many Demo-
cratic and Republican suggestions in
them and many Member suggestions. If
we passed what the majority is pre-
senting, all we are doing is just turning
over the appropriations function of the
United States House of Representatives
to the United States Senate and say-
ing: We don’t really need a House; any-
thing you guys do is fine.
That is the product that has been
presented to us. It is not acceptable to
our side to simply throw away House
prerogatives and positions.
Again, my friends have the majority
here. We respect that. They will almost
certainly prevail on the rule and on the
vote, and I certainly accept that. That
is the way this institution works.
But what he fails to tell me is wheth-
er or not he is ever going to get the
Senate to ever pick this up. So far, he
hasn’t. This is the fourth attempt. We
will see another one tomorrow. Wheth-
er or not he can actually produce legis-
lation that the President of the United
States will sign, so far, he hasn’t. And
they are the majority.
Under our constitutional system,
passing legislation through the House
is simply not sufficient. It has to be
able to pass the United States Senate.
It has to be signed by the President of
the United States, unless two-thirds of
the House and the Senate are willing to
override his veto. Frankly, I don’t
think my friends have two-thirds ma-
jority here either, and they certainly
don’t in the United States Senate.
So I have a modest proposal. Prob-
ably the people who are producing this
legislation here should sit down and
talk with the United States Senate
ahead of time and say: Can we split the
difference here? Can we find some com-
mon ground?
Actually, the President did that in
December, literally sent the Vice
President to the negotiation to say: We
would like to get $5 billion. We think
that is the appropriate amount. But
what if we settle at $21⁄2 billion? The
answer was no.
That is a normal, reasonable com-
promise. It is called splitting the dif-
ference. The President tried to do that.
I do commend my friends, because I
know they are serious about wanting
to reopen the government. We would
love to work with them on getting that
done, but it is going to entail some
compromise.
Frankly, over the next 2 years, if my
friends want to get anything done, and
I know they do, they will have to com-
promise.
Been there before. We were in a situ-
ation where we were the majority in
the United States House of Representa-
tives with a Democratic majority in
the Senate and a Democratic Presi-
dent. It took, I will say, some of my
colleagues a long time to figure out
that we had to have help in the United
States Senate, and we had to have a
President that would sign bills, and we
were going to have to compromise on
some things that we thought were fun-
damentally very, very important.
I suggest my friends learn from our
experience in that regard.
Again, I respect the effort to reopen
the government. I would love to par-
ticipate in it. This bill, quite frankly,
could have been something that I think
would have started us down the right
direction, and it almost was.
We had Members on both sides of the
aisle that very much wanted to vote
for this legislation. Frankly, and
again, I commend the chairman of our
committee, Mr. MCGOVERN. He set up a
process so that we could provide
amendments, Member input. We had
full consideration of those amendments
in the Rules Committee. I would have
liked a few more to be made in order,
but I can’t complain about the ones
that were. I think it was a fair process.
Only the Democratic leadership’s in-
sistence on putting something that
they knew the Senate would not pick
up, and they knew the President would
not sign, stopped that disaster relief
bill. That is all. That literally could
have been passed out of here today,
could have been passed immediately by
the United States Senate, would have
been signed by the President, would
have gotten us out of this cycle at
least a little bit, would have shown us
what functioning government actually
looks like. But I guess the theater of
the moment is more important than
actually getting disaster relief to peo-
ple, so we will go through this exercise
yet again.
Madam Speaker, in closing, I urge
opposition to this rule and the under-
lying measure. The majority has taken
a noncontroversial, bipartisan, supple-
mental disaster appropriations bill and
has turned it into a political football.
Today’s bill was originally intended to
provide relief for disaster victims, and,
instead, the majority has turned it into
yet another continuing resolution that
is not going anywhere.
This is the same continuing resolu-
tion that the House previously passed
and that the Senate refused to con-
sider. Whether the Democrats like it or
not, they need to engage with Repub-
licans on border security. Instead, they
are now bringing up their fourth at-
tempt to pass a government funding
bill without border security. And this
time, they are using disaster victims as
leverage to push their policies.
The majority would be better served
to undertake serious negotiations with
Republicans over the need for border
security and find a way out of the cri-
sis of their making, rather than push-
ing the exact same bill again.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘no’’ on the
previous question, ‘‘no’’ on the under-
lying measure, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I thank my friend
and colleague for conceding the fair-
ness of the amendment process that we
have adopted here today, and I do hope
that it will be the beginning of a new
era in Congress where we can work to-
gether and bring in the best ideas from
everybody.
Having said that, we still have a dis-
agreement, and the disagreement is
this: We brought forward four con-
tinuing resolutions that incorporated
the language that came from Repub-
licans in the Senate, and were voted
out on a 92–6 basis, in order to pass it.
Now, my distinguished colleague
says, well, maybe the Republicans in
the House would have felt differently
about that. Well, of course, they con-
trolled the House in the last session,
but they adjourned without us ever
taking it up. They adjourned into
Christmas break and into a shutdown.
We were left with this mess when we
got into power. That is why our first
order of business must be to reopen the
Government of the United States. We
have offered multiple continuing reso-
lutions in order to do that. In fact, I
think a dozen of my Republican col-
leagues have already voted for dif-
ferent CRs in order to keep the govern-
ment going.
So when the gentleman kindly asks:
‘‘Well, how can you expect us to do
this?’’ lots of Republicans understand
the urgency of reopening the govern-
ment.
One position says: We will reopen the
government if you do what we want.
Our position is: Let’s reopen the gov-
ernment.
You see the difference there? We are
not holding anybody hostage. There is
no political ransom. We are not mak-
ing any demands. We are saying: Let’s
pass this legislation that has over-
whelming, if not unanimous, support to
get disaster relief to our people, and
let’s reopen the government so we can
get them the relief.
Instead, we get accused of playing po-
litical games. They call reopening the
Government of the United States a poi-
son pill. That has to be making some
history in itself.
The word ‘‘emergency’’ has been ban-
died about a lot, Madam Speaker, over
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:08 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.036 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H624 January 16, 2019
the last few weeks. The President even
threatened to invoke emergency pow-
ers that he thinks he has in order to
impose his fantasy wall on the govern-
ment when it is very clear that he
didn’t get it through 2 years of a Re-
publican-controlled House and Senate.
And he is not getting it through this
Congress, and he didn’t get the funding
from the Mexican Government, which
was what the original promise was.
So now he wants to see if he can find
emergency powers to do it, but he has
delayed the emergency. Think about
that. It is as if you saw an emergency
in your neighborhood, and you say:
Well, instead of calling the police or
the fire department, I will wait a few
weeks to do it.
That is not a real emergency. What is
a real emergency?
Well, climate change is obviously a
real emergency. The entire weight of
scientific evidence tells us that is a
real emergency.
The government shutdown is an
emergency for more than 800,000 Fed-
eral employees who now have to ex-
plain to their kids why they don’t have
a paycheck and why they are bor-
rowing from their own retirement
funds or from the kids’ college funds.
Where people can’t get needed med-
ical care, they are not able to pay for
medically indicated conditions they
have because they don’t have the
money to do it, that is an emergency.
Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
those are emergencies, and that is why
we want to get aid to the people there.
That is what this legislation is all
about.
The California wildfires, which killed
dozens of Americans, that is an emer-
gency. That is why we are trying to get
aid out to the people of California.
But a legislative debate over the
proper means of homeland security
when we spent more than $9 billion on
homeland security over the last dec-
ade, and our side is fighting for the
best innovations, the best technology
to invest in border security? That is
not an emergency. That is a legislative
debate that we can have.
So we go back to the basic point:
Let’s get aid to our people, from Puer-
to Rico to North Carolina and South
Carolina, from Florida to Texas. That
is what this bill does. It gets aid to our
people. It reopens the Government of
the United States. It puts us back in
the business of promoting the general
welfare.
That is what we have been sent here
to do, to promote justice and the gen-
eral welfare and domestic tranquility,
not shut down the government. Let’s
open it up, and let’s get aid to the peo-
ple of the United States of America. I
urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the rule.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
to speak in support for H.R. 268, the Supple-
mental Appropriations Act, which provides
funding for disaster recovery and provides for
a short term continuing resolution that would
reopen the government.
My thanks to the leadership of Chairman
MCGOVERN for allowing the inclusion of a
short-term Continuing Resolution that would
reopen the Federal government and allow
back pay to over 800,000 federal employees.
A compassionate and commonsense
amendment by Chairwoman LOWEY to the Dis-
aster Supplemental will end the Trump Shut-
down, reopen the government through Feb-
ruary 8, and immediately provide back pay to
all impacted federal workers.
The Federal Government can reopen allow-
ing the Congress and the White House time to
negotiate on border security and an agree-
ment on immigration policy.
I can attest to the importance of Emergency
Disaster Supplemental Appropriations to the
efforts of communities to recover following
Hurricane Harvey.
Texans, especially those living in the Hous-
ton area impacted by Hurricane Harvey con-
tinue working towards recovery, which would
not have been possible without Federal emer-
gency appropriations.
We are in the midst of a government shut-
down that is unnecessary and wasteful and
would impede the use of the very funds pro-
vided by this bill.
Americans who have been affected by nat-
ural disasters caused by Hurricanes Florence
and Michael and the California wildfires must
be able to count on a federal government that
is fully open and operating.
This appropriation measure also includes
much needed funds for Puerto Rico, which
was not provided with sufficient funding to ef-
fect the recovery following the catastrophe
caused by an inadequate response by the
White House to the disaster.
Caught in the crosshairs of the government
shutdown are 800,000 hardworking govern-
ment employees who want nothing more than
to do an honest day’s work, and be fairly re-
munerated for their efforts.
More than anyone else, this government
shutdown imperils their financial freedom and
security, which makes our country less strong.
Mortgage and rent payments are going un-
paid; credit ratings are being damaged; fami-
lies are being made more insecure.
This situation requires each member of the
House to vote for the Rule and the underlying
bill to reopen the government, while providing
vital assistance to fellow Americans recovering
from major disasters.
Instead of President Trump ending his shut-
down, he is threatening to take Emergency
Supplemental funding provided by the 115th
Congress to assist with Hurricane Harvey
Army Corps projects to address flooding risks
posed by future storms, and divert the funding
for the construction of his border wall.
Those disaster funds were appropriated for
recovery efforts associated with Hurricanes
Harvey, Jose, and Maria.
This President is so easily consumed by
concerns over a wall to the point that he can-
not see real threats such as the vulnerability
of coastal communities to powerful hurricanes.
The people along the Texas Gulf Coast face
real threats from hurricanes that are increas-
ingly more violent, and result in catastrophic
losses.
The only defense against hurricanes is im-
proving resilience and survivability of commu-
nities from wind, storm surge and rain.
For this reason, I ask my colleagues to join
me in voting for the Rule for H.R. 268.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 3. Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this resolution, an amendment of-
fered by Representative Cole of Oklahoma or
a designee shall be in order as though print-
ed as the last amendment in part B of the re-
port of the Committee on Rules accom-
panying this resolution. That amendment
shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally di-
vided and controlled by the proponent and an
opponent.
Mr. RASKIN. Madam Speaker, I yield
back the balance of my time, and I
move the previous question on the res-
olution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 15-
minute vote on ordering the previous
question will be followed by 5-minute
votes on:
Adoption of the resolution, if or-
dered; and
The motion to suspend the rules and
pass H.R. 190.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 230, nays
194, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 34]
YEAS—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.037 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H625
January 16, 2019
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NAYS—194
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
Beyer
Jones
Marino
Massie
Mast
Matsui
Payne
Sensenbrenner
Wilson (FL)
b 1355
Messrs. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
COMER, ZELDIN, Ms. HERRERA
BEUTLER, Mr. KINZINGER, and Ms.
GRANGER changed their vote from
‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Messrs. MCGOVERN, GREEN of
Texas, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Messrs.
CLYBURN, and SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia changed their vote from ‘‘nay’’
to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This
will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 230, nays
193, not voting 10, as follows:
[Roll No. 35]
YEAS—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NAYS—193
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—10
Beyer
Hudson
Jones
Marino
Massie
Mast
Matsui
Payne
Sensenbrenner
Wilson (FL)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.004 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H626 January 16, 2019
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1402
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. HUDSON. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained and missed a vote.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 35.
f
EXPANDING CONTRACTING OPPOR-
TUNITIES FOR SMALL BUSI-
NESSES ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 190) to amend the Small Busi-
ness Act to eliminate the inclusion of
option years in the award price for sole
source contracts, and for other pur-
poses, on which the yeas and nays were
ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 415, nays 6,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 36]
YEAS—415
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gabbard
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grijalva
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—6
Amash
Biggs
Gosar
King (IA)
McClintock
Roy
NOT VOTING—12
Beyer
Green (TX)
Hastings
Jones
Marino
Massie
Mast
Matsui
Payne
Sensenbrenner
Smith (WA)
Wilson (FL)
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1410
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. GREEN of Texas. Madam Speaker, on
Wednesday, January 16, 2019 I missed the
following vote:
H.R. 190—Expanding Contract Opportuni-
ties for Small Business Act of 2019 (Rep. Mar-
shall—Small Business) Suspension Bill.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘YES’’ on this bill.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, had I been
present for the vote on Ordering the Previous
Question on the Rule on H. Res. 43 (Roll Call
Vote No. 34), I would have voted ‘‘aye’’.
Had I been present for the vote on H. Res.
43, the Rule Providing for Consideration of
H.R. 268—Disaster Supplemental Appropria-
tions Act (Roll Call Vote No. 35), I would have
voted ‘‘aye’’.
Finally, had I been present for the vote on
H.R. 190—Expanding Contract Opportunities
for Small Businesses Act of 2019 (Roll Call
Vote No. 36), I would have voted ‘‘aye’’.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Mr. Brian
Pate, one of his secretaries.
f
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS
ACT, 2019
GENERAL LEAVE
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and to in-
clude extraneous material on H.R. 268,
currently under consideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 43 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 268.
The Chair appoints the gentlewoman
from the District of Columbia (Ms.
NORTON) to preside over the Committee
of the Whole.
b 1416
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
VerDate Sep 11 2014 16:07 Apr 15, 2019 Jkt 079060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\H16JA9.REC H16JA9
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H627
January 16, 2019
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 268)
making supplemental appropriations
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, and for other purposes, with Ms.
NORTON in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
The gentlewoman from New York
(Mrs. LOWEY) and the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. GRANGER) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, while President Trump
continues to keep our government shut
down, House Democrats are committed
to working for the American people. I
am pleased to present legislation today
that helps meet the urgent needs of our
fellow Americans affected by recent
national disasters.
Across the country, we have watched
as hurricanes have pummeled Florida,
Georgia, and the Carolinas; wildfires
have burned large swaths of the West;
volcanoes have erupted in Hawaii; and
typhoons have struck territories in the
Pacific. In addition to the tragic loss of
life, families have lost everything.
Businesses have been upended. Commu-
nities have been ripped apart.
This legislation attempts to meet
these needs with $12.14 billion in emer-
gency spending. It includes $2.96 billion
to rebuild damaged infrastructure to
help communities rebuild and to bring
local economies back to life.
The legislation embraces the unique
needs of farmers and rural commu-
nities, providing $1.86 billion to help
them recover.
It enhances our national security and
cares for our veterans and their fami-
lies by funding $1.46 billion for repairs
and rebuilding of damaged Department
of Defense and Department of Veterans
Affairs facilities.
The bill before us meets the complex
needs of disaster victims, with $555 mil-
lion for social services, mental
healthcare, education, and activities
that improve the prospects of dis-
located workers.
Importantly, and unlike Republican
legislation that was brought up in De-
cember, the bill meets the urgent
healthcare and nutrition needs of
Americans in the Northern Marianas,
Guam, American Samoa, and, yes,
Puerto Rico.
President Trump grossly mis-
managed the response to Hurricane
Maria in Puerto Rico, and since then,
he has added insult to injury by repeat-
edly trying to shortchange our fellow
U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico. This bill
rights that injustice.
Finally, this legislation recognizes
scientific reality and the simple fact
that climate change is increasing the
number and severity of national disas-
ters. It includes $2.54 billion in resil-
iency funding to mitigate damage from
future disasters, preventing loss of life
and damage to property.
We all want to ensure that American
families and communities have the re-
sources they need to recover from re-
cent national disasters.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.046 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H628 January 16, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.013 H16JAPT1
Insert
offset
folio
954-954/1
EH160119.001
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
(Amounts in thousands)
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Agricultural Programs
Processing, Research and Marketing
Office of the Secretary
Office of the Secretary (emergency) .................. .
Crop insurance purchasing requirements (emergency)
Total, Office of the Secretary ............... .
Farm Service Agency
Emergency Forest Restoration Program (emergency) ..... .
Natural Resources Conservation Service
Watershed and Flood Prevention Operations (emergency).
Rural Development
Rural Community Facilities Program Account (emergency)
General Provisions This Title
Grant for Puerto Rico (Sec. 101) (emergency) ......... .
Grant for Northern Marianas (Sec. 102) (emergency) .. .
Crop insurance purchasing requirement (Sec. 103)
(emergency) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .............. .
Exempt AGI provisions (Sec. 104) (emergency) ......... .
Total, title I. ............................... ..
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Economic Development Administration
Economic Development Assistance Programs (emergency) ..
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
Operations, Research, and Facilities (emergency) ..... .
Procurement, Acquisition and Construction (emergency).
Fisheries Disaster Assistance (emergency) ............ .
Total, Department of Commerce .................. .
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
United States Marshals Service
Salaries and Expenses (emergency) .................... .
Federal Prison System
Buildings and Facilities {emergency}.
Total, Department of Justice .................. ..
Bi 11
1 '1 05' 442
5,000
1,110,442
480,000
125,000
150,000
600,000
10,200
2,000
2,000
=============
2,479,642
======;======
600,000
120,570
25,000
150,000
895,570
1,336
28,400
29,736
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H629
January 16, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.013 H16JAPT1
Insert
offset
folio
954/2
EH160119.002
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
(Amounts in thousands)
RELATED AGENCIES
Legal Services Corporation
Payment to the Legal Services Corporation (emergency).
Total, title II ................................ .
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
Operation and Maintenance
Operations and Maintenance, Marine Corps (emergency) ..
Operations and Maintenance, Air Force (emergency) .....
Total, title III ............................... .
TITLE IV
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
Corps of Engineers Civil
Investigations (emergency) ........................... .
Construction (emergency) ............................. .
Mississippi River and Tributaries (emergency} ........ .
Operation and Maintenance (emergency) ................ .
Total, Corps of Engineers ...................... .
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
Central Utah Project
Central Utah Project Completion Account (emergency) ...
Bureau of Reclamation
Water and Related Resources (emergency) .............. .
Total, Department of the Interior .............. .
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
Energy Programs
Electricity Delivery (emergency) ..................... .
Total, title IV ................................ .
Bill
15,000
=============
940,306
=============
200,000
400,000
=============
600,000
=============
35,000
715,000
225,000
245,000
1,220,000
350
15,500
15,850
15,500
-------------
-------------
1'251 '350
=============
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H630 January 16, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.013 H16JAPT1
Insert
offset
folio
954/3
EH160119.003
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
(Amounts in thousands)
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND INVESTIGATIONS
Coast Guard
Operations and Support (emergency) ................... .
Procurement, Construction, and Improvements
(emergency) ........................................ .
Environmental Compliance and Restoration (emergency) ..
Total, title V................................ ..
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
United States Fish and Wildlife Service
Construction (emergency) ........................ .
National Park Service
Historic Preservation Fund (emergency) ............... .
Construction (emergency) ............................. .
United States Geological Survey
Surveys, Investigations, and Research (emergency) .....
Departmental Offices
Insular Affairs
Assistance to Territories (emergency) ................ .
Office of Inspector General
Salaries and Expenses (emergency) .................... .
Total, Department of the Interior ............. .
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
Science and Technology (emergency) ................... .
Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program
(emergency) ........................................ .
State and Tribal Assitance Grants:
Categorical Grants (emergency) ................... .
Clean Water State Revolving Fund (emergency) ..... .
Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (emergency) .. .
Subtotal, State and Tribal Assistance Grants ..
Total, Environmental Protection Agency ....... .
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Forest Service
Forest and Rangeland Research (emergency) ............ .
State and Private Forestry (emergency) ............... .
National Forest System (emergency) ................... .
Bi 11
46,977
476,755
2,000
=============
525,732
=============
82,400
50,000
78,000
98,500
2,000
1,000
311,900
600
1 '500
62,500
314,300
535,100
911,900
914,000
1,000
2,000
63,960
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H631
January 16, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.013 H16JAPT1
Insert
offset
folio
954/4
EH160119.004
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
(Amounts in thousands)
Capital Improvement and Maintenance (emergency) ...... .
Wildland Fire Management (emergency) ................. .
Total, Forest Service .......................... .
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
National Institutes of Health
National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
(emergency) ........................................ .
Total, Related Agencies ........................ .
Total, title VI ................................ .
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
Employment and Training Administration
Training and Employment Services (emergency) ......... .
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration
Health Surveillance and Program Support (emergency) ...
Administration for Children and Families
Social Services Block Grant (emergency) .............. .
Transfer to Inspector General (transfer out) ..... .
Children and Families Services Programs (emergency) ...
Total, Administration for Children and Families.
Office of Inspector General (by transfer) ............ .
Total. Department of Health and Human Services ..
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
Education Recovery (emergency) ....................... .
General Provisions This Title
Grants to Northern Marianas for Medicaid (Sec. 701)
(emergency) ........................................ .
Total, title VII ............................... .
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
Government Accountability Office
Sa1aries and Expenses (emergency) .................... .
Bill
36,040
720,271
823,271
1,000
824,271
=============
2' 050,171
=============
50,000
30,000
250,000
(-1.000)
60,000
310,000
( 1 ,000)
340,000
165,000
52,000
607,000
=============
10,000
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H632 January 16, 2019
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.013 H16JAPT1
Insert
offset
folio
954/5
EH160119.005
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
(Amounts in thousands)
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
Military Construction
Military Construction, Navy and Marine Corps
(emergency) ........................................ .
Military Construction, Air Force (emergency) ......... .
Military Construction, Army National Guard (emergency)
Total, Department of Defense...... . ........... .
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
Veterans Health Administration
Medical Facilities (emergency) ....................... .
Total, title IX ................................ .
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
Federal Transit Administration
Public Transportation Emergency Relief Program
(emergency) ........................................ .
Federal Highway Administration
Emergency Relief Program (emergency) ................. .
Total, Department of Transportation ............ .
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Community Planning and Development
Community Development Fund (emergency) ............... .
Total, title X.................. .
Grand total (emergency) .............................. .
Bi 11
115,000
700,000
42,400
857,400
3,000
860,400
10,542
1'650' 000
1,660,542
1'160' 000
2,820,542
12,145,143
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H633
January 16, 2019
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise today on H.R.
268, the Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 2019.
On December 20 of last year, the
House considered a bill that included a
continuing resolution to keep the gov-
ernment open, more than $5 billion to
secure our southern borders, and a sup-
plemental appropriation to help dis-
aster-affected areas. That bill passed
the House, but it was not taken up by
the Senate.
As it did in December, the bill before
us today also includes funding for dis-
aster relief. In fact, it includes $4.3 bil-
lion more for communities recovering
from national disasters, including
storms and other events that occurred
in 2017 and 2018. This would help the
American people get back on their feet
after these devastating events.
The bill also includes help for farm-
ers and ranchers for crop and com-
modity losses, assistance for flood and
storm damage, and allows our military
and Federal agencies to repair facili-
ties and assets.
Like it did in December, the bill we
are considering today also includes a
continuing resolution to fund the gov-
ernment and ensure that our hard-
working Federal employees are paid.
What this bill does not include is
funding for border security needs iden-
tified by the agents and officers on the
front lines. Therefore, the bill before us
today will not resolve the government
shutdown. It will not reopen the gov-
ernment and ensure that our TSA
screeners, our Coast Guard defenders,
our Border Patrol agents, and our air
traffic controllers are paid.
We must stop wasting time voting on
bills that have no chance of becoming
law. We should, instead, work with ur-
gency to get our government back up
and running. In order to do that, we
must address border security and fund-
ing for the remaining appropriations
bills.
I thank Chairwoman LOWEY for her
work, and I am hopeful that in the
coming days, together, we can come to
an agreement with all of our partners
in the Senate, the House, and the
White House to address the remaining
funding issues in 2019.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to my friend from Ohio (Ms.
KAPTUR), the chair designee for the En-
ergy and Water Development and Re-
lated Agencies Subcommittee.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I thank
my dear friend, the chair of the Appro-
priations Committee, for yielding me
this time.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of
H.R. 268, the emergency disaster recov-
ery package.
National disasters across our Nation
devastated the lives of millions of
Americans this past year. A few ranked
as the worst and most severe incidents
around the world.
It is the top responsibility of Con-
gress to provide these hard-hit commu-
nities with the strength, hope, and sup-
port to recover. This supplemental will
provide necessary aid to these ailing
communities.
This Nation needs a better strategy
to mitigate damage in future disasters,
especially as year after year we see ac-
celerating numbers and severity of na-
tional disasters due to climate change.
This bill also includes funds for future
mitigation.
From our subcommittee’s energy and
water accounts, we have seen recent
hurricanes and storms devastate exist-
ing infrastructure. Included in this
supplemental is $470 million to repair
damages at Army Corps of Engineer
projects across our Nation.
Given the Corps’ important role to
help protect communities nationwide
and in the territories against national
disasters, we also included $750 million
for the Army Corps to accelerate con-
struction on flood risk mitigation
projects.
Americans should not have to worry
whether their community can provide
adequate power to our homes and busi-
nesses, but across our Nation, fire- and
flood-ravaged communities need funds
to repair extensive damage and to
strengthen electric grids. This bill en-
sures the Department of the Interior
and Department of Energy have the re-
sources needed for this assistance.
Now, let me be clear. This adminis-
tration has considered reprogramming
funds appropriated for disaster recov-
ery projects. These funds are appro-
priated to rebuild and strengthen
America’s resiliency against future dis-
asters. They are intended to protect
American families and communities
from natural disasters.
I am actually appalled that this ad-
ministration would raid money for
communities broken from actual disas-
ters.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield
an additional 15 seconds to the gentle-
woman from Ohio.
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, in con-
clusion, this nation must confront,
head-on, the reality of strengthening
storms. We must help all communities
recover from disasters, as we never
know when it will hit our own back-
yard.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support the disaster package.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Ala-
bama (Mr. ADERHOLT).
Mr. ADERHOLT. Madam Chair, I
thank the ranking member.
I originally had intended to offer my
support for this disaster supplemental
package, especially as it relates to ag-
ricultural and rural development. But
because of the actions of our colleagues
on the other side of the aisle, I can no
longer support the bill in its current
form.
As the former chair of the Appropria-
tions Subcommittee on Agriculture,
Rural Development, Food and Drug Ad-
ministration, and Related Agencies, I
worked with my friends and the new
chairman, SANFORD BISHOP, and other
Members who represent districts im-
pacted by historical weather-related
disasters to provide relief to the farm-
ing and rural communities.
However, including the already-failed
CR in the rule puts partisan politics
above bipartisanship. I cannot support
this poison-pill package, especially
after all we have heard from our Demo-
cratic colleagues about letting the leg-
islative process work.
Members from the Southeast to Cali-
fornia, to Hawaii, to all of the commu-
nities in between represent districts
with agriculture and rural constitu-
encies that have suffered devastating
losses in their livelihoods. From cotton
to vegetables, to livestock, to losses in
my home State of Alabama, as well as
Georgia, Florida, and North Carolina,
including South Carolina, means lost
income now and lost income for the fu-
ture.
Unfortunately, constituents are
being used politically as human
shields. Everyone in Democratic lead-
ership knows the President will veto
this CR, and it is very unfortunate to
have this in the rule.
b 1430
Our farmers put food on our tables
and clothes on our backs. They put in
countless hours of labor and take risks.
Putting the CR in this bill is making it
100 percent veto bait.
Madam Chair, I encourage my col-
leagues to do the right thing and take
out the CR, and let the bill proceed to
the Senate with a chance of passage.
Madam Chair, when Superstorm
Sandy ravaged the Northeast in 2012,
the House put aside partisan dif-
ferences and provided $750 billion. I
hope that our Democratic colleagues
would look at that and do the same.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. PRICE), who is the chair-
designee of the Transportation, Hous-
ing and Urban Development, and Re-
lated Agencies Subcommittee.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise in support of this legisla-
tion, to provide $12 billion in critical
disaster relief for North Carolina and
other States recovering from dev-
astating natural disasters.
Last year, Hurricane Florence made
landfall in the Carolinas with a power-
ful storm surge, intense rainfall, and
massive flooding. It displaced thou-
sands of individuals, many of whom
still have not returned to their dam-
aged homes. Dozens of communities in
eastern North Carolina, some also hit
by Hurricane Matthew in 2016, were en-
tirely inundated for the second time in
as many years.
Meanwhile, other States like Florida,
Georgia, South Carolina, and Cali-
fornia have been hit by terrible hurri-
canes and wildfires. Puerto Rico and
other territories continue to slowly re-
cover from powerful storms and ty-
phoons.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.047 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H634 January 16, 2019
This legislation will ensure that the
Federal Government remains an active
partner in the recovery effort. It pro-
vides more than $1 billion in flexible
funding for the Community Develop-
ment Block Grant Disaster Recovery
program, including resources for miti-
gation and resiliency projects.
The bill would clear out a $1.5 billion
backlog of emergency highway and
bridge repair projects, and it provides
additional supplemental funds for
Army Corps construction projects
along our coasts and rivers, crop and
livestock assistance for farmers, re-
pairs at damaged military installa-
tions, and other critical recovery ac-
tivities.
It reflects bipartisan priorities and
ensures that American citizens, regard-
less of where they live, get the assist-
ance they need to recover.
Unfortunately, disaster assistance,
including funds that have already been
appropriated, will not be distributed to
communities if this government shut-
down continues.
Madam Chairman, I urge my col-
leagues to support this disaster supple-
mental, which appropriately includes a
provision to temporarily reopen gov-
ernment.
The Trump shutdown has real con-
sequences, Madam Chairman. The peo-
ple of North Carolina and other States
who have suffered from natural disas-
ters cannot wait any longer. It is time
for Congress, Democrats and Repub-
licans alike, to come together to end
this shutdown.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Ne-
braska (Mr. FORTENBERRY).
Mr. FORTENBERRY. Madam Chair,
first, I thank Mrs. LOWEY—this is, I
think, the first time that we have had
a chance to dialog publicly—for her
leadership and congratulate her as the
new Appropriations chair. I congratu-
late the gentlewoman, and we look for-
ward to working with Mrs. LOWEY.
I also want to thank the Republican
leader, our ranking member of the
committee, Ms. GRANGER, for her
steadfast leadership and help in navi-
gating so many essential issues that
are before us today.
Madam Chair, I want you to know
that I support the underlying bill with-
out the complicating amendments and
urge its passage.
I believe that this is a good bipar-
tisan piece of legislation to help those
negatively affected by serious and dev-
astating weather events that have oc-
curred throughout the previous year,
and we should be working together to
provide the needed disaster assistance
and unite to rebuild communities dam-
aged by these hurricanes, typhoons,
and earthquakes, as well as volcanoes.
But let us be honest. This bill would
sail through the Congress—it would
sail through this body—if we could get
past the paralysis of this moment that
is dividing Democrats from Repub-
licans, the Speaker from the President,
the House from the Senate, and on and
on.
Let’s put all of those considerations
aside for just a moment and provide
the needed support to our agricultural
communities who are hurting and
those who are in need.
As the new ranking member of the
Agriculture, Rural Development, Food
and Drug Administration, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Sub-
committee, I want to speak briefly to
an important number of provisions in
the underlying bill.
It provides financial support to farm-
ers and producers from the Pacific Is-
lands to California and to the South-
east States who have lost crops, trees,
and livestock, and so much more. It
provides funds for essential conserva-
tion efforts in our rural communities
to rebuild the watersheds and funds to
restore the land in order to prevent fu-
ture flooding that is so devastating.
The bill provides financial support to
forestlands for their restoration, some
of which have been wiped out by the
strongest storms recorded in several
parts of the United States.
The bill also provides nutritional as-
sistance to those who are vulnerable
among us.
These are all reasons that we need to
put momentary difficulties aside and
pass the underlying piece of legisla-
tion. I suggest that we move this bill
as quickly as possible and keep it sepa-
rate from the amendments that will
delay its implementation.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. BISHOP).
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding.
Madam Chair, I rise to speak on be-
half of the bill before us.
Madam Chair, on October 10, 2018,
Hurricane Michael, one of the most
powerful storms to make landfall in
the U.S., slammed into the Florida
Panhandle, then directly into Georgia,
and drove through much of the South-
east. It left a path of destruction all
the way up to Virginia. My district,
which spans middle and southwest
Georgia, took a direct hit.
Across the State of Georgia, small
towns and rural communities were dev-
astated, as were production agriculture
and forestry. Agriculture is the largest
industry in Georgia, driving one in
seven jobs. Many producers suffered
near 100 percent crop losses.
Hurricane Michael destroyed some 97
chicken houses and killed more than 2
million chickens. It devastated the
Georgia cotton crop, which was nearing
peak harvest and was on track to be
the best season in years.
Unfortunately, this is all too familiar
for the region. This is the third
straight year hurricane damage has
caused significant losses to the pecan,
peanut, cotton, vegetable, forestry,
landscaping, and agritourism indus-
tries.
Less than a month before Hurricane
Michael, Hurricane Florence crashed
into the Carolinas, causing $22 billion
in damage. The agricultural losses
there are also overwhelming. Several
lagoons responsible for containing ani-
mal waste were breached and are in
drastic need of repair.
Last year, California witnessed yet
another devastating fire season, includ-
ing both the largest and deadliest fires
on record. In Hawaii, volcanic activity
caused farmers nearly $30 million in
damage. Americans in the Northern
Mariana Islands and American Samoa
were also hit by violent storms.
This disaster supplemental bill pro-
vides the funds to begin addressing
these needs. This bill increases pay-
ments for losses from 85 to 90 percent
for producers with crop insurance and
from 65 to 70 percent for producers
without insurance. It also includes $150
million for the rural community facili-
ties program. From debris removal to
the repair of local infrastructure, such
as drinking water and water systems,
small communities across the Nation
and the territories often struggle to re-
build in the aftermath of natural disas-
ters.
The legislation includes $480 million
for the Emergency Forest Restoration
Program and $125 million for the Nat-
ural Resources Conservation Service. It
provides $600 million in funds for the
nutrition assistance program in Puerto
Rico and $10.2 million to the Common-
wealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands.
From coast to coast and beyond,
there is an urgent need for this disaster
bill. As I said in October after touring
the damage from Hurricane Michael,
responding to natural disasters and
helping our communities recover is a
responsibility we all share, regardless
of geography, ideology, or political af-
filiation.
Madam Chair, I urge all my col-
leagues to support this bill and to
bring relief to our communities that
continue to recover and rebuild. Let’s
open the government and get this job
done for the American people.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
3 minutes to the gentleman from Flor-
ida (Mr. RUTHERFORD).
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Chair, I
thank the ranking member for yield-
ing.
Madam Chair, I rise again today in
opposition to the political ultimatum
that has poisoned this bill.
I had anticipated that I would sup-
port Chairwoman LOWEY’s proposal to
provide disaster relief to American
families struggling to rebuild from re-
cent disasters like Hurricane Michael
that devastated my home State of
Florida.
I do thank her and her staff for the
hard work that they have done in put-
ting together this disaster relief bill.
However, in the dark of night, the ma-
jority leadership slipped into this bill
another continuing resolution that
they know will hold this bill back from
ever becoming signed into law.
Some on the other side have asked
why adding a CR would be a poison pill
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.049 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H635
January 16, 2019
in this measure. The answer is really
simple: This bill will never be consid-
ered by the Senate or signed by the
President. Leadership knows this, but
they continue to place politics over
helping hardworking, taxpaying Amer-
ican citizens.
So what are we here to accomplish?
Is the majority trying to help Amer-
ican citizens recover or simply content
to blame the President while punishing
hardworking taxpayers who have been
devastated by natural disasters, includ-
ing those, by the way, in the Speaker’s
home State of California? Those folks
are desperately in need of this relief as
they recover from devastating
wildfires.
Instead of doing the right thing and
passing a clean disaster relief bill, the
other side of the aisle continues to play
childish games in an effort to resist the
President’s call for border security.
If the goal of this bill is to provide
disaster relief, why on Earth would the
majority attach something that effec-
tively ensures its defeat?
Madam Chair, this move has again ef-
fectively victimized those devastated
by hurricanes and fire.
It is time to accept the reality of the
situation in which we find ourselves.
Compromise is the only path forward.
President Trump has made clear, I be-
lieve, that he is ready to negotiate and
to compromise. But this bill before us
today could have provided much-need-
ed relief to Florida families recovering
from Hurricane Michael. It is not just
those families who will suffer. It is the
Florida farmers who had their crops
decimated by the storm, and the Amer-
icans who rely on them, who will suffer
also.
Madam Chair, we are 26 days into
this shutdown, and leadership is still
playing these games. If the majority is
serious about providing disaster relief,
bring a clean supplemental funding bill
to the floor and stop playing games
with so many hurting American lives.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I appre-
ciate the gentleman from Florida’s re-
marks, but I remind the gentleman
that we can’t deliver this essential dis-
aster aid with the government closed.
So I suggest the gentleman urge those
who are keeping the government closed
that we must deliver this aid, so open
the government now, and we can have
some adult conversation.
Madam Chair, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentlewoman from California (Ms.
LEE), who is a senior member of the
Appropriations Committee.
Ms. LEE of California. Madam Chair,
first of all, I thank our chair for yield-
ing, for her tireless leadership, and for
reminding us very clearly that we need
to open up the government right away.
As a Representative from northern
California, let me just say that I re-
member vividly the Oakland Hills fire
in 1991 that killed 25 people and de-
stroyed more than 3,000 homes, and the
1989 earthquake that killed many peo-
ple and devastated many parts of my
city. I represent Oakland and Berkeley,
California. Just as many helped us
then, we will help our neighbors now.
Disasters can impact any district.
Just this morning, a small earthquake
hit my district again. Thankfully,
there are no reported injuries.
Let me also say that I am deeply
grateful to our firefighters and first re-
sponders who work around the clock to
help save lives in disasters that have
ravaged our country, especially this
past year.
Madam Chair, I am in strong support
of this emergency supplemental, which
provides $12.1 billion in disaster relief
to people who have been impacted by
wildfires, hurricanes, typhoons, and
other natural disasters. Our neighbors
in Paradise, California; Puerto Rico;
Guam; Florida; southern California;
the Virgin Islands; and the territories
all need our help, and they need it now.
Northern California’s most recent
wildfire known as the Camp fire is the
most destructive in California’s his-
tory. Eighty-five people lost their
lives, and 13,000 homes were destroyed.
These families have lost everything,
and they deserve our support now more
than ever. Many of these communities
in California ravaged by wildfires are
only just beginning to recover, yet just
last week, President Trump threatened
to withhold disaster assistance to Cali-
fornia.
b 1445
Does this President have no shame,
bullying scared families with no homes
and communities to return to? Real
leaders help families recover.
The CHAIR. The time of the gentle-
woman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield
the gentlewoman an additional 30 sec-
onds.
Ms. LEE of California. Real leaders
help families recover and rebuild. They
don’t use suffering families as political
pawns.
Madam Chair, that is why we need to
pass this bill. With the $12 billion pro-
vided in this bill, our communities will
be able to recover and rebuild, and fam-
ilies will finally get some peace of
mind knowing that we are with them.
I urge my colleagues to vote yes on
the bill and yes to helping our commu-
nities get back on their feet.
The CHAIR. Members are reminded
to refrain from engaging in personal-
ities toward the President.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from Min-
nesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM), the chair des-
ignate of the Interior, Environment,
and Related Agencies Subcommittee.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I rise
in support of this funding package, and
I am pleased that, within the Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee’s jurisdiction, the bill
provides more than $2 billion for recov-
ery from devastating natural disasters.
This includes $849 million to rebuild
drinking water and wastewater sys-
tems to a state of resiliency against fu-
ture storms, $50 million for coastal re-
siliency projects to reduce ecosystem
and community vulnerability to help
with sea level rise and with the flood-
ing and erosion caused by storms.
The bill provides funds to repair Fed-
eral facilities that were destroyed or
damaged, such as the Hawaiian Vol-
cano Observatory, funds for historic
preservation grants to repair cul-
turally significant sites and properties,
and funds to clean up hazardous and
solid waste sites.
A critical provision in this bill pro-
vides $720 million to fully repay the
U.S. Forest Service for funds it was
forced to borrow in the last fiscal year
to cover the cost of wildland fire sup-
pression. An additional $103 million
will help the Forest Service to address
damage to national forests and treat
hazardous fuel loads.
This emergency funding is in sharp
contrast to the President’s threats to
block disaster response funds to Cali-
fornians who are struggling to restore
their lives and to return to their homes
after the devastating fires of last year.
I have just heard from a friend that
he is being evacuated now because of
potential mudslides because of the
burnt area in the Malibu part of Cali-
fornia.
Americans in all of our States and
territories deserve Federal support so
they can recover from natural disas-
ters, and our government agencies have
to be open in order to ensure the deliv-
ery of these important emergency
funds.
Democrats are proud to bring this
bill to the floor to help our commu-
nities who have suffered from these
natural disasters and want to begin to
rebuild and heal in their lives.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support the bill.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. CARTER).
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding.
Madam Chair, it is no surprise that
many of the communities we represent
are in need of disaster assistance. This
past year, many areas of the country
experienced devastating disasters that
had significant impacts on commu-
nities and on our constituents.
I have the honor and privilege of rep-
resenting coastal Georgia, a vibrant
area that has suffered from a number
of these incidents in recent years.
I was elected and sent here, like ev-
eryone else in this body, to look out for
my constituents and their needs. That
includes advocating for support fol-
lowing these devastating events.
In December, the House passed a sup-
plemental appropriation package that
encompassed disasters such as hurri-
canes, typhoons, wildfires, and other
disasters. That package would have
brought about the relief we need.
Now, Democrats are holding disaster
assistance hostage with this legisla-
tion. We can’t afford to continue this
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.050 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H636 January 16, 2019
partisanship when it comes to rebuild-
ing our communities.
Whether it is a wildfire or a hurri-
cane, relief is needed urgently. That in-
cludes coastal Georgia.
For instance, our blueberry growers
have taken some devastating losses
over the last few years. Those growers
have not had time to properly recover,
and now we are dealing with partisan
games that will jeopardize their ability
to receive much-needed aid.
Agriculture represents the heart and
soul of many of our rural communities,
and with that so go those communities.
Now is not the time to derail this
desperately needed relief. We need a
clean disaster package that will allow
us to take care of the communities
that are hardest hit.
Hurricanes don’t see political parties,
and they certainly don’t discriminate
on the damage they cause. That is why
we should move a package that is de-
void of any partisan efforts and bring
up a clean disaster package.
I say to my Democratic colleagues:
Now is the time to stop playing games.
Let’s move a bill that helps, rather
than hurts, the ability of our commu-
nities to receive disaster relief.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Florida (Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ), the
chair designate of the Military Con-
struction, Veterans Affairs, and Re-
lated Agencies Subcommittee of Ap-
propriations.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Chair, I thank the gentlewoman for
yielding.
Mr. Chair, I rise in support of this es-
sential emergency supplemental appro-
priations bill.
H.R. 268 totals $12.14 billion in emer-
gency disaster appropriations funding
to provide relief and recovery assist-
ance for Americans affected by recent
hurricanes, typhoons, wildfires, and
other natural disasters, especially in
my home State of Florida.
The MILCON-VA portion of the bill
provides $860.4 million for Department
of Defense military construction needs
and the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs.
Specifically, the bill includes $115
million for the Marine Corps to begin
planning for construction projects re-
lated to the devastation left behind by
Hurricanes Florence and Michael on
Marine Corps facilities in North Caro-
lina at New River, Cherry Point, and
Lejeune.
The Marine Corps is planning facility
consolidation efforts as a result of the
severe damage, and this funding rep-
resents the first step in a vital rebuild-
ing process for the Marine Corps.
Mr. Chair, the bill also includes $700
million to begin the rebuilding of Tyn-
dall Air Force Base in Florida’s Pan-
handle. This funding will support the
relocation of the F–22 mission and the
bed-down of F–35s, along with the plan-
ning for new facilities there.
This funding is a crucial first step to
begin the necessary rebuilding of Tyn-
dall, which we will rebuild.
Mr. Chair, I also want to point out
that this funding for Tyndall and North
Carolina is just a down payment. Con-
gress is going to need to provide much
more support to get these locations
back on their feet, and this administra-
tion should take the time to address
these real emergencies and not the
ones they have manufactured.
Finally, this bill includes a con-
tinuing resolution to reopen our gov-
ernment, which is now in its 26th day
of being shut down. Mr. Chair, as I said
just yesterday, the Trump shutdown is
continuing to inflict serious financial
pain and anxiety on families, busi-
nesses, and communities across the
United States.
Opening the government is not a poi-
son pill. It is our duty. This legislation
will enable the areas affected by the
hurricanes to begin to rebuild the com-
munities and military installations
that are vital to our national defense
and those local economies, as well as
provide relief to 800,000 Federal work-
ers and their families who are living
under a cloud of economic insecurity
right now.
Mr. Chair, I urge all Members of this
body to cast a yes vote.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chair, I yield 4
minutes to the gentleman from South
Carolina (Mr. RICE).
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Mr.
Chair, I hail from the Seventh District
of South Carolina, and for 3 days in
September the Nation was rapt as Hur-
ricane Florence stalled directly on top
of my district.
I have eight counties in my district.
All eight counties were declared dis-
aster areas. The inland counties were
inundated, as North Carolina was, and
all the rain that fell in North Carolina
and those inland counties comes
through five river systems out George-
town County, South Carolina.
My district was overcome by a slow-
motion, rolling disaster. And if that
wasn’t bad enough, that was the third
storm in 4 years. Hurricane Matthew
hit us 3 years ago.
With Hurricane Matthew, the Federal
Government awarded us $95 million to
rebuild 1,350 houses for indigent fami-
lies. And, at the speed the Federal Gov-
ernment moves, as of now, 21⁄2 years
after the storm, about 400 of those 1,300
homes have been rebuilt, so we have
got about 1,000 indigent South Caro-
linians either gone or living in sub-
standard housing.
Now, in this storm, 12,163 homes were
‘‘moderately damaged.’’ I asked the
definition of ‘‘moderate damage.’’ They
said that means that there was water
inside the house but it was less than 2
feet deep.
My friends, we also incurred $200 mil-
lion of agricultural damage. In these
last two storms, our agricultural de-
partment didn’t even ask for help from
the Federal Government, but the farm-
ers are at their wits’ end.
A farmer told me that 3 years ago
they used their cash, the last storm
they used their equity, and now they
are at the end of their rope. We will be
losing South Carolina farmers if we
don’t help these people.
So, I was prepared to support this,
and House Republicans passed this dis-
aster bill as part of the supplemental
in December.
Now the Democrats bring it back up,
and it is subject to opening the govern-
ment up with no wall funding, and they
know full well that the President
wouldn’t sign it, even if we did pass it.
This is a political game, and they are
playing to win. But what they are play-
ing with, the pieces that they are play-
ing with, are hurting people in South
Carolina. There are damaged people in
South Carolina. They are suffering peo-
ple who are on their knees.
Three of the counties that were hit
the hardest—Marion, Dillon, and Marl-
boro counties—are some of the poorest
counties in South Carolina. Over-
whelmingly African American, these
people had nothing before the storm,
and what little they had has been
taken away. And we are using these
people as pawns in this fight over the
government shutdown.
My friends, enough is enough. It is
time to stop playing politics. As my
friend across the aisle said earlier:
Leaders don’t hold people hostage; they
find solutions.
And it is time to find a solution.
They know full well that, by attaching
this continuing resolution to this dis-
aster bill, it will not pass this House, it
won’t get a hearing in the Senate, and
the President won’t sign it.
All this is for show. Enough show.
Let’s deliver this relief to the people
who need it.
The storm hit my area September
the 14th, 4 months ago. Enough show.
Stop using these indigent people as
pawns. Enough.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, before I
introduce our next, I would like to say
to the distinguished gentleman from
South Carolina: I agree with the distin-
guished gentleman from South Caro-
lina. Let’s stop this political game.
Let’s direct our remarks. Let’s make
clear that the President has the re-
sponsibility to open this government
and to do it now.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from California (Mr. THOMP-
SON).
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr.
Chair, I thank the chairwoman for
yielding and for all that she is doing to
end the Trump shutdown and open up
our government, but I rise today to en-
gage in a colloquy with the distin-
guished chairwoman of the Homeland
Security Appropriations Sub-
committee, Congresswoman ROYBAL-
ALLARD, in regard to a commitment
made between the two of us.
My district and the State of Cali-
fornia were, once again, ravaged by
devastating and historic fires. In my
own district, the Mendocino complex
fire burned a combined total of 460,000
acres, making it the largest physical
fire in California history. As a result, a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.052 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H637
January 16, 2019
major disaster declaration was an-
nounced for Lake County, which, sadly,
has been rocked with fires for the past
several years.
California also experienced the dead-
liest and most destructive fire in our
State’s history with the Camp fire,
which, tragically, took the lives of
more than 60 people. The town of Para-
dise, which was home to almost 27,000
people, was near completely destroyed,
and more than 12,000 structures were
burnt to the ground.
In addition, our State experienced
other devastating fires, and they con-
tinue. We need the continued support
from the Federal Government because
it is essential as residents seek to re-
build and California begins long-term
recovery.
In response to these devastating dis-
asters, I offered a bipartisan amend-
ment with Representatives LAMALFA,
LIEU, CALVERT, GARAMENDI, HUFFMAN,
and 19 other bipartisan cosponsors
from our State. This amendment pro-
vided much-needed relief to the State
of California and local entities by in-
creasing to 90 percent the Federal cost-
share for debris removal and emer-
gency assistance for the 2018 wildfires.
The substance of this amendment has
been supported by both the Speaker
and the majority leader and is con-
sistent with the relief generously pro-
vided in the 113th Congress.
b 1500
The distinguished chairwoman and I
have discussed this amendment and the
importance of Congress providing this
much-needed relief to the State of Cali-
fornia and all affected communities
impacted by these wildfires.
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. SABLAN). The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chairman, I yield
an additional 1 minute to the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Chair-
man, I thank Representative MIKE
THOMPSON for his diligent work on be-
half of his fire-impacted communities
and our State. It is critical that Con-
gress ensures that every Federal re-
source is made available to the States,
local governments, and all affected
communities of the historic and un-
precedented 2018 wildfires.
Ensuring that Californians get the
support and resources they need is not
a partisan issue. It is particularly frus-
trating that FEMA has the sole discre-
tion to adjust these cost shares and
often does so after catastrophic disas-
ters or when multiple disasters strike
the same State in a short period of
time, as we have experienced in Cali-
fornia. The State of California has re-
quested the administration to adjust
these cost shares, unfortunately, to no
avail.
I appreciate Mr. THOMPSON’s diligent
work on this issue. I remain committed
to working with him, our leadership,
and the bipartisan cosponsors of the
amendment to provide, in the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security’s full-year
fiscal year 2019 funding bill, an in-
creased cost share of 90 percent for
these additional categories of Federal
disaster funding for California commu-
nities devastated by the 2018 wildfires.
The Acting CHAIR. The time of the
gentlewoman has expired.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield an
additional 30 seconds to the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD. Mr. Chair, in
closing, in the meantime, I will work
with him and the other members of the
California delegation in pursuing this
matter with the administration on this
reasonable and much-needed adjust-
ment within its existing authority.
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Mr.
Chair, I thank the chairwoman and the
bipartisan coauthors of this bill. I look
forward to working with her and appre-
ciate her help.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Florida
(Mr. DUNN) for the purpose of a col-
loquy.
Mr. DUNN. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentlewoman from Texas for yielding
and also for the opportunity to bring
up an important issue to my district
and State.
As you all know, Hurricane Michael
had a devastating effect on my district.
One of the most important areas in my
district that was destroyed was Tyn-
dall Air Force Base.
The underlying bill before the House
today contains $700 million for plan-
ning, design, and construction related
to the consequences of Hurricane Mi-
chael at Tyndall Air Force Base. This
funding would support the relocation of
the F–22s, the beddown of the F–35s,
and the planning of facility construc-
tion so that the base can continue to
recover.
This is a down payment for the Air
Force, and it signals that Congress is
committed to rebuilding Tyndall Air
Force Base because Tyndall will need
additional funds.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Will
the gentleman yield?
Mr. DUNN. I yield to the gentle-
woman from Florida.
Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ. Mr.
Chair, I thank the gentleman for yield-
ing.
As a fellow Floridian, I support the
need to rebuild Tyndall, as I just men-
tioned in my opening statement, and
support the Air Force’s next-genera-
tion aircraft. It is important to ensure
that our airmen and their families
have state-of-the-art facilities that
support the new mission.
I look forward to working with Mr.
DUNN and Ranking Member GRANGER
as we begin the process to ensure fu-
ture funding is available to continue
this vital reconstruction of Tyndall Air
Force Base.
Mr. DUNN. Mr. Chair, I thank Chair-
woman WASSERMAN SCHULTZ for agree-
ing to work with me going forward to
address appropriate funding levels and
types of facilities that will be nec-
essary to bring Tyndall back to life.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chair, I thank
my colleagues for this colloquy.
Tyndall Air Force Base is vital to
Florida and the United States. I look
forward to working with the gentleman
as well as the gentlewoman of the Mili-
tary Construction, Veterans Affairs,
and Related Agencies Subcommittee to
rebuild this base.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Mis-
sissippi (Mr. THOMPSON), the chairman
of the Homeland Security Committee.
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Mr.
Chair, I thank the gentlewoman from
New York for yielding me the time.
Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of
H.R. 268, a bill to help our country re-
cover from another year of devastating
natural disasters.
In 2018, Americans across the country
faced extreme hardship due to hurri-
canes, wildfires, and other catastrophic
events. From Hurricanes Michael and
Florence in the Southeast to historic
wildfires in the West and volcanic ac-
tivity in Hawaii, no part of our Nation
was spared.
Last week, the President responded
to these events by callously pro-
claiming on Twitter that he plans to
stop aid to wildfire survivors in Cali-
fornia. This behavior is not in the spir-
it of our great Nation. The funding pro-
vided in this bill would show the Amer-
ican people that we stand with them,
even if the President does not.
Importantly, in response to Hurri-
cane Maria, it provides $600 million to
Puerto Rico for debris removal and res-
toration of its electric grid.
Additionally, the bill provides much-
needed funding to communities across
the Nation for Head Start, farmers who
suffered crop losses, and Americans
with housing needs.
I have firsthand knowledge of the
challenges after a devastating hurri-
cane. It took years and sustained com-
mitment from the Federal Government
to help my community recover from
Hurricane Katrina. H.R. 268 will help
put our fellow Americans in Puerto
Rico on a critical path to recovery.
Additionally, I support the McGovern
amendment to prevent the President
from raiding the Army Corps of Engi-
neers’ funds to build his border wall.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chair, I yield 5
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Puerto Rico (Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN).
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Chair, I thank the ranking
member for yielding.
Today, I rise in support of the Nutri-
tion Assistance Program, or NAP, that
is included in the bill under consider-
ation today. NAP is the sole source of
nutrition assistance and food security
for over 1.3 million American citizens
on the island.
After Hurricane Maria, the 115th
Congress approved an additional $1.27
billion increase in Puerto Rico’s NAP
program in addition to the annual
block grant amount of about $1.8 bil-
lion, and that means that we helped a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.054 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H638 January 16, 2019
lot of people who have a lot of neces-
sities.
This disaster relief allowed an in-
crease in the benefits for the current
beneficiaries as well as an increased
enrollment to bring assistance to close
to 153,000 new participants in the pro-
gram. However, this additional assist-
ance is currently set to be expended in
March of this year, and the program’s
funding would then be lowered again to
the base amounts associated with the
block grants.
That is why, in May of last year, I
submitted an amendment to H.R. 2,
also known as the farm bill, to increase
the amount of funding allotted to
Puerto Rico’s NAP.
Then, in December, we got a letter
and a meeting asking for the $600 mil-
lion in additional NAP funding. During
the first day of Congress, we did the
same thing to both the Committees of
Appropriations and Rules with the
same request. I thank the chairwoman
of the committee for including that
money in this bill.
We had a meeting in December with
the Governor of Puerto Rico and the
minority leader and the chairwoman
asking for this $600 million increase in
Puerto Rico’s NAP program, so we
really need this money to be included
and to be available until fiscal year
2020.
This bill also contains an important
provision for Puerto Rico and the U.S.
Virgin Islands as well, extending the
100 percent Federal cost share for as-
sistance under the Stafford Act for the
disasters in the territories to rebuild to
the current standards. That was in-
cluded in the last provision last Con-
gress.
Having this extension is important in
order to maximize the resources. This
is critical since the losses caused by
these disasters left our communities in
no position to cover matching fund re-
quirements, and, believe me, the hurri-
cane was worse than this going down.
So this bill, especially, will be impor-
tant for my constituents.
I am a little bit disappointed that the
continuing resolution was attached to
the bill. I do support the reopening of
the government; however, this should
be not the vehicle for it. This disaster
supplemental was intended to help peo-
ple to recover and rebuild from natural
disasters.
I really appreciate the good faith ef-
fort of all involved here to help those
struck by natural disasters—not just in
Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and
Florida, but the fires in California as
well—especially in Puerto Rico; how-
ever, it is my hope that this becomes a
clean bill between the House and Sen-
ate that can be signed by the Presi-
dent.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield 2
minutes to the gentlewoman from the
U.S. Virgin Islands (Ms. PLASKETT).
Ms. PLASKETT. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman from New York—her
and her staff, as well as the members of
the committee—for putting together
this supplemental disaster appropria-
tions, H.R. 268, which seems to address
many of the issues that the territories
and other areas that have been affected
by disaster are continuing to face.
Additionally, it is sending a strong
message to the administration about
the slow walking and the additional re-
strictions that they have put in fund-
ing that Congress had already passed
both here in the House as well as on
the Senate side and the President him-
self sent.
So this disaster supplemental bill
contains much-needed support for on-
going disaster recovery efforts in my
district, the U.S. Virgin Islands, as
well as Puerto Rico and other disaster-
affected States and territories.
For the Virgin Islands, this bill, as
well as for Puerto Rico, addresses Fed-
eral cost share for all FEMA public as-
sistance grants, including for debris re-
moval and emergency measures to pro-
tect public health and safety—if you
can believe, we are still dealing with
debris removal—and for permanent in-
frastructure restoration for the dura-
tion of the recovery from Hurricanes
Irma and Maria.
Additionally, of the funds provided
for EPA programs, while I am very
pleased to see that $74.6 million is set
aside for the Virgin Islands to improve
drinking water and wastewater sys-
tems resiliency, this is a very positive
relief package for Americans in our is-
land territories still reeling from un-
precedented disaster, still reeling from
a place where our hospitals are not
back in operation and where our chil-
dren just went back to a full day of
school this October after over a year.
I am pleased that the House will be
sending a firm message to the adminis-
tration that its recent decision not to
continue the waiver of cost share of
public assistance to the Virgin Islands
would severely hinder the territory’s
ongoing recovery.
I also take this opportunity to ex-
press my strong opposition to diverting
disaster funds to build a border wall,
which would create a true national
emergency.
Ms. GRANGER. Mr. Chair, I urge my
colleagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on this meas-
ure, and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Mr. Chair, I yield my-
self the balance of my time.
Mr. Chair, to allow Federal agencies
to begin the vital work that we are
funding in this bill, we must reopen the
Federal Government.
I am pleased that the bill before us
includes a continuing resolution to im-
mediately reopen the Federal Govern-
ment and pay Federal employees, who
are going through such a difficult time
taking care of their families, putting
food on the table, just going through
the normal, normal time that families
have to endure when they don’t have
any money to spend. This would pay
Federal employees through February 8.
b 1515
This continuing resolution ensures
the Federal Government is working for
the American people, provides cer-
tainty for Federal employees, and gives
President Trump and the Congress
time to negotiate on border security
and immigration policy.
Mr. Chairman, this legislation is a
critical first step to meeting our fellow
citizens’ urgent needs as they recover
from recent disasters, so I urge my col-
leagues: Join me in support of this bill.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. CASE. Mr. Chair, I rise today to speak
in favor of H.R. 268, the Emergency Disaster
Appropriations bill.
This bill would appropriate funds for pro-
grams supporting communities rebuilding after
suffering through numerous natural disasters
throughout 2018. My home State of Hawai’i is
in particular need of assistance. It was hit hard
by multiple devasting storms over the islands
and by the sustained eruption of Kilauea Vol-
cano.
Among the impacts on Hawai’i Island by the
volcanic eruption were:
716 dwellings destroyed by lava;
Roughly 30 miles of roads covered by lava;
and
About 60,000 earthquakes striking the area
from April through August, with the largest a
magnitude 6.9 earthquake.
Additionally, Hurricane Lane wreaked havoc
across Hawai’i in late August. Up to 50 inches
of rain fell in parts of Hawaii Island and 35
inches on the island of Kaua’i. This caused
massive unprecedented flooding that these
communities in Hawaii continue to deal with.
The natural disasters of the past year af-
fected all parts of our Hawai’i, from major
damage throughout O’ahu and the Neighbor
Islands to disruption of our tourism and agri-
culture industries and beyond. These sorely
needed funds will assist those affected to re-
cover and carry on with their lives.
The programs and funding in H.R. 268 is a
step in the right direction of how government
should be working and responding to the
needs of our constituents.
I urge my colleagues to support this bill to
help residents across the country rebuild and
move forward after these devastating natural
disasters.
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois. Mr. Chair, I will vote
today in support of H.R. 268, the Supple-
mental Appropriations Act of 2019. Americans
have a long history of helping each other in
times of emergency and this bill, in that Amer-
ican spirit, provides needed funding to help
families and businesses recover from natural
disasters.
That said, I am concerned that the bill, in
many respects, is a stop-gap measure that de-
fers action on bigger problems. Our disaster
funding protocols have historically been predi-
cated on the idea that, when American citi-
zens’ face a loss of property due to a rare and
unpredictable event, we have a moral obliga-
tion to help them rebuild. That is a noble and
righteous goal and consistent with this bill.
However, we must also begin to face up to
the fact that climate change is creating a situ-
ation where disasters are no longer rare, nor
unpredictable. We know with certainty where
flood risk is intensifying in low-lying coastal re-
gions. We know with certainty where the risks
of wildfires are growing.
A review by the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration of $1-billion-plus
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.056 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H639
January 16, 2019
weather and climate disasters proves the
point—such disasters are increasing in fre-
quency and concentrated in very specific re-
gions of the country.
To continue to provide federal funds to en-
courage rebuilding in those areas is ultimately
unsustainable. At some point, those funds will
have to be diverted to development on less
disaster-prone grounds. That is scary and un-
fortunate, but we cannot ignore that reality. It
is my hope that, as a body, we can begin to
develop the strategies to redirect those funds
on our terms rather than being compelled to
do so by fiscal or natural events.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, I can attest
to the importance of Emergency Disaster Sup-
plemental Appropriations to the efforts of com-
munities to recover following a disaster.
Texans impacted by Hurricane Harvey and
are working towards recovery are grateful for
the appropriations provided by Congress to
address Emergency Supplemental Appropria-
tions.
We are in the midst of a government shut-
down that is unnecessary and wasteful.
Caught in the crosshairs of the government
shutdown are eight-hundred thousand hard-
working government employees who want
nothing more than to do an honest day’s work,
and be fairly remunerated for their efforts.
More than anyone else, this government
shutdown imperils their financial security,
which makes our country less strong.
Mortgage and rent payments are going un-
paid; credit ratings are being damaged; fami-
lies are being made more insecure.
This situation requires answers, and resolu-
tion for hundreds of thousands of hardworking
Americans caught in the middle.
President Trump instead of ending his shut-
down is threatening to take Hurricane Harvey
Army Corps funding and divert it for the con-
struction of his border wall.
He plans to divert funds appropriated for
Hurricanes Harvey, Jose, and Maria recovery
to pay for his border wall is outrageous and
immoral, and an affront to the millions of
Americans affected by real disasters that have
struck the homeland.
We need to ensure that the President can-
not undermine the disaster recovery projects
and programs that Congress has approved
and funded by diverting funds for construction
of his border wall vanity project.
This President is so easily consumed by
concerns over a wall to the point that he can-
not see real threats such as the vulnerability
of coastal communities to powerful hurricanes.
The people along the Texas Gulf Coast face
real threats from hurricanes that are increas-
ingly more violent, and result in catastrophic
losses.
The only defense against hurricanes is im-
proving resilience and survivability of commu-
nities from wind, storm surge and rain.
We improve coastal resilience against hurri-
canes by completing Army Corps of Engineer
projects that are paid for previously under sep-
arate appropriations bills that are now law.
The President wants to use his authority
under a National Emergency Declaration to er-
roneously gain access to the funding so des-
perately needed for Hurricane Harvey recov-
ery and other disasters.
Declaring a national emergency for purely
political reasons is antidemocratic, petulant,
dangerous and unbecoming of the President
of the United States.
The president and his staff have been rou-
tinely and repeatedly corrected and rebuked
for their attempts to spread false and mis-
leading information about the state of our
southern border.
They have wrongly claimed that the lack of
a border wall at the southern border is a major
source of drugs coming into the United States,
when in fact it is ports of entry.
They disregarded the fact that border appre-
hensions are at a 45 year-low, and have been
dropping since 2000.
Having been defeated legislatively by
Speaker NANCY PELOSI, now the President ac-
cording to a story in the New York Times
would like to pay for his immoral border wall
by diverting funds that the Congress has ap-
propriated for disaster relief, such as Hurri-
cane Harvey to help citizens in my home state
of Texas; victims of Maria in Puerto Rico and
other hurricane victims; and victims of deadly
wildfires in California.
I support this Disaster Appropriations bill in
order to help rebuild communities devastated
over the last year by deadly disasters.
Now the President needs to open the Gov-
ernment in order to stop the disaster occurring
among our out of work federal employees.
The Acting CHAIR. All time for gen-
eral debate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, an amendment
in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print
116–2, modified by the amendment
printed in part A of House Report 116–
2, shall be considered as adopted, shall
be considered as an original bill for
purpose of further amendment under
the 5-minute rule and shall be consid-
ered as read.
The text of the bill, as amended, is as
follows:
H.R. 268
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
That the following sums are hereby appro-
priated, out of any money in the Treasury not
otherwise appropriated, and out of applicable
corporate or other revenues, receipts, and funds,
for the several departments, agencies, corpora-
tions, and other organizational units of Govern-
ment for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses, namely:
TITLE I
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AGRICULTURAL PROGRAMS
PROCESSING, RESEARCH AND MARKETING
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Office of
the Secretary’’, $1,105,442,000, which shall re-
main available until December 31, 2020, for nec-
essary expenses related to losses of crops (in-
cluding milk), trees, bushes, and vines, as a con-
sequence of Hurricanes Michael or Florence,
other hurricanes, typhoons, volcanic activity, or
wildfires occurring in calendar year 2018 under
such terms and conditions as determined by the
Secretary: Provided, That the Secretary may
provide assistance for such losses in the form of
block grants to eligible states and territories and
such assistance may include compensation to
producers, as determined by the Secretary, for
past or future crop insurance premiums, forest
restoration, and poultry and livestock losses:
Provided further, That of the amounts provided
under this heading, tree assistance payments
may be made under section 1501(e) of the Agri-
cultural Act of 2014 (7 U.S.C. 9081(e)) to eligible
orchardists or nursery tree growers (as defined
in such section) of pecan trees with a tree mor-
tality rate that exceeds 7.5 percent (adjusted for
normal mortality) and is less than 15 percent
(adjusted for normal mortality), to be available
until expended, for losses incurred during the
period beginning January 1, 2018, and ending
December 31, 2018: Provided further, That in the
case of producers impacted by volcanic activity
that resulted in the loss of crop land, or access
to crop land, the Secretary shall consider all
measures available, as appropriate, to bring re-
placement land into production: Provided fur-
ther, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading and applicable poli-
cies of crop insurance under the Federal Crop
Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) or the Non-
insured Crop Disaster Assistance Program
(NAP) under section 196 of the Federal Agri-
culture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (7
U.S.C. 7333) shall not exceed 90 percent of the
loss as determined by the Secretary: Provided
further, That the total amount of payments re-
ceived under this heading for producers who did
not obtain a policy or plan of insurance for an
insurable commodity for the applicable crop
year under the Federal Crop Insurance Act (7
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) for the crop incurring the
losses or did not file the required paperwork and
pay the service fee by the applicable State filing
deadline for a noninsurable commodity for the
applicable crop year under NAP for the crop in-
curring the losses shall not exceed 70 percent of
the loss as determined by the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That producers receiving pay-
ments under this heading, as determined by the
Secretary, shall be required to purchase crop in-
surance where crop insurance is available for
the next two available crop years, excluding tree
insurance policies, and producers receiving pay-
ments under this heading shall be required to
purchase coverage under NAP where crop insur-
ance is not available in the next two available
crop years, as determined by the Secretary: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 120 days
after the end of fiscal year 2019, the Secretary
shall submit a report to the Congress specifying
the type, amount, and method of such assist-
ance by state and territory: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FARM SERVICE AGENCY
EMERGENCY FOREST RESTORATION PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Emergency
Forest Restoration Program’’, for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Michael and Florence and wildfires occur-
ring in calendar year 2018, and other natural
disasters, $480,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE
WATERSHED AND FLOOD PREVENTION OPERATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Watershed and
Flood Prevention Operations’’, for necessary ex-
penses for the Emergency Watershed Protection
Program related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Michael and Florence and wildfires occur-
ring in calendar year 2018, and other natural
disasters, $125,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
RURAL COMMUNITY FACILITIES PROGRAM
ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for the cost of
grants for rural community facilities programs
as authorized by section 306 and described in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.015 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H640 January 16, 2019
section 381E(d)(1) of the Consolidated Farm and
Rural Development Act, for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Mi-
chael and Florence and wildfires occurring in
calendar year 2018, and other natural disasters,
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That sections 381E-H and 381N of the
Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act
are not applicable to the funds made available
under this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 101. In addition to other amounts made
available by section 309 of Public Law 115-72,
there is hereby appropriated $600,000,000 for the
Secretary of Agriculture to provide a grant to
the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico for disaster
nutrition assistance in response to Presi-
dentially declared major disasters and emer-
gencies: Provided, That the funds made avail-
able to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico under
this section shall remain available for obligation
by the Commonwealth until September 30, 2020,
and shall be in addition to funds otherwise
made available: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 102. In addition to amounts otherwise
made available, out of the funds made available
under section 18 of Food and Nutrition Act of
2008, $10,200,000 shall be available for the Sec-
retary to provide a grant to the Commonwealth
of the Northern Mariana Islands for disaster
nutrition assistance in response to the Presi-
dentially declared major disasters and emer-
gencies: Provided, That funds made available to
the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Is-
lands under this section shall remain available
for obligation by the Commonwealth until Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 103. For purposes of administering title I
of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bipartisan
Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–123), losses
to agricultural producers resulting from hurri-
canes shall also include losses of peach and
blueberry crops in calendar year 2017 due to ex-
treme cold: Provided, That the amounts pro-
vided by this section are designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That amounts
repurposed under this heading that were pre-
viously designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985 are designated by the Congress as an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SEC. 104. (a)(1) Except as provided in para-
graph (2), a person or legal entity is not eligible
to receive a payment under the Market Facilita-
tion Program established pursuant to the Com-
modity Credit Corporation Charter Act (15
U.S.C. 714 et seq.) if the average adjusted gross
income of such person or legal entity is greater
than $900,000.
(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a person
or legal entity if at least 75 percent of the ad-
justed gross income of such person or legal enti-
ty is derived from farming, ranching, or forestry
related activities.
(b) A person or legal entity may not receive a
payment under the Market Facilitation Program
described in subsection (a)(1), directly or indi-
rectly, of more than $125,000.
(c) In this section, the term ‘‘average adjusted
gross income’’ has the meaning given the term
defined in section 760.1502 of title 7 Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (as in effect July 18, 2018).
(d) The amount provided by this section is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE II
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
Pursuant to section 703 of the Public Works
and Economic Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3233),
for an additional amount for ‘‘Economic Devel-
opment Assistance Programs’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to flood mitigation, disaster relief,
long-term recovery, and restoration of infra-
structure in areas that received a major disaster
designation as a result of Hurricanes Florence,
Michael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and of wildfires, volcanic eruptions,
earthquakes, and other natural disasters occur-
ring in calendar year 2018 under the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), $600,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Pro-
vided further, That within the amount appro-
priated, up to 2 percent of funds may be trans-
ferred to the ‘‘Salaries and Expenses’’ account
for administration and oversight activities: Pro-
vided further, That within the amount appro-
priated, $1,000,000 shall be transferred to the
‘‘Office of Inspector General’’ account for car-
rying out investigations and audits related to
the funding provided under this heading.
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS, RESEARCH, AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations,
Research, and Facilities’’ for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael, Typhoon Yutu, and of
wildfires, $120,570,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2020, as follows:
(1) $3,000,000 for repair and replacement of ob-
serving assets, real property, and equipment;
(2) $11,000,000 for marine debris assessment
and removal;
(3) $31,570,000 for mapping, charting, and ge-
odesy services;
(4) $25,000,000 to improve: (a) hurricane inten-
sity forecasting, including through deployment
of unmanned ocean observing platforms and en-
hanced data assimilation; (b) flood prediction,
forecasting, and mitigation capabilities; and (c)
wildfire prediction, detection, and forecasting;
and
(5) $50,000,000 for Title IX Fund grants as au-
thorized under section 906(c) of division O of
Public Law 114–113:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
shall submit a spending plan to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate for funding provided under
subsection (4) of this heading within 45 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
PROCUREMENT, ACQUISITION AND CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procurement,
Acquisition and Construction’’, $25,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2021, for
improvements to operational and research
weather supercomputing infrastructure and sat-
ellite ground services used for hurricane inten-
sity and track prediction; flood prediction, fore-
casting, and mitigation; and wildfire prediction,
detection, and forecasting: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That the National Oceanic and Atmos-
pheric Administration shall submit a spending
plan to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate within
45 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
FISHERIES DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fisheries Dis-
aster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses associ-
ated with the mitigation of fishery disasters,
$150,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That funds shall be used for miti-
gating the effects of commercial fishery failures
and fishery resource disasters declared by the
Secretary of Commerce, including those declared
by the Secretary to be a direct result of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael and Typhoons
Yutu and Mangkhut: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
UNITED STATES MARSHALS SERVICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries and
Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael and Typhoon Yutu, $1,336,000: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM
BUILDINGS AND FACILITIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Buildings and
Facilities’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael and Typhoon Yutu, $28,400,000, to remain
available until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
PAYMENT TO THE LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Payment to
the Legal Services Corporation’’ to carry out the
purposes of the Legal Services Corporation Act
by providing for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence, Mi-
chael, and Lane, Typhoons Yutu and
Mangkhut, and calendar year 2018 wildfires,
volcanic eruptions, and earthquakes,
$15,000,000: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That none of the funds appropriated in
this Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall
be expended for any purpose prohibited or lim-
ited by, or contrary to any of the provisions of,
sections 501, 502, 503, 504, 505, and 506 of Public
Law 105–119, and all funds appropriated in this
Act to the Legal Services Corporation shall be
subject to the same terms and conditions set
forth in such sections, except that all references
in sections 502 and 503 to 1997 and 1998 shall be
deemed to refer instead to 2018 and 2019, respec-
tively, and except that sections 501 and 503 of
Public Law 104–134 (referenced by Public Law
105–119) shall not apply to the amount made
available under this heading: Provided further,
That, for the purposes of this Act, the Legal
Services Corporation shall be considered an
agency of the United States Government.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.016 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H641
January 16, 2019
TITLE III
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation and
Maintenance, Marine Corps’’, $200,000,000, for
necessary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Michael and Florence: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation and
Maintenance, Air Force’’, $400,000,000, for nec-
essary expenses related to the consequences of
Hurricanes Michael and Florence: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IV
CORPS OF ENGINEERS—CIVIL
DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY
INVESTIGATIONS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Investiga-
tions’’ for necessary expenses related to the com-
pletion, or initiation and completion, of flood
and storm damage reduction, including shore
protection, studies which are currently author-
ized or which are authorized after the date of
enactment of this Act, to reduce risk from future
floods and hurricanes, at full Federal expense,
$35,000,000, to remain available until expended,
in States and insular areas that were impacted
by Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical
Storm Gita: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That the Assistant Secretary of the
Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly
report directly to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House and the Senate detailing the
allocation and obligation of these funds, includ-
ing new studies selected to be initiated using
funds provided under this heading, beginning
not later than 60 days after the enactment of
this Act.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construction’’
for necessary expenses, $715,000,000, to remain
available until expended, to construct flood and
storm damage reduction, including shore protec-
tion, projects which are currently authorized or
which are authorized after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, and flood and storm damage
reduction, including shore protection, projects
which have signed Chief’s Reports as of the date
of enactment of this Act or which are studied
using funds provided under the heading ‘‘Inves-
tigations’’ if the Secretary determines such
projects to be technically feasible, economically
justified, and environmentally acceptable, in
States and insular areas that were impacted by
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and Tropical
Storm Gita: Provided, That projects receiving
funds provided in Public Law 115–123 shall not
be eligible for funding provided under this head-
ing: Provided further, That for projects receiv-
ing funding under this heading, the provisions
of Section 902 of the Water Resources Act of 1986
shall not apply to these funds: Provided further,
That the completion of ongoing construction
projects receiving funds provided under this
heading shall be at full Federal expense with re-
spect to such funds: Provided further, That
using funds provided under this heading, the
non-Federal cash contribution for projects not
eligible as ongoing construction projects shall be
financed in accordance with the provisions of
section 103(k) of Public Law 99–662 over a period
of 30 years from the date of completion of the
project or separable element: Provided further,
That up to $25,000,000 of the funds made avail-
able under this heading shall be used for con-
tinuing authorities projects to reduce the risk of
flooding and storm damage: Provided further,
That any projects using funds appropriated
under this heading shall be initiated only after
non-Federal interests have entered into binding
agreements with the Secretary requiring, where
applicable, the non-Federal interests to pay 100
percent of the operation, maintenance, repair,
replacement, and rehabilitation costs of the
project and to hold and save the United States
free from damages due to the construction or op-
eration and maintenance of the project, except
for damages due to the fault or negligence of the
United States or its contractors: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall pro-
vide a monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate detailing the allocation
and obligation of these funds, beginning not
later than 60 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
MISSISSIPPI RIVER AND TRIBUTARIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Mississippi
River and Tributaries’’ for necessary expenses to
address emergency situations at Corps of Engi-
neers projects and rehabilitate and repair dam-
ages to Corps of Engineers projects, caused by
natural disasters, $225,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985: Provided
further, That the Assistant Secretary of the
Army for Civil Works shall provide a monthly
report directly to the Committees on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives and the
Senate detailing the allocation and obligation of
these funds, beginning not later than 60 days
after the enactment of this Act.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operation and
Maintenance’’ for necessary expenses to dredge
Federal navigation projects in response to, and
repair damages to Corps of Engineers Federal
projects caused by, natural disasters,
$245,000,000, to remain available until expended,
of which such sums as are necessary to cover
the Federal share of eligible operation and
maintenance costs for coastal harbors and chan-
nels, and for inland harbors shall be derived
from the Harbor Maintenance Trust Fund: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985: Provided further, That the Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall pro-
vide a monthly report directly to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate detailing the allocation
and obligation of these funds, beginning not
later than 60 days after the enactment of this
Act.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT
CENTRAL UTAH PROJECT COMPLETION ACCOUNT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Central Utah
Project Completion Account’’, $350,000, to be de-
posited into the Utah Reclamation Mitigation
and Conservation Account for use by the Utah
Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Com-
mission, to remain available until expended, for
expenses necessary in carrying out fire remedi-
ation activities related to wildfires in 2018: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
BUREAU OF RECLAMATION
WATER AND RELATED RESOURCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Water and Re-
lated Resources’’, $15,500,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, for fire remediation and
suppression emergency assistance related to
wildfires in 2017 and 2018: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
ENERGY PROGRAMS
ELECTRICITY DELIVERY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Electricity De-
livery’’, $15,500,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and
Maria, and Super Typhoon Yutu, including
technical assistance related to electric grids:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985: Provided further, That the As-
sistant Secretary of Electricity Delivery shall
provide a monthly report to the Committees on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate detailing the allocation and obli-
gation of these funds, beginning not later than
60 days after the enactment of this Act.
TITLE V
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
SECURITY, ENFORCEMENT, AND
INVESTIGATIONS
COAST GUARD
OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Operations
and Support’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Michael, Flor-
ence, and Lane, Tropical Storm Gordon, and
Typhoon Mangkhut, $46,977,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2020: Provided,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
PROCUREMENT, CONSTRUCTION, AND
IMPROVEMENTS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Procurement,
Construction, and Improvements’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Michael, Florence, and Lane, Tropical
Storm Gordon, and Typhoon Mangkhut,
$476,755,000, to remain available until September
30, 2023: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE AND RESTORATION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Environmental
Compliance and Restoration’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Michael and Florence, $2,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023: Pro-
vided, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 501. (a) IN GENERAL.—The Federal share
of assistance provided for DR–4336–PR, DR–
4339–PR, DR–4340–USVI and DR–4335–USVI
under sections 403, 406 and 407 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assist-
ance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170b and 5173) shall be 100
percent of the eligible costs under such sections.
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The Federal share pro-
vided by subsection (a) shall apply to disaster
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.016 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H642 January 16, 2019
assistance applied for before, on, or after the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 502. The Administrator of the Federal
Emergency Management Agency may provide
assistance, pursuant to section 428 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.), for critical
services as defined in section 406 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act for the duration of the recovery for
incidents DR–4404, DR–4396, and DR–4398 to—
(1) replace or restore the function of a facility
or system to industry standards without regard
to the pre-disaster condition of the facility or
system; and
(2) replace or restore components of the facil-
ity or system not damaged by the disaster where
necessary to fully effectuate the replacement or
restoration of disaster-damaged components to
restore the function of the facility or system to
industry standards.
TITLE VI
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construction’’
for necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence, Lane, and
Michael, and flooding associated with major de-
clared disaster DR–4365, and calendar year 2018
earthquakes, $82,400,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That of this amount
$50,000,000 shall be used to restore and rebuild
national wildlife refuges and increase the resil-
iency and capacity of coastal habitat and infra-
structure to withstand storms and reduce the
amount of damage caused by such storms: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is designated
by the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION FUND
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Historic
Preservation Fund’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael, and Typhoon Yutu,
$50,000,000, to remain available until September
30, 2022, including costs to States and territories
necessary to complete compliance activities re-
quired by section 306108 of title 54, United States
Code (formerly section 106 of the National His-
toric Preservation Act) and costs needed to ad-
minister the program: Provided, That grants
shall only be available for areas that have re-
ceived a major disaster declaration pursuant to
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):
Provided further, That individual grants shall
not be subject to a non-Federal matching re-
quirement: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CONSTRUCTION
For an additional amount for ‘‘Construction’’
for necessary expenses related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoons Yutu and Mangkhut, and calendar
year 2018 wildfires, earthquakes, and volcanic
eruptions, $78,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY
SURVEYS, INVESTIGATIONS, AND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Surveys, In-
vestigations, and Research’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, and calendar year
2018 wildfires, earthquake damage associated
with emergency declaration EM–3410, and in
those areas impacted by a major disaster de-
clared pursuant to the Robert T. Stafford Dis-
aster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42
U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) with respect to calendar year
2018 wildfires or volcanic eruptions, $98,500,000,
to remain available until expended: Provided,
That of this amount, $72,310,000 is for costs re-
lated to the repair and replacement of equip-
ment and facilities damaged by disasters in 2018:
Provided further, That, not later than 90 days
after enactment of this Act, the Survey shall
submit a report to the Committees on Appropria-
tions that describes the potential options to re-
place the facility damaged by the 2018 volcano
disaster along with cost estimates and a descrip-
tion of how the Survey will provide direct access
for monitoring volcanic activity and the poten-
tial threat to at-risk communities: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENTAL OFFICES
INSULAR AFFAIRS
ASSISTANCE TO TERRITORIES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Technical As-
sistance’’ for financial management expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Typhoon Yutu,
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985.
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries and
Expenses’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of major disasters declared pursu-
ant to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
For an additional amount for ‘‘Science and
Technology’’ for necessary expenses related to
improving preparedness of the water sector,
$600,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985.
LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK TRUST
FUND PROGRAM
For an additional amount for ‘‘Leaking Un-
derground Storage Tank Fund’’ for necessary
expenses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, calendar year 2018
earthquakes, and Typhoon Yutu, $1,500,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND TRIBAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS
For additional amounts for ‘‘State and Tribal
Assistance Grants’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael and calendar year 2018 earth-
quakes for the hazardous waste financial assist-
ance grants program, $1,500,000, to remain
available until expended; for necessary expenses
related to the consequences of Typhoon Yutu
for the hazardous waste financial assistance
grants program and for other solid waste man-
agement activities, $56,000,000, to remain avail-
able until expended, provided that none of these
funds shall be subject to section 3011(b) of the
Solid Waste Disposal Act; and for grants under
section 106 of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act, $5,000,000, to remain available until ex-
pended, to address impacts of Hurricane Flor-
ence, Hurricane Michael, Typhoon Yutu, and
calendar year 2018 wildfires, notwithstanding
subsections (b), (e), and (f), of such section: Pro-
vided, That such amounts are designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and
Tribal Assistance Grants’’, $349,400,000 to re-
main available until expended, of which
$53,300,000 shall be for capitalization grants for
the Clean Water State Revolving Funds under
title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act, and of which $296,100,000 shall be for cap-
italization grants under section 1452 of the Safe
Drinking Water Act: Provided, That notwith-
standing section 604(a) of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act and section 1452(a)(1)(D)
of the Safe Drinking Water Act, funds appro-
priated herein shall be provided to States in
EPA Regions 4, 9, and 10 in amounts determined
by the Administrator for wastewater treatment
works and drinking water facilities impacted by
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Yutu, and calendar year 2018 wildfires and
earthquakes: Provided further, That notwith-
standing the requirements of section 603(i) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act and section
1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, for the
funds appropriated herein, each State shall use
not less than 20 percent but not more than 30
percent amount of its capitalization grants to
provide additional subsidization to eligible re-
cipients in the form of forgiveness of principal,
negative interest loans or grants or any com-
bination of these: Provided further, That the
Administrator shall retain $10,400,000 of the
funds appropriated herein for grants for drink-
ing water facilities and waste water treatment
plants impacted by Typhoon Yutu: Provided
further, That the funds appropriated herein
shall be used for eligible projects whose purpose
is to reduce flood or fire damage risk and vul-
nerability or to enhance resiliency to rapid hy-
drologic change or natural disaster at treatment
works as defined by section 212 of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act or any eligible fa-
cilities under section 1452 of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, and for other eligible tasks at such
treatment works or facilities necessary to fur-
ther such purposes: Provided further, That the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency may retain up to $1,000,000 of the funds
appropriated herein for management and over-
sight: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
In addition, for an additional amount for
‘‘State and Tribal Assistance Grants’’,
$500,000,000, to remain available until expended,
of which $261,000,000 shall be for capitalization
grants for the Clean Water State Revolving
Funds under title VI of the Federal Water Pol-
lution Control Act, and of which $239,000,000
shall be for capitalization grants under section
1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act: Provided,
That notwithstanding section 604(a) of the Fed-
eral Water Pollution Control Act and section
1452(a)(1)(D) of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
funds appropriated herein shall be provided to
States or Territories in EPA Regions 2, 4 and 6
in amounts determined by the Administrator for
wastewater and drinking water treatment works
and facilities impacted by Hurricanes Harvey,
Irma, and Maria: Provided further, That, for
Region 2, such funds allocated from funds ap-
propriated herein shall not be subject to the
matching or cost share requirements of sections
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.016 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H643
January 16, 2019
602(b)(2), 602(b)(3) of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act nor the matching requirements
of section 1452(e) of the Safe Drinking Water
Act: Provided further, That, for Region 2, not-
withstanding the requirements of section 603(i)
of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and
section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
each State and Territory shall use the full
amount of its capitalization grants allocated
from funds appropriated herein to provide addi-
tional subsidization to eligible recipients in the
form of forgiveness of principal, negative inter-
est loans or grants or any combination of these:
Provided further, That, for Regions 4 and 6,
notwithstanding the requirements of section
603(i) of the Federal Water Pollution Control
Act and section 1452(d) of the Safe Drinking
Water Act, for the funds allocated, each State
shall use not less than 20 percent but not more
than 30 percent amount of its capitalization
grants allocated from funds appropriated herein
to provide additional subsidization to eligible re-
cipients in the form of forgiveness of principal,
negative interest loans or grants or any com-
bination of these: Provided further, That the
Administrator shall retain $74,600,000 of the
funds appropriated herein for grants to any
state or territory that has not established a
water pollution control revolving fund pursuant
to title VI of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act or section 1452 of the Safe Drinking
Water Act for drinking water facilities and
waste water treatment plants impacted by Hur-
ricanes Irma and Maria: Provided further, That
the funds appropriated herein shall only be
used for eligible projects whose purpose is to re-
duce flood damage risk and vulnerability or to
enhance resiliency to rapid hydrologic change
or a natural disaster at treatment works as de-
fined by section 212 of the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act or any eligible facilities under
section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act,
and for other eligible tasks at such treatment
works or facilities necessary to further such
purposes: Provided further, That, for Region 2,
notwithstanding section 603(d)(2) of the Federal
Water Pollution Control Act and section
1452(f)(2) of the Safe Drinking Water Act, funds
allocated from funds appropriated herein may
be used to make loans or to buy, refinance or re-
structure the debt obligations of eligible recipi-
ents only where such debt was incurred on or
after September 20, 2017: Provided further, That
the Administrator of the Environmental Protec-
tion Agency may retain up to $1,000,000 of the
funds appropriated herein for management and
oversight: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
RELATED AGENCIES
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
FOREST SERVICE
FOREST AND RANGELAND RESEARCH
For an additional amount for ‘‘Forest and
Rangeland Research’’ for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael, and the calendar year 2018
wildfires, $1,000,000, to remain available until
expended for the forest inventory and analysis
program: Provided, That such amount is des-
ignated by the Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
STATE AND PRIVATE FORESTRY
For an additional amount for ‘‘State and Pri-
vate Forestry’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, and the calendar year 2018 wildfires,
$2,000,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985.
NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM
For an additional amount for ‘‘National For-
est System’’ for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricanes Florence and
Michael, and the calendar year 2018 wildfires,
$63,960,000, to remain available until expended:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985.
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT AND MAINTENANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Capital Im-
provement and Maintenance’’ for necessary ex-
penses related to the consequences of Hurri-
canes Florence and Michael, and the calendar
year 2018 wildfires, $36,040,000, to remain avail-
able until expended: Provided, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
WILDLAND FIRE MANAGEMENT
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Wildland Fire
Management’’, $720,271,000, to remain available
through September 30, 2022, for urgent wildland
fire suppression operations: Provided, That such
funds shall be solely available to be transferred
to and merged with other appropriations ac-
counts from which funds were previously trans-
ferred for wildland fire suppression in fiscal
year 2018 to fully repay those amounts: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is designated
by the Congress as an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
SCIENCES
For an additional amount for ‘‘National Insti-
tute of Environmental Health Sciences’’ for nec-
essary expenses in carrying out activities set
forth in section 311(a) of the Comprehensive En-
vironmental Response, Compensation, and Li-
ability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9660(a)) and sec-
tion 126(g) of the Superfund Amendments and
Reauthorization Act of 1986 related to the con-
sequences of major disasters declared pursuant
to the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et
seq.) in 2018, $1,000,000, to remain available
until expended: Provided, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 601. Not later than 45 days after the date
of enactment of this Act, the agencies receiving
funds appropriated by this title shall provide a
detailed operating plan of anticipated uses of
funds made available in this title by State and
Territory, and by program, project, and activity,
to the Committees on Appropriations: Provided,
That no such funds shall be obligated before the
operating plans are provided to the Committees:
Provided further, That such plans shall be up-
dated, including obligations to date, and sub-
mitted to the Committees on Appropriations
every 60 days until all such funds are expended.
TITLE VII
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING ADMINISTRATION
TRAINING AND EMPLOYMENT SERVICES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Training and
Employment Services’’, $50,000,000, for the dis-
located workers assistance national reserve for
necessary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, or
the California wildfires occurring in calendar
year 2018, to remain available through Sep-
tember 30, 2020: Provided, That the Secretary of
Labor may transfer up to $1,000,000 of such
funds to any other Department of Labor ac-
count for reconstruction and recovery needs, in-
cluding worker protection activities: Provided
further, That these sums may be used to replace
grant funds previously obligated to the impacted
areas: Provided further, That of the amount
provided, up to $500,000, to remain available
until expended, shall be transferred to ‘‘Office
of Inspector General’’ for oversight of activities
responding to such consequences: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES
SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
HEALTH SURVEILLANCE AND PROGRAM SUPPORT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Health Sur-
veillance and Program Support’’, $30,000,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2019, for
grants, contracts and cooperative agreements
for behavioral health treatment, crisis coun-
seling, and other related helplines, and for other
similar programs to provide support to individ-
uals impacted by Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, and the California wildfires occurring in
2018 in those areas for which a major disaster or
emergency has been declared under section 401
or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170
and 5191): Provided, That obligations incurred
for the purposes provided herein prior to the
date of enactment of this Act may be charged to
funds appropriated under this heading: Pro-
vided further, That such amount is designated
by the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985.
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES
SOCIAL SERVICES BLOCK GRANT
For an additional amount for ‘‘Social Services
Block Grant’’, $250,000,000, which shall remain
available through September 30, 2020, for nec-
essary expenses directly related to the con-
sequences of Hurricanes Florence and Michael,
Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and
the California wildfires in 2018 in those areas
for which a major disaster or emergency has
been declared under section 401 or 501 of the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191):
Provided, That notwithstanding section 2002 of
the Social Security Act, the distribution of such
amount shall be limited to States directly af-
fected by these events: Provided further, That
the time limits in section 2002(c) of the Social Se-
curity Act shall not apply to funds appropriated
in this paragraph that are used for renovation,
repair or construction: Provided further, That
funds appropriated in this paragraph are in ad-
dition to the entitlement grants authorized by
section 2002(a)(1) of the Social Security Act and
shall not be available for such entitlement
grants: Provided further, That in addition to
other uses permitted by title XX of the Social
Security Act, funds appropriated in this para-
graph may be used for health services (including
mental health services), and for costs of ren-
ovating, repairing, and construction of health
care facilities (including mental health facili-
ties), child care centers, and other social serv-
ices facilities: Provided further, That of the
amount provided, up to $1,000,000, to remain
available until expended, shall be transferred to
‘‘Office of the Secretary—Office of Inspector
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.016 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H644 January 16, 2019
General’’ for oversight of activities responding
to such hurricanes, typhoons, and wildfires:
Provided further, That funds appropriated in
this paragraph shall not be available for costs
that are reimbursed by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, under a contract for in-
surance, or by self-insurance: Provided further,
That obligations incurred for the purposes pro-
vided herein prior to the date of enactment of
this Act may be charged to funds appropriated
under this heading: Provided further, That up
to $3,000,000 may be used to supplement amounts
available for the necessary expenses of admin-
istering subtitle A of title XX of the Social Secu-
rity Act: Provided further, That such amount is
designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES SERVICES PROGRAMS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Children and
Families Services Programs’’, $60,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2021, for
Head Start programs, including making pay-
ments under the Head Start Act, for necessary
expenses directly related to the consequences of
Hurricanes Florence and Michael, Typhoon
Mangkhut, Super Typhoon Yutu, and the Cali-
fornia wildfires in 2018 in those areas for which
a major disaster or emergency has been declared
under section 401 or 501 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5170 and 5191): Provided, That
none of the funds appropriated in this para-
graph shall be included in the calculation of the
‘‘base grant’’ in subsequent fiscal years, as such
term is defined in sections 640(a)(7)(A),
641A(h)(1)(B), or 645(d)(3) of the Head Start
Act: Provided further, That funds appropriated
in this paragraph are not subject to the alloca-
tion requirements of section 640(a) of the Head
Start Act: Provided further, That funds appro-
priated in this paragraph shall not be available
for costs that are reimbursed by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, under a con-
tract for insurance, or by self-insurance: Pro-
vided further, That up to $2,000,000 shall be
available for Federal administrative expenses:
Provided further, That obligations incurred for
the purposes provided herein prior to the date of
enactment of this Act may be charged to funds
appropriated under this heading: Provided fur-
ther, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
EDUCATION RECOVERY
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Education Re-
covery’’ for necessary expenses related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael, Typhoon Mangkhut, Super Typhoon
Yutu, the California wildfires in 2018, the No-
vember 2018 Anchorage Earthquake or the vol-
canic eruption and earthquakes in Hawaii in
2018 in those areas for which a major disaster or
emergency has been declared under section 401
or 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief
and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170
and 5191) (referred to under this heading as a
‘‘covered disaster or emergency’’), $165,000,000,
to remain available through September 30, 2019:
Provided, That such amount is designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985: Provided further, That such as-
sistance may be provided through any of the
programs authorized under this heading in divi-
sion B of title VIII of Public Law 115–123 (as
amended by Public Law 115–141), as determined
by the Secretary of Education, and subject to
the terms and conditions that applied to those
programs, except that references to dates and
school years in Public Law 115–123 shall be
deemed to be the corresponding dates and school
years for the covered disaster or emergency: Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary of Education
may determine the amounts to be used for each
such program and shall notify the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate of these amounts not later
than 7 days prior to obligation: Provided fur-
ther, $2,000,000 of the funds made available
under this heading, to remain available until ex-
pended, shall be transferred to the Office of the
Inspector General of the Department of Edu-
cation for oversight of activities supported with
funds appropriated under this heading, and up
to $1,000,000 of the funds made available under
this heading shall be for program administra-
tion.
GENERAL PROVISIONS—THIS TITLE
SEC. 701. (a) Section 1108(g)(5) of the Social
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1308(g)(5)) is amended—
(1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ‘‘and
(E)’’ and inserting ‘‘(E), and (F)’’;
(2) in subparagraph (C), in the matter pre-
ceding clause (i), by striking ‘‘and (E)’’ and in-
serting ‘‘and (F)’’;
(3) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as sub-
paragraph (F);
(4) by inserting after subparagraph (D), the
following:
‘‘(E) Subject to subparagraph (F), for the pe-
riod beginning January 1, 2019, and ending Sep-
tember 30, 2019, the amount of the increase oth-
erwise provided under subparagraph (A) for the
Northern Mariana Islands shall be further in-
creased by $20,000,000.’’; and
(5) in subparagraph (F) (as redesignated by
paragraph (3) of this section)—
(A) by striking ‘‘title XIX, during’’and insert-
ing ‘‘title XIX—
‘‘(i) during’’;
(B) by striking ‘‘and (D)’’ and inserting ‘‘,
(D), and (E)’’;
(C) by striking ‘‘and the Virgin Islands’’ each
place it appears and inserting ‘‘, the Virgin Is-
lands, and the Northern Mariana Islands’’;
(D) by striking the period at the end and in-
serting ‘‘; and’’; and
(E) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(ii) for the period beginning January 1, 2019,
and ending September 30, 2019, with respect to
payments to Guam and American Samoa from
the additional funds provided under subpara-
graph (A), the Secretary shall increase the Fed-
eral medical assistance percentage or other rate
that would otherwise apply to such payments to
100 percent.’’.
(b) The amounts provided by the amendments
made by subsection (a) are designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
SEC. 702. Not later than 30 days after the date
of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries of
Labor, Health and Human Services, and Edu-
cation shall provide a detailed spend plan of an-
ticipated uses of funds made available in this
title, including estimated personnel and admin-
istrative costs, to the Committees on Appropria-
tions: Provided, That such plans shall be up-
dated and submitted to the Committees on Ap-
propriations every 60 days until all funds are
expended or expire.
SEC. 703. The second proviso under the head-
ing ‘‘Hurricane Education Recovery’’ under the
heading ‘‘Department of Education’’ under title
VIII of subdivision 1 of division B of the Bipar-
tisan Budget Act of 2018 (Public Law 115–123;
132 Stat. 95) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (I), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(K) assistance provided to an eligible entity
under this heading, including assistance pro-
vided to an eligible entity before the date of en-
actment of the Supplemental Appropriations
Act, 2019, may be used by the eligible entity for
a purpose described in section 406 of the Robert
T. Stafford Disaster and Relief Emergency Act
(42 U.S.C. 5172), notwithstanding section
102(e)(3) of title IV of division B of Public Law
109–148 (119 Stat. 2794), if the eligible entity will
receive funds for that purpose under such sec-
tion 406; and
‘‘(L) any duplicative Federal assistance pro-
vided under this heading to an eligible entity
may be retained by the entity and used for other
activities to restart school operations in accord-
ance with this paragraph;’’;
(2) in paragraph (9), by striking ‘‘and’’ after
the semicolon;
(3) by redesignating paragraph (10) as para-
graph (11); and
(4) by inserting after paragraph (9) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(10) amounts available under paragraph (4)
that exceed the amount required to meet the
need for such funds as determined by the Sec-
retary as of December 31, 2018, shall be available
to carry out paragraph (3); and’’:
Provided, That amounts repurposed pursuant to
this section that were previously designated by
the Congress as an emergency requirement pur-
suant to the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act are designated by the Con-
gress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
TITLE VIII
LEGISLATIVE BRANCH
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
SALARIES AND EXPENSES
For an additional amount for ‘‘Salaries and
Expenses’’, $10,000,000, to remain available until
expended, for audits and investigations related
to Hurricanes Florence, Lane, and Michael, Ty-
phoons Yutu and Mangkhut, the calendar year
2018 wildfires, earthquakes, and volcano erup-
tions, and other disasters declared pursuant to
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.):
Provided, That, not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Government
Accountability Office shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Senate a spend plan speci-
fying funding estimates for audits and inves-
tigations of any such declared disasters occur-
ring in 2018 and identifying funding estimates
or carryover balances, if any, that may be avail-
able for audits and investigations of any other
such declared disasters: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE IX
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, NAVY AND MARINE
CORPS
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military Con-
struction, Navy and Marine Corps’’,
$115,000,000, to remain available until September
30, 2023, for planning and design related to the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael on Navy and Marine Corps installations:
Provided, That none of the funds shall be avail-
able for obligation until the Committees on Ap-
propriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate receive a master plan for the in-
stallations and a form 1391 for each specific
project: Provided further, That, not later than
60 days after enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary of the Navy, or his designee, shall submit
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a de-
tailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.016 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H645
January 16, 2019
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, AIR FORCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military Con-
struction, Air Force’’, $700,000,000, to remain
available until September 30, 2023, for planning
and design, and construction expenses related to
the consequences of Hurricane Michael: Pro-
vided, That none of the funds shall be available
for obligation until the Committees on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives and
the Senate receive a basing plan and future mis-
sion requirements for installations significantly
damaged by Hurricane Michael: Provided fur-
ther, That, not later than 60 days after enact-
ment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force,
or his designee, shall submit to the Committees
on Appropriations of the House of Representa-
tives and the Senate a detailed expenditure plan
for funds provided under this heading: Provided
further, That such amount is designated by the
Congress as being for an emergency requirement
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985.
MILITARY CONSTRUCTION, ARMY NATIONAL
GUARD
For an additional amount for ‘‘Military Con-
struction, Army National Guard’’, $42,400,000, to
remain available until September 30, 2023, for
necessary expenses related to the consequences
of Hurricanes Florence and Michael: Provided,
That none of the funds shall be available for ob-
ligation until the Committees on Appropriations
of the House of Representatives and the Senate
receive form 1391 for each specific request: Pro-
vided further, That, not later than 60 days after
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Army
National Guard, or his designee, shall submit to
the Committees on Appropriations of the House
of Representatives and the Senate a detailed ex-
penditure plan for funds provided under this
heading: Provided further, That such funds
may be obligated or expended for planning and
design and military construction projects not
otherwise authorized by law: Provided further,
That such amount is designated by the Congress
as being for an emergency requirement pursuant
to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION
MEDICAL FACILITIES
(INCLUDING TRANSFER OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Medical Fa-
cilities’’, $3,000,000, to remain available until
September 30, 2023, for necessary expenses re-
lated to the consequences of Hurricanes Flor-
ence and Michael and Typhoons Mangkhut and
Yutu: Provided, That the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs, upon determination that such action is
necessary to address needs as a result of the
consequences of Hurricanes Florence and Mi-
chael and Typhoons Mangkhut and Yutu, may
transfer such funds to any discretionary ac-
count of the Department of Veterans Affairs:
Provided further, That before a transfer may
take place, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall submit notice thereof to the Committee on
Appropriations of the House of Representatives
and the Senate: Provided further, That none of
these funds shall be available for obligation
until the Secretary of Veterans Affairs submits
to the Committees on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives and the Senate a de-
tailed expenditure plan for funds provided
under this heading: Provided further, That such
amount is designated by the Congress as being
for an emergency requirement pursuant to sec-
tion 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
TITLE X
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION
PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION EMERGENCY RELIEF
PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the ‘‘Public
Transportation Emergency Relief Program’’ as
authorized under section 5324 of title 49, United
States Code, $10,542,000 to remain available
until expended, for transit systems affected by
major declared disasters occurring in calendar
year 2018: Provided, That not more than three-
quarters of 1 percent of the funds for public
transportation emergency relief shall be avail-
able for administrative expenses and ongoing
program management oversight as authorized
under sections 5334 and 5338(f)(2) of such title
and shall be in addition to any other appropria-
tions for such purpose: Provided further, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION
OPERATIONS
(AIRPORT AND AIRWAY TRUST FUND)
Of the amounts made available for ‘‘Federal
Aviation Administration—Operations’’ in divi-
sion B of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018
(Public Law 115–123), up to $18,000,000 shall also
be available for necessary expenses related to
the consequences of major declared disasters oc-
curring in calendar year 2018: Provided, That
amounts repurposed under this heading that
were previously designated by the Congress as
an emergency requirement pursuant to the Bal-
anced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control
Act of 1985 are designated by the Congress as an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
FEDERAL HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION
EMERGENCY RELIEF PROGRAM
For an additional amount for the Emergency
Relief Program as authorized under section 125
of title 23, United States Code, $1,650,000,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided, That
such amount is designated by the Congress as
being for an emergency requirement pursuant to
section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget
and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FUND
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS OF FUNDS)
For an additional amount for ‘‘Community
Development Fund’’, $1,160,000,000, to remain
available until expended, for necessary expenses
for activities authorized under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster
relief, long-term recovery, restoration of infra-
structure and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas resulting from a major disaster
that occurred in 2018 (except as otherwise pro-
vided under this heading) pursuant to the Rob-
ert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.): Provided,
That funds shall be awarded directly to the
State, unit of general local government, or In-
dian tribe (as such term is defined in section 102
of the Housing and Community Development
Act of 1974) at the discretion of the Secretary:
Provided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading that remain avail-
able, after the funds under this heading and
under the same heading in Public Law 115-254
have been allocated to meet unmet needs for dis-
asters that occurred in 2018, up to $100,000,000
shall be allocated to meet unmet infrastructure
needs for grantees that received allocations for
disasters that occurred in 2017 (excluding disas-
ters specified in section 501(a) of title V of this
Act) under this heading of division B of Public
Law 115-56 and title XI of Public Law 115-123:
Provided further, That of the amounts provided
in the previous proviso, the Secretary’s unmet
infrastructure needs determinations shall not
take into account mitigation-specific alloca-
tions: Provided further, That any funds made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254 that remain
available, after the funds under such headings
have been allocated for necessary expenses for
activities authorized under such headings, shall
be allocated to grantees, for mitigation activities
in the most impacted and distressed areas result-
ing from a major disaster that occurred in 2018:
Provided further, That such allocations shall be
made in the same proportion that the amount of
funds each grantee received under this Act and
the same heading in division I of Public Law
115–254 bears to the amount of all funds pro-
vided to all grantees that received allocations
for disasters that occurred in 2018: Provided fur-
ther, That of the amounts made available under
the text preceding the first proviso under this
heading and under the same heading in Public
Law 115–254, the Secretary shall allocate to all
such grantees an aggregate amount not less
than 33 percent of the sum of such amounts of
funds within 120 days after the enactment of
this Act based on the best available data, and
shall allocate no less than 100 percent of such
funds by no later than 180 days after the enact-
ment of this Act: Provided further, That the
Secretary shall not prohibit the use of funds
made available under this heading and the same
heading in Public Law 115–254 for non-Federal
share as authorized by section 105(a)(9) of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5305(a)(9)): Provided further,
That of the amounts made available under this
heading, grantees may establish grant programs
to assist small businesses for working capital
purposes to aid in recovery: Provided further,
That as a condition of making any grant, the
Secretary shall certify in advance that such
grantee has in place proficient financial con-
trols and procurement processes and has estab-
lished adequate procedures to prevent any du-
plication of benefits as defined by section 312 of
the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emer-
gency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155), to ensure
timely expenditure of funds, to maintain com-
prehensive websites regarding all disaster recov-
ery activities assisted with these funds, and to
detect and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse of
funds: Provided further, That with respect to
any such duplication of benefits, the Secretary
and any grantee under this section shall not
take into consideration or reduce the amount
provided to any applicant for assistance from
the grantee where such applicant applied for
and was approved, but declined assistance re-
lated to such major disasters that occurred in
2018 from the Small Business Administration
under section 7(b) of the Small Business Act (15
U.S.C. 636(b)): Provided further, That the Sec-
retary shall require grantees to maintain on a
public website information containing common
reporting criteria established by the Department
that permits individuals and entities awaiting
assistance and the general public to see how all
grant funds are used, including copies of all rel-
evant procurement documents, grantee adminis-
trative contracts and details of ongoing procure-
ment processes, as determined by the Secretary:
Provided further, That prior to the obligation of
funds a grantee shall submit a plan to the Sec-
retary for approval detailing the proposed use of
all funds, including criteria for eligibility and
how the use of these funds will address long-
term recovery and restoration of infrastructure
and housing, economic revitalization, and miti-
gation in the most impacted and distressed
areas: Provided further, That such funds may
not be used for activities reimbursable by, or for
which funds are made available by, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or the Army
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.016 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H646 January 16, 2019
Corps of Engineers: Provided further, That
funds allocated under this heading shall not be
considered relevant to the non-disaster formula
allocations made pursuant to section 106 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5306): Provided further, That a
State, unit of general local government, or In-
dian tribe may use up to 5 percent of its alloca-
tion for administrative costs: Provided further,
That the first proviso under this heading in the
Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief
Requirements Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law
115–254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or unit of
general local government’’ and inserting ‘‘State,
unit of general local government, or Indian tribe
(as such term is defined in section 102 of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That
the sixth proviso under this heading in the Sup-
plemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Re-
quirements Act, 2018 (division I of Public Law
115–254) is amended by striking ‘‘State or sub-
division thereof’’ and inserting ‘‘State, unit of
general local government, or Indian tribe (as
such term is defined in section 102 of the Hous-
ing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42
U.S.C. 5302))’’: Provided further, That in ad-
ministering the funds under this heading, the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development
may waive, or specify alternative requirements
for, any provision of any statute or regulation
that the Secretary administers in connection
with the obligation by the Secretary or the use
by the recipient of these funds (except for re-
quirements related to fair housing, non-
discrimination, labor standards, and the envi-
ronment), if the Secretary finds that good cause
exists for the waiver or alternative requirement
and such waiver or alternative requirement
would not be inconsistent with the overall pur-
pose of title I of the Housing and Community
Development Act of 1974: Provided further,
That, notwithstanding the preceding proviso,
recipients of funds provided under this heading
that use such funds to supplement Federal as-
sistance provided under section 402, 403, 404,
406, 407, 408 (c)(4), or 502 of the Robert T. Staf-
ford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) may adopt, without
review or public comment, any environmental
review, approval, or permit performed by a Fed-
eral agency, and such adoption shall satisfy the
responsibilities of the recipient with respect to
such environmental review, approval or permit:
Provided further, That, notwithstanding section
104(g)(2) of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5304(g)(2)), the
Secretary may, upon receipt of a request for re-
lease of funds and certification, immediately ap-
prove the release of funds for an activity or
project assisted under this heading if the recipi-
ent has adopted an environmental review, ap-
proval or permit under the preceding proviso or
the activity or project is categorically excluded
from review under the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.): Pro-
vided further, That the Secretary shall publish
via notice in the Federal Register any waiver, or
alternative requirement, to any statute or regu-
lation that the Secretary administers pursuant
to title I of the Housing and Community Devel-
opment Act of 1974 no later than 5 days before
the effective date of such waiver or alternative
requirement: Provided further, That of the
amounts made available under this heading, up
to $5,000,000 shall be made available for capac-
ity building and technical assistance, including
assistance on contracting and procurement
processes, to support States, units of general
local government, or Indian tribes (and their
subrecipients) that receive allocations pursuant
to this heading, received disaster recovery allo-
cations under the same heading in Public Law
115–254, or may receive similar allocations for
disaster recovery in future appropriations Acts:
Provided further, That of the amounts made
available under this heading and under the
same heading in Public Law 115–254, up to
$2,500,000 shall be transferred, in aggregate, to
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Program Office Salaries and Expenses—
Community Planning and Development’’ for
necessary costs, including information tech-
nology costs, of administering and overseeing
the obligation and expenditure of amounts
under this heading: Provided further, That the
amount specified in the preceding proviso shall
be combined with funds appropriated under the
same heading and for the same purpose in Pub-
lic Law 115–254 and the aggregate of such
amounts shall be available for any of the same
such purposes specified under this heading or
the same heading in Public Law 115–254 without
limitation: Provided further, That such amount
is designated by the Congress as being for an
emergency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS TITLE
SEC. 1001. (a) Amounts previously made avail-
able for activities authorized under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster
relief, long-term recovery, restoration of infra-
structure and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas resulting from a major disaster, in-
cluding funds provided under section 145 of di-
vision C of Public Law 114–223, section 192 of di-
vision C of Public Law 114–223 (as added by sec-
tion 101(3) of division A of Public Law 114–254),
section 421 of division K of Public Law 115–31,
and any mitigation funding provided under the
heading ‘‘Department of Housing and Urban
Development—Community Planning and Devel-
opment—Community Development Fund’’ of
Public Law 115–123, that were allocated in re-
sponse to Hurricane Matthew, may be used
interchangeably and without limitation for the
same activities in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas related to Hurricane Florence. In
addition, any funds provided under the heading
‘‘Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment—Community Planning and Development—
Community Development Fund’’ in this Act or
in division I of Public Law 115–254 that are allo-
cated in response to Hurricane Florence may be
used interchangeably and without limitation for
the same activities in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas related to Hurricane Matthew.
Until HUD publishes the Federal Register Notice
implementing this provision, grantees may sub-
mit for HUD approval revised plans for the use
of funds related to Hurricane Matthew that ex-
pand the eligible beneficiaries of existing pro-
grams contained in such previously approved
plans to include those impacted by Hurricane
Florence. Approval of any such revised plans
shall include the execution of revised grant
terms and conditions as necessary. Once the im-
plementing Notice is published, any additional
action plan revisions shall follow the require-
ments contained therein.
(b) Amounts made available for administrative
costs for activities authorized under title I of the
Housing and Community Development Act of
1974 (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.) related to disaster
relief, long-term recovery, restoration of infra-
structure and housing, economic revitalization,
and mitigation in the most impacted and dis-
tressed areas under this Act or any future Act,
and amounts previously provided under section
420 of division L of Public Law 114–113, section
145 of division C of Public Law 114–223, section
192 of division C of Public Law 114–223 (as
added by section 101(3) of division A of Public
Law 114–254), section 421 of division K of Public
Law 115–31, and under the heading ‘‘Depart-
ment of Housing and Urban Development—Com-
munity Planning and Development—Community
Development Fund’’ of division B of Public Law
115–56, Public Law 115–123, and Public Law 115–
254, shall be available for eligible administrative
costs of the grantee related to any disaster relief
funding identified in this subsection without re-
gard to the particular disaster appropriation
from which such funds originated.
(c) The additional uses pursuant to this sec-
tion for amounts that were previously des-
ignated by the Congress, respectively, as an
emergency requirement or as being for disaster
relief pursuant to the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act are designated by
the Congress as being for an emergency require-
ment pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Con-
trol Act of 1985 or as being for disaster relief
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(D) of the Balanced
Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of
1985.
TITLE XI
GENERAL PROVISION—THIS ACT
SEC. 1101. Each amount designated in this Act
by the Congress as being for an emergency re-
quirement pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(i) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 shall be available (or re-
scinded or transferred, if applicable) only if the
President subsequently so designates all such
amounts and transmits such designations to the
Congress.
TITLE XII—FURTHER CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS
SEC. 1201. The Continuing Appropriations
Act, 2019 (division C of Public Law 115–245) is
further amended by striking the date specified
in seciton 105(3) and inserting ‘‘February 8,
2019’’.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Supplemental
Appropriations Act, 2019’’.
The Acting CHAIR. No further
amendment to the bill, as amended, is
in order except those printed in part B
of House Report 116–2. Each such fur-
ther amendment may be offered only in
the order printed in the report, by a
Member designated in the report, shall
be considered read, shall be debatable
for the time specified in the report,
equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not
be subject to amendment, and shall not
be subject to a demand for division of
the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. BISHOP OF
GEORGIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 1 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 1, line 13, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $1,900,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from Georgia (Mr. BISHOP) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Georgia.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair, I
rise to speak on behalf of this amend-
ment, which is cosponsored by my very
good friend, the gentleman from Geor-
gia (Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT), and 12 other
distinguished Members on both sides of
the aisle.
As I said during general debate, Hur-
ricane Michael devastated my district
and left a path of destruction all the
way up to Virginia. Across the State of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.016 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H647
January 16, 2019
Georgia, many producers suffered near-
ly 100 percent crop loss. Damages were
experienced by the pecan, peanut, cot-
ton, vegetable, and timber industries,
and this is the third straight year these
folks were hit.
A few weeks before that, Hurricane
Florence hit the Carolinas, causing $22
billion in damage. Last year, Califor-
nians witnessed another devastating
wildfire season, while Hawaii suffered
from volcano damage, the Northern
Mariana Islands were hit by typhoons,
and American Samoa, by a horrific cy-
clone.
This disaster supplemental bill pro-
vides funds to begin addressing these
needs for our agriculture and our rural
communities. The bill increases pay-
ments for losses from 85 to 90 percent
for producers who have crop insurance
and from 65 to 70 percent for producers
without crop insurance.
Unfortunately, the $1.1 billion in the
bill was based only on USDA’s assess-
ment of need, nationwide. However, the
various State departments of agri-
culture, those States that were dev-
astated by these disasters, submitted
to the committee assessments which
came to over $7 billion.
To ensure that more of these needs
can be fully met, Mr. SCOTT and I put
our heads together. We looked at the
numbers and concluded that the origi-
nal estimate by the Department of Ag-
riculture of $1.1 billion in damages
could very well and was, most likely,
going to be too low; so we have offered
this amendment to increase it by $1.9
billion, for a total of $3 billion.
I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the Bishop-
Scott amendment. It was needed. We
want to make sure that we can do what
is necessary to allow Americans who
were devastated by these natural disas-
ters to have sufficient recovery.
Mr. Chairman, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Chairman, I claim time in opposition,
although it is a technical opposition. I
am not opposed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Chairman, throughout middle and late
October and into the first of November,
Congressman BISHOP and I crisscrossed
paths many times and sometimes—in
fact, many times—ended up in the
same room trying to help our farmers.
The storm straddled our districts.
I have never seen the devastation to
our crops that I saw over those couple
of weeks, and that devastation is still
there.
I can’t thank my colleague, Con-
gressman BISHOP, enough for his work
and his help on this amendment. I
would also like to thank his staff and
the staff of both the Democrats and Re-
publicans on the Appropriations Com-
mittee.
The gentleman from Alabama (Mr.
ADERHOLT) has been a tremendous
amount of help, as has Ms. GRANGER,
and Chairwoman LOWEY on the Demo-
cratic side. Mr. MCGOVERN has been a
lot of help. A lot of people have reached
out and been willing to help those of us
in the Southeast, and I can’t say thank
you enough for that.
Our losses are estimated at over $5.4
billion for Alabama, Florida, Georgia,
and the Carolinas.
The underlying text of the bill is
good—in fact, I think it is very good—
and sets a framework that will be used
as we go forward in the years to handle
disaster relief for agriculture. The pri-
mary problem is that the request of
$1.1 billion currently included in the
base text simply does not fund the for-
mula for the losses.
With Congressman BISHOP’s help, we
have worked to draft the amendment,
increasing that amount by $1.9 billion,
to a total of $3 billion, which I believe,
along with Mr. BISHOP, more accu-
rately reflects the need to fund the for-
mula.
I, again, hope my colleagues will sup-
port the amendment.
I want to thank Congressman BISHOP
and the many others who have worked
with us on this.
Mr. Chairman, I yield such time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
North Carolina (Mr. ROUZER).
Mr. ROUZER. Mr. Chairman, I want
to thank my good colleague and friend,
AUSTIN SCOTT, for his leadership on
this, as well as, certainly, the chair-
man, Chairman BISHOP from Georgia,
whom, by the way, I have heard lots
about for many, many years from
many mutual friends that he and I
both have. I look forward to working
with him not only on this, but on many
other matters as they come before us.
There is absolutely no question: agri-
culture all across the Southeast has
been significantly damaged, devastated
in many, many parts.
In North Carolina, we are still reel-
ing from the hurricane in 2016, Hurri-
cane Matthew. And then, of course,
Hurricane Florence came and hit not
only the same areas that Hurricane
Matthew hit, but hit a much broader
area of North Carolina. In fact, why
don’t we just say it really devastated
and inflicted a lot of harm all across
eastern North Carolina, this on top of a
5-year decline in farm income not only
in North Carolina, but across the coun-
try.
So you have had a significant short-
fall in income for all these farm fami-
lies all over the country, North Caro-
lina included.
Then comes Hurricane Matthew in
2016, floods all those out who are in its
path. And when I say ‘‘floods,’’ I mean
a real flood, flooding that you have not
seen in many, many years.
And then Hurricane Florence comes
in 2018. It is not only the same areas
that Hurricane Matthew hit in 2016, but
hits a much broader geographical re-
gion in North Carolina and elsewhere.
So over the last 5 years, you have not
only had a huge decrease in farm in-
come, you have had all kinds of natural
disasters—not just in North Carolina,
but elsewhere. As a result, all these
farm families have lost all their eq-
uity. They have no equity left.
Without the disaster recovery pack-
age that Congress has previously
passed and what we hope to pass even-
tually here, that is contained in this
body of work today, will be a start to
rebuild, to enable these folks to cash-
flow, to enable them just to get the fi-
nancing that they need to put in the
ground a new crop for the year 2019.
So I commend both of my colleagues
for their help and their support on this,
and I encourage the rest of the body to
join with us and adopt this amend-
ment.
Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia. Mr.
Chairman, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Mr. Chair-
man, to close, I just want to reiterate
how important it is for us to pass suffi-
cient resources in order to allow these
communities that have been dev-
astated all across the United States, as
well as the territories, to recover from
these natural disasters.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr. BISHOP).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. MCGOVERN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 2 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk, and I
ask for its consideration.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. lll. None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this Act for
the Army Corps of Engineers or Department
of Homeland Security may be obligated or
expended to plan, develop, or construct a
new physical barrier along the Southwest
border.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Massachusetts.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Chairman, I
yield myself 2 minutes.
Mr. Chairman, I don’t get to say this
often, but I agree with Senator TED
CRUZ. Yesterday, along with members
of the Texas congressional delegation,
he wrote to President Trump. Part of
his letter read: ‘‘ . . . we are strongly
opposed to using funds appropriated by
Congress for disaster relief and mitiga-
tion for Texas for any unintended pur-
pose.’’
I agree. Disaster funding should go
where Congress intended: to the sites
of actual disasters, to communities
dealing with things like hurricanes,
mudslides, wildfires and floods.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.061 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H648 January 16, 2019
That is what my amendment is all
about. It states that none of the funds
in this disaster supplemental for the
Army Corps of Engineers or Depart-
ment of Homeland Security may be
used to plan, develop, or construct the
President’s border wall. It is that sim-
ple.
If someone like me, a progressive
Member of the House, can see eye to
eye with Senator TED CRUZ on this, one
of the biggest cheerleaders for the
President’s border wall, then this
amendment should pass with broad bi-
partisan support.
It isn’t about whether or not you sup-
port building a border wall; it is about
whether we support a President moving
disaster funding away from where Con-
gress said it should go, away from com-
munities that are rebuilding. These
people aren’t interested in building a
wall. They need to rebuild their homes.
So today, we are talking about Presi-
dent Trump and the wall. But, Mr.
Chairman, if we don’t take a strong
stand against subverting the will of
Congress this time, then it opens the
door for the next President, Democrat
or Republican, to use disaster funding
as a piggy bank for their priority,
whatever it may be.
I think the border wall would be inef-
fective and a waste of taxpayer dollars,
but you can disagree with me and still
support my amendment, because we all
should agree that no President should
be redirecting funding away from
where Congress said it should go.
The supplemental provides $12 billion
in disaster relief for communities try-
ing to rebuild. Let’s make sure every
penny actually goes to disaster relief.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. PLASKETT).
The gentlewoman from Texas is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, the
funds in this bill, especially those
funds for the Army Corps of Engineers
and the Coast Guard, are specifically
for repairing storm damage in our com-
munities. The agencies have identified
specific projects and calculated esti-
mates to bring our infrastructure and
agency assets back to full operation.
Not a single paragraph in the bill be-
fore us includes funds for a wall on the
U.S.-Mexico border, yet this amend-
ment restricts funds for this purpose.
My colleagues, this amendment
walks away from all the good work
Chairwoman LOWEY tried to do for the
Corps and the Coast Guard and blocks
the necessary border investments re-
quired in a final compromise.
Unfortunately, this amendment will
be viewed by many of my colleagues as
a poison pill. It ignores investments
that those on my side of the aisle be-
lieve are necessary to fund a way for-
ward, that will provide disaster funds,
address the border crisis, and reopen
the government.
I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on this amend-
ment, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
b 1530
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Chair, I in-
clude in the RECORD a letter to the
President from the Texas delegation
objecting to using disaster money for
the border wall.
These individuals support the wall, I
assume most of them do, but they
don’t support the President’s promise
that he might use executive powers to
go into disaster money to pay for the
border wall.
U.S. SENATE,
Washington, DC, January 15, 2019.
Hon. DONALD TRUMP,
President of the United States,
The White House, Washington, DC.
MR. PRESIDENT: The widespread flooding,
storm surges and high winds that resulted
from Hurricane Harvey’s landfall (DR–4332)
left many parts of the Texas coast paralyzed
for months. Harvey leveled thousands of
homes and businesses, altering many Texas
communities forever. This disaster required
a massive, coordinated response at the state,
local and federal levels to help individuals
restore their lives to normal as quickly as
possible. Texas continues to rebuild through
coordinated efforts at all levels of govern-
ment and important work is underway to
mitigate against future storms.
We—and the millions of Texas citizens we
represent—remain thankful to the numerous
federal agencies and first responders who co-
ordinated and contributed resources and per-
sonnel. Shortly after the rains subsided, Con-
gress swiftly acted by passing three separate
disaster supplemental bills, including the Bi-
partisan Budget Act of 2018 (P.L. 115–123),
which contained over $15 billion dollars for
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers civil works
projects.
Recent reports have indicated that your
Administration is considering the use of U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers funds, appropriated
by Congress and intended for Hurricane Har-
vey recovery and mitigation efforts, in an ef-
fort to secure our southern border. We
strongly support securing the border with
additional federal resources including tac-
tical infrastructure, technology, ports of
entry improvements and personnel. However,
we are strongly opposed to using funds ap-
propriated by Congress for disaster relief and
mitigation for Texas for any unintended pur-
pose. As Texans continue to rebuild and pre-
pare for future disasters, these funds, appro-
priated by Congress to be spent directly on
rebuilding and mitigation, are critical to
helping our communities recover, preventing
future flooding and protecting our constitu-
ents. Thank you for your commitment to
help Texas respond to Hurricane Harvey and
to secure the southern border. We ask that
you ensure necessary efforts on border secu-
rity do not jeopardize long-term hurricane
recovery and mitigation in Texas.
Sincerely,
Greg Abbott, Governor, State of Texas;
John Cornyn, U.S. Senator; Ted Cruz,
U.S. Senator; Michael McCaul, Member
of Congress; Randy Weber, Member of
Congress; Will Hurd, Member of Con-
gress; Kevin Brady, Member of Con-
gress; Pete Olson, Member of Congress;
Lance Gooden, Member of Congress;
Brian Babin, Member of Congress;
Kenny Marchant, Member of Congress,
Bill Flores, Member of Congress; Dan
Crenshaw, Member of Congress; Lizzie
Fletcher, Member of Congress; K. Mi-
chael Conaway, Member of Congress;
Roger Williams, Member of Congress,
Kay Granger, Member of Congress;
John Carter, Member of Congress;
Sheila Jackson Lee, Member of Con-
gress; Filemon Vela, Member of Con-
gress; Vicente Gonzalez, Member of
Congress, Henry Cuellar, Member of
Congress; Sylvia Garcia, Member of
Congress.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Chair, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Texas (Ms. ESCOBAR).
Ms. ESCOBAR. Madam Chair, I
thank Chairman MCGOVERN for yield-
ing and for offering this amendment.
Madam Chair, I rise today in support
of amendment No. 2, which would pre-
vent funds in the underlying bill, made
available for the Army Corps of Engi-
neers or the Department of Homeland
Security, from being used for the plan-
ning, development, or construction of
any new physical barrier along the
southwest border.
Sadly, this amendment is necessary
because this administration wants to
divert critical disaster relief funds
meant for other projects to go toward
border wall construction.
The reality is that our country needs
help recovering from some of the great-
est natural disasters that we have seen
in our lifetime.
Let’s ensure that our Nation has the
necessary tools to recover, rebuild, and
mitigate future natural disasters.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment and to hold
this administration accountable and
ensure that they do not deceive the
American people by pulling a bait-and-
switch.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Chair, I
would inquire how many more speakers
the gentlewoman has.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I have
no further speakers.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Chair, how
much time do I have remaining?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
has 11⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Chair, I
want to thank Representatives
VELÁZQUEZ, HASTINGS, TORRES, JACK-
SON LEE, JAYAPAL, POCAN, and ESCOBAR
for cosponsoring this amendment with
me.
This is not about whether or not you
believe a border wall is necessary or
not. I don’t believe it is. Some of my
friends on the other side believe it is.
But when the President said he was
going to declare an emergency and dip
into emergency funds, disaster funds,
that are dedicated to helping people
deal with real disasters to pay for this
wall, that set off alarm bells here.
So no matter what side you are on on
this border wall issue, you should sup-
port this amendment, because this
President, and no President, should dip
into disaster relief money to use it for
something different than what Con-
gress intended.
The people who this money is aimed
at helping are not interested in build-
ing a wall; they are interested in re-
building their homes.
Let us not put these moneys in jeop-
ardy. Let’s have a bipartisan moment
when we all can agree that the disaster
money ought to be disaster money, pe-
riod.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.064 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H649
January 16, 2019
Madam Chair, I urge a strong vote in
favor of this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I urge
a ‘‘no’’ vote on this amendment, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
MCGOVERN).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it,
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Massachusetts will
be postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. RICE OF
SOUTH CAROLINA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 3 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise today in support of my
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 59, line 17, strike ‘‘labor standards,
and the environment’’ and insert ‘‘and labor
standards’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. RICE) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from South Carolina.
Mr. RICE of South Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise today in support of my
amendment, a commonsense fix that
gives HUD the flexibility to waive re-
dundant and unnecessary environ-
mental requirements that slow down
the disaster recovery process.
Anyone from a district that has en-
dured one of these devastating hurri-
canes, wildfires, or floods can attest to
the fact that Congress should do every-
thing in our power to quickly give
these communities relief.
Madam Chair, 3 years ago, South
Carolina was struck by Hurricane Mat-
thew. As a result of that storm, South
Carolina was awarded $95 million,
which was to be used to repair the
households of 1,300 indigent families.
The three counties that were most
affected were three of the very poorest
counties in South Carolina, Marion,
Dillon, and Marlboro, and 2 years and 6
months later, about $25 million of that
$95 million has been spent, about 400 of
those houses have been repaired, which
leaves about 1,000 South Carolina fami-
lies, indigent families, people who had
nothing to begin with, either out of
their homes or living in substandard,
mold-infested housing that could burn
down from electrical problems, or the
flooring is buckled and so forth. We
have to do better.
Why does it take so long? Why does
it take two-and-a-half years to get
these people back in their homes?
What I want to do, what my amend-
ment does, is remove some of the bur-
densome Federal requirements that
stand in the way of delivering the relief
that the Federal Government has of-
fered up money to pay for.
Now we come to Hurricane Florence.
Hurricane Florence parked on top of
my district and the southern part of
North Carolina for 3 days in September
and dumped over 40 inches of rain in
places. And then when the storm fi-
nally did leave, for the next 2 weeks,
the rivers rose and people were driven
from their homes.
16,000 houses in my district were
damaged. 12,000 of those houses had
what they call moderate damage,
which in their definition means that
the house had water inside of the house
but it was less than 2 feet deep.
Since the first major hurricane hit
my district, I have been in constant
contact with all Federal and State
agencies involved in the recovery and
rebuilding process. I frequently visit
homes that are under construction and
check with my constituents to ensure
the process is going smoothly.
With respect to Matthew from two-
and-a-half years ago, almost 1,000 of
my constituents are still not in their
homes.
My top question is, Why is this tak-
ing so long? And what can we do to fix
it?
Part of their answer is reforming the
long, expensive, and redundant envi-
ronmental review process.
Currently, before a home is rebuilt
with HUD funds, the South Carolina
Disaster Recovery Office must conduct
two environmental assessments. After
completing a countywide assessment,
every single home that is eligible to be
repaired with HUD funds must undergo
a second assessment, no matter the
size or type of repair that they are
using the HUD dollars to complete.
For example, if someone is using
FEMA funds to repair a hole in the
roof, the contractor can repair the hole
without the homeowner having to com-
plete an environmental study. How-
ever, if a home is being repaired using
HUD funding, a costly and time-con-
suming environmental assessment
must be completed before even the
most minor of repairs can be made to
the home.
This onerous regulatory requirement
is just one more roadblock that my
constituents face in the recovery proc-
ess.
And I tell you again, the counties
that were affected by this storm most
severely are the poorest counties in
South Carolina; majority African
American, these people never had any-
thing to begin with, and whatever they
had has been taken away from them,
and they need relief and they don’t
need Federal regulatory roadblocks.
Bringing the regulations that apply
to HUD in line with other Federal
agencies will create a more stream-
lined process and ensure the Federal
dollars are put to use in a more prompt
fashion.
We need to cut down the time and
the costs that are preventing people in
my district from getting back in their
homes, back to normal, and on with
their lives, and this practical amend-
ment will do just exactly that.
Madam Chair, I have to reiterate
that the House Republicans passed this
disaster package in December, and here
we come, the Democratic majority has
put it back up, but has subjected it to
reopening the government, and has
made that a poison pill to make it im-
possible to be passed in this House.
Certainly it will not pass in the Sen-
ate, and the President will not sign it
even if we pass it in this House.
Madam Chair, I urge Members to
vote for this amendment and I urge the
Democratic majority to stop playing
politics with disaster recovery funds.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from North Carolina is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, the National Environmental
Policy Act was first enacted in 1970,
and since then, it has ensured that new
projects comply with environmental
standards that protect both human
health and the environment. It is un-
wise and unnecessary to waive these
requirements as we undertake disaster
recovery.
This amendment is particularly trou-
bling when we consider that the loss of
wetlands has actually contributed, con-
tributed heavily, to an increase in
coastal flooding from hurricanes.
A 2017 study led by the University of
California Santa Cruz showed a strong
correlation between wetland cover and
reduced property damage. The study
estimated that wetlands in New York
and New Jersey prevented a half a bil-
lion dollars in flood-related damage.
So our public policy should aim to re-
duce the impacts of future disasters,
which is why this bill contains more
than $800 million in mitigation fund-
ing.
To allow the Secretary to waive envi-
ronmental requirements would under-
mine the principle that disaster recov-
ery efforts should ensure communities
are in a better position to withstand
future natural disasters.
Also, many disaster recovery projects
involve multiple Federal funding
sources. This provision actually could
slow down recovery efforts, since
HUD’s environmental standards would
no longer match those of other Federal
agencies.
If we are going to get serious about
mitigating the effects of climate
change and the impacts of natural dis-
asters, we need a robust environmental
framework, and for 49 years, NEPA has
provided that guidance.
This bill is not the place to discard
decades of environmental protections. I
urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on the amendment.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.066 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H650 January 16, 2019
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr. RICE).
The amendment was rejected.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MS. VELÁZQUEZ
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of my amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 5, line 23, insert ‘‘(increased by
$5,000,000)’’ after the dollar amount.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of my amendment,
which I believe will make meaningful
strides to help alleviate problems of
poverty and hunger in Puerto Rico.
Unlike the States, Puerto Rico has
been forced to work with the limited
NAP block grant since 1982. This has
led to a systemic underfunding of the
nutritional needs of these American
citizens for nearly 4 decades.
Sadly, with a severely restricted
budget resulting in reduced benefits
and eligibility on the island, we are
leaving thousands of families hungry
every day.
Already tragic, these problems were
made worse when Hurricanes Irma and
Maria made landfall. Puerto Rico was
devastated, leaving a large share of the
population out of work and unable to
meet their basic needs.
In the year since the immediate
aftermath, the island is still suffering.
Poverty levels have risen dramatically
and the economy continues struggling.
Sixty percent of the children in Puerto
Rico live in poverty.
b 1545
This has meant an increase in the
share of individuals who would other-
wise be eligible for NAP, except for the
fact that the program is capped. NAP
is simply incapable of meeting the
needs of Puerto Ricans, particularly
given the current circumstances result-
ing from the disaster.
The underlying bill we are debating
today will provide Puerto Rico with an
additional $600 million for disaster food
assistance. I thank the chairwoman for
including this critically needed fund-
ing.
This funding, and previously appro-
priated disaster resources, address two
critical needs in Puerto Rico. First, it
is providing NAP recipients with a bit
more support to feed their families.
Second, it aids an additional 200,000
people who lost their jobs and homes.
However, I believe Hurricanes Maria
and Irma taught us some painful les-
sons with regard to nutritional support
in Puerto Rico. We should be evalu-
ating the benefits that adequate nutri-
tional assistance has on Puerto Rican’s
health and economy.
My amendment would provide up to
$5 million to support the Common-
wealth in conducting such a study.
This will be an independent analysis
that includes a survey of NAP partici-
pants on the island and fully inves-
tigates the impact disaster nutrition
assistance has on the food security,
health status, and well-being of the
people of Puerto Rico.
I should note that the USDA con-
ducted similar studies for the SNAP
program that operates in 53 jurisdic-
tions during and after the Great Reces-
sion. It is my hope that this analysis
will provide Congress with additional
insight and tools to further reduce pov-
erty, hunger, and hardship on the is-
land.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MS. VELÁZQUEZ
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Chair, I
rise to offer my amendment, No. 5.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 16, line 3, after the dollar amount, in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $25,000,000)’’.
Page 17, line 5, after the colon, insert:
Provided further, That of this amount
$25,000,000 shall be used for Corps of Engi-
neers ecosystem restoration projects.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentlewoman
from New York (Ms. VELÁZQUEZ) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New York.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Chair, I
rise to discuss an environmental and
humanitarian crisis affecting the peo-
ple of San Juan.
For decades, Cano Martin Pena has
been a repository for sewage overflow,
mercury, and PCBs. The Cano Martin
Pena was once a navigable and com-
mercially used channel. Today, it is so
clogged that it is possible to walk
across it on some parts.
Due to the clogging, the approxi-
mately 25,000 U.S. citizens who live
near the Cano Martin Pena face signifi-
cant public health and safety chal-
lenges. Combined stormwater and the
regional sewage system contribute to
high concentrations of coliforms in the
channel.
Frequent flooding is a constant risk
that can put residents into direct con-
tact with polluted water. Exposure to
these polluted waters causes an ele-
vated risk of gastrointestinal diseases
and a higher prevalence of chronic dis-
eases and asthma. Sadly, we often see
these ailments in children 5 years old
and younger. Those who reside near the
canal live in constant fear that the
next rainfall could become a major
flood, dumping raw sewage into homes,
schools, and businesses.
After the 2017 hurricanes, which ex-
acerbated the Cano Martin Pena crisis
with greater flooding, the communities
that live near the 3.7 miles of this
channel need our help more than ever.
Because of the hurricanes, more than
1,200 families partially or totally lost
the roofs of their homes, and 70 percent
of the community flooded with waste-
water in the immediate aftermath.
These are the working people of San
Juan, with one of the highest labor
participation rates in the island. All
they want is to be able to raise their
families in safe and healthy commu-
nities. If we are ever to bring justice to
these afflicted communities, we must
dredge this canal and work toward its
long-term remediation.
Puerto Rico has spent millions of
dollars attending to the problem, but
without additional Federal funds, this
project will stall. The U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers is ready to initiate con-
struction as soon as Federal funding is
made available.
My amendment will jump-start the
most important flood mitigation
project for Puerto Rico, ensuring the
resiliency of critical infrastructure and
doing justice to the working families
living in this vulnerable area.
Madam Chair, this is not only an en-
vironmental project but a pressing
issue of social and environmental jus-
tice. The people who live along this
troubled canal have suffered long
enough, but Hurricanes Maria and Irma
underscored how quickly these prob-
lems can worsen with extreme weather.
We have an obligation to act before the
next hurricane or flood.
Madam Chair, I have been there and
seen with my own eyes the devastation
and hardship caused by this ecological
disaster. I have seen children wading in
contaminated waters after every heavy
rainstorm. I ask my colleagues to join
me in helping Puerto Rico by voting in
support of this amendment.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I claim
the time in opposition to the amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Idaho is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, first, I
would like to assure my colleague that
I am not opposed to the project she is
trying to fund. I am aware of the
project and its importance to Puerto
Rico. In a different context, I could
support it.
In fact, as the previous chairman of
the Energy and Water Development,
and Related Agencies Appropriations
Subcommittee, I have worked with col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle to
provide funding for ecosystem restora-
tion projects well above the annual
budget request.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.069 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H651
January 16, 2019
What I am opposed to is funding the
ecosystem restoration projects in a dis-
aster supplemental appropriations bill.
A disaster supplemental is not simply a
chance to clear the Army Corps of En-
gineers’ construction backlog. That is
what the annual appropriations process
is for.
A disaster supplemental is intended
to protect storm-ravaged areas against
future storms and to reduce Federal li-
abilities from future storms. That is
why the underlying bill is consistent
with previous disaster bills and limits
funding to projects that provide real
benefits for that type, namely, flood
and storm damage reduction projects.
Additionally, I would be remiss if I
did not point out that the particular
project of interest would not even be
eligible for funding under this amend-
ment.
The underlying bill restricts con-
struction funding to areas impacted by
various storms, none of which im-
pacted Puerto Rico. We should not
raise hopes knowing the project isn’t
even eligible.
While I am happy to offer to work
with my colleague and try to support
the project through the regular appro-
priations process, which I am sure the
new chairwoman, Chairwoman KAPTUR,
is willing to do also, I must oppose
funding in a disaster supplemental ap-
propriations bill for ecosystem restora-
tion projects.
Madam Chair, therefore, I oppose the
amendment. I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘no,’’ and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Chair, I
yield 1 minute to the gentlewoman
from Ohio (Ms. KAPTUR).
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Chair, I thank
Congresswoman VELÁZQUEZ for her
daunting and unparalleled leadership
in trying to help the people of Puerto
Rico.
And I thank our very distinguished
ranking member for his interest in
helping to solve the real challenge of
Cano Martin Pena.
I have to say to the people of Puerto
Rico and our fellow citizens, those who
reside in Puerto Rico and those who re-
side stateside here: We are very aware,
from Congresswoman VELÁZQUEZ’s
work, how devastated Puerto Rico is.
She has spent so much of her substance
in trying to educate the membership
here. We are very fortunate for her
abiding leadership.
We all need to stand up for the resi-
dents of Puerto Rico. I appreciate her
work, and all of our colleagues’ efforts,
to do just that.
I am committed to working with her
to address any issues with this amend-
ment as we move forward. Its intent is
absolutely on point. I think that,
working together on a bipartisan basis,
we can find a way to help heal our fel-
low citizens in Puerto Rico and bring a
better way of life there in the future.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I would
just say, again, it doesn’t really matter
whether you vote for this amendment
or not. It doesn’t really do anything
because the project is not eligible.
What we are doing by adopting this
amendment is raising false hopes,
knowing that the project isn’t even eli-
gible.
I encourage the gentlewoman to
withdraw the amendment and work
with us to see if we can fund this
through the regular appropriations
process.
Madam Chair, I encourage a ‘‘no’’
vote on the amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New York (Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. STEWART
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 6 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. STEWART. Madam Chair, I rise
to offer my amendment on the floor.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 35, beginning line 5, strike
‘‘$63,960,000, to remain available until ex-
pended: Provided,’’ and insert ‘‘$84,960,000, to
remain available until expended: Provided,
that of this amount $21,000,000 shall be used
for hazardous fuels management activities:
Provided further,’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from Utah (Mr. STEWART) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Utah.
Mr. STEWART. Madam Chair, I
thank Mr. MCGOVERN of the Rules
Committee for making this vital
amendment in order.
The base text of the Supplemental
Appropriations Act of 2019 provides
critical relief for natural disasters that
have recently plagued our Nation. The
supplemental is necessary, and it is
needed, but we do have a problem, and
it is a problem that we have to fix.
The interior West and, for example,
my home State of Utah have been
largely ignored. My amendment seeks
to rectify this and seeks to increase
funding for the West to address the im-
pacts of ongoing drought and, some-
thing that we are all aware of, the cat-
astrophic wildfires that we have been
experiencing.
The amendment provides increased
funding for hazardous fuel management
activities in the hopes of doing three
things: first, to increase the resiliency
of our forest; second, to protect against
future catastrophic fires; and, third, to
reduce the amount of damage caused
by these fires.
Like many Western States, and, as I
mentioned, my home State of Utah, we
suffered a devastating fire season that
burned countless acres and threatened
life and property. Now we are left with
the scars of the burns that can be al-
most as damaging, with flooding,
mudslides, and threats to water sup-
plies.
If adopted, my amendment will not
only help mitigate the losses from past
fires but help to create future resil-
iency in our forests and lessen the dev-
astating aftermath.
The simple fact is, we can do better.
We can actively manage our forests by
combating undergrowth, disease, and
insect infestation. The Forest Service
estimates that my home State of Utah
has something like 436 million dead
trees that are just waiting to burn. If
this is not a threat, I don’t know what
is.
Madam Chair, I yield such time as
she may consume to the gentlewoman
from Minnesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM), my
friend, Madam Chair of the Interior,
Environment, and Related Agencies
Subcommittee.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I
thank the gentleman for the time.
As I pointed out earlier, the supple-
mental includes $824 million to the
U.S. Forest Service to help California
and those who have been impacted by
wildfires and Hurricanes Florence and
Michael to recover.
While the funding includes $27 mil-
lion for hazardous fuel, I support the
gentleman’s proposal to increase this
amount because we know we have a lot
of work to do in fuel reduction. I would
like to point out to the gentleman, I
also support the continuing resolution
portion of this legislation in front of us
today because we need to reopen the
Forest Service so we can use these
funds.
b 1600
Mr. STEWART. Madam Chair, I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. STEWART).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the ayes ap-
peared to have it.
Mr. STEWART. Madam Chair, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentleman from Utah will be post-
poned.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 7 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Chair, I have an amendment at
the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 1, line 15, insert ‘‘and harvested adul-
terated wine grapes’’ after ‘‘milk’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from California (Mr. THOMPSON) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.074 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H652 January 16, 2019
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Chair, I yield myself as much
time as I may consume.
I appreciate the opportunity to speak
in support of my proposed amendment.
Over the past 2 years communities
across my district and throughout the
State of California have been dev-
astated by some of the biggest, dead-
liest, and most damaging wildfires in
history. These disasters have cata-
strophic consequences for our agricul-
tural communities.
Wildfires can and do incinerate en-
tire fields of crops, but they also pose
a threat of smoke contamination, expo-
sure to high levels of smoke which
damages crops beyond repair.
While smoke damage can affect a
range of crops, wine grapes are particu-
larly vulnerable. I have heard from doz-
ens of my constituents who are facing
the loss of their crop as their grapes
are rejected due to this smoke damage.
I want to thank the Appropriations
Committee and their staff for working
with me to ensure that grape growers
like those in my district are supported.
However, many wine grape growers
do not discover smoke damage until
after removing their fruit from the
vine. These growers sustain heavy
losses and deserve support. They
should not be penalized simply because
the damage to their grapes was discov-
ered after the harvest.
My amendment would clarify that as-
sistance offered under H.R. 268 is avail-
able to growers who discover smoke
damage after removing their grapes
from the vine. This situation is tragic
and far too common, and this clarifica-
tion is needed to ensure that growers
like those in my district receive the
support that they deserve.
Madam Chair, I want to reiterate my
thanks to the Appropriations Com-
mittee and their staff, and I urge my
colleagues to support this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. THOMP-
SON).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MR. THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Chair, I have an amendment at
the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 54, line 18, after the dollar amount in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $50,000,000)’’.
Page 55, strike line 9 and all that follows
through ‘‘up to’’ in line 12.
Page 55, line 12, after the dollar amount in-
sert ‘‘(increased by $50,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from California (Mr. THOMPSON) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Chair, I yield myself as much
time as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of
amendment No. 8, which provides an
additional $50 million in community
development funds for the 2017 feder-
ally declared disasters.
In October 2017, my district experi-
enced, at that time, the most dev-
astating fires in the history of Cali-
fornia. The October 2017 wildfires dev-
astated nearly 300,000 acres in Cali-
fornia, destroyed some 7,000 homes,
caused billions of dollars in damage,
burned to the ground many businesses,
and, most sadly, took the lives of 44
people.
In response to these fires, Congress
enacted legislation that delivered Cali-
fornia Community Development Block
Grant disaster relief funding to address
unmet needs and mitigation against fu-
ture disasters.
As communities in my district con-
tinue the long and hard process of re-
building, we are finding that the unmet
needs are greater than the Federal re-
lief provided. Local inspections of resi-
dences damaged or destroyed in the Oc-
tober 17 fires indicate that FEMA’s in-
dividual assistance inspection process
significantly underestimated the num-
ber of homes damaged or destroyed in
Santa Rosa, one of the cities in my dis-
trict, by a difference of nearly 2,900
homes.
Because the FEMA IA data may have
informed HUD’s initial allocation to
the State of California, this leaves
some communities in California, in-
cluding Santa Rosa, with considerable
unmet need for homeowners who are
rebuilding.
In terms of public infrastructure,
California’s CDBG-DR action plan allo-
cates 3 percent, at a total of $3.5 mil-
lion for the entire State, to aid unmet
need for public infrastructure. How-
ever, Santa Rosa alone has signifi-
cantly greater needs for recovery of
public infrastructure with its projected
local cost share for the repair of the
damage infrastructure over $11 million.
In addition to the local match re-
quirement for FEMA public assistance
projects, there are several large infra-
structure projects needed due to the 17
wildfires, including street repairs,
street tree removal, repair to the side-
walks in one particular area, and res-
toration to neighborhood parks.
The estimated cost for these projects
is more than $20 million. My amend-
ment aims to help close this gap by
providing the additional moneys in
community development funds for the
2017 federally declared disasters.
Continued support from the Federal
Government is essential as residents
seek to rebuild and my district con-
tinues its long-term recovery.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to my
colleague from California (Mrs.
TORRES).
Mrs. TORRES of California. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentleman from
California for yielding and for being
such a great leader in helping those im-
pacted by the devastating California
wildfires.
The numbers are devastating. Nearly
2 million acres burned. Upwards of $3.5
billion in damage, 8,500 individual fires,
98 civilians killed, 6 firefighters killed,
and over 11,000 homes destroyed.
With climate change only making
things worse, we must help California
rebuild because this is just the begin-
ning. Rainstorms will now further rav-
age communities, causing mudslides
and flooding.
The amendment I have offered with
Representative THOMPSON begins that
rebuilding process by increasing fund-
ing for the community development
fund by $50 million, specifically for
those communities that were hardest
hit in the previous year.
Madam Chair, I thank the gentleman
for his work on this.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Chair, I yield the remainder of
my time to the gentleman from North
Carolina (Mr. PRICE), the chair of the
subcommittee, and I thank him for all
of his help.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, we have no objection to this
amendment, in fact, urge its adoption.
The amendment ensures that States
and territories that have suffered from
natural disasters in 2017 are made
whole with respect to increased costs
to repair public infrastructure.
Mr. THOMPSON of California.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr. THOMP-
SON).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MR. GRAVES OF
LOUISIANA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 9 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 58, line 10, strike ‘‘That such’’ and all
that follows through ‘‘of Engineers:’’ on line
13 and insert ‘‘That such funds may not be
used for activities reimbursed by, or for
which funds have been made available by,
the Federal Emergency Management Agency
or the Army Corps of Engineers, in excess of
the authorized amount of the project or its
components:’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Louisiana.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, since 1980, we have had about 220
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.080 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H653
January 16, 2019
disasters that have caused over $1 bil-
lion in damages. In fact, when you add
all that money up, we have spent about
$1.5 trillion in disaster recovery, nearly
all of that being emergency spending,
adding to our deficit.
Now, the thing that we do here in the
Federal Government to help bring an
offense to the table, to help address re-
siliency, is largely the mission of the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers: projects
for flood protection, for water manage-
ment, for ecosystem restoration that
can help improve the resiliency of our
communities, hurricane protection in
my home State of Louisiana.
Yet we have a $100 billion backlog in
Corps of Engineer projects across the
United States. This Congress provides
between $1 billion and $2 billion a year
in construction.
Madam Chair, you can do the math.
You have $100 billion in authorized
projects. You get $1 billion to $2 billion
a year in construction, you will finish
that backlog approximately never. You
are not going to finish it.
And so what we did in the Disaster
Recovery and Reform Act in October,
that was signed into law in October
and passed through this body three
times, is we did a provision that says
that FEMA’s Hazard Mitigation Grant
Program funds can be used to build a
Corps of Engineers’ project if your
State, if your community determines
that is the highest priority.
Right now, under Community Devel-
opment Block Grant Disaster Recovery
Funds, there is a prohibition—and this
is largely boilerplate language—that
prohibits these funds from being used
for a Corps of Engineers’ project.
What this amendment does is it sim-
ply removes that if a State, if your
community determines that that is the
highest priority, addressing resiliency,
telling your community that it is okay
to build back here because we are going
to make it safer, we are going to re-
duce the risk, prevent you from having
future disaster, future damages.
Madam Chair, right now, sitting in
the gallery is a group of students from
Ed White High School in my home
State of Louisiana. They have a project
in their community that has been in
the study phase since 1992, and the
Corps of Engineers has spent $80 mil-
lion studying it. That is ridiculous. It
has caused billions of dollars in flood
damages in this area. This project has
not moved forward.
We have got to make sure that we
are advancing these projects as quickly
as we can, improving the resilience of
our communities. So this amendment,
again, makes the CDBG-DR funds eligi-
ble if your State, if your community
determines that is the highest and best
value, the best investments of the
funds.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. Members are re-
minded to refrain from referencing oc-
cupants of the gallery.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I ask unanimous consent to
claim the time in opposition, even
though I am not actually opposed to
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
North Carolina?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, this amendment amends a sec-
tion of the base bill that sets out the
sequence of assistance for communities
seeking relief.
The base bill maintains that CDBG-
DR funding should be used after grant-
ees sought out funding from FEMA and
the Army Corps of Engineers to meet
any needs that remain.
Public Law 105–276 limits the use of
CDBG-DR funding to $250,000 per Army
Corps of Engineers’ project, and this
provision would not be changed by the
amendment.
The amendment would allow commu-
nities to utilize CDBG-DR funds for a
project in advance of FEMA or Corps of
Engineers’ funding. The CDBG-DR
funding would still be subject to the
usual limitations on duplication of
benefits.
I have some concern that the amend-
ment’s language is ambiguous with re-
spect to the phrase ‘‘in excess of the
authorized amount of the project.’’ I
assume that the gentleman means the
authorized amount by FEMA or the
Army Corps, respectively, and not an
amount authorized by HUD.
I yield to the gentleman from Lou-
isiana (Mr. GRAVES), if he would re-
spond and confirm my understanding.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, I appreciate the gentleman’s
question, and certainly there is no in-
tention under the provision as written
to appropriate or provide more funds
than are authorized under the existing
act or allocated to that State or coun-
ty or parish or what have you.
b 1615
In addition, obviously, there would
be no intention under the provision to
spend more money than the project is
actually authorized for because you
couldn’t build a project more than
once.
I hope that was responsive to the
gentleman’s question.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. The
question, though, is: Authorized by
whom?
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, the chairman brings up a good
point in that is the authorized amount
the full authorized amount that the
Federal law for a Corps of Engineers
project provides? For example, if Con-
gress authorized a flood protection
project for $100 million, could they pos-
sibly get more than $100 million? The
answer to that question is no.
The second question to attempt to
clarify would be, if a community is al-
located $50 million through the CDBG-
DR program, would it be possible for
them to spend more than $50 million on
the project? Once again, to the chair-
man’s question, the answer would be
no. This would not intend to obligate
or in any way spend more money that
is allocated to them under CDBG-DR or
under the authorized project in Federal
law.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. So
when the amendment states the phrase
‘‘in excess of the authorized amount of
the project,’’ can I confirm that the
gentleman is saying that he means the
authorized amount by FEMA or the
Army Corps and not the authorized
amount by HUD?
Madam Chair, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Yes. Ab-
solutely. That is the intention that we
would not exceed the authorized
amount of the project authorized by
the Corps or by FEMA. As I indicated,
we couldn’t build a project more than
once, so whatever that authorized level
is in existing Federal law, that would
apply.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentleman.
Given that understanding, the
amendment is a modest change to the
existing program, and I have no objec-
tion.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentleman from
North Carolina and thank the Rules
Committee for making this in order.
Madam Chair, I urge adoption, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. GRAVES).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MR. RICHMOND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 10 printed
in part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 57, line 13, strike ‘‘and any grantee’’
and all that follows through line 19 and in-
sert the following: ‘‘shall act in accordance
with section 1210 of Public Law 115-254 (132
Stat. 3442) and section 312 of the Robert T.
Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency As-
sistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5155):’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from Louisiana (Mr. RICHMOND) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Louisiana.
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Chair, I rise
today to offer a simple bipartisan
amendment. This amendment would
ensure the language in the bill con-
forms with current law.
All of us who represent areas around
the country that have experienced nat-
ural disasters know how difficult and
complicated the recovery process can
be.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:12 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.084 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H654 January 16, 2019
Last Congress, we came together to
pass the Disaster Recovery Reform
Act, a bipartisan bill that made key
changes to improve how we respond
after disasters and also make recovery
an easier process.
One of those changes was a provision
outlining a better way to handle con-
cerns over duplication of benefits after
a disaster. It created a process that al-
lows greater flexibility to respond to
the unique situations that occur after
every disaster.
It is important to my constituents
and anyone dealing with the effects of
a natural disaster that this administra-
tion has clear instructions and that
they can readily act on what Congress
has instructed them to do. The lan-
guage of this amendment eliminates
the risk of any confusion over what
process the administration should fol-
low.
Madam Chair, this is just another at-
tempt by my colleague and me from
Louisiana who have, unfortunately,
had the benefit of surviving through a
number of natural disasters and just
trying to make it easier for our con-
stituents to navigate the process and
difficulty of FEMA and recovery. So
what this amendment does is helps
every area that will have a disaster
deal with the question of duplication of
benefits.
Madam Chair, I urge adoption of the
amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr.
PRICE), who is the chairman of the sub-
committee.
Mr. PRICE of North Carolina. Madam
Chair, I thank the gentleman for yield-
ing. I am happy to express support for
his amendment.
The amendment would clarify that
HUD should follow existing law when it
comes to duplication of benefits with
respect to SBA loans and CDBG-DR
grants.
This is an issue that needs clarifica-
tion. It has affected individuals in my
home State of North Carolina as well
as people in Louisiana, Texas, and
other States recovering from recent
disasters.
I agree, we shouldn’t be penalizing
individuals who take out an SBA loan
in good faith and then later discover
that that makes them no longer eligi-
ble for a CDBG-DR grant.
So I thank the gentleman for the
amendment. It is a helpful clarification
of our intent, and I have no objection
to the amendment.
Mr. RICHMOND. Madam Chair, I
would just offer support for the amend-
ment, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, I claim the time in opposition,
but I don’t intend to oppose the amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. GRAVES of Louisiana. Madam
Chair, I want to thank my colleague
from Louisiana (Mr. RICHMOND) and the
chairman from North Carolina for their
help in getting these amendments put
together, both the last one and this
one.
As my good friend from Louisiana in-
dicated, this is the result of lessons
learned, unfortunately, from countless
disasters in our home State.
What this does is it assures con-
formity between this appropriations
bill and law, as indicated, the Disaster
Recovery Reform Act that was signed
into law in October, to ensure—and let
me be clear, Madam Chair. That bill
passed the House of Representatives
three times, the last time by voice
vote; and I think the second to last
time it passed with maybe 12 opposing
votes in this entire body, but not be-
cause of this provision. None of those
opposing votes had anything to do with
this provision.
What it does is it simply says, in the
aftermath of a disaster, if you applied
for a loan, that doesn’t make you ineli-
gible for grants that anyone else can
apply for. We shouldn’t penalize people
for leaning forward, being proactive,
and seeking loans, and then tell them
later they can’t be eligible for a grant.
The alternative is they stay in a
FEMA-supplied hotel room, incurring
taxpayers more cost, and it delays re-
covery.
So what Mr. RICHMOND’s provision
does is it ensures conformity to the
changes in law that occurred in Octo-
ber in this appropriations bill, the du-
plication of benefits as applied in a
consistent manner. I want to thank
him for his continued leadership on
this issue and working together.
Madam Chair, I urge adoption of the
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Louisiana (Mr. RICH-
MOND).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MR.
WESTERMAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 11 printed
in part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 34, line 20, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $10,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from Arkansas (Mr. WESTERMAN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Arkansas.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Chair, I
would like to first thank my colleague
from California, Representative PA-
NETTA, for his cosponsorship of this bi-
partisan amendment. I also would like
to thank Representative MCCOLLUM
from Minnesota for her support of this
amendment.
Madam Chair, this amendment sim-
ply adds $10 million to the State and
private forestry fund. The purpose of
this is to prevent some of these cata-
strophic wildfires that we have been
seeing over the past few years.
What we have here is a map that
shows what the Forest Service has de-
lineated as a wildland-urban interface.
This is where forestry and urban areas
intersect, and this is where we have po-
tential for significant loss of property
and lives.
There are already programs in place
to manage these wildland-urban inter-
faces, and what we hope to do with this
additional appropriation is just to help
the State forestry units manage these
areas better.
We talk a lot in Congress about Fed-
eral lands and how we need to manage
those, but across the country, over half
of all forestland is owned by private
forest landowners. There are literally
millions of these private forest land-
owners, many of them on very small
parcels of forestland, and they have no
incentive to manage them to help stop
the spread of catastrophic wildfire.
What the State and private forestry
program does is allows State foresters
to go in and help these private land-
owners to understand how to manage
their forests and give them the assist-
ance they need so that we can make
these wildland-urban interfaces safer
places.
Madam Chair, if we managed every-
thing perfectly on the Federal lands
and these wildland-urban interfaces,
you still have the issue of all the pri-
vate lands. The map shows wildland-
urban interfaces in places you would
expect out in California and other
Western States, but because of the pop-
ulation density, we see a lot of these
wildland-urban interfaces are in the
East where there is more dense popu-
lations.
So these funds, although rather small
in relation to this huge bill—as a mat-
ter of fact, they make up only eight
one-hundredths of 1 percent of the
total funds in this bill—would have a
huge impact all across the country in
making our communities more resil-
ient to catastrophic wildfire, would
really help to save property and lives
in the future, and would also save a lot
of future disaster supplemental funding
that the Federal Government would
have to dish out.
So, again, I am just asking for this
amendment to help State and private
forests with a $10 million plus-up to
their funds.
Madam Chair, I yield 4 minutes to
the gentleman from California (Mr. PA-
NETTA).
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Arkansas has 2 minutes remain-
ing.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Chair, I
yield 1 minute to the gentleman from
California (Mr. PANETTA).
Mr. PANETTA. Madam Chair, I
thank Mr. WESTERMAN for all of his
work on this.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.087 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H655
January 16, 2019
Madam Chair, our amendment would
provide $10 million in additional fund-
ing to the U.S. Forest Service and its
State and private forestry account.
That account is set up to help State
and local landowners recover from
damages caused by wildfires and to
provide more resources for proactive
forest management.
What we have seen, unfortunately, in
the last few years is a number of hor-
rific fires throughout our Nation, and
especially where I am from in Cali-
fornia and the central coast of Cali-
fornia. But what we know is that we
must do something about it.
This amendment does something
about it by providing the necessary re-
sources to maintain certain areas in
which human beings are living close to
forests and, therefore, making sure
that there are certain requirements
that are met by the local entities.
But we can do this without sacri-
ficing our environmental protections.
This is why we are basically able to in-
crease resources for wildfire mitigation
practices such as prescribed burns and
maintenance of fuel breaks and tech-
nical assistance to landowners. We can
make sure that they are advanced, but
that they can also be in compliance
with environmental safety guards. We
can do both in this amendment, and
this amount of money does that.
So, Madam Chair, I continue to ask
for support of this amendment, and I
urge my colleagues to vote ‘‘yea’’ on
this.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Arkansas has 1 minute remaining.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Chair, I
yield 45 seconds to the gentlewoman
from Minnesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM).
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Chair, a
point of parliamentary inquiry.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Minnesota will state her par-
liamentary inquiry.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Chair, could
I ask unanimous consent to rise in op-
position even though I am not opposed
to the bill, claim 5 minutes, and then
the gentleman could have time to
close?
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Minnesota is correct.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I
leave that to the gentleman. He has 1
minute remaining, Madam Chair, if he
would like to use it now and then I will
use my own time.
The Acting CHAIR. Does the gen-
tleman from Arkansas reserve his
time?
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Chair, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Chair, I ask
unanimous consent to claim the time
in opposition, even though I am not op-
posed to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentlewoman
from Minnesota?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentlewoman
from Minnesota is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Madam Chair, the
supplemental appropriation that we
are discussing today includes $8.24 mil-
lion for the U.S. Forestry Service to
work on disaster relief, and it includes
$2 million for State and private for-
estry. As I have told the Members here,
I totally support the gentleman’s pro-
posal to increase the amount, and they
have done an excellent job describing
why it is so important.
As wildfires continue to increase in
both frequency and intensity as a re-
sult of climate change, we need to do
more to prevent them. The State pri-
vate forestry programs bring together
States, Tribes, and local governments
and gives them the tools they need to
protect communities and our environ-
ment from wildfires. I have seen first-
hand. I have spoken to people who have
used these programs, and it is money
well spent to prevent wildland fires.
b 1630
However, in order for the Forestry
Service to be able to use these critical
funds, I will be supporting the CR por-
tion of this bill to reopen the govern-
ment, because without this continuing
resolution the agencies won’t be able
to receive funds to get to work imme-
diately.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. WESTERMAN. Madam Chair,
this bill, again, would help State and
private forests. It would help to reduce
the risk of catastrophic wildfires. It is
sound environmentally, and it is a good
investment for the Federal Govern-
ment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Arkansas (Mr.
WESTERMAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MS. JAYAPAL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 12 printed
in part B of House Report 116–2.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
At the end of the bill (before the short
title), insert the following:
SEC. llll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act for the Department of
Homeland Security may be used for the con-
struction or expansion of immigration deten-
tion facilities.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentlewoman
from Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Washington.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, my
amendment would simply make clear
to the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity that these funds, which Congress is
specifically dedicating to the Coast
Guard’s environmental remediation ef-
forts as a result of hurricane damage,
cannot be reprogrammed to increase
DHS’s detention capacity.
Madam Chair, this amendment is
critical. Just a few months ago, we
learned that DHS transferred $169 mil-
lion from other agencies to U.S. Immi-
gration and Customs Enforcement to
detain and remove people.
Madam Chair, $10 million of that
money came from FEMA, diverting
funds from the disaster relief agency at
the start of the hurricane season when
Hurricane Florence was heading to-
ward the East Coast; $1.8 million of
that diverted money came from the Do-
mestic Nuclear Detention Office; $29
million was taken out from the Coast
Guard’s budget; and over $34 million
came from several TSA programs. That
is simply unacceptable.
ICE continues to spend far above its
appropriated funding to detain people,
but these funds are being transferred
from other critical agencies, in clear
violation of congressionally mandated
funding.
As of January 1, more than 48,000
people were being held in ICE custody,
even though they only have funding ap-
propriated by Congress to detain 40,520
people. In the last appropriations act
passed by this Chamber, we provided
funding to ICE with the understanding
that the funding amount would, ‘‘re-
quire ICE to reduce the number of de-
tention beds,’’ in use before the end of
the year.
We clearly stated our intent to ICE,
yet ICE has chosen to ignore the man-
dates of the United States Congress
again and again.
Moreover, the Government Account-
ability Office has found a number of in-
consistencies and errors in ICE’s own
calculations for its congressional budg-
et justifications. While ICE officials
stated their budget documents undergo
multiple reviews to ensure accuracy,
ICE was not able to provide any docu-
mentation of such reviews, and the
GAO concluded that ‘‘ICE is not posi-
tioned to ensure the credibility of its
budget requests.’’
If the GAO concludes that ICE is not
positioned to ensure the credibility of
its own requests, then we need to be
doing a better job of checking for accu-
racy and exercising oversight.
And, most of all, we need to make
sure that these funds that are being ap-
propriated for disaster relief stay for
disaster relief.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Idaho is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, first of
all, there are no funds in this bill to ex-
pand or build detention facilities.
There are no funds in this bill to ex-
pand or build detention facilities.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:15 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.089 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H656 January 16, 2019
There are no funds in this bill to ex-
pand or build detention facilities.
But let me get this straight, see if I
have got it straight. We don’t want to
enhance border security to stop people
from coming across the border ille-
gally. We have got immigration courts
being overrun. And we don’t want to
have the necessary facilities to keep
those people because they can’t get
into the immigration courts right
away.
What exactly do you want us to do?
Just because Congress says, Hey, I
am only giving you funding for 40,000
people. What if 100,000 people come
across the border illegally? What do
you expect us to do?
You have no answers, except: No, no,
don’t detain them.
Just let them go?
I know how we can reduce the cost of
prisons in this country. Let’s only ap-
propriate enough money to house
100,000 prisoners. Regardless of the
crimes they have committed or any-
thing else, I am only going to fund
100,000. Above that, just let them go.
I don’t get it. I don’t know where the
heck we are coming from on this. All
this does is put another poison pill in
this bill that will make it much more
difficult to pass and will ensure that
the Senate will never take it up, which
I doubt they will anyway.
To me, I just don’t understand what
the heck is going on here. We all know
what the answer to this shutdown is.
Every one of us, in our heart, knows
what the answer is. It is a compromise.
And a compromise means both sides
give some and get some. That is the na-
ture of a compromise.
That means there are going to be
parts in it that I don’t like, but I am
going to end up voting for it. That
means there are going to be parts in it
you don’t like, but you need to end up
voting for it.
Anyway, we need to get back to
opening this government and quit put-
ting these poison pills and this non-
sense in this bill.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. Members are re-
minded to address their remarks to the
Chair.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, I am
going to yield to my colleague in just
a second. But this should be easy to
vote for because you yourself said
there is nothing in here that provides
funding for detentions. So I look for-
ward to seeing the gentleman vote for
my amendment because, actually, then
you are saying there is no problem
here, we are going to make sure that
these funds actually go where they are
supposed to, to disaster relief.
That is all I am saying in this
amendment is let’s make sure that the
funds we appropriate go to disaster re-
lief, which is necessary, and States
across the country—certainly in my
part of the country—wildfires, hurri-
canes—we have lots of issues we have
got to deal with here.
So, given that the gentleman just
started his remarks with multiple
statements saying there is nothing in
this bill that would allow for this, I
look forward to seeing your yes vote on
my amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from New York (Mr.
ESPAILLAT).
The Acting CHAIR. Members are
again reminded to address their re-
marks to the Chair.
Mr. ESPAILLAT. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of this amendment and
want to thank Ms. JAYAPAL for allow-
ing me time to speak in support.
As she outlined, this amendment
would restrict the Department of
Homeland Security from using any
emergency funds from being repro-
grammed to add beds at immigration
detention centers.
Last year, during the historic hurri-
cane season that ravaged Puerto Rico,
the U.S. Virgin Islands, and parts of
Texas, the White House brazenly shift-
ed millions of dollars slated for recov-
ery to Immigration and Customs En-
forcement in order to fund the immoral
detention of refugees and other immi-
grants as part of its horrible zero toler-
ance policy.
Throughout the Gulf Coast, but espe-
cially in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Is-
lands, there is still a tremendous
amount of work to be done. Businesses
must reopen, power infrastructure
needs to be restored and made more re-
silient, and communities must be re-
built, yet President Trump is threat-
ening to declare a phony national
emergency so he can take these crit-
ical funds and put them toward a use-
less, medieval wall and other compo-
nents of his cruel immigration policies.
I am happy to support this amend-
ment, Madam Chair.
Ms. JAYAPAL. Madam Chair, let me
just say how pleased I am that we are
on the same page, that disaster relief
funding should go to disaster relief; it
should not go to expanding detention
beds, which are already oversubscribed.
So I hope that the other side will be
happy to vote yes on this amendment.
And I would just say we are happy to
have a discussion about immigration
and all of the things we need to do to
reform our immigration system at the
right time.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, may I
inquire how much time I have remain-
ing.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Idaho has 21⁄2 minutes remaining.
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Chair, I would
just say that the argument I just heard
is kind of ridiculous. If what we are
going to do is list everything this bill,
these funds, can’t be spent on, I don’t
think we should be able to give any of
this money to NASA to put a man on
the moon.
We could list everything that the
Federal Government does except these
things and say we have to specify it in
the bill.
No. This is a poison pill.
Again, I didn’t hear an answer. What
do you expect to do when these people
come across the border illegally? What
if they are waiting for hearings and
stuff and the courts are just being
flooded?
There are no answers. You have no
answers. This is a bad amendment.
Just trying to make a statement.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. Members are re-
minded to address their remarks to the
Chair.
The question is on the amendment
offered by the gentlewoman from
Washington (Ms. JAYAPAL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED BY MR. SABLAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 13 printed
in part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 44, line 23, after the dollar amount,
insert ‘‘(increased by $16,000,000)’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands
(Mr. SABLAN) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I rise
today to offer an amendment that in-
creases funding for the Marianas Med-
icaid block grant.
Our islands were struck by two cata-
strophic weather events late last year.
Typhoon Mangkhut made landfall Sep-
tember 10, and on September 29 the
President declared a major disaster for
the islands of Saipan, Tinian, and
Rota.
While recovery from Mangkhut was
still ongoing, super Typhoon Yutu, the
second most powerful storm ever in
United States history, struck. Yutu
caused widespread destruction of
homes, businesses, public facilities,
and infrastructure. On October 26, the
President declared a second major dis-
aster for our islands.
Yutu also brought death.
Never in anyone’s memory has a ty-
phoon caused death in our islands, but
one person died during Yutu and an-
other in a storm-related accident. Over
130 people were injured.
Our only hospital, which has just 75
beds, packed people into the emergency
room to stitch up wounds; remove glass
and flying debris from legs, arms, and
faces; and attend to those who needed
dialysis or other treatment, while
waiting days for power to be restored.
Medicaid provides one-quarter of the
revenue for the hospital and health in-
surance for 30 percent of our popu-
lation, but there is a cap on how much
Medicaid funding is available to the
Marianas. When a storm strikes, the
program has to steal from tomorrow to
pay for today.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.093 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H657
January 16, 2019
The disaster appropriation the House
passed on December 21, generous
though it was, provided no money for
Medicaid for the Marianas.
Chairwoman LOWEY, recognizing the
lapse, added $20 million in H.R. 268 for
the Marianas Medicaid program to be
available for the rest of the year. After
her bill was drafted, however, the Cen-
ters for Medicare and Medicaid Serv-
ices, CMS, informed appropriations
staff that the Marianas can actually
use $36 million in the wake of the ty-
phoons.
Following that advice from CMS, I
am offering an amendment that adds
$16 million to the original bill, bring-
ing total assistance for the rest of the
year to the recommended $36 million.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues
for their support of my amendment and
of the underlying bill, H.R. 268. The $36
million I am requesting, by adding $16
million to the $20 million already in
the bill, is what CMS told Chairwoman
LOWEY’s staff that the Marianas can
spend this year in the aftermath of Ty-
phoon Mangkhut and super Typhoon
Yutu.
b 1645
Madam Chair, I include in the
RECORD a recent news report, ‘‘From
Something to Nothing,’’ published in
the Honolulu Civil Beat.
‘FROM SOMETHING TO NOTHING’: LIFE IN
SAIPAN AFTER SUPER TYPHOON YUTU
(By Anita Hofschneider)
CHALAN KANOA, SAIPAN.—Elkanah Igisaiar
watches her daughter climb onto an old car
and lift herself up onto the branches of a
tree. It’s late afternoon on the Wednesday
before Christmas and Igisaiar is sitting in a
plastic chair outside at her family’s com-
pound in this tiny village in southern
Saipan.
The cluster of homes down the street from
the island’s cathedral is where her family
has lived for generations.
But since Super Typhoon Yutu blew
through her neighborhood in October, her
mother’s house is uninhabitable—and their
street is now a cluster of tents.
‘‘Most of us are not really ready to talk
about the storm,’’ says Igisaiar, 27. ‘‘We are
just kind of in disbelief that we went from
something to nothing.’’
Two months after the worst storm to hit
the U.S. since 1935, thousands of people like
Igisaiar are still sleeping in tents or out-
doors. They’re waiting for electricity to go
back on. And they are wondering how they’ll
afford to rebuild their homes even if they are
lucky enough to get some federal aid.
Despite the severity of the storm, there’s
been little news media coverage of what life
is like in its aftermath. The islands are thou-
sands of miles away from the mainland U.S.
and the storm had only one reported cas-
ualty.
But the low death toll belies how dras-
tically Yutu continues to affect thousands of
people.
Before Yutu, there were fewer than 100
homeless people sleeping outdoors on the is-
land of Saipan, the capital of the U.S. Com-
monwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Despite widespread poverty—more than half
of the community was below the U.S. pov-
erty line and the median income was $19,201
in 2016—it was rare to see people living in
tents.
But overnight, the storm displaced an esti-
mated 15,000 to 17,000 people, more than a
quarter of the commonwealth’s population of
about 55,000 people.
Severe storms are common in the Mariana
Islands, an archipelago in the western Pa-
cific that includes Guam. Three years ago,
another storm downed half of Saipan’s power
poles, leaving some families without elec-
tricity for three months.
The expectation that every year will bring
extreme weather events means government
buildings and schools are built from concrete
to withstand strong winds.
More than 80 percent of houses had con-
crete walls as of 2016, and more than half had
concrete roofs. Locals are well-versed in the
annual rituals of buying nonperishable food,
filling buckets of water and boarding up win-
dows to protect them from flying debris.
But Yutu exceeded expectations.
Its 180-mph sustained winds with gusts
over 200 mph broke the National Weather
Service’s wind instruments, flipped over con-
tainers and ripped off thousands of roofs.
Families hid beneath cabinets, under beds
and inside bathrooms to stay safe. Even el-
derly people who had survived countless ty-
phoons on the islands say they feared for
their lives. One woman was killed by a col-
lapsing building.
Igisaiar was in her second-floor apartment
during the storm, watching roofs flying off
her neighbors’ homes. She saw one family
trying to escape their house, temporarily
blocked by a huge piece of tin that flew onto
their doorway. As they crawled underneath
to get out, Igisaiar’s boyfriend went down-
stairs to urge them to hide in their apart-
ment.
By the time the sun rose, Igisaiar says sev-
eral neighbors were sheltering with her, her
boyfriend and four children.
The storm damaged so many public schools
that students didn’t have classes for more
than a month and still only have half-days.
The tourism-based economy came to a stand-
still, with fewer than 6,000 visitors in Novem-
ber, down from 48,000 the previous year.
Two months later, debris has been cleared
from many villages and the economy is re-
bounding. It’s once again common to see
tourists on the sidewalks and their bubble-
gum-colored convertible rental cars on the
roads.
But on the southern side of Saipan and
throughout the neighboring island of Tinian,
families are still sifting through the wreck-
age of their lives, sleeping outdoors and
waiting for the electricity to be turned back
on. The storm destroyed or severely damaged
more than 5,000 houses, some of which were
home to multiple families.
And unlike disasters on the U.S. mainland,
victims can’t just drive to the next county
to find another place to live.
There aren’t enough undamaged units on
the islands of Saipan and Tinian to house ev-
eryone who has been displaced. Instead of
handing out rental subsidies like they did
after Hurricane Michael and Hurricane Flor-
ence, federal disaster responders have passed
out more than 1,700 tents along with mili-
tary rations.
‘‘When you’ve been hit like this, things get
real primal real fast and we understand that
so our objective is to provide a safe and sani-
tary living arrangement,’’ says Victor Inge,
a FEMA spokesman based on Saipan.
The housing shortage is so severe that
FEMA is calling families and offering to buy
them plane tickets out of the islands. So far,
29 households have taken advantage of the
program and have booked tickets to Hawaii
and other states.
But even though more than 3,600 people are
eligible to leave, the vast majority are
choosing to stay. Igisaiar’s family is Caro-
linian, an indigenous Micronesian commu-
nity that sailed in canoes to the Marianas in
the 19th century after a typhoon devastated
the Caroline Islands.
Although Yutu was the worst storm she’s
seen in her life, Igisaiar says she wouldn’t
leave the Marianas even if FEMA gave her
money to do so.
She doesn’t want her kids to miss more
school. She’s worried about their house.
‘‘If we leave, there’s nothing that can be
done with our house,’’ Igisaiar says. ‘‘If we
go, how are we going to get the assistance?’’
THE HAZARDS OF CLEANING UP
Igisaiar felt lucky at first. She didn’t lose
her roof. But the next day she says her land-
lord asked her to move out anyway because
of the hazards posed by the damaged apart-
ment building.
They took just their clothes and one bed,
leaving their children’s beds and their refrig-
erator. They drove to what was left of the
house of her mother, Rufina Angui, in
Chalan Kanoa.
The U.S. military built the house out of
wood and tin 30 years ago after Typhoon Kim
destroyed the previous house, Rufina Angui
says.
Angui was 27 then. Now 57, it’s the first
time in her life that she’s been homeless.
The heat and the mosquitoes aren’t the only
challenge—the lack of power means she can’t
use the breathing machine she relies on to
help with her sleep apnea.
Angui only recently moved back to the
house and started sleeping in the tent. Dur-
ing and immediately after the typhoon, she
stayed at her brother’s house, which is con-
crete, while Igisaiar and her boyfriend tried
to fix up the Chalan Kanoa house.
It was too dangerous to sleep inside the
broken house at first, so Igisaiar and her
boyfriend lay pallets outside and secured a
tarp over them to block the rain. Igisaiar’s
boyfriend, a construction worker, missed
work for three weeks to help clean up. They
stacked plywood, tin and debris in separate
piles along the roadside.
Even though there were shelters available,
they slept outside and cleaned. They worried
about missing their FEMA inspection if they
weren’t around. Plus, who would fix up what
was left of the house if they weren’t there?
But increasingly Igisaiar realized fixing
the house was an impossible task. The mold
made her sick—it started with a cough but
progressed to a sinus infection until she
couldn’t hear or smell well.
When Angui saw her three weeks after the
storm, her daughter was so weak that she
was having a hard time breathing. Igisaiar
didn’t want to leave her kids, but Angui con-
vinced her to go to the hospital.
EXACERBATING POVERTY
The first 24 hours after the storm, no one
went to the emergency room of the hospital
on Saipan. And then suddenly the ER was
flooded with twice as many patients as on a
normal day—so many that there weren’t
enough beds in the ER.
The flow of injuries has slowed over the
past two months but hospital officials say
that the disaster has illuminated the major
gaps in health care coverage. Temporary
clinics set up in devastated villages revealed
that nearly half of patients were uninsurable
because they were guest workers, undocu-
mented immigrants or citizens of Pacific is-
land nations who are ineligible for Medicaid.
Esther Muna, the CEO of the local public
hospital, says she’s currently most worried
about mental illnesses. She’s seen patients
with post-traumatic stress disorder and de-
pression and says there’s been a spate of re-
cent suicides.
Food safety is another concern. Common-
wealth officials say they had just reached
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.096 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H658 January 16, 2019
their goal of providing 24-hour water to all
villages on Saipan in September, and storm
damage has set them back again.
Many locals say that the U.S. govern-
ment’s response to Yutu is much better than
it was for Soudelor, another powerful storm
that hit Saipan three years ago.
But a speedy recovery is hindered by the
islands’ distance from the rest of the U.S.
The Mariana Islands are at least an eight-
hour flight from Hawaii, not including a stop
in Guam. Disaster responders have to ship in
everything from concrete poles to tents,
lumber, tin, wire, transformers, even screws.
It’s even harder to reach the island of
Tinian, which is between Guam and Saipan
and home to about 3,500 people, similar to
the island of Lanai in Hawaii.
The entire island was engulfed by the eye
of the storm. At the commuter airport on
Saipan that facilitates flights to Tinian, air-
planes were destroyed, preventing travel for
days. Passengers now buy tickets from a
makeshift airport building made out of con-
tainers and tents.
Staff of the Tinian Health Center, an out-
post of the public hospital, hid in the radi-
ology room to survive the storm. Ninety per-
cent of the 35-member staff lost their homes,
Muna says.
THINGS COULD BE WORSE
Things have been a lot easier ever since
Igisaiar got back from the ER. She wishes
she remembered the name of the doctor who
helped her and got her family a tent to sleep
in.
Sleeping inside the tent is a huge improve-
ment over sleeping under the tarp, even
though it’s hot during the day.
Life now consists of waiting. Waiting until
FEMA tells her mother and aunt how much
money they qualify for, waiting until they
can figure out what to do with the house and
how much it will cost to rebuild it.
She’s thought about selling her families’
goats—they have seven, with names like Olaf
and Elsa. But she wants to keep them be-
cause her kids love them. Plus, in Carolinian
culture you’re supposed to value gifts more
than things you buy.
She thought about applying to FEMA for
funds to make up for losing their cell phones
and appliances when their apartment flooded
during the typhoon. But she decided against
it.
‘‘For me, those are nothing,’’ she says.
‘‘There are other people that just totally lost
everything so why not give it to the people
that need it the most?’’
She did apply for money from the Red
Cross and used the $750 to buy school sup-
plies and clothes for her kids.
Every morning, she goes to buy ice so that
her kids can have cold water. She spends the
day watching her children and helping her
mom. They have even started volunteering
at Empty Vessel, a Christian social service
organization that hands out clothes to those
in need.
Angui says she’s tired of eating canned
goods, but the family knows it’s lucky to
have food stamps.
‘‘We’re not hungry,’’ Angui says.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentlewoman from Con-
necticut (Ms. DELAURO).
Ms. DELAURO. Madam Chair, I rise
in support of Mr. SABLAN’s amendment.
As chair of the Labor, Health and
Human Services and Education Appro-
priations Subcommittee, I believe we
must ensure Americans can access
vital health programs, especially in
times of dire need.
Yet, after terrible typhoons, Ameri-
cans in the Northern Marianas could
see Medicaid run out. Unlike States,
territories have finite pools of Med-
icaid funding, and the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services esti-
mates the Northern Marianas needs $36
million to maintain care for Medicaid
patients, up from $20 million, which we
provided in the underlying bill.
Mr. SABLAN’s amendment would pro-
vide that additional $16 million. We
have an obligation to help Americans
in Middletown, Connecticut, and, yes,
the Northern Marianas access Medicaid
as well, especially when they need it
the most.
Madam Chair, I strongly support the
amendment.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I have
no further statements to make. I ask
for support of my amendment and the
underlying bill, H.R. 268, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from the Northern Mariana Is-
lands (Mr. SABLAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 14 OFFERED BY MR. SABLAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 14 printed
in part B of House Report 116–2.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 6, line 13, insert ‘‘(increased by
$15,000,000)’’ after the dollar amount.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands
(Mr. SABLAN) and a Member opposed
each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from the Northern Mariana Islands.
Mr. SABLAN. Madam Chair, my sec-
ond amendment to this Supplemental
Appropriations Act increases emer-
gency food assistance for the Marianas.
As I explained earlier, our islands
were struck by not one, but two ty-
phoons last year, one right after an-
other—Typhoon Mangkhut and Super
Typhoon Yutu, the second most power-
ful storm ever in U.S. history.
Within the first 30 days after Yutu,
our local food stamp program had in-
curred costs of $10.2 million. That
money helped families replace the food
they lost in the storms when their
homes lost roofs and water poured in
and electricity and refrigeration were
cut off.
Over 40,000 people, out of our total
population of 54,000, received help in
that first month, according to the De-
partment of Agriculture’s Food and
Nutrition Service. H.R. 268 replaces
that first month’s expenditure with an
appropriation of $10.2 million.
I thank Chair LOWEY for recognizing
the need, but beyond that first month
of emergency, more is needed.
The Marianas is not part of the Sup-
plemental Nutrition Assistance Pro-
gram, SNAP. Instead, we receive a
block grant from the Federal Govern-
ment. With the block grant, there is no
reserve, as with SNAP. When disaster
strikes, not only is money used up fast-
er than planned on the front end, fu-
ture costs also rise until families get
back on their feet.
Madam Chair, I have no official pro-
jection of the ongoing costs, because
Agriculture employees are furloughed.
But just before the lights went out, my
staff learned that about 20 percent of
the people who received food assistance
right after the storm were expected to
remain eligible.
If these projections hold true, total
caseload will double from 3,000 house-
holds to 6,000 households. The $15 mil-
lion in my amendment will provide a
little over 6 months of funding for
those newly eligible households until
their incomes can recover.
If $15 million proves too generous,
which I very much doubt, the Sec-
retary has authority to grant only as
much as needed to respond to the dis-
aster caused by Typhoon Mangkhut
and Super Typhoon Yutu. I ask my col-
leagues for their support of my amend-
ment and of H.R. 268.
Madam Chair, again, because the
Marianas is not part of SNAP, there is
no contingency funding to absorb the
costs of this disaster. With more fami-
lies eligible for assistance, unless we
make more funds available, benefits
will have to be cut across the board.
That is not a right way to respond
when people are trying to put their
lives back together so they can support
themselves and their families again.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues to
support my amendment making an-
other $15 million available so these
families have enough food. I urge your
support for the underlying bill as well,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from the Northern Mariana Is-
lands (Mr. SABLAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 15 OFFERED BY MISS
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN OF PUERTO RICO
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 15 printed
in part B of House Report 116–2.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Madam Chair, I rise as the des-
ignee of the gentlewoman from Amer-
ican Samoa (Mrs. RADEWAGEN), and I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 5, line 23, insert ‘‘(increased by
$5,000,000)’’ after the dollar amount.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 43, the gentlewoman
from Puerto Rico (Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN) and a Member opposed each will
control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Puerto Rico.
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Madam Chair, today, I rise to
offer an amendment to increase the nu-
tritional assistance funding amount of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.032 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H659
January 16, 2019
the bill by $5 million so the bill can in-
clude American Samoa in the emer-
gency appropriation due to the damage
caused by Cyclone Gita in February of
last year.
The 100 mile-per-hour winds of Cy-
clone Gita wiped out an entire growing
season for the American Samoan peo-
ple, a rural community that largely de-
pends on subsistence farming. Staple
crops of bananas, breadfruit, and taro
were lost wholesale, which led to an
enormous drain on the islands’ small
nutritional assistance grant.
These funds are vital to sustain the
basic local population and help fulfill
the basic nutritional assistance needs
of the American Samoan population.
By approving this amendment, approxi-
mately 6,000 people in the territory will
benefit and will have greater access to
food security.
Madam Chair, I believe that includ-
ing American Samoa in the disaster
bill will do what the people need there.
I ask for your support for this emer-
gency provision to benefit the people of
American Samoa, on behalf of Con-
gresswoman AMATA RADEWAGEN.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Puerto Rico (Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN).
The amendment was agreed to.
VACATING DEMAND FOR RECORDED VOTE ON
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. STEWART
Mr. STEWART. Madam Chair, I ask
unanimous consent that the request for
a recorded vote on my amendment be
withdrawn to the end that the Chair
put the question de novo.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will re-
designate the amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. Is there objection
to the request of the gentleman from
Utah?
There was no objection.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Utah (Mr. STEWART).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MR. MCGOVERN
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, the unfinished
business is the demand for a recorded
vote on amendment No. 2 printed in
part B of House Report 116–2 offered by
the gentleman from Massachusetts
(Mr. MCGOVERN) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the ayes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 230, noes 197,
not voting 12, as follows:
[Roll No. 37]
AYES—230
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Amash
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
González-Colón
(PR)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NOES—197
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
Lamb
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—12
Jones
LaMalfa
Marino
Massie
Mast
McEachin
Payne
Radewagen
Rooney (FL)
San Nicolas
Sensenbrenner
Wilson (FL)
b 1726
Mr. PENCE, Ms. SLOTKIN, Messrs.
CRAWFORD, UPTON, McKINLEY, and
Ms. GRANGER changed their vote
from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The Acting CHAIR. There being no
further amendments, the Committee
rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE) having assumed the chair,
Ms. PLASKETT, Acting Chair of the
Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union, reported that that
Committee, having had under consider-
ation the bill (H.R. 268) making supple-
mental appropriations for the fiscal
year ending September 30, 2019, and for
other purposes, and, pursuant to House
Resolution 43, she reported the bill, as
amended by that resolution, back to
the House with sundry further amend-
ments adopted in the Committee of the
Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
further amendment reported from the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.102 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H660 January 16, 2019
Committee of the Whole? If not, the
Chair will put them en gros.
The amendments were agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I have a
motion to recommit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. DUNN. Yes, in its current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Dunn moves to recommit the bill H.R.
268 to the Committee on Appropriations with
instructions to report the same back to the
House forthwith with the following amend-
ment:
Strike title XII.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Florida is recognized for 5
minutes.
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, this mo-
tion to recommit strikes title 12 from
the bill, H.R. 268. This was inserted by
Democratic leadership at the eleventh
hour today. Title 12 is a continuing res-
olution, meaning it will never be taken
up or passed by the Senate; it will
never be signed by the President.
Three months ago, Hurricane Mi-
chael devastated north Florida, Geor-
gia, and Alabama. Five months ago,
Hurricane Florence caused severe dam-
age in all of the Carolinas. Wildfires in
California, all fall long, caused billions
of dollars in damage and took almost
100 lives. Typhoons and volcanos in Ha-
waii and the American trust territories
also caused savage destruction. Dis-
aster victims across the Nation are in
dire need of our help right now.
Today, we will be voting on a bill
that we had been told would be a stand-
alone emergency funding bill, address-
ing only the 2018 disasters,
unencumbered by hot button, divisive
issues. Unfortunately, we are voting on
a very different bill. House Democrat
leadership pulled a bait-and-switch at
the last minute and made this other-
wise good bill into an attack on Presi-
dent Trump.
Madam Speaker, my people at home
are hurting. I worked hard on this bill.
I truly believed that we were having a
good faith conversation on how to help
suffering victims all across our Nation.
Instead, House Democrats chose to
play political games rather than help
our victims. They knew full well, when
they inserted this poison pill con-
tinuing resolution at the eleventh
hour, that they doomed any chance of
this bill passing the Senate, and yet
they did just that. It is now dead on ar-
rival in the Senate.
I have people back home, in my dis-
trict, sleeping in tents, in the cold, in
the rain, because FEMA housing has
not yet arrived.
I lost two hospitals. One was a level
two trauma center. That has never
happened in the history of the country.
I have sheriff’s deputies who are
homeless, but they are still working.
They are still performing their duties.
They are still protecting and serving
the people. You would like to think
that Congress could follow their exam-
ple.
Madam Speaker, the people of Amer-
ica have lost a great deal of faith in
their government over the years. But
the one thing that they still believe in
is that when a disaster strikes, their
government will come to their aid. And
now we are letting them down on even
that simple promise.
I won’t allow the people of north
Florida, suffering after Hurricane Mi-
chael, to be used as political pawns
against the President. That is why I
urge all Members of this House to sup-
port the motion to recommit. We can
remove the bitterly divisive part of
this bill and pass a truly bipartisan,
compassionate bill that provides ur-
gently needed relief to millions of peo-
ple across all of our Nation and our ter-
ritories, who are desperate for that re-
lief. After we address this disaster, we
can work on a compromise to address
border security and reopen the rest of
the government.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote
on the motion to recommit, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, I rise
in opposition to the motion to recom-
mit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from New York is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Mrs. LOWEY. Madam Speaker, in
fact, I am not even sure I heard cor-
rectly. Trump, the President, opposes
the dollar amount in the bill because
the only emergency is building the
wall? Did I hear that correctly, my
friends?
Madam Speaker, this shutdown,
frankly, has gone on long enough. Per-
haps, my good friends don’t know the
people who are suffering, who are liv-
ing paycheck to paycheck and who
have to worry about taking care of
their kids. It is really puzzling to me
that a statement like that is being
made tonight.
My friends, this shutdown has gone
on long enough. This motion to recom-
mit would only further prolong the
shutdown and the suffering and the
people who are really victims of this
action.
The bill we are voting on today is
very similar to the same package that
my Republican colleagues voted on
back on December 21.
H.R. 268 provides disaster relief to
those communities affected by hurri-
canes, wildfires, typhoons, other nat-
ural disasters, and it funds the entire
government through February 8. In
fact, this package provides even more
relief to those disaster-affected com-
munities following the adoption of the
bipartisan and Republican amendments
here today. The only component that is
not in this package that my friends on
the other side of the aisle voted for in
December is the President’s wall
money.
So, to use this MTR to further delay
the government, this doesn’t make any
sense to me at all, because this pack-
age being delayed is unconscionable.
Madam Speaker, for these reasons, I
urge my colleagues to oppose the mo-
tion to recommit, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I de-
mand a recorded vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by a 5-minute vote
on the passage of the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 193, noes 231,
not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 38]
AYES—193
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stewart
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.105 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H661
January 16, 2019
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—9
Jones
Marino
Massie
Mast
Payne
Rooney (FL)
Sensenbrenner
Welch
Wilson (FL)
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1747
Mr. LAMB changed his vote from
‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
Pursuant to clause 10 of rule XX, the
yeas and nays are ordered.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 237, nays
187, not voting 9, as follows:
[Roll No. 39]
YEAS—237
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cummings
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gabbard
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Herrera Beutler
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McEachin
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Perlmutter
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stefanik
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Yarmuth
NAYS—187
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Collins (GA)
Collins (NY)
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duffy
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smucker
Spano
Stauber
Steil
Steube
Stewart
Stivers
Taylor
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—9
Chu, Judy
Jones
Marino
Massie
Mast
Payne
Rooney (FL)
Sensenbrenner
Wilson (FL)
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1754
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated against:
Mr. MASSIE. Madam Speaker, for final pas-
sage of H.R. 268, the Supplemental Appro-
priations Act, I am not recorded because I was
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.037 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H662 January 16, 2019
absent on account of attending a U.S. Army
Basic Combat Training graduation ceremony.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 39.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.J. RES. 28, FURTHER ADDI-
TIONAL CONTINUING APPRO-
PRIATIONS ACT, 2019, AND PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
MOTIONS TO SUSPEND THE
RULES
Ms. SCANLON, from the Committee
on Rules, submitted a privileged report
(Rept. No. 116–3) on the resolution (H.
Res. 52) providing for consideration of
the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 28) mak-
ing further continuing appropriations
for fiscal year 2019, and for other pur-
poses, and providing for consideration
of motions to suspend the rules, which
was referred to the House Calendar and
ordered to be printed.
f
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
TERRORISTS WHO THREATEN TO
DISRUPT THE MIDDLE EAST
PEACE PROCESS—MESSAGE
FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UNITED STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–
7)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 12947 of January 23, 1995, with re-
spect to foreign terrorists who threat-
en to disrupt the Middle East peace
process, is to continue in effect beyond
January 23, 2019.
The crisis with respect to grave acts
of violence committed by foreign ter-
rorists who threaten to disrupt the
Middle East peace process that led to
the declaration of a national emer-
gency on January 23, 1995, has not been
resolved. Terrorist groups continue to
engage in activities that have the pur-
pose or effect of threatening the Middle
East peace process and that are hostile
to United States interests in the re-
gion. Such actions continue to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security, foreign policy,
and economy of the United States.
Therefore, I have determined that it is
necessary to continue the national
emergency declared in Executive Order
12947 with respect to foreign terrorists
who threaten to disrupt the Middle
East peace process and to maintain in
force the sanctions against them to re-
spond to this threat.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, January 16, 2019.
f
b 1800
RAISING A QUESTION OF THE
PRIVILEGES OF THE HOUSE
Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, I rise to
a question of the privileges of the
House and offer a resolution previously
noticed.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the resolution.
The Clerk read as follows:
H. RES. 53
Whereas the United States has always been
a proud multicultural Nation;
Whereas since early in our history our Na-
tion has recognized the strength that our di-
versity brings by making our national motto
E Pluribus Unum;
Whereas on July 13, 2006, on the floor of the
House of Representatives, comparing immi-
grants to livestock, Representative Steve
King of Iowa stated, ‘‘We could also electrify
this wire with the kind of current that would
not kill somebody, but it would simply be a
discouragement for them to be fooling
around with it. We do that with livestock all
the time.’’;
Whereas on March 8, 2008, in an interview
with KICD Studios, Representative King
stated, ‘‘I don’t want to disparage anyone be-
cause of their race, their ethnicity, their
name—whatever their religion their father
might have been. . . . I’ll just say this:
When you think about the optics of a Barack
Obama potentially getting elected President
of the United States—I mean, what does this
look like to the rest of the world? What does
it look like to the world of Islam?’’;
Whereas on May 21, 2012, while speaking
with constituents in Pocahontas, Iowa, Rep-
resentative King compared vetting immi-
grants to choosing hunting dogs saying,
‘‘You want a good bird dog? You want one
that’s going to be aggressive? Pick the one
that’s the friskiest.’’;
Whereas in July 2012, at a tele-townhall, on
President Barack Obama’s place of birth,
Representative King stated, ‘‘It would have
been awfully hard to fraudulently file the
birth notice of Barack Obama being born in
Hawaii and get that into our public libraries
and that microfiche they keep of all the
newspapers published. That doesn’t mean
there aren’t some other explanations on how
they might’ve announced that by telegram
from Kenya. The list goes on. But drilling
into that now, even if we could get a defini-
tive answer and even if it turned out that
Barack Obama was conclusively not born in
America, I don’t think we could get that
case sold between now and November.’’;
Whereas on January 4, 2013, in a press re-
lease announcing the introduction of his bill,
H.R. 140, Representative King stated, ‘‘The
current practice of extending U.S. citizen-
ship to hundreds of thousands of ‘anchor ba-
bies’ must end because it creates a magnet
for illegal immigration into our country.
Now is the time to ensure that the laws in
this country do not encourage law break-
ing.’’;
Whereas on July 24, 2014, in an interview
with Newsmax discussing undocumented im-
migrants in the United States, Representa-
tive King stated, ‘‘For everyone who’s a val-
edictorian, there’s another 100 out there who
weigh 130 pounds—and they’ve got calves the
size of cantaloupes because they’re hauling
75 pounds of marijuana across the desert.’’;
Whereas on July 20, 2016, in an interview
with The Washington Post, Representative
King stated, ‘‘The idea of multiculturalism,
that every culture is equal—that’s not objec-
tively true.’’;
Whereas on July 18, 2016, in an appearance
on MSNBC, Representative King stated,
‘‘Where did any other subgroup of people
contribute more to civilization [than White
people]?’’;
Whereas on September 18, 2016, on Twitter,
Representative King stated, that ‘‘Cultural
suicide by demographic transformation must
end.’’;
Whereas on March 12, 2017, on Twitter,
Representative King shared a story about
far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders and
added, ‘‘We can’t restore our civilization
with somebody else’s babies.’’;
Whereas on March 13, 2017, on CNN, Rep-
resentative King stated, ‘‘I’d like to see an
America that’s just so homogenous that we
look a lot the same’’ and ‘‘There’s been this
effort, we’re going to have to replace that
void with somebody else’s babies. That’s the
push to bring in [so] much illegal immigra-
tion into America, living in enclaves, refus-
ing to assimilate into the American culture
and civilization.’’;
Whereas on June 12, 2018, Representative
King retweeted Mark Collett, a self-de-
scribed ‘‘Nazi sympathizer’’;
Whereas on September 2, 2018, in an inter-
view with Unzensuriert, a publication linked
to a fascist Austrian political party, Rep-
resentative King stated, ‘‘What does this di-
versity bring that we don’t already have?
Mexican food, Chinese food, those things—
well, that’s fine. But what does it bring that
we don’t have that is worth the price? We
have a lot of diversity within the U.S. al-
ready.’’;
Whereas on January 10, 2019, in the New
York Times, Representative King stated
‘‘White nationalist, White supremacist,
Western civilization—how did that language
become offensive?’’;
Whereas Representative King’s statements
have drawn praise from known White su-
premacists like former Ku Klux Klan leader
David Duke;
Whereas Representative King dishonors
not only immigrants but every American
with his racist and xenophobic rhetoric; and
Whereas Representative King has failed to
retract his statement and apologize to the
Members of the House
or Americans across the country: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That—
(1) Representative Steve King of Iowa, by
his despicable conduct, has dishonored him-
self and brought discredit to the House and
merits the censure of the House for the
same;
(2) Representative Steve King of Iowa be
censured;
(3) Representative Steve King of Iowa
forthwith present himself in the well of the
House of Representatives for the pronounce-
ment of censure; and
(4) Representative Steve King of Iowa be
censured with the public reading of this reso-
lution by the Speaker.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The res-
olution presents a question of privi-
lege.
MOTION TO REFER
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I have
a motion at the desk.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.039 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H663
January 16, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. HOYER moves to refer the resolu-
tion to the Committee on Ethics.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Maryland is recognized 1
hour.
Mr. HOYER. Madam Speaker, I am
moving to refer this resolution to the
Committee on Ethics.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time, and I move the pre-
vious question on the motion.
The previous question was ordered.
The motion to refer was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
REOPEN THE GOVERNMENT
(Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, Daniel Garcia-Barbon has
been an air traffic controller for 10
years at Miami International Airport.
It has been his life’s dream to help pas-
sengers travel our skies. But last Fri-
day Daniel was one of thousands of
Floridians who received a pay stub in
the amount of zero. He was forced to
cancel his 4-year-old’s birthday, and he
is unsure how much longer he can af-
ford to support his family.
Our government is failing our public
servants.
I would like to ask this President and
the Republican Party if they under-
stand the value of the work that Daniel
and thousands of other Floridians do to
keep us safe.
We Floridians have weathered many
storms, including this shutdown, but
we always come together. Just this
weekend, I witnessed kindness from an
owner of a creole restaurant in the air-
port who was offering lunches to Fed-
eral employees.
This shutdown must end. It is prepos-
terous to punish thousands of Ameri-
cans for political gain. The Senate has
a constitutional duty, and it must rein
in this reckless President.
Madam Speaker, today, once again, I
stand here before you to implore the
Senate to reopen the government.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMORROW
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
UNDERWOOD). Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from Mary-
land?
There was no objection.
f
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM DAY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Madam Speaker, I rise today on Reli-
gious Freedom Day to celebrate the nu-
merous faiths that people hold across
this great Nation.
Today we commemorate the 233rd an-
niversary of the passing of a State law
that has shaped and secured our impor-
tant legacy of religious liberty. On
January 16, 1786, the Virginia General
Assembly passed the Virginia Statute
of Religious Freedom. The bill, written
by Thomas Jefferson, states: ‘‘All men
shall be free to profess, and by argu-
ment to maintain, their opinions in
matters of religion.’’
Just a few years later, this bill
served as the inspiration for the First
Amendment, which affirms our right to
choose and exercise faith without gov-
ernment coercion or retaliation.
Today, Americans from diverse eth-
nic and religious backgrounds remain
committed to the values of faith, hon-
esty, integrity, and patriotism.
Madam Speaker, our Constitution
and laws guarantee Americans the
right not just to believe as they see fit,
but to freely exercise their religion. We
observe this day in our homes, schools,
and houses of worship because we have
the freedom and the right to do so.
f
DEMOCRATS STAND FOR
HUMANITY
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I think it is important for us to know
what just happened today.
Democrats stood on the floor, unani-
mously, to open the government.
Democrats stood on the floor, unani-
mously, to be able to provide for des-
perate Americans suffering from dev-
astating floods, hurricanes, and
wildfires.
Yes, we helped our friends in the
Northern Mariana Islands for our good
colleague to stand on the floor and to
have amendments that would provide
Medicaid for his constituents. Demo-
crats stood for the humanity of Ameri-
cans.
Democrats are also standing for our
Coast Guard, members who are on the
front lines everywhere around this Na-
tion and in our seas stopping drugs and
saving people.
Democrats are simply asking that
there be humanity in this Congress, in
this House, for those who understand
TSAs are trying to do their job without
food or gas.
Democrats are asking for Senator
MCCONNELL to put our bills that were
just passed to open the government on
the Senate floor and to act like there is
leadership in this Nation, to send them
to the President.
Mr. President, sign the bill to open
the government now and stand for
what America is: a nation that cares.
b 1815
STAND FOR LIFE
(Mr. BIGGS asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, early
next week, America marks the dark
anniversary of the United States Su-
preme Court’s decision of Roe v. Wade.
Since that date, over 60 million ba-
bies have been aborted. Those babies
had no voice to defend themselves.
The tide is turning, though. Thanks
to President Trump and a pro-life Con-
gress the last 2 years, we have contin-
ued to take a stand for life in legisla-
tion, through executive action, and in
the courts. There is much to do to
make sure that every baby is protected
under our law yet.
I am especially grateful that Arizona
was recently recognized as the most
protective of life in the United States.
Thank you to all the officials and advo-
cates who work tirelessly to make this
happen.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Mr. DEUTCH asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. DEUTCH. Madam Speaker, let’s
be clear. The longest shutdown in our
history is not about border security.
Both Democrats and Republicans agree
we need strong border security; we
need new technology; we need stronger
ports of entry; and we need more per-
sonnel.
But the President is tossing aside
what we agree upon so that he can hit
taxpayers for $5 billion for his wall,
and he is making 800,000 hardworking
Federal employees and contractors,
and their loved ones, pay an even high-
er price right now.
I have heard from constituents who
should be working as aviation safety
inspectors to keep our skies safe. In-
stead, one is waiting in the unemploy-
ment office. One cabin safety inspector
is struggling to pay for cancer medica-
tion. Another is negotiating a payment
plan for his mother’s care, and his
mother is an 88-year-old veteran living
with dementia.
Let’s end the pain of this shutdown,
reopen the government, get Federal
workers back on the job and being
paid. We can work together to
strengthen our borders, and we can
treat asylum seekers with respect.
f
WHAT WOULD DR. KING SAY?
(Mr. MARSHALL asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. MARSHALL. Madam Speaker, on
April 3, 1968, the Reverend Martin Lu-
ther King gave what the world didn’t
know would be his final speech. Seven
times in that address, Dr. King said,
‘‘But I wouldn’t stop there,’’ as he
spoke of his dreams for a better world.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.114 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H664 January 16, 2019
This Martin Luther King Jr. Day, it
is critical that we not forget the many
lessons Dr. King taught us, lessons that
emphasize ways to treat our peers and
our neighbors with respect, despite our
differences, in order to make the dream
of a better and more unified tomorrow
possible.
That message should resonate today
more than ever to my peers in this
Chamber.
I have been thinking of this a lot
lately, what Dr. King might say if he
was here with us today, as he might see
the divisive partisanship that lives
among these halls, and I think he
would deliver one clear message: We
must unify to make meaningful
changes. We must bridge the gaps that
divide our Nation by working together
to find common good civilly.
It is no secret that division brings
pain and disables our capacity to solve
problems.
As Martin Luther King said in his
last speech in Tennessee, ‘‘I wouldn’t
stop there.’’
f
116TH ANNIVERSARY OF KOREAN
AMERICAN DAY
(Mr. GOMEZ asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GOMEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise
today on the 116th anniversary of Ko-
rean American Day, which recognizes
the first wave of Korean immigrants
who arrived to the United States on
January 13, 1903.
They reached our country in pursuit
of the American Dream, determined to
secure a better life for themselves and
their families.
They served as farm workers, wage
laborers, and section hands, laying the
groundwork for the success of their
children and future generations to
come.
Today, our Nation is home to nearly
2 million Korean Americans who enrich
every aspect of American life. They
embody the ideals that define our
country: hard work, resilience, and
community spirit.
I am proud to represent the largest
Korean population in the country in
California’s 34th Congressional Dis-
trict, and I am honored to reintroduce
this resolution in the 116th Congress,
recognizing their contribution 116
years after their arrival.
Please join me in acknowledging the
generation of Korean Americans—the
dreamers, the trailblazers, and the vi-
sionaries—who have realized the Amer-
ican Dream and continue to inspire us
all.
f
MARCH FOR LIFE
(Mr. HUIZENGA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, it
is an honor today to represent hun-
dreds of thousands of men, women, and
children who will be marching this
week in Washington, D.C., and around
the country through the cold, through
the wet, and, frankly, through the ridi-
cule.
We don’t march for the recognition
or for the headlines. We march on be-
half of the millions of children who
have had their opportunity to make an
impact on this world stolen from them.
We don’t march because it is merely
a political statement. We march be-
cause it is right. We march for life.
We must continue to prevent tax-
payer dollars from being used to end
the lives of innocent children here in
the United States and around the
globe.
When an organization prioritizes
abortion over adoption and creating a
culture of life, we must question why
our government funds them at all.
Now more than ever, Madam Speak-
er, we are called to speak up for those
who cannot for themselves. We must
all stand firm to defend the sanctity of
life, for the challenge is great and the
cause is noble.
Together, we will march in solidarity
for those who have never had the op-
portunity to walk on their own, and, in
coming days, our voices will be heard
louder than ever.
f
COAST GUARD MISSING FIRST
PAYCHECKS
(Ms. WILD asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. WILD. Madam Speaker, last
week, I spoke on this floor about the
first bill I introduced, a bill to fund our
Coast Guard through this government
shutdown.
Incredibly, our Coast Guard is still
not being paid. Yesterday was payday,
but they got nothing.
Just an hour ago, I spoke with Admi-
ral Charles Ray, Vice Commandant of
the Coast Guard, who emphasized to
me just how hard this is for young
members of the Coast Guard who have
not yet accumulated savings. As he
said to me, these men and women do
everything we ask of them. All they
ask is that we stand by them.
This is no way to treat those who put
their lives on the line in our defense.
Members of every branch of our mili-
tary, and the families who serve along-
side them, need to know that our gov-
ernment’s commitment to them is un-
breakable.
Our government has betrayed the
values of service and camaraderie em-
bodied by our military families. We
need to remember and honor those val-
ues. That means funding our Coast
Guard and ending this crisis right now.
f
HELPING VETERAN-OWNED SMALL
BUSINESS MEN AND WOMEN
(Mr. WATKINS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WATKINS. Madam Speaker,
today, the House came together to pass
H.R. 190, led by my friend and col-
league from Kansas’ Big First, Dr.
ROGER MARSHALL. This act helps serv-
ice-disabled, veteran-owned small busi-
ness men and women.
The path of the American veteran is
tough. So is the path of the small busi-
ness man. Where those paths intersect
are the people, innovation, and drive
that make America the greatest coun-
try in the world.
This legislation not only helps vet-
erans but helps us all through eco-
nomic growth and through job cre-
ation.
When an American veteran finds his
or her new mission, identity, and team
in a small business, we got your 6.
f
HONORING MAJOR JAMES M.
BROPHY
(Mr. DELGADO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Speaker,
today, I rise to honor Major James M.
Brophy, a marine from Staatsburg who
lost his life while serving our country
and was laid to rest this past Friday.
Major Brophy was a decorated com-
bat veteran who served in Afghanistan
as well as Japan. He dedicated his life
to our Nation, and he was a devoted fa-
ther, husband, and son.
This is a tremendous loss to not only
his family but to the entire Dutchess
County community, and he serves as
an example to all of us.
My thoughts and prayers are with his
family and friends, and I offer my sym-
pathy, support, and gratitude for his
selfless service to our country.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
(Mr. STEIL asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. STEIL. Madam Speaker, I am
frustrated. For 26 days, critical func-
tions of the Federal Government have
been nonoperational. Coastguardsmen
have not been paid, and there is no end
in sight.
We must work together to pass a bill,
end the shutdown, and fund security
measures at our borders. Put all 435 of
us in a room with no phones, no TV,
until the job is done.
I came from the private sector. In the
private sector, you do not leave until
the job is done.
Is our job done here in Washington?
Did we end the shutdown? Did we ade-
quately fund border security? The an-
swer is no, we have not.
House leadership has refused to bring
any serious attempt to open the gov-
ernment and address critical security
needs to the House floor. Rather than
playing political games with govern-
ment funding, let’s work on solutions.
I am ready to stay here until we get
the job done. Let’s get to work.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:46 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.117 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H665
January 16, 2019
DISASTER RELIEF
(Mr. MCADAMS asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. MCADAMS. Madam Speaker, I
rise in support of H.R. 268, the legisla-
tion that we voted on earlier today to
provide disaster relief, including relief
for my home State of Utah.
Specifically, this bill includes money
for the Utah Reclamation Mitigation
and Conservation Commission for crit-
ical environmental work in the Straw-
berry River watershed and part of the
Diamond Fork drainage.
Last summer, the Dollar Ridge fire
burned an area of almost 70,000 acres,
centered over the Strawberry River wa-
tershed. This area has been a critical
focal point of the Central Utah Project
for almost 40 years. The Central Utah
Project diverts, stores, and delivers
large quantities of water from numer-
ous Utah rivers to meet the needs of
central Utah’s citizens.
In cooperation with the Utah Divi-
sion of Wildlife Resources and the U.S.
Bureau of Reclamation, the mitigation
commission is working to repair tre-
mendous damage to the area, both
from the fire itself and subsequent rain
and runoff events.
Water quality has suffered greatly.
Money from this legislation will be
used to reseed, replant, and set up
monitoring stations to better respond
to the future mudslide and sediment
flows.
A portion of the funds will also be
used to begin restoring an area in the
Diamond Fork Canyon that was af-
fected by a second fire.
I also commend my Utah colleague
Representative CHRIS STEWART for his
amendment to the bill, providing
much-needed funding for fire protec-
tion.
f
HONORING JAMES C. HIGH
(Mr. ROUZER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. ROUZER. Madam Speaker, Co-
lumbus County and many throughout
North Carolina and beyond are mourn-
ing the passing of Mr. James C. High,
known to his many friends and col-
leagues as Jim.
As the publisher of The News Re-
porter, a family-owned newspaper in
Whiteville for 61 years, Mr. High was a
strong advocate for a free press and
was highly recognized in the industry
for making The News Reporter a lead-
ing community newspaper.
He has been long admired in the com-
munity for his years of dedicated lead-
ership, service to others, and distin-
guished contributions to Columbus
County.
Mr. High’s impact went beyond just
the newspaper. He helped lead the ef-
fort to create the Committee of 100 to
bring industry and jobs to Columbus
County.
He was influential in many different
capital campaigns, including those for
the Carolyn T. High Memorial Library,
the Whiteville High School gym-
nasium, the Angel House Hospice Care
Center, and many others too numerous
to list.
Jim High was a vital part of Colum-
bus County, and he will be greatly
missed. His was a life lived well, and he
leaves a great legacy of enrichment
that will continue to benefit many.
f
APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO
PERMANENT SELECT COM-
MITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair announces the Speaker’s ap-
pointment, pursuant to clause 11 of
rule X, clause 11 of rule I, and the order
of the House of January 3, 2019, of the
following Members of the House to the
Permanent Select Committee on Intel-
ligence:
Mr. HIMES, Connecticut
Ms. SEWELL, Alabama
Mr. CARSON, Indiana
Ms. SPEIER, California
Mr. QUIGLEY, Illinois
Mr. SWALWELL, California
Mr. CASTRO, Texas
Mr. HECK, Washington
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY, New
York
Mrs. DEMINGS, Florida
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Illinois
f
b 1830
NATIONAL SCHOOL CHOICE WEEK
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Michi-
gan (Mr. MITCHELL) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers have 5 legislative days to revise
and extend their remarks and include
extraneous material on the topic of my
Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
represent Michigan’s 10th Congres-
sional District—northern Macomb
County and the Thumb. For us in
Michigan, it is simple. I am from here.
I am co-chair of the Congressional
School Choice Caucus with Senator
TIM SCOTT from South Carolina. Today,
a number of Members are gathered here
on the floor to celebrate all types of
school choice—from traditional public
schools, to public charter schools, pub-
lic magnet schools, online learning,
private schools, homeschooling, and
more.
Every year, National School Choice
Week offers an opportunity to parents,
educators, and students from around
the country to come together and
share the many successes of education
choice in this country.
Yesterday, I introduced a resolution
in the House recognizing the impor-
tance of school choice the week of Jan-
uary 20 through January 26. I spent 35
years in business focused on career and
technical education and workforce edu-
cation. I know the importance of a pre-
paratory education, of a K–12 education
to success in the future.
I am the oldest of seven children. My
family struggled. Dad built trucks on
the line when he wasn’t laid off, and
mom worked at the Salvation Army. I
was the first of my extended family to
ever set foot on a college campus,
never mind actually graduate. I saw,
firsthand, the importance of that edu-
cation and the skills I could acquire if
I put my mind to it.
My mom convinced me I could be
anything, and, to her credit, I became
CEO of a fair-size company devoted to
workforce education, to helping people
gain the skills necessary for a career,
or to retrain if they lost their jobs.
My company ran some of the largest
welfare-to-work programs in the coun-
try back when welfare-to-work meant
going to work. I personally benefitted
from that alternative education when I
went to college.
As a father of six, I also know that no
two kids are alike. Yes, I am the father
of six. You would think I would have
learned after being the oldest of seven,
but I didn’t. We have a blended family.
My oldest is in her 30s, and my young-
est is 8 years old. We adopted him from
Russia 6 years ago.
I know that one size of education
does not fit for all children. One of my
children, my daughter, who is 17 now,
attends a virtual academy because
those who have teenagers know that
getting your child up as a teenager
early in the morning to go to school is
like running a zoo. It doesn’t go well.
So she goes to virtual school, controls
her schedule, controls what classes she
does that day, controls her time, and
learns to manage time like we all have
to learn as we get older.
My youngest son has special needs
that traditional schools have not han-
dled well. He has learning disabilities.
He has dyslexia and ADHD. It has been
suggested I suffer from that as well
some days. So we had to find an alter-
native for him. Luckily, my wife was
able to stay home and homeschool him,
but not everyone has that choice.
Today, we are here to celebrate the
range of choices of education, innova-
tion education, and to encourage that.
I would like to start by recognizing one
of my colleagues to talk about edu-
cation. I would like to start by recog-
nizing and yielding time to Representa-
tive TIM WALBERG from Michigan’s
Seventh District.
I am proud to introduce him. He is a
good friend of mine from Michigan,
who also recognizes the importance of
alternative education, of education op-
tions in our home State, and I now
yield to Mr. WALBERG.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.119 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H666 January 16, 2019
Mr. WALBERG. Madam Speaker, I
thank my good friend and colleague
from Michigan, and I appreciate the
opportunity to talk about something
that is extremely important.
In our Michigan State Constitution,
Article VIII, section 1, it says: ‘‘Reli-
gion, morality, and knowledge being
necessary to good government and the
happiness of mankind, schools and the
means of education shall forever be en-
couraged.’’
That article—that line was taken
from the Northwest Ordinance. I think
it showed the wisdom of some of our
Founders of this great Nation, the
greatest in the entire world, that they
understood that education and the
means of education gave the oppor-
tunity, and, in fact, to a great degree,
assured the freedom and opportunity of
a Nation and the morality of a Nation
that understood the wisdom that came
even from the centuries and the ages.
I think we would all agree that
schools should meet the unique edu-
cational needs of children, wouldn’t
we? I know my colleague would agree
with that. And why, then, would we
question the fact that there ought to
be choice? Choice in education, even as
we seek choice in our daily lives is
what makes America great.
School choice gives parents and chil-
dren the option of allowing the chil-
dren to flourish. That is the intended
goal, isn’t it? Michigan has a variety of
options, and I am grateful for that. It
didn’t always have those same options,
but we do now.
Just 25 years ago, as of this week,
Michigan struck out on a new oppor-
tunity in the fact of allowing charters,
public charters, to take place, and in
those past 25 years, we have literally
seen a million students attend Michi-
gan’s charter schools. Has every char-
ter been perfect or successful? No. But
overwhelmingly, charters have served
Michigan well as a choice, as an option.
I think of the community—a commu-
nity like Detroit wherein the Detroit
News just, this week, an article was
written talking about the success there
of the Detroit Edison Public School
Academy; ranked the number one open-
enrollment school in the entire city
when it comes to college enrollment.
Over half of the students in Detroit, a
great city, now have the opportunity
and take the opportunity to attend
charter schools, and they are flour-
ishing.
Michigan has a variety of options
available to our 2.2 million children
living in that State, including the op-
portunity to attend traditional public
schools outside neighborhood bound-
aries. That is a good thing. Again, it
gives choice, meeting the needs of stu-
dents.
Now, I had choice, like my colleague,
relative to my children. Not all people
back in the 1980s and mid-1990s, when
my children were going to their grade
school and high school education op-
portunities, had the same choices.
Each one of my three kids were dif-
ferent in unique ways. They learn dif-
ferent. They have different aptitudes
and desires and longings and interests.
We had the opportunity to send our
three children to public school, private
school, and homeschool, and one of our
children to vocational school, as it was
called at the time, for a career in tech-
nical education that changed her life,
literally.
I thank God for that opportunity. We
used it, not simply to make choices
and have differences, but to meet those
unique educational needs and opportu-
nities of our kids, and it worked. It
worked for them.
You know something, I so appreciate
my good friend and colleague having
this Special Order tonight, because it
is a time when we can talk through
some of what we would call common-
sense ideas and values and beliefs, but
too often we forget about it.
For instance, do parents know their
children’s unique needs, unique abili-
ties, unique strengths and weaknesses
better than anyone else? I think the
answer is, and that you and I would
agree, that the overwhelming majority
of parents—we can always pick out
that dysfunctional family, and, sadly,
we need to work in those areas—but
the overwhelming majority of parents
have a clear love for their kids, know
their needs, and if given the oppor-
tunity, will make the best choices for
their educational experience.
I have seen that. I have seen that in
upper-income strata. I have seen that
in lower-income strata. I have seen
that in rural communities. I have seen
that in urban communities. I have seen
that in suburban communities. Parents
generally want the best for their kids,
and that includes education.
So, for us, to support and encourage
choice, and with that choice, to cer-
tainly hold accountable, but nonethe-
less to encourage choice and for par-
ents to make those choices for the best
interest of their kids, I see that as an
American way. Having the option to
choose the learning environment, the
styles of education that works best for
the student, whether it be through
charter school, private school, home
education, or traditional public school,
having choices allows students to grow
and find their sweet spot.
I saw that with my kids, and I want
that for all children. So I thank Rep-
resentative MITCHELL for encouraging
us to think this through during this
special National Choice Week and to
double our efforts to say we want kids
to be educated, we want to give them
that choice, we will support that, and,
in fact, then we will promote quality in
education.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Michigan
for joining us tonight in talking about
school choice, as he sees it. You see,
parents have a choice to give their kids
a chance, in many cases a chance that
their ZIP code or their learning limita-
tions otherwise would limit them from.
Let me give you an example. In K–12
education, I was regularly placed out-
side the classroom at a desk to work
independently on projects. Why? Well,
because I asked too many questions.
That isn’t exactly a learning model we
would endorse these days.
My senior year of high school, I was
asked to attend one class each semes-
ter by the assistant principal, debate
and public speaking because, again, I
asked too many questions, and it was
easier for everybody if I just took
exams and wrote reports rather than
go to class because it was simpler for
the teacher.
See, school choice is not about public
versus private schools. It is not about
the school system. That is a false di-
chotomy. It is about creating an envi-
ronment in which the students’ needs
are met. They are met to gain skills,
not to meet standards, not to get
grades, but to have the skills necessary
to be successful in their life.
Let me give you one quick example
before I turn it over to my colleagues.
Aley Minton from Port Huron, part of
my district, has a story I want to tell.
She was skeptical about educational
choice until dire circumstances drove
her to enroll both her sons in a cyber
school, not unlike my daughter.
The St. Clair County family’s old
brick-and-mortar school left them in a
difficult place by not adapting to the
special needs for their children.
She says: ‘‘Our family chose to uti-
lize school choice because our youngest
son is epileptic and our oldest son is
dyslexic.’’ She knows how one son was
struggling academically while the tim-
ing and intensity of his seizures inter-
fered with him regularly going to
school and maintaining full school
hours. Her other son with dyslexia was
having a difficult time keeping up with
school work.
Now in their sixth year at Michigan
Connections Academy, the Minton boys
are making great strides in their free-
dom to learn how best for them. She
says: ‘‘When we first started virtual
learning, our oldest son was on a sec-
ond-grade level in the fifth grade. He is
now on grade level, being successful’’.
Their needs are being met, and, guess
what, they are happy going to school.
Let me take a moment and ask an-
other of my colleagues to join us, Con-
gressman ANDY BIGGS from Arizona’s
Fifth District. He knows firsthand,
given his experience with the State,
the success with school choice models
as Arizona continues to be a national
leader in providing options for parents
and their children and for educators.
I yield to Congressman ANDY BIGGS
from the Fifth District of Arizona.
Mr. BIGGS. Madam Speaker, I thank
Representative MITCHELL. I am grate-
ful for this opportunity to highlight
National School Choice Week, which
will be next week, January 20 through
26.
Like many in Congress, I believe the
path to success for our Nation’s youth
is through quality education. The best
way to provide quality is to create
competition in the education market-
place.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.121 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H667
January 16, 2019
For decades, students and families
had few options when they went to
choose education for their children.
Today, there is a flourishing education
marketplace. Some States have erased
school district lines, directly creating
choice within their traditional public
school systems. Many others have em-
braced charter schools and duel-enroll-
ment programs, and still others have
provided educational savings accounts
for parents and allowed voucher pro-
grams to assist families with offsetting
the cost of private school tuition.
Educational options should meet the
variety of unique needs of students. I
am glad to see leaders across the coun-
try understand those needs and pro-
mote policies that provide an abun-
dance of options.
Nearly 30 years ago, my wife and I
studied the options available to us as
parents as we went to educate our chil-
dren in Arizona. At that time, there
were very few options. I took the re-
quired general certification test that
allowed us to home educate our oldest
children.
b 1845
As our family and children grew, so
did educational choice in Arizona. Our
children are each unique individuals
with varying talents, abilities, and in-
terests. Homeschooling worked for
some of our children, charter schools
for others, and, even within the charter
schools, different charter schools
worked for different children. But each
of our children received a quality edu-
cation that allowed them to flourish
and which prepared them for life.
Four of our children have graduated
from college, the fifth has attended
college, and our youngest is in her
freshman year of college. My wife and
I are pleased with their successes and
are deeply appreciative of Arizona’s
liberal school choice policies that
allow every child an opportunity to
thrive and grow in a school that is the
best fit for them.
Today, in Arizona, there are more
than 550 charter schools, with 186,000
students enrolled in the 2016–2017
school year. That is an increase of 6,000
students, or almost 6 percent over the
previous school year, and makes up
about 17 percent of all of Arizona’s pub-
lic school students.
But school choice doesn’t stop with
charter schools in Arizona. We also
offer scholarships funded by State tax
credits to help make private schools
more affordable, as well as education
savings accounts that help more than
5,400 students and their families choose
the educational option that is best for
them.
I firmly believe parents and students
should be in the driver’s seat when de-
termining which educational path best
fits their needs. They can only do this
if local, State, and Federal leaders con-
tinue to reduce involvement in edu-
cation decisionmaking.
Again, I thank Representative
MITCHELL and the leaders here today
and those who are working for school
choice across this country, those who
are fighting for policies that benefit
students and their families.
Today’s youth will be our future
leaders in this great Nation, and even
in the world. It is, thusly, imperative
that we provide them with the highest
quality education to ensure they have
the foundation necessary to become
the leaders we need.
Mr. MITCHELL. Madam Speaker, I
thank Congressman BIGGS for sharing
his experience and background. I really
appreciate him taking the time this
evening to talk about the importance
of school choice.
As he notes, education should be
measured by skills gained, not by
standardized tests, not by grades, but
what young people can do as they move
through an educational process, begin
postsecondary education, and start ca-
reers. Because long-term, ultimately,
the assessment is not what a standard-
ized test said; it is what you can get
done in a day and what you can
achieve.
Part of that is an exposure to
STEM—science, technology—voca-
tional skills, trades. The reality is we
don’t do enough in the education sys-
tem to give those choices to young peo-
ple. In many cases, where they live
limits their access to those options.
I have an example of neighbors of
mine. Their son wishes to take a voca-
tional program that is offered in the
school on the other side of the county
line.
Now, ironically, by the way, it is
closer if he goes there, but because of
the funding limitations in the school
systems, he can’t. Again, we don’t want
to limit young people’s choices. We
want to give them options.
In order to make education options
more available, students, parents, and
school choice advocates must work to-
gether to get out the information of
why it is so important, what difference
it makes.
Let me give you a couple more exam-
ples.
Natalie Fenchel testified before the
Michigan Civil Rights Commission in
July of 2018 talking about school
choice. She says:
There are a lot of misconceptions about
charter schools.
Fenchel said:
I really got a lot of benefits from going to
a charter school and continue to go through-
out my college career. Especially with my
nursing school, I feel so well prepared.
She lives in Traverse City, by the
way, northern Michigan.
Traverse City is pretty rural, and charter
schools really provided a second option for
me. Grand Traverse Academy provided so
many benefits that would be unable to be
achieved for rural students that otherwise it
would be difficult. I’m just really grateful I
went to a charter school. It’s helped me pur-
sue my nursing degree.
Let me give you one more example I
think will kind of tell the story of
school choice and school options.
Kendra, now at Howard University,
says:
Things could have turned out differently if
I didn’t have the opportunity to pursue a dif-
ferent educational path when I was younger.
Thankfully, my parents were given the op-
tion to exercise school choice, which is, un-
fortunately, not the norm for every student.
Kendra is right. It should be the
norm for every parent and every stu-
dent.
We can’t wait, nor should we, for gov-
ernment policy to fix it. There should
be no Federal policy. I am not here ad-
vocating a Federal policy for school
choice. Rather, I am advocating that
we make those options available
through sharing information, high-
lighting models, encouraging States
and communities to make sure they
are meeting the needs of young people
across America because, as Congress-
man BIGGS notes, the future of Amer-
ica is those young people.
Parents, not Washington bureau-
crats—I suggest, not bureaucrats in
States—know what is best for their
children. School systems, educational
options, and funding options for that
education need to be determined by the
parents, working with their children as
they get older.
School choice enables communities
and local educators to focus upon pre-
paring young people for the future,
again, rather than preparing them for
standardized tests, grades, or to push
them into a model.
We need to stop with the whole idea
of putting a round peg in a square hole
and saying that is the best we can do,
because America can do better for our
young people.
Ultimately, our number one priority
ought to be and needs to be getting
children, getting kids an effective edu-
cation that will enable them to pursue
their lives going forward, whatever ca-
reer path they choose, so they are pre-
pared to be successful in this world
today.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. TLAIB) is recognized for
60 minutes as the designee of the ma-
jority leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the subject of my
Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from Michigan?
There was no objection.
HONORING DR. MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. ON HIS
90TH BIRTHDAY
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to take a moment as we honored
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., on his
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:51 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.123 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H668 January 16, 2019
90th birthday yesterday, and we con-
tinue to honor him throughout this
week and next Monday.
During this time, we recognize that
we are in a society that is still riddled
with injustices. As Representatives, we
have a duty to lift up those who are
marginalized and work to ensure that
we continue a path toward justice for
every person. No person should ever
feel less than in the United States of
America.
May we remember his legacy and his
words and recommit to fighting for jus-
tice and equality. May we also speak
out loudly and unapologetically about
the ills of our society and work every
single day to stay on the right side of
justice.
Madam Speaker, in regard to the
government shutdown, I am very pas-
sionate about making sure that we put
a human face to this crisis, so I rise
today, during the 26th day of this reck-
less government shutdown.
The real crisis here is the negative
human impact. In the homes of each of
the Federal workers across this Nation,
nearly a month without pay. Our Fed-
eral workers are having to go to pawn
shops to get cash to live. This is not
right.
Yes, there is a crisis for the families
in my district who have corporate pol-
luters today in their backyards that do
not have any EPA inspectors moni-
toring our air quality.
Yes, there is a crisis for the families
who are wondering if their housing as-
sistance will come next month from
HUD.
The shutdown will have a long-last-
ing negative impact on our lives, and it
must end immediately.
Madam Speaker, I would like to take
some time today to share stories about
residents in Michigan who are im-
pacted directly.
Gregory Simpkins, who is president
of the American Federation of Govern-
ment Employees Local 778, said four of
the union’s TSA employees quit last
week and three the week before. Right
now, TSA employees are deemed essen-
tial and still going to work but are not
getting paid.
Ms. Wilson, one of our TSA employ-
ees, said the morale is so low she has
never seen anything like it. With per-
sonal budgets stretched, she is afraid
they will lose even more workers. One
worker said to her that he can’t pay for
gas money to get to work, and he is
worried and scared for the future of his
family and for his life.
Federal environmental protection
workers right now are not at work pro-
tecting us, so when I think of this, I
think of Line 5, which is a very dan-
gerous oil pipeline that threatens the
drinking water supply for Michiganders
and our freshwater in the Great Lakes.
We are in trouble, Madam Speaker,
because the computers that run that
model for emergency response is shut
down during this crisis.
Mark Coryell, president of the Amer-
ican Federation of Government Em-
ployees Local 3907, represents EPA
workers who work in the Motor Vehi-
cle Emissions Laboratory in Ann
Arbor, Michigan. He and his colleagues
are furloughed, meaning they are not
working right now and not getting
their pay.
For the public, this means they are
not working on regulations that are
now lagging because they are not show-
ing up. Their lab certifies fuel effi-
ciency numbers automakers display
when selling cars to ensure that they
protect our air quality and abide by
the emission standards.
So, Madam Speaker, this is reckless
and irresponsible. It is reckless that
MITCH MCCONNELL’s Senate cannot
muster up the courage to reopen the
government.
Senator MCCONNELL works for the
American people. He has been missing
in action during this crisis. He doesn’t
work for the President of the United
States; he works for the American peo-
ple. I ask him to stand up and do what
is right for all of us and for our Nation
and to open up government.
Madam Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tlewoman from Minnesota (Ms. OMAR).
Ms. OMAR. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to mark the 26th day of what is
now the longest running government
shutdown in history, a shutdown which
is nothing more than a manufactured
crisis designed to distract us from the
instability and dysfunction that rules
the Trump White House.
Trump has orchestrated this shut-
down because he is looking for someone
else to blame for the ineffectiveness of
his administration. He wants to point
to us here in Congress and claim that
we are the reason he is failing to lead
this country.
But that blame, Madam Speaker, be-
longs to Trump—and Trump only. He
singlehandedly forced seven agencies
to stop their crucial work, work that
impacts the health and safety of every
American.
Soon, millions of people could start
to go hungry as the government runs
out of money to fund nutritional as-
sistance through the SNAP program.
Thousands could face eviction and
become homeless as HUD becomes un-
able to deliver desperately needed
housing assistance.
Federal courts could shut down.
Our aviation system could come to a
halt as flights are grounded.
And the list, Madam Speaker, goes
on and on.
But even before this shameful shut-
down began, the executive branch
agencies were already struggling to op-
erate under Trump’s leadership, or the
lack thereof. As of today, there are
more than 200 critical agency positions
for which Trump has failed to even put
forward a nominee. That is more than
200 agencies, offices, and programs that
are operating without defined leader-
ship, full staff, or resources.
Consequently, even once we are able
to end this debilitating shutdown, our
Federal Government will still be oper-
ating at less than full capacity so long
as we have an ineffective, ego-driven
President at the helm.
As Members of Congress, we took an
oath to put the people of this country
first, to protect their rights, safety,
and well-being. That is why we, here in
the House, voted on day one of this
Congress, and nearly every day since,
to reopen this government.
The President took a similar oath,
and it is time that he honor it because,
Madam Speaker, the American people
deserve better.
The 400,000 furloughed Federal em-
ployees deserve better, including the
6,000 workers in my district, alone, who
are currently wondering how they are
going to pay their rent at the first of
the month and if they are able to af-
ford simple necessities like childcare
and food. They deserve better.
b 1900
If the President wants to have a real
conversation about border security, we
are ready to have it. We can talk about
finding a solution to our broken immi-
gration system and how to adopt poli-
cies that extend humanity and compas-
sion to migrants and refugees.
Every day, families are fleeing vio-
lence and untold hardships in countries
like Guatemala, El Salvador, and Hon-
duras. These people are running from
situations that are so brutal, that most
Americans, thankfully, could not com-
prehend, but as a refugee from Soma-
lia, I do. So I invite the President to
engage in a real conversation with Con-
gress on immigration.
If he wants, we can talk about the $2
million the Guatemalan Government
paid to D.C. lobbyists and how our gov-
ernment is cozying up to corrupt re-
gimes in that country.
If he is interested, we could also talk
about the U.S. funding and training for
Honduras security forces that are in-
volved in serious human rights viola-
tions and how these policies that we
support are forcing people to flee from
their homeland.
If he wants to talk, we are ready to
talk, but we don’t need a government
shutdown to do it.
I join the similar calls made by my
colleagues today, and I demand that
the President end his temper tantrum
and quest for a racist and cynical big
wall, and I demand that he work with
us to reopen the government before
any more damage is done.
Enough is enough. The American
people deserve better.
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from New York
(Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ).
Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ. Madam
Speaker, today I rise to tell the story
of one of my constituents, Yahey
Obeid.
Mr. Obeid was born in Yemen and
came to the United States when he was
8 years old. His childhood dream was to
become a pilot, and he knew and felt
that in the United States, all things
are possible and his dream could come
true.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.125 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H669
January 16, 2019
Mr. Obeid’s dream did come true. He
has been a Federal employee for 14
years, has two children, and a mort-
gage for his home in the Morris Park
neighborhood of the Bronx. He studied
hard, got his pilot’s license, and is now
an air traffic controller supervisor at
John F. Kennedy International Airport
in New York City.
I spoke with Mr. Obeid today over
the phone. He and air traffic control-
lers like him across the country missed
their first paycheck this past week. He
was telling me about how stressful his
job is. Every single day, air traffic con-
trollers have thousands of people’s
lives in their hands. With weather
changes, flight delays, staffing com-
plexities, and a myriad of other issues,
their days almost never go exactly to
plan. His job is to find solutions, ana-
lyze and adapt in real time to keep peo-
ple safe in one of the busiest airspaces
in the United States and the world.
It is terrifying to think that almost
every single air traffic controller in
the United States is currently dis-
tracted at work because they don’t
know when their next paycheck is com-
ing.
Federal workers’ jobs are stressful
enough. The rise in New York City’s
cost of living is stressful enough. The
fact that Mr. Obeid’s family cannot be
reunified due to fears over the Muslim
ban is stressful enough. His several-
thousand-dollar-a-month Bronx mort-
gage is stressful enough. The anti-im-
migrant sentiment of this administra-
tion is stressful enough.
The truth of this shutdown is that it
is actually not about a wall, it is not
about the border, and it is certainly
not about the well-being of everyday
Americans.
The truth is this shutdown is about
the erosion of American democracy and
the subversion of our most basic gov-
ernmental norms.
It is not normal to hold 800,000 work-
ers’ paychecks hostage. It is not nor-
mal to shut down the government when
we don’t get what we want. It is not
normal for public servants to run away
and hide from the public that they
serve. And it is certainly not normal to
starve the people we serve for a pro-
posal that is wildly unpopular among
the American people.
Each and every Member of this body
has a responsibility to this Nation and
to everyone in the United States of
America, whether they voted for us or
not. This President shares in that re-
sponsibility as well, which means he
has a responsibility to my constituent,
Mr. Obeid.
President Trump has a responsibility
to all air traffic controllers, FDA in-
spectors, TSA workers, and he has a re-
sponsibility to maintain the basic func-
tioning of the United States Govern-
ment.
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentleman from California (Mr.
LEVIN).
Mr. LEVIN of California. Madam
Speaker, on my first day in office, I
joined Democrats and Republicans in
voting to reopen the government and
end this senseless and now record shut-
down.
And we have passed Republican legis-
lation. Make no mistake: this is the
same legislation that Senate Repub-
licans supported just last month to
fund the Federal Government, but in-
stead of taking that legislation up for
a vote, MITCH MCCONNELL and Senate
Republicans have joined President
Trump in what can be best described as
a temper tantrum.
As the father of a 6-year-old and a 4-
year-old, occasionally I know some-
thing about a temper tantrum.
MITCH MCCONNELL and Senate Repub-
licans have joined President Trump in
holding 800,000 Federal workers hostage
over a demand for an ineffective,
wasteful wall, a fifth century tech-
nology for a 21st century problem.
Don’t get us wrong. Democrats con-
tinue to support strong, smart, effec-
tive border security solutions, includ-
ing the following:
First, we support new drug, weapons,
and contraband scanning technology at
official ports of entry; installing new
technology to eventually scan all com-
mercial and passenger vehicles for ille-
gal drugs and other contraband at our
ports of entry. According to both CBP
and DEA, 90 percent of heroin, 88 per-
cent of cocaine, 87 percent of meth-
amphetamine, and 80 percent of
fentanyl being smuggled into the U.S.
are seized at official ports of entry, not
areas between the ports of entry, where
President Trump wants to build his
wasteful border wall.
Second, we support advanced tech-
nology to detect unauthorized cross-
ings; cameras, sensors, and radar to
spot moving people and objects in any
weather or time of day that are mount-
ed on towers and border patrol vehicles
and on drones to surveil tough terrain.
Third, we support more customs per-
sonnel, filling the more than 3,000 va-
cancies for customs officers who facili-
tate trade and travel at our land, air,
and sea ports of entry, inspect commer-
cial and passenger vehicles for illegal
drugs and other contraband, and ensure
that travelers are vetted and screened
before entering the United States.
Fourth, we support expanded port of
entry infrastructure, building up our
port of entry infrastructure to improve
security and better facilitate trade and
travel, ending the long delays for visi-
tors and commercial shipments that
cost our country billions in economic
activity and thousands of jobs.
We support all these measures, and
we have for some time, and we will
continue to support these measures,
but we will not waste billions of tax-
payer dollars on an ineffective, expen-
sive wall that can be tunneled under,
climbed over, or cut through, a wall
that Mexico was supposed to pay for.
A discussion about border security is
no reason for President Trump to keep
government shut down. Perhaps even
more importantly, we cannot and must
not allow this President or any Presi-
dent to hold our government and Fed-
eral workers hostage every time we
have a disagreement.
Federal workers in the communities
I serve in California are being directly
hurt by this shutdown, just as they are
being hurt all across this country.
I recently heard from a Fish and
Wildlife Service employee whose co-
workers don’t know how they are going
to pay their bills and make ends meet.
I heard from members of the Coast
Guard. And, yes, the Coast Guard is
being impacted by this shutdown, be-
cause they are funded through the De-
partment of Homeland Security. I
heard from the Coast Guard.
I heard from air traffic controllers,
and they are being forced to work with-
out pay, and this becomes a security
issue.
If this President and Senate Repub-
licans truly cared about security, they
would want to fund the Coast Guard
and they would want to fund air traffic
controllers and they would want to
fund TSA agents at our airports.
I have heard from veterans. I have a
huge number of veterans in my dis-
trict. One-third of the Federal work-
force consists of veterans, both Federal
employees and contractors, and they
have been negatively impacted by this.
So, Mr. President, you claim to care
about veterans. How can you allow this
to continue to hundreds of thousands
of veterans who have served our coun-
try and who are working without pay?
The solution that we Democrats sup-
port is simple. Let’s reopen the govern-
ment, and then we can talk about the
best way to secure our border.
Earlier today, I was honored to join
some of my freshmen colleagues in try-
ing to deliver a letter to Majority
Leader MITCH MCCONNELL, simply ask-
ing him on behalf of the freshman class
to end this shutdown. We couldn’t find
him, but we will keep at it.
We have got to get this government
back open again. We have got to get
people back to work.
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I yield
to the gentlewoman from California
(Ms. PORTER).
Ms. PORTER. Madam Speaker, huge
critical elements of our Federal Gov-
ernment have now been shut down for
26 days. 800,000 blameless Federal em-
ployees have already missed their pay-
checks, and they don’t know when
their next paychecks are coming.
These furloughed workers are in cri-
sis. They are facing impending loan de-
faults, utility shutoffs, long-term re-
ductions in their credit scores, and po-
tentially foreclosure or eviction pro-
ceedings. They are unable to buy neces-
sities for themselves and their fami-
lies, including necessary medications
like insulin.
About 42,000 of those Federal workers
are in my home State of California,
and they are hurting. The costs of
housing are a real challenge for fami-
lies in my district, California’s 45th.
Thousands of Orange County residents
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.127 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H670 January 16, 2019
rely on Federal affordable housing pro-
grams to pay the rent each month.
Nationwide, this shutdown has al-
ready forced the expiration of over
1,100 rental assistance contracts be-
tween the government and private
landlords and developers. These hous-
ing units are at risk of being perma-
nently removed from our affordable
housing stock.
In my district, California’s 45th, the
tenants of 749 homes rely on the De-
partment of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment to help pay their monthly rent.
Our local Public Housing Authority
distributes those funds to needy fami-
lies. As required by law, 75 percent of
these funds help applicants who are
low-income.
Orange County’s rental costs are the
ninth highest in the country, averaging
over $2,000 per month. The cost of liv-
ing is entirely unaffordable for many
tenants without this Federal housing
assistance.
b 1915
This past spring, our Federal Reserve
found that 40 percent of Americans—4
in 10 Americans—don’t have the cash
to pay for an unexpected $400 expense
without selling a belonging or bor-
rowing funds. American workers can-
not withstand the financial shock of
going unpaid.
For workers living paycheck to pay-
check, this shutdown can easily spiral
into bankruptcy. Even if we provide
workers with backpay, which we have
passed legislation to do, it will not
make the harms of this shutdown
erased.
The government isn’t paying for gro-
ceries or utilities or child care. When
the government reopens, it won’t be
paying the late fees that these workers
have incurred in the meantime. It also
won’t pay the interest on new loans
taken out by Federal workers to try to
make ends meet until the President
chooses to put people over politics.
These families will still have $30 late
fees on credit card payments. They will
still have to pay interest on mortgage
payments, which can be hundreds of
dollars. They will still have delin-
quencies on their credit reports, which
can drop their credit scores and stay on
their records for up to 7 years.
That is why I have asked the major
financial institutions of this country
to step up and provide relief to Federal
workers and their families who,
through no fault of their own, have
found themselves in financial distress.
These banks and credit card companies
should waive fees, pause debt pay-
ments, and stop eviction and fore-
closure proceedings until weeks after
workers receive their pay.
Lenders should also stop reporting
negative information to credit report-
ing agencies during this difficult time.
Many of our Nation’s credit unions
are offering zero percent interest,
short-term loans to help furloughed
workers.
I have sent letters to all of the Na-
tion’s largest lenders and, each day,
have been meeting with representa-
tives of the major banks, urging them
to do more to help those affected by
this shutdown. I have been pleased
with some of their responses.
For example, Discover is allowing
furloughed workers to use its existing
disaster relief program to cope with
the financial shock of going unpaid.
This generous program halts all pay-
ments and prevents the imposition of
late fees.
Ally Financial has created a cus-
tomer assistance program that offers
help to those hurt by the shutdown.
Ally is willing to refund transaction
fees, to eliminate bounced check fees,
to waive late charges, and to remove
early withdrawal penalties on CDs and
other savings accounts.
Wells Fargo is waiving fees and paus-
ing negative credit reporting, auto re-
possessions, and foreclosure pro-
ceedings for furloughed workers.
I urge all lenders to contact our of-
fice to share what they are doing
proactively to help customers, their
customers, who are going unpaid
through no fault of their own.
I will continue to share with my col-
leagues what banks and lenders are
doing so that they may do outreach to
constituents in their districts who are
being affected by the furlough.
The damage the shutdown has
caused, and will continue to cause,
doesn’t end there. Thousands of IRS
employees have been furloughed be-
cause of the shutdown, which has de-
layed tax refunds and income verifica-
tion processing.
Without income verification docu-
ments, lenders may not be able to fi-
nance or refinance mortgages or other
loans. For families experiencing recent
financial hardship, access to refi-
nancing could be critical to helping
them right themselves.
These delays in tax processing are
particularly harmful to low-income fil-
ers, especially those who qualify for
the earned income tax credit and the
additional child tax credit. The EITC is
one of our government’s largest anti-
poverty programs, and millions of tax-
payers rely on tax refunds each year to
catch up on bills, to pay off debts, and
to fund items like delayed medical pro-
cedures.
Understaffing will make it difficult
for the IRS to answer taxpayer ques-
tions this year. This is the first year
that taxpayers will be filing after the
Republican tax law was implemented.
As a result of President Trump’s tax
law, Californians are, for the first time
in our country’s history, unable to de-
duct all of their State and local taxes.
The elimination of this deduction is in-
credibly punitive to Californians in my
district. At this moment, Californians,
who are about to owe more Federal
taxes than they did a year ago, don’t
have access to the Federal Govern-
ment, to the IRS, to help them navi-
gate this tax morass.
From late January through March 2,
2018, the IRS paid out tax refunds to-
taling over $147 billion to 48.5 million
households. Californians submit more
tax returns than any other State. For
families expecting an average refund of
about $3,000, the shutdown will have
very real consequences.
If that weren’t enough, the shutdown
has also created an open season on the
American consumer. Consumer protec-
tion websites run by agencies, like the
Federal Trade Commission and the
Federal Communications Commission,
are closed due to lack of funding.
The FTC maintains the National Do
Not Call Registry. Consumers can’t
sign up, and telemarketers can’t check
the updated lists. There is no one on
the beat to enforce robocalling regula-
tions.
The FTC has also shut down its crit-
ical website identitytheft.gov. In nor-
mal times, victims of identity theft
can use this website to file a report and
get the paperwork that they need to
prove to banks and businesses that
someone stole their identity. That
website is no longer operating.
I want to take a minute to speak di-
rectly to every American hurt in any
way by the shutdown.
Whether you are a Federal employee
or someone who relies for support on
one of those employees, I encourage
you to ask for help. The shutdown is
not your fault and you could not have
predicted the longest shutdown in our
history. I know how hard it is to ask
for help. But do not let embarrassment
prevent you from protecting your cred-
it score and maintaining your financial
well-being.
I have spent the last few days meet-
ing with those representatives from
our Nation’s banks. Every bank I have
met with has said to please contact
them and ask for help, and do it sooner
rather than later. They will waive your
late fees. They will push back your
payment deadlines, whether it is car
insurance or your mortgage or credit
card or some other line of credit. If you
need something specific, like to delay
foreclosure or have a bounced check fee
waived, ask for that thing.
I have cast my vote to end the shut-
down multiple times, and it makes me
sick to think about how working fami-
lies are hurting. I have dedicated my
career to protecting consumers from fi-
nancial hardship and from bankruptcy.
I am proud to have the opportunity to
use that expertise to help my constitu-
ents and unpaid Federal workers across
this country.
Call your lender, call your bank, call
your credit card company and ask for
help. And if you need more help, call
my office. Until the President ends this
shutdown, it will be my priority in
Congress to help all those who are
being hurt by it.
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, as you
can see, there has been a huge chal-
lenge among the American people
across the country. In my district
alone, I have the third poorest congres-
sional district, with ZIP Codes with the
worst air quality in the country.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.128 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H671
January 16, 2019
Many of the workers who are not
showing up to work are directly pro-
viding critical services to our residents
back home. It is important for us to
see beyond, obviously, the numbers of
800,000 workers. What were they doing?
How were they providing for the Amer-
ican people? How were they serving our
Nation?
We to continue to be very focused on
the fact that this is a huge crisis that
needs to be addressed, and we need the
leadership of the Senate to rise and to
support the bills, the same ones we
sent to them before our January swear-
ing in. They supported it then. I have
no idea why they haven’t been able to
pass again the same exact bills they
supported before we became the leaders
in the majority in the House.
Madam Speaker, I, again, urge all of
the Americans who are directly im-
pacted by the shutdown to please reach
out to us. Seek out help.
As the gentlewoman from California
said, we are here to serve you. We are
here to help you in any way that we
can.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. WATERS. Madam Speaker, today is
day 26 of the Trump Shutdown. Federal work-
ers missed their first paycheck last Friday, and
still there is no end in sight to this cruel and
senseless shutdown. It is truly shameful that
President Trump and Congressional Repub-
licans are so desperate to secure taxpayer
funding for an irrational border wall that they’re
willing to harm hardworking Americans and
jeopardize national security by shutting down
the federal government.
This outrageous shutdown has furloughed
400,000 federal workers, and it’s forcing an-
other 400,000 federal workers to work without
pay. Among those working without pay are
53,000 Transportation Security Administration
employees, more than 24,000 air traffic con-
trollers and other Federal Aviation Administra-
tion employees, 54,000 Customs and Border
Protection agents and customs officers,
42,000 service members in the United States
Coast Guard, 17,000 Bureau of Prisons cor-
rectional officers, 14,000 FBI agents, and
6,000 Forest Service firefighters.
These dedicated public servants go to work
every day for the American people. These
hardworking people keep us safe. They should
not have to worry about how they will keep a
roof over their heads and feed their families.
My congressional district is home to Los An-
geles/International Airport (LAX), the sixth
busiest airport in the world and the third busi-
est in the United States. In 2017, more than
84 million passengers used LAX. All of these
passengers depend upon the TSA’s airport se-
curity screeners and the FAA’s air traffic con-
trollers to get them to their destinations safely.
The Trump shutdown doesn’t just affect
government employees. An economic study in
2011 reported that operations at LAX gen-
erated 294,400 jobs in Los Angeles County
with labor income of $13.6 billion and eco-
nomic output of more than $39.7 billion. The
economic vitality of Los Angeles County de-
pends upon the safety and security of LAX
and the TSA and FAA employees who work
there.
TSA employees are dedicated public serv-
ants who risk their lives every day to keep our
nation’s airports and travelers safe. On No-
vember 1, 2013, a Transportation Security Of-
ficer named Gerardo Hernandez was tragically
killed in the line of duty during an active shoot-
er incident at LAX. He was the first TSA em-
ployee to be killed in the line of duty, and my
colleagues and I passed the bipartisan
Gerardo Hernandez Airport Security Act of
2015 in his honor. Our President has forgotten
the critical role these American patriots serve
in our national security.
Today, at LAX and airports throughout the
country, Transportation Security Officers like
Gerardo Hernandez are working without pay.
The Trump Shutdown is endangering public
safety, national security, and the livelihoods of
the people whose job it is to protect us.
Democrats want to end this shutdown now.
On Day One, the new Democratic House of
Representatives passed Senate Republican
legislation to end the Trump Shutdown and re-
open government. Despite the Republicans’
relentless obstruction, Democrats have contin-
ued to take further action to re-open govern-
ment, passing individual Senate Republican
appropriations bills to re-open all government
agencies.
American families and workers should not
be punished because of a policy disagreement
in Washington, D.C. Donald Trump should
stop holding the safety, security, and pay-
checks of workers in my district, and through-
out the country, hostage. He must re-open the
government immediately.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Mem-
bers are reminded to refrain from en-
gaging in personalities toward the
President.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE SENATE
A message from the Senate by Ms.
Lasky, one of its clerks, announced
that the Senate has passed with
amendments in which the concurrence
of the House is requested, a bill of the
House of the following title:
H.R. 251. An act to extend by two years the
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, and for other purposes.
f
BORDER WALL IS NOT ANTI-
IMMIGRATION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from Wisconsin (Mr.
GROTHMAN) for 30 minutes.
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, I
know we have had a lot of people talk-
ing today on the issue of the shutdown.
I thought I would like to give a little
different talk, or a little bit of expla-
nation, as far as what is going on here,
to the American people.
The first thing that offends me is
when people imply that the position of
the President is that he is anti-immi-
grant. Every year, in this country, we
swear in 700,000 new people to become
citizens of this country—700,000. On a
per capita basis, that is, for example,
twice what Germany swears in and
over 50 times the number of people who
become new Mexicans each year.
We should not apologize for swearing
in 700,000 new people, and President
Trump has made no effort to reduce
that amount. He is just saying people
who want to come here illegally should
get in line and be one of those 700,000.
I also want to point out, in addition
to that, we let in another million peo-
ple every year, primarily because they
are relatives of other people who are
already here. We let in over 180 million
people for other reasons, including
about 70 million people, every year,
who want to work here.
There is no reason why anybody
should, under any circumstances, as
President Trump let’s these things go
on, say that he is anti-immigrant, or
anybody who wants to build a wall is
anti-immigrant, because that will not
affect these very generous numbers.
Now, let’s look where America is
compared to historically. We, right
now, have a higher percentage of peo-
ple born in other countries in America
than any time since World War I, and
those are people who we can confirm. It
is very difficult to get accurate num-
bers on the people who are here ille-
gally, for obvious reasons.
We have had an increase in the num-
ber of people who speak a foreign lan-
guage at home, and that is wonderful.
I am sure all of our ancestors, or most
of our ancestors, at one point spoke a
foreign language. But it is nice if, over
time, we accept enough immigrants
that, at any given time, most of us are
speaking a common language.
The number of people who spoke a
foreign language at home in 1980 was
about 11 percent. It is now 21 percent.
Again, these numbers have not
caused Donald Trump to ask for a cut
in legal immigration. The American
people should realize Donald Trump
and the people who want a wall are
pro-immigration.
But the next question is: Do we have
a crisis?
First of all, about 80 percent of the
heroin in this country comes across
our southern border. Now, some of it
can be prevented by a wall, some can’t.
But the huge number of people who are
dying around the country, to me,
makes this a crisis.
We are getting more and more chil-
dren at the border. Why are we getting
more children? Because, I think, the
word is out, particularly in Central
America, that if you come to America
with children, you are going to be able
to find a way to get in. We need a bor-
der wall, not only to prevent people
from coming in, but to send the mes-
sage that America is treating its immi-
gration laws seriously.
People who sneak across the border,
who are, after all, breaking one law,
while very few are horrible criminals,
of course, are going to bring a given
number of people who break the law.
We believe, in the last 10 years, illegal
immigrants coming across the border
have, during their lifetime, been
charged with over 1,000 homicides. We
have enough high crime areas in Amer-
ica as it is without letting people come
through here without being appro-
priately vetted.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.130 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H672 January 16, 2019
b 1930
There is a huge healthcare cost to al-
lowing our borders to be open because,
of course, people come here without
health insurance. Now we have the
Governor of California openly saying
that he wants to give free healthcare
to all illegal immigrants.
People disagree on the cost of illegal
immigration to our country, but when
you add up the healthcare and the wel-
fare and the cost to the criminal jus-
tice system, organizations easily come
up with costs of over $50 billion a year.
Donald Trump is asking for under $6
billion for the wall, and that is one-
time funding to build the wall. The
cost of illegal immigrants is over $50
billion year after year after year. This
is a country that already is over $22
trillion in debt. Can we really afford to
be the healthcare provider for the en-
tire Western Hemisphere?
There are people who feel that Don-
ald Trump has to compromise more,
that he is being hard here. Donald
Trump is not a perfect person. I have
talked to him about some of his tweets,
but Donald Trump has been very pa-
tient here.
I don’t think the American public
knows or understands exactly why we
have a shutdown. If we are going to
fund a border wall, it is going to have
to be part of an appropriation bill,
which I think people back home would
refer to as a budget bill. We don’t refer
to it as a budget bill, but I think people
back home would say it is part of a
budget bill.
President Trump has been President
now for 2 years. He has signed many
appropriation bills, and, obviously, he
wants a wall. But because he does not
want to shut down the government, for
2 years, he has been signing appropria-
tion bills without funding for the wall.
Finally, in his third year, he has had
to say: I am tired of signing appropria-
tion bills which include much spending
that he doesn’t want, all sorts of provi-
sions that are higher spending than
President Trump wanted, but, finally,
he had to say: I am tired of signing ap-
propriation bills without getting my
wall.
I think that is a reasonable position.
When we talk about the wall and the
inability—I want to say we have good
news here. About an hour ago, I noticed
that eight Democrats left the door
open. They were bipartisan toward
building a wall, and I would like to
thank those eight people for reaching
across the aisle. But I have to wonder
why we can only get eight Democrats
to appear to say that it is okay to fund
the wall.
We have to remember that there is a
very effective wall in the San Diego
area that was built when President
Clinton was President. It is well known
that when President Bush was Presi-
dent, the second Bush, we built still
more of the wall, and at that time
prominent Democrats like Hillary
Clinton, Joe Biden, and CHUCK SCHU-
MER voted for the wall. Why is the wall
now immoral?
And, by the way, some of that wall
funded during George Bush was built
during President Obama’s term.
Why was it okay for Bill Clinton or
George Bush or Barack Obama to build
a wall, and all of a sudden we hear it is
immoral for President Trump to want
to add to that wall?
I am not sure. I think part of it is a
sad and unfortunate move to the left
by not all, but by many Democrats who
more and more are, whatever they say,
for open borders. I think some of it is
just pure party politics. They want to
go ahead and let more people in here
for 2 years just to embarrass President
Trump.
But again, the American people
should remember that for 2 years Don-
ald Trump signed appropriation bill
after appropriation bill. He wanted the
wall. He didn’t get the wall.
Finally, he is saying: I am sorry. I
desperately want to open the govern-
ment, but I am going to ask members
of the Democratic Party to do what
they did under President Clinton or
President Bush or President Obama
and let me build more of the wall as
well.
Now, some people will claim that this
is an expensive wall, and I agree that
$5.7 billion is a large amount of money.
But then we have to look at it in com-
parison to other things that this body
funds without objecting.
The amount of money we are spend-
ing on this wall is about one-seventh of
what we spend every year in foreign
aid. A few people complain about that,
but the vast majority of people in this
body have no problem with voting for
over $35 billion a year in foreign aid.
All of a sudden, we are told that
when it comes to building the wall for
one-seventh of that amount, one time,
and they spend this amount on foreign
aid year after year after year, all of a
sudden we are told this is too much
money.
And something I thought was a little
excessive, there was a large increase in
the defense budget last year, a little
larger than I would have liked. The
wall would cost about one-twelfth of
the increase in defense spending since
President Trump became President.
It is about one-ninth of the in-
crease—not the total, one-ninth of the
increase—in nondefense discretionary
spending, and it is less than one seven-
hundredths of our overall budget. Is
that really too much to spend that
amount of money when we are spend-
ing so much money in other places?
The next thing I would like to ad-
dress is this idea that the wall won’t
work.
Under President Clinton, we built a
wall between San Diego and Tijuana,
and the border crossings at that time
dropped 92 percent. It would be a great
victory if we got the number of people
coming here illegally every year to
drop 92 percent. I would not say that is
nothing.
I look at the border wall that Israel
built when they were having a huge
problem of people coming up into Afri-
ca and breaking the law by coming into
Israel. Israel was getting about 1,800
new people a year coming into their
country that they didn’t think should
be coming into their country. How
many people came into their country
in the last year? None. That border
wall caused the number of people com-
ing into Israel to drop from 1,800 a year
to nothing.
There are other walls around the
world. There is a wall between Jordan
and Syria and Iraq that has been some-
what successful in keeping ISIS out of
Jordan. The interesting thing about
that wall, it was, to a certain extent,
paid for by the U.S. taxpayer. It baffles
me that people around here have no
problem paying for a wall for Jordan to
protect itself, but all of a sudden if
Donald Trump wants to build a wall for
the United States of America, we can’t
get it done.
Seventy countries around the world
have walls. Ten countries in the EU
states have walls. These countries are
not building walls because they don’t
work. They build walls because they
do.
The next thing I will address, fre-
quently people get up here and they
preface their talk by saying everybody
wants security. That is not true. There
are, sadly, a lot of people around here
who are for open borders. We just heard
a speaker prior to me imply that build-
ing a wall was racist, which certainly
implies that preventing people from
coming into this country is racist, and
they do not want to have this sort of
security.
Keith Ellison, the new attorney gen-
eral for Minnesota who used to be part
of this body, recently said: I don’t be-
lieve in borders.
And this kind of thinking that maybe
we don’t need borders, maybe we just
need one big country around the whole
world, is more well known than one
would think.
There are sanctuary States, counties,
and cities all around the United States.
If people believe in border security,
why, if you were a mayor, why if you
were a county executive, why, if you
were a Governor, would you say: We
want a sanctuary State or sanctuary
city where we can’t ask people whether
they are here legally or not?
And that would include people in
charge of doling out welfare benefits. It
would include law enforcement. Obvi-
ously, people who run these cities and
States do not think border security is
an important thing, which is kind of
scary.
In the last session, we took up bills
trying to sanction cities and counties
that are sanctuary cities or sanctuary
counties so they don’t open themselves
up and, in essence, beg people from
other countries to come here.
By the way, this includes the three
largest cities of the United States: New
York, Chicago, and Los Angeles.
When Republicans tried to prevent
this, I believe there were only three or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.133 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H673
January 16, 2019
four Democrats—and I love my Demo-
crats, but there were only three or four
of them who would stand up against
sanctuary cities. That sure sounds to
me like they don’t consider border se-
curity that important.
We have a new wave of people coming
in saying that we don’t need ICE. We
don’t need immigration enforcement.
They are on record with this. Several
people have signed on.
Maybe I am wrong, but to me, if you
are saying we want to get rid of the
agency that enforces immigration, I
think we can say there are a lot of peo-
ple in this body who really don’t want
any immigration enforcement.
In summary, I would ask the Amer-
ican people to look beyond some of the
main talking points in the mainstream
media. We are letting 700,000 people
here legally. We are not anti-immi-
grant. And that is before you talk
about the tens of millions of people
who are let in this country every year
to work.
This is a crisis. It is a crisis with re-
gard to cost.
It is a crisis with regard to the
change in our fabric as we let people in
here who commit crimes up to and in-
cluding murder.
It is a crisis insofar as we let people
in here who wind up, some of them,
adopting a welfare lifestyle, which will
further erode the morals of America.
Donald Trump has been very patient,
waiting 2 years and signing bills with
much more spending than he wants be-
cause he didn’t want to shut down the
government. I would now like to ask,
in this third year, more than just the
eight brave Democrats to stand up. If
you want to, you can close your eyes
and pretend that Bill Clinton or George
Bush or Barack Obama was President,
because we know then you wouldn’t
have a problem voting for it and open
our government.
I have a tremendous amount of sym-
pathy for the Federal employees who
thought their jobs were secure and that
every month they would be getting a
constant paycheck. But because of
playing hardball, treating Donald
Trump differently than you would
treat President Clinton or President
Bush, we have a problem; and that is
we do not have an appropriation bill
that is an appropriate compromise like
funding the wall would.
And let me point out, even President
Trump’s request of $5.7 billion is a huge
compromise. Several months ago, we
were told we needed $20 billion or $25
billion to fund the wall. Now we are
dropping to $5.7 billion. That is a huge
compromise.
Please give Americans the protection
that Israel or dozens of other countries
around the world have. Please allow us
to build the wall.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
f
LEAVE OF ABSENCE
By unanimous consent, leave of ab-
sence was granted to:
Mr. PAYNE (at the request of Ms.
PELOSI) for the week of January 14,
2019.
Mr. MASSIE (at the request of Mr.
MCCARTHY) for today on account of at-
tending a U.S. Army Basic Combat
Training graduation ceremony.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. GROTHMAN. Madam Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 o’clock and 42 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Thursday, January 17, 2019, at 9 a.m.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. SCANLON: Committee on Rules. H.
Res. 52. A resolution providing for consider-
ation of the joint resolution (H.J. Res. 28)
making further continuing appropriations
for fiscal year 2019, and for other purposes,
and providing for consideration of motions
to suspend the rules (Rept. 116–3). Referred
to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself,
Mr. POCAN, Mrs. MURPHY, Mr. NOR-
CROSS, Ms. PELOSI, Mr. HOYER, Mr.
CLYBURN, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. COURTNEY, Ms.
FUDGE, Mr. SABLAN, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. TAKANO,
Ms. ADAMS, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. WILD,
Ms. SCHRIER, Mrs. HAYES, Ms.
SHALALA, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms.
OMAR, Mr. TRONE, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. CLARKE of New
York, Mr. BEYER, Mr. EVANS, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. PANETTA, Mr.
SERRANO, Ms. DELAURO, Ms. SPEIER,
Miss RICE of New York, Ms. NORTON,
Ms. LEE of California, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. PERL-
MUTTER, Ms. BROWNLEY of California,
Mr. WELCH, Mr. SIRES, Mr. MCEACHIN,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Ms. MENG,
Mr. COHEN, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. AGUILAR, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
RASKIN, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr.
CICILLINE, Ms. TLAIB, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr.
ENGEL, Ms. GABBARD, Ms. MOORE, Ms.
WEXTON, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Mr. RUSH,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. MEEKS, Mr.
RUIZ, Mr. PETERS, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr.
FOSTER, Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi,
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
PAYNE, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. KILMER,
Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mr. RUPPERSBERGER,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. DANNY K.
DAVIS of Illinois, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. CLAY, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr. CRIST,
Ms. DEAN, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. VEASEY, Mr.
GOMEZ, Ms. TITUS, Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ, Ms. GARCIA of Texas, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut, Mrs. LURIA, Mr.
DEUTCH, Mr. RICHMOND, Mr. CON-
NOLLY, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr. GALLEGO,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr.
LARSEN of Washington, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Ms. SCANLON, Mrs. TRAHAN, Ms.
MUCARSEL-POWELL, Mr. CÁRDENAS,
Mr. GARCIA of Illinois, Mr. CORREA,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. JUDY CHU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. NEGUSE, Mr. VISCLOSKY,
Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. PORTER, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr.
KHANNA, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. FRANKEL,
Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. LAWSON of Flor-
ida, Mr. HECK, Mr. BROWN of Mary-
land, Mr. THOMPSON of California, Mr.
LEVIN of California, Mr. LAMB, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. SHERMAN,
Ms. WATERS, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr.
KEATING, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. NADLER, Mr. KIM,
Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. KELLY of Illinois,
Mrs. LOWEY, Ms. ESCOBAR, Mr.
ROUDA, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. SARBANES,
Ms. BASS, Mr. HORSFORD, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. CASTRO of Texas, Mr.
CROW, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr.
CLEAVER, and Mr. BISHOP of Georgia):
H.R. 582. A bill to provide for increases in
the Federal minimum wage, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. TONKO (for himself and Mr.
BILIRAKIS):
H.R. 583. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to provide for enhanced pen-
alties for pirate radio, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mr. VEASEY (for himself, Ms. SE-
WELL of Alabama, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. POCAN, Mr. ALLRED,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi, Ms. LEE of California,
Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. SERRANO, Mr.
CARSON of Indiana, Ms. WILSON of
Florida, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
WILD, and Ms. PINGREE):
H.R. 584. A bill to amend title XIX of the
Social Security Act to provide the same
level of Federal matching assistance for
every State that chooses to expand Medicaid
coverage to newly eligible individuals, re-
gardless of when such expansion takes place;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 585. A bill to amend the Clean Air Act
to eliminate the exemption for aggregation
of emissions from oil and gas sources, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia (for him-
self and Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana):
H.R. 586. A bill to close loopholes in the
immigration laws that serve as incentives to
aliens to attempt to enter the United States
unlawfully, and for other purposes; to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K16JA7.134 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H674 January 16, 2019
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. LYNCH (for himself, Mr. MAST,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, and Mr.
HUNTER):
H.R. 587. A bill to posthumously award the
Congressional Gold Medal, collectively, to
Glen Doherty, Tyrone Woods, J. Christopher
Stevens, and Sean Smith, in recognition of
their contributions to the Nation; to the
Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. KILMER (for himself, Mr. SEAN
PATRICK MALONEY of New York, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mrs.
BUSTOS, Mr. KILDEE, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Ms. CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr.
CUNNINGHAM, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. PAPPAS, Mrs.
DEMINGS, and Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia):
H.R. 588. A bill to suspend the enforcement
of certain civil liabilities of Federal employ-
ees and contractors during a lapse in appro-
priations, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform, and in
addition to the Committees on Financial
Services, Education and Labor, Ways and
Means, the Judiciary, and House Administra-
tion, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 589. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to apply current income
tax bracket breakpoints to capital gains
brackets; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. BEYER (for himself, Ms. NOR-
TON, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. OMAR, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
NADLER, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. POCAN,
Ms. JOHNSON of Texas, Mrs. CAROLYN
B. MALONEY of New York, Ms. PIN-
GREE, Mr. PANETTA, Mr. KENNEDY,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. COHEN, Mr. PRICE
of North Carolina, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms.
CLARKE of New York, Mr. HASTINGS,
Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. DEUTCH, Ms.
DELBENE, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. LANGEVIN, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. KILMER,
Ms. DELAURO, Mr. COURTNEY, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. KEATING, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Ms. SPEIER, Ms. BONAMICI,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. PALLONE, Miss RICE
of New York, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mrs. DINGELL,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr. YAR-
MUTH, Mr. SIRES, Ms. TITUS, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. SWALWELL of California,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. KIND, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. SAR-
BANES, Ms. ESHOO, Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Mr.
HECK, Mr. SCOTT of Virginia, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. TLAIB, Mr. FOSTER, Mrs.
WATSON COLEMAN, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr. CUM-
MINGS, Ms. MOORE, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr.
GOMEZ, Mr. LARSEN of Washington,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. CORREA,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Ms. WEXTON,
Mr. RUSH, Mr. KILDEE, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Mr. ROSE of New
York, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
TONKO, Ms. MENG, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
MATSUI, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
COSTA, Mrs. LAWRENCE, Mrs. NAPOLI-
TANO, Mr. MALINOWSKI, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. NORCROSS,
Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Ms. SHALALA, Ms.
DEGETTE, Mr. TED LIEU of California,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
CISNEROS, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr.
HIMES, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
SCHNEIDER, Mr. JEFFRIES, Ms. CASTOR
of Florida, Mr. LAMB, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. MEEKS,
Mrs. DEMINGS, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CARBAJAL, Mr. LAWSON of
Florida, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Mr.
LEWIS, and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ):
H.R. 590. A bill to amend the Immigration
and Nationality Act to provide that an alien
may not be denied admission or entry to the
United States, or other immigration bene-
fits, because of the aliens religion, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland (for him-
self, Mr. CICILLINE, and Ms. NORTON):
H.R. 591. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the research
credit with respect to amounts paid or in-
curred for qualified research occurring in the
United States; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 592. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure that the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs repays the misused benefits
of veterans with fiduciaries, to establish an
appeals process for determinations by the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs of veterans’
mental capacity, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr.
MARSHALL, Mr. LAWSON of Florida,
and Mr. NORMAN):
H.R. 593. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to simplify income tax
compliance for small businesses, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self and Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 594. A bill to provide for further com-
prehensive research at the National Institute
of Neurological Disorders and Stroke on
unruptured intracranial aneurysms; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 595. A bill to prohibit certain business
concerns from receiving assistance from the
Small Business Administration, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Small
Business.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. CHABOT):
H.R. 596. A bill to prohibit United States
Government recognition of Russia’s annex-
ation of Crimea; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. MCKINLEY):
H.R. 597. A bill to extend the right of ap-
peal to the Merit Systems Protection Board
to certain employees of the United States
Postal Service; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. KINZINGER):
H.R. 598. A bill to support the independ-
ence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity
of Georgia, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on the Judiciary,
and Ways and Means, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 599. A bill to strengthen and enhance
certain ethics requirements for the Federal
Government, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. EMMER (for himself, Ms.
KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
RYAN, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. HAGEDORN,
Ms. OMAR, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Ms.
JAYAPAL, and Ms. WASSERMAN
SCHULTZ):
H.R. 600. A bill to authorize the Office on
Violence Against Women to improve the
handling of crimes of domestic violence, dat-
ing violence, sexual assault, and stalking by
incorporating a trauma-informed approach
into the initial response to and investigation
of such crimes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. GAETZ (for himself, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. PANETTA, Mr. BUCK, and Ms.
DEGETTE):
H.R. 601. A bill to increase the number of
manufacturers registered under the Con-
trolled Substances Act to manufacture can-
nabis for legitimate research purposes, to au-
thorize health care providers of the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs to provide rec-
ommendations to veterans regarding partici-
pation in federally-approved cannabis clin-
ical trials, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committees on the Judici-
ary, and Veterans’ Affairs, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself and
Mr. GALLEGO):
H.R. 602. A bill to direct the President to
impose penalties pursuant to denial orders
with respect to certain Chinese tele-
communications companies that are in vio-
lation of the export control or sanctions laws
of the United States, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. GALLAGHER (for himself, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. TIPTON, and Mr. PALM-
ER):
H.R. 603. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to expand the permissible
use of health savings accounts to include
health insurance payments and to increase
the dollar limitation for contributions to
health savings accounts, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 604. A bill to direct the United States
Postal Service to designate a single, unique
ZIP Code for Fairlawn, Virginia, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 605. A bill to amend title 5, United
States Code, to require that the Office of
Personnel Management submit an annual re-
port to Congress relating to the use of offi-
cial time by Federal employees; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia (for himself,
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. WEBER of Texas,
and Mr. LAMBORN):
H.R. 606. A bill to require the Bureau of Al-
cohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives to
make video recordings of the examination
and testing of firearms and ammunition, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary, and in addition to the Committee
on Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L16JA7.100 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H675
January 16, 2019
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for him-
self and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER):
H.R. 607. A bill to require the Attorney
General and the Secretary of Education to
conduct a survey of all public schools to de-
termine the number of school resource offi-
cers at such schools; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana (for him-
self and Mr. RUPPERSBERGER):
H.R. 608. A bill to direct the Attorney Gen-
eral and the Secretary of Education to de-
velop and implement best practices for occu-
pation-specific education for school resource
officers; to the Committee on Education and
Labor, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. HUIZENGA (for himself, Mr.
POSEY, and Mr. HIGGINS of New
York):
H.R. 609. A bill to amend the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934 to exempt from registra-
tion brokers performing services in connec-
tion with the transfer of ownership of small-
er privately held companies; to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services.
By Mr. HUNTER:
H.R. 610. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to require notarized acknowl-
edgment by the spouse of a member of the
Armed Forces who is eligible for insurance
under the Servicemembers’ Group Life Insur-
ance Program before the member may elect
not to be insured under such Program, to be
insured under the Program for an amount
less than the maximum amount, or to des-
ignate a beneficiary other than the member’s
spouse or child; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana (for
himself, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. OLSON,
Mr. GAETZ, Mr. MARSHALL, Mr.
HUIZENGA, Mr. AMASH, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Mr. JONES, Mr. CHABOT,
Mr. LATTA, Mr. TURNER, Mr. DUNCAN,
Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. BRADY, Mr.
GROTHMAN, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, and Mr. ESTES):
H.R. 611. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit taking minors
across State lines in circumvention of laws
requiring the involvement of parents in abor-
tion decisions; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
H.R. 612. A bill to amend the Wilderness
Act to authorize U.S. Customs and Border
Protection to conduct certain activities to
secure the international land borders of the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi (for him-
self, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. GIANFORTE,
and Ms. MCCOLLUM):
H.R. 613. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to remove the prohibition on
eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select of
members of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces who are eligible to enroll in a
health benefits plan under chapter 89 of title
5, United States Code; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 614. A bill to prohibit the sale of shark
parts, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. ENGEL,
Ms. MOORE, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mrs. DINGELL, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. OMAR, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Ms. JACKSON LEE,
Mr. RASKIN, Ms. BASS, Mr. MEEKS,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mr. PAYNE, Mr. HASTINGS,
Ms. HILL of California, Mr. COHEN,
and Mr. DEUTCH):
H.R. 615. A bill to provide women and girls
safe access to sanitation facilities in refugee
camps; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia (for
himself, Mr. JONES, Mr. DAVIDSON of
Ohio, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Mr.
PALMER, Mr. MASSIE, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. LAM-
BORN, Mr. COMER, Mr. KELLY of Penn-
sylvania, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr. WIL-
LIAMS, Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mr. MULLIN, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. KING of Iowa,
Mr. BIGGS, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
DUNCAN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. GIANFORTE,
Mr. FLORES, Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr.
YOUNG, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr. THOMPSON
of Pennsylvania, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
HUDSON, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr.
CARTER of Texas, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee, Mr. MAR-
SHALL, Mr. WENSTRUP, Mr. LONG, Mr.
LAHOOD, Mr. HOLDING, Mr. SMITH of
Missouri, Mr. EMMER, Mr. BILIRAKIS,
Mr. HOLLINGSWORTH, Mr. COLLINS of
New York, Mr. COLE, Mr. SMITH of
Nebraska, Mr. BABIN, Mr. GUEST, Mr.
MAST, Mr. WOMACK, Mr. JOHNSON of
South Dakota, Mr. ROUZER, Mr.
WESTERMAN, Mr. SPANO, Mr. CON-
AWAY, Mr. BACON, Mr. GRAVES of
Georgia, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr.
KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. MEAD-
OWS, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr. BANKS, Mrs.
ROBY, Mr. FORTENBERRY, Mr. RUTH-
ERFORD, Mr. BRADY, Mr. HARRIS, Mr.
OLSON, Mr. JOHN W. ROSE of Ten-
nessee, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr. BROOKS of
Alabama, Mr. NORMAN, Mrs. WAGNER,
Mr. WATKINS, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mrs. LESKO, Mr. ALLEN,
Mr. ESTES, Mr. PALAZZO, Mr. HIGGINS
of Louisiana, Mr. STEUBE, Mr. BUCK,
Mr. WEBSTER of Florida, Mrs. MIL-
LER, Mr. PETERSON, Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. JORDAN,
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr. WRIGHT,
Mr. FULCHER, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr.
BYRNE, Mr. MARCHANT, Mr. STAUBER,
Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana, Mr.
MCKINLEY, and Mr. JOYCE of Pennsyl-
vania):
H.R. 616. A bill to implement equal protec-
tion under the 14th article of amendment to
the Constitution for the right to life of each
born and preborn human person; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. NORMAN (for himself, Mr.
JONES, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr. MARSHALL,
Mr. WEBER of Texas, Mr. GOSAR, Mr.
LIPINSKI, Mr. MULLIN, Mr. WATKINS,
Mr. LUCAS, Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr.
MEADOWS, and Mrs. LESKO):
H.R. 617. A bill to authorize the Depart-
ment of Energy to conduct collaborative re-
search with the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs in order to improve healthcare services
for veterans in the United States, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. RUPPERSBERGER (for him-
self, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. HIMES, and
Mr. HURD of Texas):
H.R. 618. A bill to establish the Office of
Critical Technologies and Security, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Foreign
Affairs, and in addition to the Committees
on Armed Services, and Intelligence (Perma-
nent Select), for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER (for himself, Mr.
MARCHANT, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama,
and Mr. SMITH of Missouri):
H.R. 619. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an exemption
from gross income for civil damages as rec-
ompense for trafficking in persons; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SERRANO:
H.R. 620. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to provide for retroactive cal-
culation since the start of combat operations
in Afghanistan of days of certain active duty
or active service performed as a member of
the Ready Reserve to reduce the eligibility
age for receipt of retired pay for non-regular
service; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself,
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. CHABOT, Mr.
ESTES, and Mr. KING of Iowa):
H.R. 621. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit kindergarten
through grade 12 educational expenses to be
paid from a 529 account; to the Committee
on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SMUCKER (for himself, Mr.
CURTIS, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois,
Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
UPTON, and Mr. GIBBS):
H.R. 622. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
By Mr. VARGAS (for himself, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mrs. TORRES of
California, Mr. GARCIA of Illinois, and
Mrs. NAPOLITANO):
H.R. 623. A bill to deem an alien who has
been issued an employment authorization
document under the Deferred Action for
Childhood Arrivals Program to be a person
who owes allegiance to the United States for
purposes of employment by an office of a
Member of the House of Representatives; to
the Committee on House Administration.
By Ms. WATERS (for herself and Mr.
MCHENRY):
H.R. 624. A bill to require the Securities
and Exchange Commission to carry out a
study of Rule 10b5-1 trading plans, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services.
By Mr. WITTMAN:
H.R. 625. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to expand eligibility for
participation in the Federal Pell Grant pro-
gram to certain trade schools; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. WITTMAN:
H.R. 626. A bill to prohibit the use of offi-
cial funds for airline accommodations for
Members of Congress which are not coach-
class accommodations, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration.
By Mr. WITTMAN:
H.R. 627. A bill to provide for a report on
broadening participation in certain National
Science Foundation research and education
programs, to collect data on Federal re-
search grants to science agencies, and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L16JA7.100 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H676 January 16, 2019
other purposes; to the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology.
By Mr. YOHO (for himself, Ms.
GABBARD, Mr. BERGMAN, Mr. BIGGS,
Mr. BOST, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. CICILLINE, Mr.
COLLINS of Georgia, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. DUN-
CAN, Mr. ENGEL, Mr. GIBBS, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. HARRIS, Mr.
HICE of Georgia, Mr. HIGGINS of Lou-
isiana, Mr. HIMES, Mr. JONES, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr.
KINZINGER, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY
of New York, Mr. MARINO, Mr.
MASSIE, Mr. MCCAUL, Mr. MEADOWS,
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
PANETTA, Mr. PERRY, Mr. PETERS,
Mrs. RADEWAGEN, Mr. RATCLIFFE, Mr.
RICE of South Carolina, Mr. ROONEY
of Florida, Mr. SMITH of Missouri,
Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. TIPTON, Mr. WALKER, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. BYRNE, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CRIST, Mr.
RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Mr. EMMER,
Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr.
MITCHELL, Miss RICE of New York,
Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. SABLAN, Mr.
BARR, Mr. BUCSHON, Mr. FLORES, Mr.
KILMER, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr.
OLSON, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. WALTZ, and
Mr. GRIFFITH):
H.R. 628. A bill to title 38, United States
Code, to permit veterans to grant access to
their records in the databases of the Vet-
erans Benefits Administration to certain
designated congressional employees, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 629. A bill to provide limitations on
maritime liens on fishing permits, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Trans-
portation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. ZELDIN (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, and Mr. ROSE of New York):
H.R. 630. A bill to require a plan to combat
international travel by terrorists and foreign
fighters, accelerate the transfer of certain
border security systems to foreign partner
governments, establish minimum inter-
national border security standards, author-
ize the suspension of certain foreign assist-
ance to countries not making significant ef-
forts to comply with such minimum stand-
ards, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committees on Homeland Security, and
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. BASS (for herself, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. MEEKS, and Mr. CHABOT):
H. Con. Res. 4. Concurrent resolution call-
ing for credible, transparent, and peaceful
elections in Nigeria, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. JEFFRIES:
H. Res. 46. A resolution electing Members
to a certain standing committee of the
House of Representatives; considered and
agreed to.
By Mr. WRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
MEADOWS, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
DUNCAN, and Mr. GRIFFITH):
H. Res. 47. A resolution condemning all
forms of anti-Semitism; to the Committee
on the Judiciary.
By Mr. LAHOOD (for himself and Mrs.
DEMINGS):
H. Res. 48. A resolution supporting the ob-
servation of ‘‘National Trafficking and Mod-
ern Slavery Prevention Month’’ during the
period beginning on January 1, 2019, and end-
ing on February 1, 2019, to raise awareness
of, and opposition to, human trafficking and
modern slavery; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. HILL of Arkansas (for himself,
Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. BARR, Mr. CORREA,
Mr. BOST, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. BILI-
RAKIS, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. MOOLENAAR,
Mr. SHIMKUS, Mr. ROUZER, and Mr.
BABIN):
H. Res. 49. A resolution supporting Coptic
Christians in Egypt; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia (for himself,
Mr. MEADOWS, Mr. ARRINGTON, Mr.
GOSAR, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, and Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia):
H. Res. 50. A resolution memorializing the
unborn by lowering the United States flag to
half-staff on the 22d day of January each
year; to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
By Mr. LIPINSKI (for himself, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. MOONEY of West Vir-
ginia, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. KELLY of
Pennsylvania, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr.
LATTA, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. SMITH of
New Jersey, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr.
LANGEVIN, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr. LUETKE-
MEYER, Mr. LAHOOD, Mrs. WAGNER,
Mr. YARMUTH, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. COURTNEY, Mr. RYAN, Mr. JONES,
Mr. EMMER, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. KING of
New York, and Mr. BRINDISI):
H. Res. 51. A resolution supporting the con-
tributions of Catholic schools; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. RUSH:
H. Res. 53. A resolution raising a question
of the privileges of the House; to the Com-
mittee on Ethics.
By Mr. CONNOLLY (for himself and
Mr. GRAVES of Missouri):
H. Res. 54. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the United States Postal Service should take
all appropriate measures to ensure the con-
tinuation of its 6-day mail delivery service;
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. GUTHRIE (for himself, Mr.
BARR, Mr. COMER, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
MASSIE, and Mr. ROGERS of Ken-
tucky):
H. Res. 55. A resolution recognizing Centre
College in Danville, Kentucky, for 200 years
of leadership in higher education; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H. Res. 56. A resolution protecting Reli-
gious Freedom in America; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
f
PRIVATE BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 3 of rule XII, private
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire:
H.R. 631. A bill for the relief of Arpita
Kurdekar, Girish Kurdekar, and Vandana
Kurdekar; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 632. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the department in which the Coast Guard is
operating to issue a certificate of docu-
mentation with a coastwise endorsement for
the vessel Safari Voyager; to the Committee
on Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 633. A bill to direct the Secretary of
the department in which the Coast Guard is
operating to issue a certificate of docu-
mentation with a coastwise endorsement for
the vessel Pacific Provider; to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 582.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. TONKO:
H.R. 583.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8, CLAUSE I
Provides Congress with the power to ‘‘lay
and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Ex-
cises’’ in order to ‘‘provide for the . . . gen-
eral Welfare of the United States.’’
By Mr. VEASEY:
H.R. 584.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 585.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
the power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I of the United States Constitution and it
subsequent amendments, and further clari-
fied and interpreted by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
By Mr. COLLINS of Georgia:
H.R. 586.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 4 of Section 8 of Article I of the
Constitution—The Congress shall have
Power to establish a uniform Rule of Natu-
ralization, and uniform Laws on the subject
Bankruptcies throughout the United States.
By Mr. LYNCH:
H.R. 587.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article III, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. KILMER:
H.R. 588.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The ‘‘necessary and proper’’ clause of Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 589.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. BEYER:
H.R. 590.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clause 4
Article 1, section 8, clause 3
Article 1, section 8, clause 1
Article 1, section 8, clause 18
First Amendment
Fifth Amendment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L16JA7.100 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H677
January 16, 2019
By Mr. BROWN of Maryland:
H.R. 591.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Necessary and Proper Clause (Art. 1, Sec. 8,
Cl. 18)
By Ms. BROWNLEY of California:
H.R. 592.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.R. 593.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 1 of section 8 of article I of the Con-
stitution
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 594.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
the power granted to Congress under Arti-
cle I of the United States Constitution and it
subsequent amendments, and further clari-
fied and interpreted by the Supreme Court of
the United States.
By Mr. COLLINS of New York:
H.R. 595.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the U.S.
Constitution
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 596.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is introduced pursuant to the au-
thority delineated in Article I, Section I,
which includes an implied power for the Con-
gress to regulate the conduct of the United
States with respect to foreign affairs.
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 597.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 18
By Mr. CONNOLLY:
H.R. 598.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mr. CUMMINGS:
H.R. 599.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII: The Congress shall
have Power . . . To make all Laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States, or in
any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. EMMER:
H.R. 600.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clauses I & 18
By Mr. GAETZ:
H.R. 601.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 602.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution,
specifically the power to ‘‘regulate Com-
merce with foreign Nations.’’
By Mr. GALLAGHER:
H.R. 603.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 604.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 7 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. HICE of Georgia:
H.R. 605.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution states ‘‘To regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian Tribes.’’
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18 of the Con-
stitution states ‘‘To make all Laws which
shall be necessary and proper for carrying
into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all
other Powers vested by this Constitution in
the Government of the United States or in
any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. H1CE of Georgia:
H.R. 606.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the Con-
stitution that states that Congress shall
have Power ‘‘To regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several
States. . .’’
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 607.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 18 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution
By Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana:
H.R. 608.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 18 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the
Constitution
By Mr. HUIZENGA:
H.R. 609.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses I (‘‘The Con-
gress shall have Power To lay and collect
Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay
the Debts and provide for the common De-
fense and general Welfare of the United
States; but all Duties, Imposts and Excises
shall be uniform throughout the United
States’’), 3 (‘‘To regulate Commerce with for-
eign Nations, and among the several States,
and with the Indian Tribes’’), and 18 (‘‘To
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof).
By Mr. HUNTER:
H.R. 610.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
H.R. 611.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana:
H.R. 612.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8; Article IV, Section 3
By Mr. KELLY of Mississippi:
H.R. 613.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. TED LIEU of California:
H.R. 614.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Ms. MENG:
H.R. 615.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
[Page Hl0170]
By Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia:
H.R. 616.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This legislation makes clear that human
life begins at the moment of conception and,
therefore, the unborn are entitled to the
same rights and protections afforded to all
American citizens under the U.S. Constitu-
tion. In affirming human life begins at con-
ception, the unborn are granted the right to
due process under Section 1 of the 14th
Amendment which explicitly states, ‘‘No
state shall make or enforce any law which
shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States; nor shall any
state deprive any person of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law; nor
deny to any person within its jurisdiction
the equal protection of the laws.’’
The Life at Conception Act allows for con-
stitutional protection for the unborn that
they not ‘‘be deprived of life, liberty, or
property, without due process of law’’ af-
forded under the 5th Amendment.
By Mr. NORMAN:
H.R. 617.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
The Congress shall have Power To make
all Laws which shall be necessary and proper
for carrying into Execution the foregoign
Powers, and all othe rPowers vested by this
Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.
By Mr. RUPPERSBERGER:
H.R. 618.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 619.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. SERRANO:
H.R. 620.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8, of the Constitution
(clauses 12, 13,14, 16, and 18), which grants
Congress the power to raise and support an
Army; to provide andmaintain a Navy; to
make rules for the goverment and regulation
of the land and naval forces; to provide for
organizing, arming and disciplining the mili-
tia; and to make all laws necessary and prop-
er for carrying out the foregoing powers.
By Mr. SMITH of Missouri:
H.R. 621.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States.
By Mr. SMUCKER:
H.R. 622.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. VARGAS:
H.R. 623.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 2 of Section 3 of Article IV of the
Constitution, which states: The Congress
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:02 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.047 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H678 January 16, 2019
shall have the Power to dispose of and make
all needful Rules and Regulations respecting
the Territory or other Property belonging to
the United States; and nothing in this Con-
stitution shall be so construed as to Preju-
dice any Claims of the United States, or any
particular State.
By Ms. WATERS:
H.R. 624.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. WITTMAN:
H.R. 625.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. WITTMAN:
H.R. 626.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. WITTMAN:
H.R. 627.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 628.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 ofthe United States
Constitution
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 629.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 ofthe United States Constitu-
tion (clauses 3 and 18), which grants Con-
gress the power to regulate Commerce with
foreign Nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian Tribes; and to
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going powers.
By Mr. ZELDIN:
H.R. 630.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 ofthe United States
Constitution.
By Ms. KUSTER:
H.R. 631
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII—to make all laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government ofthe United States
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 632.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution (clauses 3 and 18), which grants
Congress the power to regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian Tribes; and to
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going powers.
By Mr. YOUNG:
H.R. 633
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
The Constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution (clauses 3 and 18), which grants
Congress the power to regulate Commerce
with foreign Nations, and among the several
states, and with the Indian Tribes; and to
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going powers.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 8: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. CARTWRIGHT,
Mr. LAMB, Mr. JEFFRIES, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mrs. TORRES of California,
Mr. BUTTERFIELD, Mrs. CRAIG, Mr. NEAL, Mr.
HECK, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, and Ms. UNDER-
WOOD.
H.R. 31: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ and Mr.
STEWART.
H.R. 33: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr.
GARAMENDI.
H.R. 35: Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms.
GABBARD, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Mr. ROUDA,
Ms. ESHOO, and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 51: Mr. CROW and Mrs. TRAHAN.
H.R. 54: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 93: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Ms.
DEGETTE.
H.R. 94: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Ms.
DELBENE, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. PETERS, Ms. HAALAND, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 125: Mr. PAYNE, Mr. EVANS, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. CICILLINE, and Mr.
POCAN.
H.R. 127: Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 129: Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 139: Mr. RUTHERFORD and Mr. GIBBS.
H.R. 141: Mr. RUIZ, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. STIV-
ERS, Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr. ABRAHAM,
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey, Mr. MCGOVERN,
and Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 146: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 147: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 152: Mr. TIMMONS and Mr.
CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 153: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 195: Ms. MOORE and Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 203: Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mrs. WALORSKI,
Mr. BOST, Mr. WESTERMAN, and Mr.
BUCHANAN.
H.R. 204: Mr. MASSIE and Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 216: Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 218: Mr. WATKINS and Mr. COMER.
H.R. 219: Mr. MOOLENAAR, Mr. BABIN, Mr.
GALLAGHER, Mrs. WAGNER, Mr. ARRINGTON,
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr. WATKINS,
Mr. MARSHALL, Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana,
Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Mr. WRIGHT, Mr.
CONAWAY, Mr. WILLIAMS, and Mr. THOMPSON
of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 222: Mr. HILL of Arkansas.
H.R. 273: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
ROUDA, and Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 275: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Ms. NORTON, and Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 276: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 296: Mr. WRIGHT, Mr. HAGEDORN, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 301: Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio and Mr.
RUTHERFORD.
H.R. 305: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania,
Mr. COLE, and Mr. HARRIS.
H.R. 339: Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 344: Mr. STEUBE, Mr. HUIZENGA, and
Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 353: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 361: Mr. WEBER of Texas and Mr. ROSE
of New York.
H.R. 365: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 367: Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. SCOTT of
Virginia, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mrs. LEE of Ne-
vada, Mr. GOLDEN, Mr. KIM, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. LYNCH,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. YOHO, Mr. MOOLENAAR,
Mr. CUMMINGS, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, and
Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 369: Mr. JOHNSON of Louisiana, Mr.
JOYCE of Pennsylvania, Ms. FOXX of North
Carolina, Mr. WALBERG, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 385: Mr. BUCK.
H.R. 395: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma.
H.R. 416: Mr. GROTHMAN.
H.R. 429: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 434: Ms. NORTON and Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 437: Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 447: Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. RASKIN, and Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 448: Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. RASKIN, and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 478: Mr. GOLDEN.
H.R. 485: Mrs. HARTZLER.
H.R. 490: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr.
THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Mr. WALBERG,
and Mr. COLE.
H.R. 491: Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 504: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 511: Ms. CASTOR of Florida and Ms.
JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 527: Mr. MCCLINTOCK and Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 535: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 541: Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 545: Mr. COLE and Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 549: Mrs. MURPHY.
H.R. 550: Mr. ROUZER, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of
Georgia, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr.
BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. MI-
CHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
AGUILAR, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr.
COOK, Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. POCAN, Mr. COHEN,
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. CAL-
VERT, Ms. PINGREE, Mr. LARSEN of Wash-
ington, Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire, Mr.
MOULTON, Ms. MATSUI, Mr. PANETTA, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
JONES, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr.
THOMPSON of Mississippi, Mrs. HARTZLER, Ms.
MENG, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr. COOPER,
Mr. SUOZZI, Mr. RUTHERFORD, Mr. WELCH,
Ms. LOFGREN, Ms. DELBENE, Mr. LIPINSKI,
Ms. NORTON, Mr. KENNEDY, and Ms.
BONAMICI.
H.R. 553: Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr.
COLE, Ms. STEFANIK, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. JONES,
Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. BISHOP
of Georgia, Mr. BARR, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. KIL-
MER, Ms. NORTON, and Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H.R. 555: Mr. BUCK, Ms. LOFGREN, Mrs. Rod-
gers of Washington, Mr. LEWIS, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. PAYNE, and
Mr. Allred.
H.R. 575: Mr. GIBBS.
H.J. Res. 17: Ms. OMAR.
H.J. Res. 18: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsyl-
vania.
H. Res. 12: Mr. WEBER of Texas and Mr.
LAMBORN.
H. Res. 33: Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. POCAN, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. MCCOL-
LUM, and Mr. GREEN of Texas.
f
CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS, LIM-
ITED TAX BENEFITS, OR LIM-
ITED TARIFF BENEFITS
Under clause 9 of rule XXI, lists or
statements on congressional earmarks,
limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits were submitted as follows:
OFFERED BY MR. ENGEL
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on the Judiciary in H.J.
Res.30 do not contain any congressional ear-
marks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:21 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.051 H16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H679
January 16, 2019
OFFERED BY MR. NADLER
The provisions that warranted a referral to
the Committee on the Judiciary in H.J. Res.
30 do not contain any congressional ear-
marks, limited tax benefits, or limited tariff
benefits as defined in clause 9 of rule XXI.
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII,
1. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
Mr. Gregory D. Watson, a citizen of Austin,
TX, relative to requesting that Congress
enact legislation which would prevent re-
ceipt of Federal salary by Members of Con-
gress during a full or partial shut-down of
the Federal Government with cumulative
wage disbursement to be made to members
only when the Federal Government has been
restored to full operation; which was referred
to the Committee on House Administration.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:21 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA7.055 H16JAPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S233
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16, 2019 No. 9
Senate
The Senate met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal Savior, You have been with
this Nation from its birth. Use our law-
makers to protect and preserve it
against all enemies, foreign and domes-
tic.
Give our Senators kind hearts and
humble spirits; help them to aspire to
become instruments of Your purposes.
Lord, guide them to find in each prob-
lem and perplexity the prelude to
greater understanding and usefulness.
May they seek daily to maintain their
ethical, moral, and spiritual fitness.
And, Lord, sustain those who are suf-
fering most because of this partial gov-
ernment shutdown.
We pray in Your Holy Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Under the previous order, the
leadership time is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
DISAPPROVING THE PRESIDENT’S
PROPOSAL TO TAKE AN ACTION
RELATING TO THE APPLICATION
OF CERTAIN SANCTIONS WITH
RESPECT TO THE RUSSIAN FED-
ERATION—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of S.J. Res. 2,
which the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 2) dis-
approving the President’s proposal to take
an action relating to the application of cer-
tain sanctions with respect to the Russian
Federation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the time until 12:30
p.m. will be equally divided between
the two leaders or their designees.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President I ask
unanimous consent that the time on
the quorum call be equally divided be-
tween the two sides.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. GRASSLEY. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, one
dollar—one dollar—that is the amount
that the Speaker of the House said she
would be willing to invest in physical
barriers at our southern border—one
dollar. Talk about serious, good-faith
negotiations. Talk about taking bor-
ders seriously.
The men and women on the ground
have been unambiguous about the cri-
sis they are facing: the entry of crimi-
nal aliens and gang members into our
country, the drugs that go on to infect
our communities, the ongoing humani-
tarian crises that are fueled by our
government’s mixed signals and our in-
ability to enforce our own laws.
According to Speaker PELOSI, these
urgent issues are worth about 33 cents
each—33 cents. As we all know, that is
because the Speaker has recently de-
fined a brandnew dogma for the Demo-
cratic Party: Actually enforcing our
immigration laws with the help of
physical barriers is ‘‘an immorality’’—
an immorality.
That is quite the indictment of her
fellow Democrats’ past positions. Re-
cent years have seen Democrats vote
for billions—billions—of dollars in
physical walls and fencing. Recent
years have seen a Democratic adminis-
tration build the same steel barriers—
the very same steel barriers—that this
President now wants to expand.
But these days, it seems that Demo-
crats are happy to take their cues from
the gentlelady from San Francisco and
her extreme, fringe position that walls
have now become immoral. Really?
Yesterday, President Trump issued
yet another bipartisan invitation for
Members of Congress to meet at the
White House and actually negotiate.
Yet, again, only Republicans came to
the table.
For the American people, who de-
serve both a functioning government as
well as a secure border, that really is
not a promising sign. For Federal
workers who are now stretching every
dollar until Democrats lose interest in
dead-end political games, the Speaker’s
$1 punchline is not very entertaining.
So for everyone’s sake, I hope our
Democratic colleagues will reverse
course and work seriously with this
White House to reach an agreement
that can become law and fulfill our
promises to our country.
In the meantime, as the White House
made clear just yesterday, cherry-pick-
ing continuing resolutions that fail to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.000 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S234 January 16, 2019
address the border crisis will not re-
ceive the President’s signature. They
are not going to.
The only way out of this impasse is a
bipartisan agreement, and as the
Democratic leader and I have both
stated here on the floor, only an all-
corners bipartisan agreement will re-
ceive a vote here in the Senate.
S.J. RES. 2
Mr. President, on another matter, be-
fore the Senate today is a resolution
from the Democratic leader that would
overrule career civil servants at the
Treasury Department and fire from the
hip on one of the top foreign policy
concerns of the United States.
This is the pending business, despite
the fact that the Democratic leader
had previously proclaimed he would
not let the Senate address any busi-
ness—any—during this partial govern-
ment shutdown. Apparently there is an
exception to that.
Remember, that was the reason the
Democratic leader gave for leading a
Democratic filibuster of a bipartisan
package that would have reaffirmed
our commitment to defend our allies in
Israel, stand alongside Jordan, and
unlock justice for the victims of
Assad’s rogue regime.
On one day, they insist we shouldn’t
do any business; on another, it is time
to bring up an unrelated resolution of
their own. At the end of the last Con-
gress, they said they would support bi-
partisan legislation to shore up our al-
lies in the Middle East and deliver jus-
tice for victims of unspeakable vio-
lence in Syria. Now they are filibus-
tering the bill and have voted against
it three times—three times against
this potential bill that benefits our al-
lies Israel and Jordan and deals with
the victims of cruelty in Syria.
These twists and turns are pretty
hard to follow, confusing, until you re-
member the one key to our Democratic
colleagues’ thinking these days—polit-
ical spite for the President comes first,
ahead of everything else.
You see, the administration isn’t op-
posed to these bipartisan, urgent bills
to back Israel, Jordan, and the Syrian
people. President Trump, we expect,
would sign these bills. We might actu-
ally make a law, which is what people
sent us here to do, presumably.
Naturally, the Democratic leader
isn’t interested. Democrats in Congress
don’t think working with the President
to accomplish things suits their polit-
ical brand these days.
The Democratic leader’s new resolu-
tion, which he has been happy to
prioritize ahead of Israel and the Syr-
ian people, offers him a chance to
make a political splash. It overrules
the careful actions of career civil serv-
ants at Treasury and blows up a
nuanced decision the current law actu-
ally requires. Current law actually re-
quires what they do.
Supporting Israel? It is not too inter-
esting to my friends across the aisle,
but picking a political fight with the
President, boy, they are up for that one
every day.
This is the key to understanding this
unusual moment. This is the central
principle. Democrats have made a mar-
keting decision to obstruct President
Trump at all costs, even if it hurts sub-
stantive priorities they used to sup-
port. That is why we are in day 26 of
this partial government shutdown,
with Democrats refusing to even show
up and negotiate on funds for border
security, which they used to brag
about supporting. That is why Senate
Democrats have decided that aid for
Israel and help for the people of Syria
are not worthy of this body’s time but
are happy to spend more time trying to
blow up a highly technical Treasury
Department decision that current law
actually requires.
Let me say that again. They are
happy to spend floor time trying to
blow up a highly technical Treasury
Department decision that current law
actually requires. Political obstruction
is their top priority. Everything else
follows from that.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. President, on a final matter,
even in the midst of this political cli-
mate, the President’s nominee for At-
torney General delivered an impressive
performance during the first day of his
hearings before the Judiciary Com-
mittee. Senators were reminded ex-
actly why he won bipartisan admira-
tion for this body in 1991 and was con-
firmed as President Bush 41’s Attorney
General with no opposition—none.
Now, as Mr. Barr himself acknowl-
edged in his testimony yesterday,
times have changed, but the core prin-
ciples that our Nation’s Attorney Gen-
eral must uphold haven’t changed. As
the nominee testified yesterday, ‘‘the
American people have to know that
there are places in the government
where the rule of law—not politics—
holds sway . . . the Department of Jus-
tice must be such a place.’’
Those are the words of the right man
for this job. His testimony made clear
what he sees as key priorities for the
Department of Justice: building on
past progress in preventing violent
crime, enforcing and improving our Na-
tion’s immigration laws, and pro-
tecting the integrity of our electoral
system.
He stated definitively where his loy-
alties lie: with ‘‘the rule of law, the
Constitution, and the American people.
That is how it should be. That is how it
must be. And, if you confirm me, that
is how it will be.’’
Experience, integrity, and total com-
mitment—the President has made an
outstanding choice. The Judiciary
Committee continues its hearings
today. I look forward to their con-
tinuing review of this nomination and,
then, to its being reported here to the
floor. The American people deserve the
very best. That is just what Attorney
General Bill Barr will be.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I just
heard Leader MCCONNELL, my good
friend, rail on and on. First, he doesn’t
agree with NANCY PELOSI on the wall.
That is a surprise. Second, he doesn’t
like the fact that we want to get a vote
to open up the government before we
move forward on S. 1. We know that.
His arguments are getting kind of old
and stale.
I will say to the leader, very simply—
you may disagree with us: Open the
government. Open the government.
You can do it, Leader MCCONNELL. All
your blaming and flailing isn’t going to
open the government. We all know
Donald Trump is the obstacle here.
You know it. I know it. We all know it.
The only way to help all the folks who
need help is to open the government.
There are a good number of Repub-
licans on your side who have advocated
that already. To hold the government
hostage, you are losing the argument.
You are losing it with the public. An
overwhelming majority of Americans
think the government should not be
shut down over a wall. Even a substan-
tial number of people who support the
wall say: Don’t shut down the govern-
ment to get the wall.
We have problems on the border. A
lot of Americans don’t think it is a cri-
sis that demands hurting our economy
and our government.
Leader MCCONNELL, we know you dis-
agree with Leader PELOSI and me on
what should be border security. We
know you think we should pass S. 1 be-
fore we open up the government. Lead-
er, you—you—can open the govern-
ment. That is what the American peo-
ple want, and I dare say that is what
most of your colleagues want, at least
if they talk to you privately.
It seems that every day the Trump
shutdown drags on, we read another
story about a new way it is hurting our
economy. Eight hundred thousand pub-
lic servants have been without pay, in-
cluding thousands of veterans who
work for the Federal Government.
Each one of those Americans has a dif-
ferent story about how the shutdown is
hurting them and their families. As
nine essential Cabinet Departments re-
main shuttered, we are learning that
the effects of the shutdown are even
more widespread and continue to wors-
en. Yesterday, President Trump’s own
White House Council of Economic Ad-
visers doubled their projections of how
much economic growth is being lost
each week during the shutdown.
Let me repeat that. The Trump ad-
ministration’s own economic advisers
have just said that the Trump shut-
down will substantially hurt our econ-
omy—twice as much as they originally
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.001 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S235
January 16, 2019
predicted. Growth is down. Economic
and consumer confidence is down. Bil-
lions of dollars have been pulled out of
our economy. Some of the leading fi-
nancial leaders in the country are now
saying we might even go into contrac-
tion in the first part of this year if this
shutdown continues.
Do you think, Leader MCCONNELL,
that is benefiting Donald Trump? Do
you think, Leader MCCONNELL, that is
benefiting the Republican Party, who
the Americans know own the shut-
down? No. Let’s open the government
and then debate our differences on bor-
der security and whatever else.
Why is our country suffering self-in-
flicted damage? Because President
Trump is using the American govern-
ment as leverage in an attempt to ex-
tract taxpayer money for a border wall
he promised Mexico would pay for.
He says: You know, I hear Rush
Limbaugh and Sean Hannity: He prom-
ised this in the campaign.
No, he didn’t. He promised a wall
that Mexico would pay for. He never
said once, that I can recall, in the cam-
paign: But if Mexico doesn’t pay for it,
we will pay for it.
Of course people voted for it—or
some, not that many. This is ridicu-
lous. The President makes a campaign
promise. He twists the campaign prom-
ise around and now shuts down the gov-
ernment so he can show he is keeping
not the promise he made but a dif-
ferent one. It would sound ridiculous
and absurd if it weren’t the reality.
The fact of the matter is that eight
Cabinet Departments not named Home-
land Security have absolutely noth-
ing—nothing—to do with our disagree-
ments over border security. That is
why Democrats have offered, and con-
tinue to offer, to reopen the govern-
ment while we debate border security.
Again, three words for Leader
MCCONNELL again: Open the govern-
ment.
Three words to my Republican col-
leagues: Open the government.
Three words to President Trump:
Open the government.
Then, we can have all the discussion
and debating, as we are supposed to do,
on these issues where we don’t agree.
Democrats have made entirely rea-
sonable proposals. We proposed to open
the government by passing Republican
spending bills from the last Congress so
there would be no controversy. These
are not bills the Democrats put to-
gether. These are bills the Republicans
put together with some Democratic
input. Leader MCCONNELL voted for
every one of them—every one of them.
As for this idea that he will not move
unless Trump agrees, that may have
made sense in the first week or two. It
makes no sense now because President
Trump is adamant, all over the lot, and
seems unwilling and unable to tie him-
self out of his own knots to get the
government open. Someone should step
in. On our side, we are willing to step
in. Where is Leader MCCONNELL? Where
are the Republicans?
The American people support passing
our bills—bills that we have asked
unanimous consent for by wide mar-
gins—two to one, including nearly 40
percent of Republicans. Forty percent
of Republicans support passing our
bills and then debating.
So, Mr. President, even your prized
base—a good chunk of it, about a
third—is turning away from you on
this issue.
When will the President and my Re-
publican colleagues wake up to the
hardship being inflicted on so many
people across the country? It is time
that the Senate act on House-passed
bills to open the government.
The President, we know, is inflexible.
He is ‘‘proud,’’ as he said, to have shut
down the government. He is, amaz-
ingly—never seen a President like
this—impervious to the pain and suf-
fering of Federal workers and the
American people. He makes stuff up:
Oh, the Federal workers want the wall.
Who? Two people who are on FOX News
all the time who are part of a Border
Patrol union? That is it, not the aver-
age worker.
The President has refused all en-
treaties to open up the government by
Democrats and Republicans, like my
friend Senator GRAHAM—one of the
President’s biggest allies in this Cham-
ber.
His deputies are hardly even empow-
ered to negotiate with the Hill since
President Trump retracts their offers
almost as soon as they are made. Ev-
eryone—everyone—can see how fruit-
less it is to try and negotiate with this
President at the moment.
My friend Leader MCCONNELL is the
one who can break the impasse. He has
declared before that ‘‘he is the guy who
gets us out of shutdowns.’’ He was
proud of that. I wish he were still
proud of it.
I think we are all ready for that,
Leader MCCONNELL, because so long as
Leader MCCONNELL hides behind the
President and the President’s absurd
and destructive shutdown strategy, the
Senate will be unable to vote on broad-
ly popular legislation to reopen the
government.
The longer Leader MCCONNELL allows
this to continue, the more he and Re-
publican Senators will be tied to the
President and the President’s disgrace-
ful tactic of government by extortion.
RUSSIA
Mr. President, last night, the Senate
voted to proceed to the resolution to
disapprove the Treasury Department’s
plans to relax sanctions on Russia, and
11 Republicans—I am proud of that,
proud of them—joined with every Dem-
ocrat to advance the resolution, which
will face a cloture vote today. Two or
three more Republican votes will en-
sure cloture is invoked and the passage
of the resolution achieved. So I would
like to make a direct appeal to my Re-
publican friends who are wondering
about this.
This resolution is about a very sim-
ple thing. Do you believe America
should take a tough line on Putin or do
you think we should go easy on Putin
and his cronies? From where I am
standing, that is an easy choice.
The past half decade has seen Putin
expand his malign activities around
the world, from invading Ukraine and
Georgia to annexing Crimea, to prop-
ping up the brutal Assad regime in
Syria, to directing nerve agent attacks
on foreign soil.
Russian intelligence has tried to de-
stabilize Western democracies at every
opportunity—France, England, many
other European countries, and most ob-
viously here in the United States. As
proof positive, they go online, they try
to sow dissension in America, this
beautiful country.
As Leader MCCONNELL said yester-
day—confusingly, before voting against
the resolution—‘‘We have long seen
Vladimir Putin for the KGB thug that
he is.’’ Those are strong words but ac-
curate.
In the face of this global assault on
Western democracies, of course we
have seen that the Trump administra-
tion has been shamefully and sus-
piciously weak on President Putin. The
President has avoided criticizing Putin
at every turn. When asked about Presi-
dent Putin’s brutal tactics against his
opponents, President Trump demurs.
When this body, near unanimously,
passed the Russian sanction legisla-
tion, President Trump contemplated
vetoing it.
When President Putin told President
Trump he didn’t interfere in our 2016
elections, the President reportedly
said: I believe you.
Last weekend, we learned that Presi-
dent Trump has expressed a desire to
withdraw from NATO this summer—
the past summer is when he expressed
the desire. That is Putin’s dream—
Putin’s dream. All the advice of our
military and diplomatic leaders were
against it. Somehow, the President
wants to do it, and who benefits the
most? Putin. Who loses the most? The
West.
Now, with this proposed sanctions re-
lief, we have another example of Presi-
dent Trump trying to lighten the bur-
den on Putin’s oligarchs. We should not
allow it.
For a very long time, the Republican
Party predicated its foreign policy on
taking a tougher line against Russia
and Putin. In so many campaigns for
President, we Democrats were accused
of not being tough enough on the Rus-
sians. I have always felt we have to be
tough on the Russians, but it seems ac-
quiescence to the President, a fear of
breaking with the President, has held
back too many of my Republican col-
leagues from supporting this resolu-
tion.
The resolution, just to repeat, is sort
of—I know Treasury made an effort, al-
though I don’t have much faith in the
strength. I think the Secretary of
Treasury is an intelligent man, but he
never stands up to Trump, and I don’t
have any faith in his strength in stand-
ing up this time. So if Trump wanted a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.003 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S236 January 16, 2019
weakened resolution because maybe
Putin or the Russians wanted it, that
is what we have here.
Forty-five percent control is not—45
percent ownership, which is what this
does, takes Deripaska out of this? For-
get it. Then add to his 45 percent the 7
percent the in-laws own, that the large
percentage that Russian banks—con-
trolled by Putin—own, the control is
just as tight as it was before. The peo-
ple who were put in charge have close
relationships with Russia. This is not a
strong resolution. It is slightly less
than a joke—slightly less than a joke.
So I hope some of our colleagues will
come around. This is all about Amer-
ica, the West, the stability of our Na-
tion, and if Putin thinks he can manip-
ulate our country and manipulate the
President and too many of my col-
leagues who have always been strong
against Russia go along, what is he
going to do next? What is he going to
ask President Trump to do next, and
what will President Trump do?
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The mi-
nority whip.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, to quote
the great Yogi Berra, ‘‘It’s deja vu all
over again.’’
It is the 26th day of the shutdown,
and for the 26th day in a row, Demo-
crats are refusing to seriously engage
with the President to get the govern-
ment reopened. Democrats have spent
a lot of time talking about their desire
to get the hundreds of thousands of fur-
loughed Federal workers back to work,
but their actions contradict their
words.
The only way for the government to
reopen is for both sides to come to the
table and compromise. The Democrats
are absolutely refusing to consider any
concession. Their position is, my way
or the highway. Unfortunately, that is
not the way things work in the real
world. When you have two groups with
diametrically opposed positions, both
sides have to give a little if they are
ever going to get anything done.
The White House has a strongly held
position on this issue, but it has also
made it clear that it is willing to be
flexible and to negotiate with Demo-
crats. The Democrats don’t share that
willingness, and their refusal to nego-
tiate is victimizing the very workers
they claim they want to protect.
Senate Democrats’ latest attempt to
distract from Democrats’ refusal to ne-
gotiate is to push for votes on House-
passed legislation on reopening the
government, but as Democrats know
very well, these votes would be mean-
ingless because this is not legislation
the President is going to sign.
Indeed, before Christmas, the Demo-
cratic leader in the Senate stated:
‘‘The President must publicly support
and say he will sign an agreement be-
fore it gets a vote in either Chamber’’;
that from the Democratic leader as re-
cently as just a few weeks ago.
Well, there is no point in spending
time taking up a bill that hasn’t re-
ceived agreement from all parties. We
know that, and the Democrats know
that as well, but apparently they are
willing to flip-flop on this issue if they
think it will suit their political pur-
poses. Kind of like how they were for a
border fence before they were against
it. That is right.
In 2006, the Democratic leader and
the ranking member of the Senate Ju-
diciary Committee voted for legisla-
tion to authorize a border fence. They
were joined in that vote by then-Sen-
ator Biden, then-Senator Clinton, and
then-Senator Obama. In 2013, every
Senate Democrat—every Senate Demo-
crat—supported legislation requiring
the completion of a 700-mile fence
along our southern border. In 2009, the
Democratic leader praised border fenc-
ing as a border security accomplish-
ment.
So what has changed? The need to se-
cure our borders hasn’t changed. The
effectiveness of barriers hasn’t
changed. That has been well docu-
mented.
The House majority leader, STENY
HOYER, was asked about the Demo-
crats’ flip-flop, whether there is any
real difference between what they sup-
ported previously and what they are
opposing now. Here is what he said: ‘‘I
don’t have an answer that I think is a
really good answer.’’
Well, that is an honest reply. Demo-
crats don’t have a good answer because
there is no real difference between
what they supported a few years ago
and what they are opposing now.
Democrats have flip-flopped on the
issue because they are afraid to oppose
the radical far-left wing of their party
and because they are committed to ob-
structing this President no matter
what.
If Democrats weren’t hurting any-
body, their refusal to play ball
wouldn’t be a problem, but every single
day that they refuse to engage in seri-
ous negotiations is a day that families
aren’t getting paid, national priorities
aren’t getting funded, and important
border security is being postponed.
That is where we are. I urge my col-
leagues to rethink their obstruction
and to work with the President to get
the government reopened and Federal
workers back to work and funding for
that critical and important priority of
ensuring that we have a secure south-
ern border.
MARCH FOR LIFE
Mr. President, this Friday, as they do
every year, individuals from every cor-
ner of the United States will come to
Washington, DC, to participate in the
national March for Life.
As usual, South Dakotans will be
among them. Tens of thousands of indi-
viduals will march from the National
Mall to the Supreme Court to bear wit-
ness to a simple truth; that unborn ba-
bies are human beings and that they
deserve to be protected.
It can be easy sometimes for human
beings to turn their backs on injustice.
Maybe because we don’t want to get in-
volved, we are reluctant to speak out.
It is particularly easy to turn our
backs in the case of abortion because
the injustice of abortion is hidden. It
happens out of the public view behind
closed doors, but we must not forget
that every day in the United States,
unborn babies are being killed.
The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, which compiles data on the
number of U.S. abortions, reports that
there were more than 638,000 legal
abortions in 2015—638,000. That is
roughly equivalent to three-quarters of
the population of South Dakota. That
is an incredible number of lives lost, an
incredible amount of joy lost, an in-
credible amount of love lost, and it is
all too easy to forget because we don’t
see it happening. We can’t forget. We
can’t forget injustice. We can’t let fear
or discomfort stop us from speaking up
for those who cannot speak for them-
selves.
Fortunately, there are tens of thou-
sands of men and women and young
people around this country who are
committed to speaking up for the un-
born and who travel to Washington,
DC, every year to remind us of the
truth about abortion, to remind us that
abortion is the destruction of an inno-
cent human life, that every abortion
kills an innocent human being with her
own DNA and her own, distinct iden-
tity.
I can think of few greater things
than to defend the defenseless, to stand
up for those who cannot stand up for
themselves, and I am grateful for all
those who will march through the
streets of Washington, DC, on Friday
to speak up for the innocent unborn. I
thank them for reminding us of this
great injustice, and I join them in
praying that one day every child will
be safe from abortion.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Utah.
Mr. LEE. Mr. President, this coming
Friday, tens of thousands of Americans
will take to the snowy streets of Wash-
ington, DC, to exercise their funda-
mental rights on behalf of millions of
others who cannot. They will come
from every State in the Union, includ-
ing the State of Utah, to march to the
U.S. Supreme Court. Fittingly, they
will be marching down Constitution
Avenue in the name of justice and in
defense of the innocent.
The March for Life is a spectacular
tradition in American politics, a mass
demonstration of joy. Despite its size
and the diversity of its participants—
sometimes north of 100,000 souls, born
and unborn—the march is typically ig-
nored by the mainstream media.
The marchers also know that the Su-
preme Court, rightly, is not supposed
to be swayed by public opinion one way
or another. Yet they march January
after January after January, cheer-
fully, prayerfully, happily, peacefully,
bundled up against the cold, with ba-
bies in their strollers, and wearing
smiles on their faces.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.004 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S237
January 16, 2019
I have been, and I can confirm that
the March for Life is the happiest pro-
test you can see because they march
not principally in outrage over the
lives lost to the scourge of abortion but
in abiding hope for the lives yet to be
saved.
The March for Life is often seen as
the pro-life movement’s response to the
Supreme Court’s 1973 decision in Roe v.
Wade. In truth, it is a continuation of
the march of human dignity and equal-
ity that has defined American history
since we first declared ‘‘that all men
are Created equal, that they are en-
dowed by their Creator with certain in-
alienable Rights, that among these are
Life’’—yes, life—‘‘Liberty, and the pur-
suit of Happiness.’’
Raised from the crib on the Declara-
tion of Independence, Americans can
sometimes take its lofty and inspiring
words for granted, but these truths,
however self-evident, remain as revolu-
tionary today as they were when they
were penned in 1776.
From the dawn of time, powerful men
have dehumanized women, the poor,
the sick, the disabled, the young and
the old, those who thought differently,
looked differently, loved differently, or
worshipped differently.
Whether enforced by tribal taboos,
corrupted science, or judicial fiat,
these experiments in dehumanization
are the darkest chapters in human his-
tory—including the original sin of our
Republic, the monstrous evil of slav-
ery.
The story of American history is the
story of our Nation standing up to op-
pression, of our coming to the defense
of the vulnerable in our laws and with
our very lives. From Independence Hall
to the Bill of Rights, from the aboli-
tion of slavery to universal suffrage, to
the civil rights movement, to the tri-
umph over nazism, fascism, and com-
munism, the American people have
fought through prejudice and pride to
assert and to defend the equal dignity
of every single member of the human
family.
For all the powerful forces arrayed
against it, the right to life remains a
part of who we are—a common heritage
and, I believe history will prove, a
common destiny. That is precisely why
the march grows every single year not
only here in Washington but in soli-
darity marches in State capitals all
around the country.
In Salt Lake City on Friday, Utah
will host its annual March for Life at
the Utah State Capitol building. The
same group of people will also be orga-
nizing the annual diaper drive for the
Pregnancy Resource Center, a non-
profit organization that provides free
healthcare services to pregnant moth-
ers in need. They know that to love is
to serve, and to be pro-life is to be pro
every life and not just some lives. Our
duty to justice and equality extends
beyond the unborn child in the womb;
it extends to her mother and to her fa-
ther, to her siblings and her friends,
her neighborhood, her church, and her
school—to her whole life.
Abortion is evil, but so is indiffer-
ence. Human dignity impels us to tran-
scend both, not merely by changing
laws but by changing hearts, starting,
of course, with our own. It is not
enough to restore a legal regime of life;
we must also endeavor to forge a new
culture of life that is broader and runs
deeper than the law.
Those of us who call ourselves pro-
life have a particular duty to exercise
the very right we fight to win back for
the unborn: the right to live, the right
to grow, to strive every day to become
more fully the person God made us to
be. A culture of life can be built only
one hopeful soul at a time, one by one.
We have a long way to go, of course,
but the work is well underway. To see
what it looks like, stop by the march.
The struggle for life is just the latest
battle in America’s long, noble crusade
for justice, for equality, for freedom
and liberty, and, of course, for dignity.
It is another fight worth having, an-
other fight most worthy of our herit-
age, another fight worthy of our chil-
dren. One day soon, we are going to win
this fight. We are going to win this
fight, too, just as we have won others.
Until that day, America will continue
to march.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. LEAHY. Mr. President—and I
welcome the distinguished Presiding
Officer, who has probably presided be-
fore, but this is the first time I have
been on the floor and have seen him
preside. I realize he cannot respond,
but I welcome him to the Senate.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. President, for 26 days, President
Trump has held funding for our Federal
Government hostage, using it as lever-
age to force Congress to provide $5.7
billion to build his ill-conceived, expen-
sive, and unfortunately totally ineffec-
tive wall on the southern border. We
knew this was coming because for
months during the campaign, he riled
up his base with chants of ‘‘Build the
wall. Build the wall.’’ He invented a
crisis at the southern border and then
told supporters that only he could
solve it. He gave his word over and over
again that Mexico would pay for the
wall so American taxpayers would not
have to.
That was over 2 years ago, and I
think he is feeling the pressure now as
he shutters himself in the White House.
Having failed to convince both Repub-
licans and Democrats in Congress that
the campaign slogan was actually good
policy and having failed, as we all
knew, to get Mexico to pay for the
wall, he turns to a negotiation tactic
that he seems to have mastered—bul-
lying. He has shut down the govern-
ment of the most powerful Nation in
the world, making us a laughing stock
around the rest of the world, and he
says he will keep us shut down until he
gets what he wants. It is the height of
irresponsibility. It certainly destroys
our effectiveness in other parts of the
world.
He is the President of this country.
We all—Democrats and Republicans—
accept that he is the President. But
that also means he is supposed to lead
the Nation, not run it into the ground
like so many of his businesses that had
to declare bankruptcy. But he sits in
the White House tweeting and watch-
ing television all day, ignoring the
damaging effect his actions are having
on millions of Americans of whatever
political persuasion around the coun-
try.
The shutdown not only hurts our
Federal workers, it is hurting Amer-
ica’s economy. The President’s own
Chair of the White House Council of
Economic Advisers estimates that
gross domestic product will slow by .1
percent for every 2 weeks the govern-
ment is shut down. Today, there are re-
ports that this estimate is too low and
that the impact could be .1 percent for
every week the government is shut-
tered.
Those are numbers, but let me tell
you a story and give an example. Small
businesses employ more than 59 million
people in this country. Small busi-
nesses in this country are one of the
main drivers of economic growth, but
every day the government is closed is a
day small businesses can’t get Small
Business Administration-backed loans
to invest and grow their companies.
Last week, I heard from a woman
who runs a small sign company in
Essex Junction, VT. Essex Junction is
in Chittenden County outside of Bur-
lington, VT. It is a beautiful commu-
nity. It survives by small businesses
that expand. She is trying to grow her
business, and she is trying to acquire
another one, but the SBA backs the
space she is trying to purchase, and so
she can’t bring the sale to finality dur-
ing the shutdown. As a result, the sell-
er is threatening to just move on. He
can’t get an answer from the SBA. And,
of course, that would throw her expan-
sion plans into jeopardy.
We have many excellent craft brew-
eries in Vermont. They bring in a lot of
revenue. They hire a lot of people.
They are a key part of our tourism. I
heard from one of the head brewers
from one of these major craft brew-
eries. He depends upon the Alcohol and
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau to ap-
prove his license applications, for-
mulas, and the labels he puts on his
beer. He has been brewing the beer and
it is ready to be labeled, but the office
is closed due to the government shut-
down. They are not processing applica-
tions. He wrote:
I am one of the millions of voters whose
livelihood depends on the government oper-
ating. . . . Every day that passes without the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.006 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S238 January 16, 2019
ATTB up and running is another potential
day of lost sales.
Farmers across the country and in
Vermont are also feeling the pain of
the shutdown. Just a few weeks ago, we
passed the bipartisan farm bill. I was
one of the conferees on that bill. I
praised Senator PAT ROBERTS, Repub-
lican from Kansas, and DEBBIE STABE-
NOW, Democrat from Michigan. They
put together this bipartisan bill, and
the President took credit when he
signed it.
Well, it is a 5-year farm bill, and now
the President, right after signing the
farm bill, has shut the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture field offices that
help farmers implement the law. Farm-
ers need information now as the new
planting and growing season looms.
How long will it affect operations head-
ing into the planting year? Most of the
staff are on furlough. If you are a farm-
er in the Midwest and you are pre-
paring your crops, you can’t say: Well,
you know, we can wait a few months—
maybe past the growing season—to find
out what the rules are going to be, and
then we will plant. The decisions have
to be made now.
It also means that farmers can’t
apply for much needed loans. They
need these loans because the drop in
commodity prices brought on by the
President’s tariffs has hit many farm-
ers hard. They need loans to help pay
their bills. Many banks are not willing
to lend on them, so they have to rely
on the Department of Agriculture as a
lender of last resort.
Guess what happens in these multiple
whammies. Offices that issue these
loans are closed due to the shutdown.
They need the loans because of the
President’s tariffs and the President’s
shutdown, but these offices can’t give
them the loans.
For those farmers who have better
credit, who can access other lending
options, many of their loans are also
delayed by the shutdown since the
lenders are unable to confirm that the
farmer has other outstanding loans
from the USDA. They could just con-
nect to the USDA office to ask, but it
is closed.
Just this week at the Farm Bureau
convention, the President loudly pro-
claimed that he is providing assistance
to the Market Facilitation Program to
have farmers mitigate the financial
losses caused by the Trump tariffs. But
as of December 28, there is no one left
in the USDA accounting offices to
process any new applications for these
much needed payments.
I recently heard from a dairy farmer
in what we call the Northeast Kingdom
in Vermont. She milks 80 cows, and she
is proud of her operation, but she has
been hit hard by the President’s trade
policies, which have led to retaliatory
tariffs against U.S. dairy exports, and
she is now behind in her electric bill.
The electric company is threatening to
turn off the power to her home, to her
barn, to her milk parlor, to her milk-
ing machines. She received one install-
ment from the American Facilitation
Program to help mitigate the effects of
the Trump tariffs, but she hasn’t re-
ceived the second installment because
of the Trump shutdown. The second in-
stallment is needed to help pay her
bills.
She says that she will be in much
better shape when the new Dairy Mar-
gin Coverage Program from the new
farm bill is implemented. Again, I ap-
plaud Senator PAT ROBERTS and Sen-
ator DEBBIE STABENOW for ushering
that through in an almost unanimous
vote. Unfortunately, no work is being
done to get the program up and run-
ning because of the government shut-
down. She is frustrated. She is worried
about her future. She is looking for
help. She is an honest, hard-working
person, and she is stymied. I don’t
blame her.
Implementation of the farm bill,
which I spent more than a year work-
ing on—I was on the committee con-
ference working hard to deliver for our
Nation’s farmers on a wide range of
key priorities, especially our strug-
gling dairy farmers. It is now on hold
during the shutdown with nearly every
USDA Agency furloughed. This is life
in the age of the Trump shutdown.
The President says that shutting
down the government, paralyzing our
country, is necessary to address a
growing crisis on our southern border.
The only crisis we have in our country
right now is the one caused by the
Trump shutdown. The crisis we face is
not at our southern border but at
kitchen tables, on family farms, and in
small businesses across the country as
families hurt by the Trump shutdown
try to figure out how to make ends
meet.
The President talks of hordes of ille-
gal immigrants rushing across our bor-
ders, but border apprehensions have
dropped 75 percent since 2000, and the
majority of people apprehended at bor-
ders today are families—women and
children—fleeing violence in their own
country. They deserve our compassion,
not vitriol.
More people are in this country ille-
gally as a result of visa overstays than
from illegal border crossings. This wall
does nothing to address that. To ad-
dress our complex immigration issues,
we need comprehensive legislation
based on facts, not bumper sticker slo-
gans.
We all support strong border secu-
rity—every Democrat, every Repub-
lican does. By working on a bipartisan
basis in the last fiscal year, Democrats
and Republicans supported $21.1 billion
for border security and immigration
enforcement. This followed a similar
investment we made in fiscal year 2017.
As vice chairman of the Appropria-
tions Committee, I know that we in-
vested in our ports of entry, including
the purchase of nonintrusive inspection
equipment to detect illegal and illicit
contraband. We invested in aircraft to
monitor our sprawling border from
above and quickly respond to emer-
gencies. We invested in video surveil-
lance, radar systems to detect move-
ment in remote locations. These are so-
lutions that work. These are smart
uses of taxpayer dollars. A 30-foot wall
that Mexico will not pay for is not a
good solution.
This shutdown is not about border se-
curity. If this were about border secu-
rity, we would be done with it today.
The Trump shutdown is the President
trying to distract America from his
failures as a leader and shore up the
support of his base. It is shameful.
It is clear that President Trump will
not do the right thing on his own, so it
is time for Senate Republicans to step
up. Just yesterday morning, Democrats
asked unanimous consent to take up
two bills that would get this govern-
ment back open—a six-bill minibus
that has bipartisan support, including
four bills that passed the Republican-
controlled Senate 92 to 6—virtually
every Republican voted for it—and a
continuing resolution for the Home-
land Security Department through
February 8. Even though virtually
every Republican has voted for this,
the Republican leader objected to
going forward.
If they continue to object to opening
the government, this shutdown is as
much on them as it is on the President.
We have bipartisan bills before us that
could reopen the government. We could
vote on them today, and they would
pass with veto-proof margins.
Leader MCCONNELL, bring up these
bills. Let’s vote to end this national
nightmare.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). The Senator from Wash-
ington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
come to the floor today with a number
of my colleagues on the 26th day of this
deeply damaging and completely un-
necessary Trump shutdown. We are
here today to lift up the voices and sto-
ries of the people who are being hurt by
President Trump and his Senate Re-
publican allies and to once again call
on Republican leaders here in the Sen-
ate to finally allow a vote and work
with us to end this manufactured cri-
sis. While President Trump is very fo-
cused on his political game, actual peo-
ple, their families, and their commu-
nities are paying the price.
People we represent—moms and dads,
workers, small business owners, people
who did not do anything wrong, who
just want to work, do their job, serve
their communities—all of them have
been pulled into President Trump’s
chaos and dysfunction, and it needs to
end.
I am very proud to kick off another
effort here in the Senate by those who
want to make sure that President
Trump and Senate Republican leaders
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:35 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.007 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S239
January 16, 2019
don’t forget whom this is about and un-
derstand who is being impacted by
their refusal to act.
I want to start with a few from my
home State of Washington, where there
are nearly 13,000 workers who have
been caught up in this Trump shut-
down.
Lauren is a furloughed FAA em-
ployee who shared her story with me
through my website. She told me she
supports her family with one income,
and now that paycheck has been fro-
zen. She said she has been losing sleep
trying to figure out how to cut her own
expenses and pay her bills since the
Federal Government isn’t meeting its
obligation to pay her.
I heard from Adam, also from my
home State, who is buying his first
home with his fiance. What should be a
very exciting time is now filled with
unnecessary stress because Federal
loans through USDA and FHA are held
up. As if closing a home isn’t stressful
enough, now they don’t know when or
even if a loan is going to come through.
As Adam described to me, home buyers
are now caught in the middle, and that
is just wrong.
One Federal employee I met with
while I was home last week is a sci-
entist at one of the impacted Agencies,
and he told me about the stress that he
and his family have endured since the
start of the shutdown, having to cover
their childcare expenses and mortgage
while he is not being paid—expenses
that total up to $1,700 each month.
Right now, he said he is able to tap
into his family emergency fund to
make ends meet, but he doesn’t think
they can hang on much longer.
I am not the only one, by the way,
who is hearing from people in Wash-
ington State about how President
Trump’s unnecessary shutdown is im-
pacting their lives. These stories are
everywhere.
Earlier this week, the wife of a fur-
loughed TSA employee with a 6-year-
old daughter told the Seattle Times
about how the shutdown has thrown
her family into an economic tailspin.
Their family is currently living off of
money she makes from babysitting and
with the help from her retired father,
who has taken now a minimum-wage
job to help with the family’s finances.
She worries how they are ever going to
make it if this shutdown continues.
This is a small number of the count-
less stories coming out of my State and
from around the country about how
President Trump’s reckless govern-
ment shutdown is hurting real people.
They are people in every one of our
States in the country. They are people
on every side of the border debate.
They are people who heard President
Trump say he would be ‘‘proud’’ to shut
down the government. They are people
who simply do not understand why
they are being asked to bear the bur-
den, to pay the price because President
Trump and Republican leaders here in
the Senate have boxed themselves into
a political corner.
They are people who are getting
angrier and angrier, more and more
desperate with every day that goes by,
who are going to make their voices
heard, and we are going to make their
voices heard. We are fighting by their
side to end this shutdown. I am going
to keep making sure they have a voice
in the Senate.
I am proud to be with a number of
my Democratic colleagues today. We
are going to lift up their stories until
President Trump and Republicans here
in the Senate agree to end this crisis
they started.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from California.
Ms. HARRIS. We are now 26 days into
the longest government shutdown in
American history, and 800,000 work-
ers—800,000 Americans—are going with-
out pay. Half of them are working any-
way.
Let’s be very clear about how we got
into this mess. The Senate unani-
mously passed a bill to open the gov-
ernment right before the holidays. The
vote was 100 to 0. There was such
jubilance on this floor that, literally,
Members of the Senate were singing
Christmas carols.
Yet 2 weeks ago, the House, doing its
job, then passed a bill to reopen the
government. They sent six bills over to
the Senate. This body needs to hold a
vote on that legislation and send it to
the President and ask him to sign it.
The real obstacle to ending this shut-
down is in the White House. The Presi-
dent is holding the American people
hostage over his vanity project on the
southern border and peddling his usual
propaganda to distract from a crisis of
his own making.
The President has said that ‘‘most of
the workers not getting paid are Demo-
crats,’’ as if that is true or if that
should matter. He has said that ‘‘many
of the people that we’re talking about
. . . agree with what we’re doing.’’ It
has been said that the workers have
said to ‘‘stay out until you get the
funding for the wall.’’
Well, that is contrary to what we
have been hearing and what I have
been hearing. Last week, for example, I
heard from a woman by the name of
Trisha. Trisha and her husband are
both air traffic controllers with nearly
40 years of Federal service combined.
Trisha’s husband served in the Navy.
He now has to work long hours of over-
time to compensate for the workers
who are absent because they have been
furloughed, and he is not being paid.
Trisha’s job was deemed non-
essential, so she is also not being paid.
Neither parent in this family is being
paid. They have three young children,
and this is on top of the fact that
Trisha and her family have already en-
dured hardship these past few months
as victims of the Thomas fire.
As she wrote me:
On December 5th of last year, our home
was completely destroyed in the Thomas fire
and we have used every resource available to
us to work towards rebuilding our home.
While their home is being rebuilt,
Trisha’s family moved into a rental
home, and they are currently evacu-
ated from that rental home due to the
flood and mudslide risks that are cur-
rently an issue in California.
Trisha said:
We have small children that we are most
concerned about (with the uncertainty of our
careers as Federal employees and the incred-
ibly long road ahead in rebuilding our home
but most importantly our livelihood).
She writes:
We will continue to stand with our NATCA
Brothers and Sisters in ensuring the safety
of the National Airspace System, but with-
out the support staff working, it is a
daunting task.
Trisha’s message is one of nearly
20,000 phone calls, emails, and letters
my office has received since the shut-
down started 26 days ago—all pleading
with us to reopen the U.S. Government.
They are 2 of the 42,300 workers who
are currently being furloughed in Cali-
fornia. I don’t know which of them are
Democrats or Republicans, and it
doesn’t matter. What matters is the
people who are being hurt and the crit-
ical government functions that are
going undone. They are the TSA agents
who protect our flights and the air
traffic controllers who help to land our
planes. They are park rangers and FBI
agents and Coast Guard members. They
inspect our food and provide loans to
our farmers. They conduct lifesaving
research. Right now, though, they are
being told to pay their bills by baby-
sitting or selling their belongings on
craigslist.
These Americans need their govern-
ment to do its job. They don’t need a
wall. They need paychecks. Congress is
a coequal branch of government. We
don’t need a permission slip before we
can vote on a bill.
On behalf of Trisha and hundreds of
thousands of Americans like her, let’s
take up the legislation that we have al-
ready approved. Let’s send it to the
President, and let’s end this pointless
shutdown as soon as possible—right
away, now.
I yield back my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, I
thank Senator MURRAY, Senator HAR-
RIS, and my colleagues who are on the
floor.
I point out that we are now on day 26
of this outrageous and dangerous par-
tial shutdown that was totally avoid-
able. It has been caused by one per-
son—President Trump—and is now
being assisted by the Republican lead-
ership in this body by its not allowing
the U.S. Senate, which is a coequal
branch of government, to take up legis-
lation that would reopen government—
legislation that has previously passed
this body and would, clearly, pass on a
vote if the majority leader would allow
us to have that vote. We could then re-
open the government.
The unanimous consent request that
I offered yesterday with my colleague
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.009 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S240 January 16, 2019
from Maryland, Senator VAN HOLLEN,
would allow the appropriations bills
that have nothing to do with this cur-
rent dispute with the President to be
fully functional, and it would allow for
a continuing resolution for the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security. We could
then work, as we should work, to deal
with border security and immigration
issues. Yet the majority leader ob-
jected to the Senate’s taking up that
legislation, and the shutdown con-
tinues.
There are 800,000-plus citizens who
work for the Federal Government who
are being denied the ability to either
get paychecks for the work that they
do or are being furloughed without pay.
In each one of those cases, there is a
hardship that is having an impact that
goes well beyond just the 800,000.
There are businesses in Baltimore
that are wondering whether they can
keep their doors open because they de-
pend on Federal workers to come in
and use their services. Whether it is a
laundry, a cleaner, a restaurant, or a
supply store, they know their sales de-
pend on people having checks to pay
their bills. The Federal workforce does
not. So it is affecting secondary em-
ployment. There have also been a lot of
layoffs by those who depend on the
contract services of the Federal Gov-
ernment.
There are many individual stories,
and Senator VAN HOLLEN and I have
traveled throughout our State and
have met with government workers.
We have heard the account of one per-
son who was supposed to close on a new
home, his first home. He is not going to
be able to do that because he doesn’t
have a paycheck that shows the wages
necessary in order to support the mort-
gage because his most recent paycheck
is zero.
We have heard from a person in my
office who is an air traffic controller.
Her husband is also an air traffic con-
troller. They are responsible for rel-
atives who are dependent on them. One
needs a medical procedure, but they
are not going to be able to move for-
ward with that medical procedure be-
cause they don’t have the out-of-pock-
et costs that are going to be necessary
to pay for that. The list goes on and on
and on of hardship—of people won-
dering whether their credit scores are
going to be affected, which could affect
their employment because they are
going to be late in paying their mort-
gage payments. That is assuming they
get paychecks in the next couple of
months because, then, their homes
could well be foreclosed on.
I could put a face on each one of
these 800,000, but let me just share an
account by Lamar Cobb, who is a lead
transportation security officer at BWI
Marshall Airport. I was there earlier
this week, meeting with the govern-
ment workers who are keeping our air-
ports and our air traffic safe. These are
dedicated people who are working with-
out pay. He came forward.
One of the reporters there asked: Can
you give us an individual hardship that
you have actually confronted?
He explained that he has a 10-year-
old daughter whom he describes as his
heart and pride and joy. He had to take
her out of cheerleading because he
could not pay for it while he works at
BWI without receiving a paycheck.
Then he said something that, I think,
really hit us all. He said at the press
conference: It may not seem like the
end of the world, but to a 10-year-old,
it is pretty close.
These are the circumstances in which
we are putting our fellow citizens by
saying: Work without pay or be fur-
loughed without pay.
It makes no sense at all. We should
never have had the shutdown. We could
end it now by the Senate’s carrying out
its constitutional responsibility as a
coequal branch of government. Let’s
vote on the legislation that can reopen
government. Let’s do what we are re-
sponsible to do—let’s end this shut-
down.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wisconsin.
Ms. BALDWIN. Madam President, I
rise to address the Trump shutdown
and the real consequences that have
occurred since 800,000 Federal workers,
including nearly 3,000 Wisconsinites,
have been furloughed or forced to work
without pay.
The President said this week that his
administration is setting records. It is
true that he now holds the record for
the longest government shutdown in
our Nation’s history, but every day
that it continues, the Trump shutdown
is causing real pain for hard-working
people in my State.
I recently read the heartbreaking
story of Mallory Lorge. Mallory lives
in River Falls, WI, and works for the
Department of the Interior. On Friday,
Mallory, along with thousands of other
Federal workers, did not receive a pay-
check. Mallory has type 1 diabetes.
Without her paycheck, she can’t afford
her $300 copay to get the insulin she
needs to manage her diabetes and stay
alive. Mallory said she is rationing the
two vials of insulin she has left. Her
blood sugar rose to a high level last
week, but she said she felt forced to ig-
nore it. Instead, she said, I just went to
bed and hoped I would wake up.
Think about that for a minute. Be-
cause President Trump and the Repub-
licans in Congress refuse to support bi-
partisan legislation to end this shut-
down and reopen the government, Mal-
lory can’t afford to get the insulin she
needs to live. The House has done its
job in passing bipartisan legislation to
end the shutdown. Now it is time for
Senate Majority Leader MCCONNELL to
stop blocking a vote in the Senate so
that we can fund the government.
We are 26 days into the Trump shut-
down. It is not just hurting Federal
workers and contractors. It is also
hurting small businesses and entre-
preneurs across the country. In Wis-
consin, we make things—cheese, brats,
and, yes, beer. Milwaukee is often
called Brew City, but thanks to the
government shutdown, there are craft
brewers across our State that can’t
make or sell new beer.
Russ Klisch is the President of Lake-
front Brewery in Milwaukee. Lakefront
has been making beer in Wisconsin for
more than 30 years. The Alcohol and
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau ap-
proves licenses for new beers and new
breweries as well as labels for beers
that are sent out of State, but the
Agency is not currently serving craft
brewers due to the Trump shutdown.
Lakefront Brewery has plans to in-
troduce a brand-new beer in mid-Feb-
ruary, but those plans are now on hold.
This government shutdown threatens
to cut its beer sales and hurt its ability
to grow its business and support the
economy. Other breweries across Wis-
consin are impacted as well.
Mosinee Brewing Company opened its
doors just last November, but it can’t
get approval to start making and sell-
ing its new beer until the government
reopens. New ‘‘Made in Wisconsin’’ beer
is also on hold until we reopen the gov-
ernment.
President Trump and Majority Lead-
er MCCONNELL can and should end this
shutdown today and ensure that Fed-
eral workers like Mallory can finally
get paid and so that small business
owners like Russ can keep growing
their businesses.
We should vote in the Senate today
on House-passed legislation, and the
President should sign it so we can fi-
nally end this useless shutdown that is
preventing our country from moving
forward.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Madam President, I
join my colleagues this morning to
share the stories of the people in New
Hampshire who are currently enduring
hardships because of this Trump shut-
down—a shutdown that has been
termed by a number of my colleagues
as the longest government shutdown in
U.S. history.
I have here a picture of Andre and his
wife Maria and their three beautiful
children, from Derry, NH. Andre is an
air traffic controller who works at the
Boston Terminal Radar Approach Con-
trol facility in Merrimack, NH. It is
sounds like it would be in Boston, but
it is not. It is in New Hampshire, where
we have hundreds of air traffic control-
lers and FAA personnel.
Andre works at the center to keep
the airways safe for passengers who are
flying over the Granite State. He also
represents and talks to a number of
other air traffic controllers in the New
England region to hear what they have
to say.
With what he is hearing right now re-
garding the shutdown, Andre writes:
Air traffic controllers have remained on
the job, dedicated to the safety of every
flight, but we don’t know when we will re-
ceive our next paycheck. My colleagues and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.010 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S241
January 16, 2019
I have suffered the sudden loss of our income
due to the government shutdown. It’s going
to be hard for me to meet all of my financial
obligations.
What I am most impressed by with
regard to the Federal workers with
whom I have met is their dedication to
their jobs. All of those air traffic con-
trollers understand that the safety of
the skies in the United States depends
on them, and they are there. They are
not getting paid. They are experiencing
hardships like Andre is talking about,
but they are there and are doing every-
thing they can to make sure that the
American public can fly safely.
In addition to Andre’s story, I have
heard from nearly 100 other air traffic
controllers in New Hampshire who are
all calling for an end to the shutdown—
air traffic controllers who are pro-
tecting our safety and who are working
without pay.
I want to read an excerpt from a let-
ter that I received from Jamie in Au-
burn, NH, because I think it so exem-
plifies where we are and how the Amer-
ican people are feeling about this gov-
ernment shutdown.
Jamie writes:
Dear Senator Shaheen, there are many sto-
ries to be told regarding the effects of the
government shutdown on Federal employ-
ees—the stress of financial uncertainty, the
inability to take necessary time from work
to care for our families, and the continued
degradation of FAA resources. . . . These are
but a few examples shared amongst us, but
there is something that tears at the very
fabric of who we are. We take deep pride in
serving our country and providing the safest
and most efficient air traffic control system
in the world. We do so with an unwavering
sense of duty and a deep understanding of
the trust bestowed on us by the American
people. To be used as pawns in a political
chess match not only disrespects us as dedi-
cated Federal employees, but it serves to
weaken our democracy. A government that
must hold hostage the livelihood of its citi-
zens is the very definition of a failed
democracy.
Sadly, that is what President Donald
Trump is doing. He is holding hostage
hundreds of thousands of Federal work-
ers, and he is being enabled in this ef-
fort by the Republican leadership in
this Senate who is unwilling to bring
forward the bills that would open the
government today. We could pass them
today.
These are just two examples that I
think articulate the very real impact
this shutdown is having on many hard-
working Americans and their families.
Madam President, I ask unanimous
consent to have printed in the RECORD
these letters that I have received from
air traffic controllers.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEAR SENATOR: I’m writing to you today
because of the effects of the government
shutdown on my profession and family. My
coworkers and I have remained on the job
dedicated to the safety of every flight de-
spite the concern of when our next paycheck
will come. The government shutdown has ef-
fected me professionally and personally.
My husband and I are both air traffic con-
trollers and we have 6-month-old twins. We
go to work normally like any other day and
we pay for childcare. It is going to be hard to
meet all of my family’s financial obligations
without knowing when our next paychecks
will be. My family has no income while the
government remains shutdown.
The shutdown affects us all in many ways,
but the other major way it is effecting me is
professionally. This government shutdown is
setting back air traffic control staffing num-
bers.
The FAA Academy is closed during the
shutdown which is where all of our new
trainees train initially.
There are controllers being forced to retire
because of age, but with the shutdown new
replacements cannot be trained. We are at a
30-year low in staffing and every day the
FAA Academy is closed the more set back
staffing becomes. New trainees that are un-
able to train due to the Academy closure
may lead to fewer new hires for 2019. Many
controllers are working 6-day work weeks
and these new hires will help.
This career has been all I wanted to do
since I was little. Like my coworkers I per-
form my duties professionally and to the
highest safety standards despite not knowing
when my next paycheck is. We will all con-
tinue to do so, but with financial concerns
until the shutdown ends. Please End the gov-
ernment shutdown. Thank you for your time.
Sincerely,
Kristen (Milford, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN: I write today to
urge you to end the current partial govern-
ment shutdown caused by a lapse in annual
appropriations. As a federal air traffic con-
troller and constituent, I want you to know
how the shutdown is affecting me.
Since air traffic control specialists per-
form life and safety excepted activities as
defined by the Antideficiency Act, control-
lers like me have remained on the job, dedi-
cated to the safety of every flight, since the
beginning of the partial shutdown on Decem-
ber 22nd. However, my family will be placed
under significant financial stress if the shut-
down lasts beyond the current pay period.
We don’t know when we will receive our next
paycheck.
The Federal Aviation Administration has
closed its training academy in Oklahoma
City, where new controllers arrive to begin
their careers, as I did ten years ago this
week. Classes have been cancelled, which
will invariably lead to fewer new hires in
2019. Stopping the hiring and training pipe-
line exacerbates the current controller staff-
ing crisis. The number of fully certified air
traffic controllers is now at a 30-year low.
Please do whatever you can to end the gov-
ernment shutdown without delay.
Sincerely,
Aaron (Milford, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN: There are many
stories to be told regarding the effects of the
government shutdown on federal employees.
The stress of financial uncertainty, the in-
ability to take necessary time from work to
care for our families, and the continued deg-
radation of FAA resources. . . These are but
a few examples shared amongst us. But, this
is something that tears at the very fabric of
who we are. We take deep pride in serving
our country, providing the safest and most
efficient air traffic control system in the
world. We do so with an unwavering sense of
duty and a deep understanding of the trust
bestowed upon us by the American people.
To be used as pawns in a political chess
match not only disrespects us as dedicated
federal employees but it serves to weaken
our democracy. A government that must
hold hostage the livelihood of its citizens is
the very definition of a failed democracy.
The Congress, Senate, and The White
House has once again tarnished what was
once considered the beacon of democracy. . .
The image of the United States of America.
Yes, I and my family need this government
open. I need to be paid for my continued
dedication. . . for my work. . . But, the
American people need the practice of govern-
ment shutdowns to end. The way for polit-
ical agendas to be advanced is through diplo-
matic compromise not party-lined standoffs.
Please free my family, my colleagues, and
the American people from this governmental
siege of our livelihoods and open our govern-
ment. Restore the faith of the American peo-
ple.
Sincerely,
Jamie (Auburn, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN: I am writing to
you today because of the partial government
shutdown that is causing 800,000 federal em-
ployees to go without the certainty of their
paychecks. This uncertainty is adding undue
stress to ourselves and our jobs because of fi-
nancial obligations.
As an air traffic controller and con-
stituent, I want you to know how the partial
government shutdown is affecting me. For
the last TWO weeks, other controllers and I
have remained on the job, dedicated to the
safety of every flight. Even without knowing
when we will get paid, or even if we will get
paid.
As my husband and I do not know when or
if I will receive my paycheck, we are having
to stretch every last penny to meet all our
financial obligations. If this shutdown con-
tinues for much longer, we do not know how
or if some of our bills will be paid.
We ask you to end this shutdown imme-
diately!
Sincerely,
Caitlin (Amherst, NH).
DEAR SENATOR JEANNE SHAHEEN: As an air
traffic controller and constituent, I want
you to know how the partial government
shutdown is affecting me. For the last two
weeks, air traffic controllers have remained
on the job, dedicated to the safety of every
flight. Yet, we don’t know when we will re-
ceive our next paycheck. My colleagues and
I have suffered the sudden loss of our income
due to the government shutdown. I am a col-
lege graduate and have numerous student
loans to pay as well as trying to provide for
my family.
Please, we as air traffic controllers beg,
end the government shutdown.
Very Respectfully,
Adam (Hudson, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN: As an air traffic
controller and constituent, I want you to
know how the partial government shutdown
is affecting me. For the last couple weeks,
air traffic controllers have remained on the
job, dedicated to the safety of every flight.
Yet, we don’t know when our next paycheck
will come. This has placed an immense
amount of stress and financial burden on me
and my family. We are having to make
choices on whether or not to pay certain
bills or buy groceries.
Please end the government shutdown im-
mediately!
Sincerely,
Joshua (New Boston, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN: I am writing to
let you know that the government shutdown
is negatively impacting me, my wife and
family.
As the shutdown continues my wife and I
are having to make some difficult financial
decisions. We have two daughters, one just
out of college and the other in her senior
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.011 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S242 January 16, 2019
year at UVM. Along with all of our regular
monthly bills we have student loan pay-
ments and tuition due.
Not knowing when to expect our next pay-
check is causing undue stress on me, my wife
and family.
I would like to see you help end the shut-
down as soon as possible!
Ronald (Brookline, NH).
DEAR JEANNE SHAHEEN: First, thank you
for all that you do for our state and country.
I am writing you today with regard to the
government shutdown. As an air traffic con-
trol trainee, my job security is something I
have to worry about until I certify. Unfortu-
nately, the shutdown has me worrying about
my income and financial obligations as well.
Morale is notably down at work, and the
staffing only gets worse as the more senior
controllers approach retirement. Anything
you can do to assist in the swift cease of this
shutdown would be greatly appreciated by
air traffic controllers nationwide. Thank you
for your time.
Sincerely,
Andre (Nashua, NH).
DEAR JEANNE SHAHEEN: I’m writing to you
in regards to the government shutdown. If
this shutdown continues it will put a huge fi-
nancial burden on my family. At this time I
am the sole provider for my household. My
husband is a small business owner in New
Hampshire and is currently not collecting in-
come to keep his business going. We have
two children. A two-year-old boy and a five-
month-old daughter. Since there is currently
no paid maternity leave I had to live off of
my savings while out with my new born,
which is why I have no money saved up to
cover all of our expenses during this shut-
down. Going into debt because I can’t pay for
the childcare I use (while still working) is
not an option. Please find a way to stop this
shut down.
Lanna (Nashua, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN: Please, put an end
to the government shutdown. I soon will
have used my entire savings to pay my cur-
rent bills. I now, don’t have the down pay-
ment for a house that I was ready to buy.
I’ve had to pass up on a vacation this month,
skiing in NH, in fear that I won’t get paid.
Please Senator Shaheen, put an end to this
government shut down. After 30 years of
service in the USAF and FAA, this is a slap
in the face.
James (Manchester, NH).
THE HONORABLE JEANNE SHAHEEN: Please-
end the shutdown!
I am a 30-year controller, and I don’t think
I will be employed at the end of January.
The financial impact of the shutdown is a
burden that I should not have to deal with at
this stage in my career.
Staffing is the worst it has ever been and
a continued shutdown will have negative ef-
fects on the air traffic system for years!
Please work to end the shutdown!!!
Maurice (Derry, NH).
DEAR HONORABLE SHAHEEN: I am writing to
you today to inform you of the impact the
partial government shutdown is having on
me, as an air traffic controller, and my fam-
ily. For the last two weeks, I have worked
air traffic, not knowing when I’d be paid
next. I am dedicated to the safety of every
flight. This sudden loss of income as well as
paid leave is impacting my life multiple
ways. First, I missed paid time off that was
prescheduled, around the holiday with my
family. With one child, a patient at Mass
General, and another at Boston Children’s
Hospital, I have had to miss out on paid/
earned sick leave for both their appoint-
ments. Lastly, as a support for the training
department, I am seeing a direct impact on
future controllers.
Please end the government shutdown im-
mediately!
Sincerely,
Kristine (Nashua, NH).
DEAR SENATOR SHAHEEN As an air traffic
controller and constituent, I want you to
know how the partial government shutdown
has affected me. As an air traffic controller
I work a job that is 24/7, 365 days a year.
We plan and bid our vacations 15 months in
advance. However, because I am an excepted
employee engaged in life-saving activities,
my vacation time during Christmas and New
Year’s was canceled. I had to work over the
holidays and missed this time spent with
family. This combined with uncertainty of
when my next paycheck will come is adding
stress that is not needed.
PLEASE END THE GOVERNMENT SHUT-
DOWN IMMEDIATELY!
Sincerely,
Seth (Hollis, NH).
Mrs. SHAHEEN. I know every Mem-
ber of the Senate has heard from con-
stituents who are facing significant
hardships as a result of the shutdown.
I know every Member wants this shut-
down to end. Unfortunately, President
Trump doesn’t seem to want this shut-
down to end.
The House has already passed appro-
priations bills that would reopen the
government. This appropriations legis-
lation is not partisan. In fact, they are
bills that have already had bipartisan
support in the Senate. So I urge Presi-
dent Trump, Majority Leader MCCON-
NELL, and our Republican colleagues to
take up these bills to reopen the gov-
ernment. I believe we should reopen
the government. Let’s do our jobs so
the rest of America can do theirs.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT AGREEMENT
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that Demo-
crats control the time until 12 noon,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 3 minutes each, and
the Republicans control the time from
12 noon to 12:30 p.m.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Madam President, I
rise to give voice to the more than 5,000
Federal employees across New Jersey
who aren’t getting paid due to Presi-
dent Trump’s pointless government
shutdown. Make no mistake. This shut-
down is the result of a Presidential
temper tantrum.
Democrats have voted for border se-
curity funding, for new technology to
scan vehicles for drugs, for more port-
of-entry infrastructure personnel, and
for new drones to detect unauthorized
crossings. Yet President Trump is hold-
ing 800,000 Federal workers hostage all
because he wants $5.7 billion for a bor-
der wall that he promised Mexico
would pay for.
We have long known that something
is broken inside this President that
makes him incapable of caring about
anyone other than himself. Clearly, he
does not see Federal workers as real
people with real bills to pay—people
like Emily Nering of Basking Ridge,
NJ.
Emily has worked at the EPA’s Edi-
son field office for 8 years. She coordi-
nates water quality research and is in
the midst of a major survey of the New
Jersey-New York Harbor, and she as-
sisted in emergency efforts to deliver
clean drinking water to Puerto Rico
and the Virgin Islands after Hurricane
Maria. She said:
I took an oath of office too. I want to get
back to doing the important work that the
EPA conducts and to continue to serve this
great nation. I saved up to contribute to an
IRA this year and to start saving for a down
payment on a home, but those funds will now
be used to help me pay rent and other bills,
pushing my financial and life goals further
out of reach. . . . I urge the President and
Congress to put us back to work so we can
continue to serve the American people!
In recent days, I have heard from
Coast Guard members, TSA agents,
IRS workers—patriots who have built
their careers on serving their fellow
Americans. Their work is important,
and they deserve to be paid. If Presi-
dent Trump wants to discuss issues
like border security and comprehensive
immigration reform, then he should
end the shutdown, reopen all of those
elements of the government that have
nothing to do with his desired border
wall, release his hostages, and reopen
the government, but if he continues to
bury his head in the sand, then it is
time for the Senate to act.
We could likely pass legislation to
reopen the government with a veto-
proof majority if only the majority
leader would hold a vote. Let’s do the
right thing for Federal employees like
Emily. Let’s vote and end this shut-
down now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nevada.
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO. Madam Presi-
dent, on Friday, the day that thou-
sands of Federal workers in Nevada and
across the country missed their first
paycheck of the Trump shutdown, I
was in Reno meeting with two dozen
affected workers and families who
work for our Federal Government.
These hard-working Nevadans who
serve the American people in the U.S.
Coast Guard, the Bureau of Land Man-
agement, the U.S. Geological Survey,
the U.S. Department of Agriculture,
the U.S. Forest Service, and govern-
ment contractors told me about the
struggles they are having, their fears,
and the very human consequences of
the President’s decision to hold our
government hostage.
These Nevadans shared how their fi-
nances and their whole lives have been
thrown into chaos by this reckless
shutdown. Person after person told me
that without the promise of a pay-
check, they are struggling to pay their
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.003 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S243
January 16, 2019
mortgage or rent, keep up with their
other bills, and even put food on the
table for their families. Some are even
cashing out their savings while others
consider taking out high-interest pay-
day loans, risking their good credit
just to stay afloat.
It is not just Federal workers who
were suffering. Entire families have
had the rug pulled out from under
them because of this reckless shut-
down.
While I was in Reno, I had the oppor-
tunity to meet Brianna. She talked to
me about her family. She is a stay-at-
home mom. She has two beautiful
daughters—as you can see—and her
husband works in the Coast Guard. He
is a coastguardsman. Right now, he is
reporting to work without pay for the
duration of this shutdown.
Brianna told me that without their
sole source of income, her family would
struggle to make ends meet. She told
me they are weighing the decision to
pull her oldest daughter out of school
and to move in with her parents until
the shutdown is over. That is out-
rageous.
I can’t tell you how many letters and
emails I have also received in the of-
fice. This is one from a veteran in
Reno. He said:
I applaud you for standing up to Trump
and not wasting taxpayer money on a stupid
wall that he promised Mexico would pay for.
However, as a Federal employee who is also
a disabled vet, I am asking that you support
legislation to assure that we do not lose pay
and benefits because of this shutdown. We
are currently scheduled to receive our nor-
mal pay on December 31, but after that, we
have no more checks coming until the shut-
down is over. Despite what others on the Hill
have said, many Federal employees depend
on those checks and face real economic im-
pacts when the government shuts down. We
are tired of being demonized by the right as
parasites and bureaucrats, and it is ridicu-
lous that the President wants to freeze our
pay and stop all of our pay raises. The Fed-
eral Government is the largest employer of
veterans, and we continue supporting our
country throughout our Federal service.
No family or individual in the United
States of America should have their
life upended like this. So we ask that
the Federal Government reopen and
that the majority leader bring the bill
to the floor so we can open this govern-
ment on behalf of Federal workers not
only in Nevada but across the country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Connecticut.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Thank you,
Madam President.
I join my colleagues today in calling
for a simple, commonsense solution to
one of the most vexing, unnecessary,
and avoidable crises in recent history.
The present paralysis of Agencies’ es-
sential governmental functions is in-
tolerable and unacceptable. It is
shameful and embarrassing to every
Member of this body, but it should be
most shameful and embarrassing to the
Chief Executive of the United States,
who is singularly responsible for it by
insisting on a wall and agreement to it
as a condition for reopening the gov-
ernment.
President Trump is singlehandedly
blocking progress toward providing the
American people with the services and
the essential public functions they
need and deserve.
The impact is on the consumers of
those functions. We are all consumers.
We all fly and depend on the air traffic
controllers and the TSA. We all eat
food and depend on inspections by the
FDA. We all consume drugs, and the
approvals of essential pharmaceutical
medicines are vital to all of us. We all
need and deserve the protection pro-
vided by the U.S. Coast Guard, whose
brave men and women are receiving no
pay—none.
Many of those 800,000 workers going
without pay are also working without
pay. I have sponsored a measure that
will enable them to avoid foreclosures
and repossessions of their cars and
other financial crises through meas-
ures similar to the Servicemembers
Civil Relief Act. I have sponsored and
supported calls for providing them with
unemployment compensation. The ones
who work need the compensation and
the benefits to put food on the table
and make sure they stay in their
homes.
These 800,000 workers are experi-
encing real pain. They are real people
with real lives going through financial
hardships.
On Monday, I met with many of them
at Bradley International Airport in
Windsor Locks. I heard them share
their personal stories about how the
shutdown is causing them real harm. I
also heard about their dedication to
doing their job and how the air control-
lers and——
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator’s time is expired.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. The TSA are
overtired and need that help.
I ask unanimous consent for 1 more
minute.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
respect the rights of the Senator. We
have a number of Senators and a lim-
ited amount of time. So if he could fin-
ish quickly, we would all appreciate it.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Let me just fin-
ish by citing Adrian Pellot, one of
those workers whom I met on Monday.
Adrian is a behavior detection officer.
He has done it for more than a decade.
He is one of those workers going with-
out pay. I will just leave you with this
thought. He told me:
We have no income right now. We’re bleed-
ing money. Just day-to-day things. Food. I
still have to pay the bills.
So do all of those 800,000 workers.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Vermont.
Mr. LEAHY. Madam President, let
me tell you about the impact the
Trump shutdown is having on one cou-
ple from my home State of Vermont.
Kelly and Ricky Klein own
Groennfell Meadery in Colchester, VT.
In fact, this is Kelly with her very
pretty little daughter, Nora.
Groennfell Meadery is part of a grow-
ing industry in Vermont. We are a
small State. We have the most craft
breweries per capita in the Nation, and
they create jobs. They support small
businesses. They bring people to
Vermont from all over the country.
Business has been good. Kelly and
Ricky have been planning an expan-
sion. Recently, they were approved for
a $1.3 million Small Business Adminis-
tration loan. They were going to buy
three new stainless steel fermenter
tanks. They were going to move to a
bigger facility, double their produc-
tion, hire additional people, and bought
additional supplies in anticipation of
it. What happened? Their loan from the
SBA is now on hold because of the
Trump shutdown. It is not clear if it
will ever come through. So instead of
expanding, they have to use their own
money. They have to use their stock-
piles of mead. They have to take out a
loan to make payroll. They are really
hurting, but they told me one thing,
even in this difficult time.
Even in this difficult time, they said
they were more concerned for people
who have lost paychecks and lifesaving
benefits and with others in their indus-
try who have been harder hit. It is a
sense of community and empathy. I
wish President Trump had that same
sense of empathy and caring that they
do.
We have to end this shutdown. I call
on the majority leader—the Republican
leader—to bring up the bills, which we
have already passed by an over-
whelming majority, that would reopen
this government. Democrats and Re-
publicans have voted for them. All we
need is for the Republican leader to
bring them up.
Stop the shutdown. Let people go
back to their businesses.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Madam President, I rise
today to talk about a New Mexico fam-
ily who is severely impacted by the
shutdown, and I think there are prob-
ably hundreds of thousands of families
like this across the country.
This is Leah Teresa Ornelas, her hus-
band Ervie, and their sons Ian and
Zachary. They are all from Carlsbad,
NM. Zachary, their youngest—in the
middle—had a brain tumor and has un-
dergone two surgeries. Zachary is now
disabled and requires constant care.
Ervie, his stepfather, reduced his work
as a daycare teacher by 75 percent to
take care of Zachary. Leah is a public
nurse, and her paycheck goes to their
high insurance costs and medical bills.
The family moved back in together to
save on expenses. Their older son, Ian,
is now the main provider for the fam-
ily. Ian works for the Department of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.014 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S244 January 16, 2019
the Interior, has been furloughed for 26
days, and has now missed a paycheck.
The Ornelas family is scared to death
that Ian will miss another check and
another check. They simply cannot
make it without Ian being paid. The
Ornelas family has made tremendous
sacrifices as a family. They can make
no more adjustments, as the President
callously advised.
This Trump shutdown must end now.
The President and Senate majority
must do the right thing for the Ornelas
family—and for hundreds of thousands
of families across the Nation—and open
our government now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Michigan.
Ms. STABENOW. Madam President,
as my colleagues have said, it has now
been 26 days since President Trump
shut down the government and began
holding Federal workers and their fam-
ilies hostage to force funding for an ex-
pensive, ineffective, and unpopular bor-
der wall.
That is 26 days of working without
pay for hundreds of TSA and Customs
and Border Patrol officers in my State
of Michigan and across the country.
That is 26 days of our Federal workers
wondering how they will pay their
mortgage and keep their lights on.
That is 26 days of grocery stores, res-
taurants, and other local businesses
watching their sales dry up.
This shutdown is also hard on Michi-
gan farmers, including Jessica Young-
blood, whom I want to take a moment
to talk about.
She and her husband David, who is a
veteran, are raising their three young
children on their farm in Macomb
County. Like many farmers, Jessica is
also a small business owner; the
Youngbloods are launching a winery.
For 3 years, they have poured all of
their time and they have poured all
their money into their 25 acres of wine
grapes. I have had the opportunity to
walk with Jessica and her children
through the rows of grapevines, and I
have seen how hard they are working
as a family every single day.
This year, they finally had grapes to
harvest so that they could launch their
small business. They planned to open
their winery on their farm and start
selling their wine on Memorial Day
weekend. Unfortunately, the govern-
ment shutdown threw a huge roadblock
in front of this homegrown Michigan
business.
The Tax and Trade Bureau at the De-
partment of the Treasury approves
their labels—when they are open. Jes-
sica needs to bottle her wine in March,
but that can’t happen without labels
being approved and printed. As Jessica
said:
We are 100% dependent on the grapes we
grow on our family vineyard. . . . We are
farmers! We need the government to open so
we can run our business.
It is time to end this shutdown. Let
Jessica and her family benefit from all
of their hard work. So I say: Leader
MCCONNELL, open the government so
that the Youngblood family can open
their small business.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
Mr. TESTER. Madam President, ap-
proximately 635,000 veterans work for
the Federal Government, and the hard-
ships of the shutdown on these men and
women are multifold.
First, furloughed veterans who are
Federal workers are missing pay-
checks. They are having a hard time
paying their mortgages and paying
their bills overall. Veterans with VA-
guaranteed home loans are at risk of
being evicted by mortgage companies
because they can’t make their pay-
ments.
Second, veterans are not getting the
benefits they have earned from several
Federal Departments, other than the
VA. For instance, Native American
veterans, who already face unique chal-
lenges with healthcare, are unable to
rely on the Indian Health Service to
provide their healthcare because it is
closed down. Homeless veterans rely on
the Department of Housing and Urban
Development’s housing vouchers,
which are not going out because of the
shutdown.
That is not all. Other benefits and
protections are at risk. The VA is cur-
rently implementing major reform
bills like the Appeals and Moderniza-
tion Act and the VA MISSION Act. To
roll out these new initiatives, the Fed-
eral Register must publish new rules
and regulations. Guess what. The Fed-
eral Register isn’t operational because
of the shutdown, so the implementa-
tion of these wide-sweeping, bipartisan
VA reforms is shut down.
On top of this, we know that those
stationed at the borders and at air-
ports—many of whom are veterans—
are among those hurting the most be-
cause of this President’s shutdown.
There are many more veterans suf-
fering. Colin, from Billings, wrote me
and said: ‘‘I am a federal employee and
a veteran, and this standoff is placing a
great deal of stress on me and my fam-
ily.’’
His wife is pregnant, he has a 2-year-
old son, and he has no paycheck. He
spent his career in public service. After
he got out of the service, he could have
made a lot more money in the private
sector.
Unfortunately, because of the fact
that the President and Leader MCCON-
NELL will not bring the bills to the
floor, we are in a shutdown. This is the
human cost of the President’s shut-
down. These are men and women who
have volunteered to serve our Nation
and put themselves in harm’s way and
continue serving our Nation as civil-
ians, and this is how the President says
thank you—putting them out of a job,
out of a paycheck, and out of the bene-
fits that they have earned. He belittles
the financial hardship that his actions
are causing, and he turns their service
in the military and as civilians into a
political football.
The President has turned his back on
the veterans of this Nation. It is time
to put these men and women back to
work. I call, and continue to call, on
the majority to put an end to this real
crisis—because they can—and reopen
the government.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
Mr. KAINE. Madam President, I
stand to tell the story of a great Vir-
ginian named Vidisha. This is a picture
of Vidisha and her son Ayan, who came
to a Federal employee roundtable that
I did last Friday morning.
I have told stories on the floor about
Virginians who are affected person-
ally—worrying about missing mortgage
payments, having to reschedule med-
ical appointments, having to draw
money out of an IRA and pay a tax
penalty because of the shutdown. But I
thought it was interesting that Vidisha
came in and talked just a little bit
about her own anxiety and the anxiety
of everybody she works with. But what
she really wanted to talk about was
how the shutdown hurts the American
public.
She works for probably the smallest
Agency in the Federal Government, the
Chemical Safety Board, with 40 em-
ployees and a budget of $11 million or
$12 million. This is a small Agency, and
they have one job: Investigate chem-
ical spills—not to find fault, not to
help a lawyer, but investigate chemical
spills so that they can determine what
went wrong, to prevent future chemical
spills that are going to hurt Ameri-
cans. Because of the shutdown, she and
her colleagues—those 40—are not doing
that job.
President Trump tweeted last week-
end that the reason he is forcing the
shutdown is he promised to protect the
safety and security of the American
public. He is hurting the safety and se-
curity of the American public.
Vidisha said that during the shut-
down there has been a major chemical
spill in Houston, TX. Normally, the in-
vestigators would be on it immediately
to do the investigation, to give rec-
ommendations, and to reduce the risk
of a spill at that facility or any other.
But because of the shutdown, Vidisha
and her staff are not investigating.
How does this protect the safety and
security of the American public—by
leaving a major chemical spill with po-
tentially life-threatening consequences
uninvestigated and unresponded to?
This President’s claim that he is
helping the safety and security of the
American people is a flat-out lie. You
are hurting the security of the Amer-
ican people when you disable people
like Vidisha and her colleagues from
investigating chemical spills, from
interdicting drugs if you are a Coast
Guard, ATF, or DEA agent, or from
doing law enforcement investigations
if you are an FBI agent.
The President is hurting the security
of this country. It is time to reopen
government and put the security of
Americans first.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.015 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S245
January 16, 2019
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Hawaii.
Mr. SCHATZ. Madam President, I
have a simple request for my Repub-
lican colleagues, and that is this: Open
the government. Open the government.
There have been too many people suf-
fering for too long for this to go on any
further.
One of those people is named Scott
Pekalib. He lives in Hilo, HI, and works
for the U.S. Geological Survey. He has
had a rough few months.
In October, his husband Jay went
into the hospital for a routine surgery
that went horribly wrong. He went into
cardiac arrest and was in an induced
coma for several days. He had to be
flown to another island to receive the
care that was necessary. Scott and Jay
spent all of their savings to get
through this ordeal. After paying for
medicine, hotels, and airfare, they were
living paycheck to paycheck.
Now, because of this government
shutdown, Scott’s paycheck reads zero.
He doesn’t know how he is going to buy
gas to take his husband to the doctor
or how they are going to pay the bills
that are due. Scott is making impos-
sible choices between buying the pre-
scription drugs he needs and the ones
that his husband needs. All of this pain
and suffering is because the Senate will
not vote to reopen the government.
So I ask my Republican friends to
call for a vote, and if the President ve-
toes the bill, let’s act like a separate,
coequal branch of government and
override that veto. That is our preroga-
tive in the United States, and that is
our obligation in the U.S. Senate—to
do what is best for the Nation, for the
health, safety, and economic security
of all of our constituents.
Let’s reopen the government.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, we
have heard from a number of our col-
leagues today about personal stories
that are happening to real live people
in their home States—people who have
not received a paycheck and are facing
fear about what they are going to do in
the coming days.
We have a responsibility—and I think
I speak on behalf of Republicans and
Democrats both here. We need to open
government. We have disagreements
all the time in Congress over different
issues. Certainly, we cannot put these
people’s lives at risk and leave them as
pawns in our States. Open up govern-
ment, and then have a discussion about
the issues we disagree on.
I know the Senator from Minnesota
expected to be here, but I also see on
the floor the Senator from Georgia,
who would like to speak. I ask unani-
mous consent that the Senator from
Georgia be allowed to speak and the
Senator from Minnesota, when she re-
turns.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). Is there objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. ISAKSON. Madam President, I
thank the Senator from Washington
very much for her courtesy. I will be
brief, and I will be very succinct. In
fact, I will be responding to some of the
things that Senator SCHATZ from Ha-
waii and others have said on the floor.
I am going to respond to myself. I
made a speech here only yesterday,
about 2:30, in which I talked about the
frustration that I have and that most
Georgians have with the fact that the
government is shut down, and I talked
about who is losing.
We are losing. The government loses
more money when it shuts down than
it makes any other time. Shutting
down is a losing proposition all the
way around, and we are exemplifying
the best way to lose because we are not
doing anything to solve the problem.
I have a solution I am going to pro-
pose, specifically, right now. I am not
going to put my name on it to be the
lead name. I don’t care who gets the
credit. I am ready for some solutions. I
am going to talk about some very seri-
ous things right now and some very dif-
ficult things, but we are in a serious,
difficult problem. We have serious
problems, and we need serious people
to solve them.
In the United States today, at our
ports, our airports, and our highways—
every way you can cross the border to
come into the United States of Amer-
ica—we charge fees for all kinds of
things, and we have for years. We have
trust funds, like Harbor Maintenance
Trust Fund and things like that. Peo-
ple come across our borders all the
time. In Smuggler’s Gulch in San
Diego, they come in on an eight-lane
highway, flooding into America in the
morning to go to work and flooding out
of America in the afternoon to go home
to bed, and we charge for that.
A constituent of mine called me last
night, a gentleman I know very well,
who is a very successful businessper-
son. He said: JOHNNY, you all are fight-
ing over this border wall or how you
fund it or who gets credit for it. I saw
your speech. Have you ever thought of
this?
I listened. I listened, I thought, and I
said: You know, I haven’t.
I got my staff to get me the informa-
tion, and it all works. It makes sense,
and I think it would make sense to the
American people. I think it would
make sense to the President of the
United States, the Democratic Party,
and the Republican Party as well. If we
all start tonight, even, and decide
whether we want to sign it or not, we
can do it together. Who gets the credit
for it stops, and we fight over some-
thing that makes more sense fighting
over than having a border that leaks
and an immigration program that
doesn’t work.
Here is the idea. We establish a fee in
the United States of America through
our ports, through our airports,
through all the different ways you
come here. You create a trust fund for
that money to go into, and it is des-
ignated for the security of our bor-
ders—our Canadian border and our
Mexican border.
That is it. They charge. Someone en-
tering the country pays. If it is a bus
that comes in 10 times a day, you know
they don’t pay 10 times the amount
that somebody comes in once a day. We
will figure that out, but create a mech-
anism.
If you use the current mechanisms
that are being used to collect moneys
today in our Departments, we would
raise $2.5 billion a year doing that. Did
you hear me? $2.5 billion. If we had $2.5
billion, we wouldn’t have a problem
anymore.
You could argue over what you build.
That doesn’t matter when we have se-
curity. Security is what we want. This
Senate and House can get together at
the White House, we get in a room, and
we say: What do we want to charge? To
whom do we want to give the responsi-
bility? What is the goal?
The goal is to secure the border—a
mechanism to fund securing the bor-
der—and to get off this argument of
who is right, whether it is Democrats
or Republicans. We are just arguing
about something that doesn’t matter.
What matters is the American people.
What matters is how their Representa-
tives are handling their problems.
What matters is what you and I are
doing to get this whole argument that
is going on and put it aside.
I am here to tell you, I am throwing
an idea out that I think is a good idea.
A very smart man gave it to me. I
didn’t think of it. I thought about it all
last night. I couldn’t think of anything
wrong with it. I am sure somebody will
be able to come up with something
that is wrong with it.
It pays for it. We decide where the
money goes, and it goes for security.
We don’t argue over what type of secu-
rity because that is not the issue. The
issue is we want it secure.
What we have had is that we have
had a couple of leaders who argued
about how you secure it, not whether
or not you can secure it. You can al-
ways argue about how. I like pink bet-
ter than purple, but I don’t let that
stop me from buying a black shirt if it
is the only shirt I can get.
It is time we decide what it is we
want. We want security. We want to
put the government back to work. We
want the American people to get the
benefits they deserve, and we want a
mechanism to do it—that is, a simple
mechanism to do it. We already do it
everywhere. We do the passenger facil-
ity charge.
The distinguished speaker sitting in
the Chair today knows that. He flies
here every week and pays $7.50, I think,
per ticket here and per ticket out. It
pays for the security of airports. We do
this all over the place. Let’s do it here.
When you ask anybody what is prob-
ably the biggest problem in America,
they say the biggest problem is that
the American Senate and the American
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.017 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S246 January 16, 2019
House will not sit down and get the
work done.
After that, we haven’t even opened
the door to see if we can find a solu-
tion. This opens the door to a solution.
I am telling you, as a representative
from the State of Georgia, representing
10.5 million people in this Senate, we
can solve our problem today—not to-
morrow, but today—with the action of
our Finance Committee and our leader-
ship and the President of the United
States, by not deciding who gets credit
or who gets blame but deciding it is
time enough for funding games to be
over with. It is time for us to get down
to business.
We all took an oath a few months ago
when we were sworn in, saying that is
what we wanted to do, and now we are
avoiding it every single day.
I will not take any more time. I
know the Senator from Texas is here,
and the lovely Senator from Minnesota
is here, and they are two very good rep-
resentatives in the Senate of the
United States of America.
Don’t forget about this idea. I am
going to talk about it a lot. I don’t
want it to be the Isakson amendment
or the Isakson idea. I want it to be our
idea, America’s idea. I want to fund it
with Americans’ money, to solve Amer-
ica’s borders and get our immigration
system solved and get us off of dead
center and talking about nothing and
mainly down center lane.
I want to end with what Zell Miller
told me. Zell was a Senator at one
time. He beat me for Governor of Geor-
gia in 1990. In our last debate in that
Senate race—it was a pretty good race.
I had gotten pretty close. In fact, if my
grandchildren had been old enough, it
would have almost been won by me, if
I could embellish the stories a little
more.
At the end of the story, we had a
minute each to close our speech. I
closed my remarks with a 1-minute
statement. I thought it was pretty
good. Zell leaned back, with that
twang of Zell’s and said: You know, la-
dies and gentlemen, if you see a turtle
sitting on a fence post on a country
road, there is one thing you know for
sure: He did not get there by himself.
I know for sure right now we are
going nowhere because we are not talk-
ing about the problem. I know for sure
that it is time for us to do the simple
thing; that is, to solve it. It is not the
hard thing, and that is to think of
other reasons why we can’t solve it. I,
for one, will do everything I can do to
let the people I am representing here
know I am doing everything I can to
get it open. I don’t care what we have
done. I am not going to call anybody a
name. I am not going to do anything
like that. I am not going to claim it for
my idea. I hope nobody will steal it and
claim it for theirs and cause us prob-
lems.
Let’s just get to work. There is no
problem we can’t solve that we don’t
want to, and there is no problem we
can solve if we don’t want to solve it.
God bless you, Mr. President, for pre-
siding today, and God bless the United
States of America.
I yield back the balance of my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
appreciate the sentiment of the Sen-
ator from Georgia, and I remember ear-
lier last year when we were both part
of discussions to try to resolve an ear-
lier shutdown issue and an earlier issue
related to immigration reform. We put
together a bipartisan bill involving the
Dreamers, and we got some broad sup-
port on our side. Unfortunately, the
White House, in the end, was not sup-
portive of that agreement, even though
the Senator from Georgia had worked
so hard.
I think we can’t rule out, as much as
we have tried and will continue to try,
to come up with bipartisan solutions
like the majority and the minority
leader did in December that we all sup-
ported and would have prevented this
shutdown. We can’t take out the ele-
ment of the fact that a number of
times we have been gut-punched, basi-
cally, when we have tried to do that.
That doesn’t mean that the discussion
shouldn’t continue, and I appreciate
his good work on that.
I want to discuss one Minnesotan,
Kathleen DeMaster, who has been af-
fected by this and her family. She
works for the U.S. Department of Agri-
culture in Minneapolis. She is cur-
rently furloughed. This is Kathleen and
her daughter. She says:
My situation is becoming desperate. . . . I
accepted my position with the federal gov-
ernment only a few months ago because it is
a fantastic way for me to better myself and
my career. I am passionate about public
service and have enjoyed my job very much
since I started. While accepting this position
improved my situation, I have lived pay-
check to paycheck. . . . This has not
changed unfortunately. I am a single mother
and a homeowner. And while I am college
educated . . . I have struggled to get where I
am now. It has never been easy, and unfortu-
nately, this has only made life more dif-
ficult. My funds are exhausted. At this point
in time, I don’t have the money to pay for
my mortgage or for childcare for my daugh-
ter. The money I will receive for unemploy-
ment insurance will not cover everything I
need [it to].
Unfortunately this has put me in an unten-
able situation. Do I risk losing my home or
do I risk having my daughter lose her
daycare and being unable to work when I am
recalled?
In other words, she can maybe lose
the daycare because she is at home
now, but she is not going to be able to
have the daycare when she goes back
to work, when she can.
These are the choices I (and many others,
I am sure) are facing right now.
This may be a story you have heard before,
but I felt it needs to be shared until it is
heard by the right ears.
These are this woman’s words—‘‘the
right ears.’’
I am at a loss for what else to do, and I’m
terrified for what it means for my daughter
and myself.
Kathleen is doing everything she can
do to provide for her daughter. She re-
cently started picking up shifts with
Instacart, the grocery delivery service,
just to make ends meet. If this shut-
down drags on—in her words—she is
simply at a loss about how she and her
daughter will get by.
In my State there are 6,100 other
Federal workers with these stories.
They are not being paid, and each of
these workers has a face and a name. It
is time to end the shutdown and reopen
the government.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
TRIBUTE TO JOYCE SIBLEY
Mr. CRUZ. Mr. President, I rise today
to give tribute to a great American, a
great Texan, and a 32-year veteran of
this institution who has dedicated her
career to serving the needs of her fel-
low citizens. Her name is Joyce Sibley.
She has led my team of caseworkers
in Texas for the last 6 years, and she is
now retiring. Joyce started working in
the U.S. Senate in 1971, working for
John Tower of Texas, answering the
phones at his Austin office.
Since then, Joyce has become a liv-
ing legend among Texas caseworkers
because she simply doesn’t take no for
an answer, and she always goes the
extra mile and more to help someone in
need. Indeed, her work has extended so
many extra miles beyond our State
boundaries that it is difficult to com-
prehend.
‘‘To move mountains’’ is a figurative
expression, but when I say Joyce has
moved battleships, I mean it literally.
During the Albanian civil war of 1997,
Joyce got the 6th Fleet to come ashore
and help rescue nearly 100 Americans
on a beach, including several Texans.
The office of my predecessor, Senator
Kay Bailey Hutchison, was in commu-
nication with the Texans throughout
that scary night in which the Amer-
ican evacuees were huddled at the Port
of Durres in Albania, having been sent
there by the U.S. embassy. The Alba-
nian Task Force at the State Depart-
ment reported that everyone had been
evacuated, but the Americans still
trapped there disagreed and started
calling offices in Houston and Austin.
Joyce and her team had to give up on
the State Department’s part and, in-
stead, they transferred a cell phone
call from that beach in Albania di-
rectly to a Pentagon duty officer who
contacted the Texans and connected
them with the 6th Fleet. Together,
they coordinated a Zodiac evacuation
in the early morning hours.
Joyce was instrumental in organizing
their escape.
There was another occasion, when a
soldier was wrongfully convicted of
counterfeiting in South Korea, after
copying and printing Korean currency
in order to test the quality of his new
printer. There was no intent and no
evidence of any attempt to distribute
fake Korean currency.
After being convicted and imprisoned
for months, largely abandoned by his
command, the Texas office asked the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.018 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S247
January 16, 2019
Korean Government to take another
look at the case, and the conviction
was reversed. The airman returned to
serve with distinction in San Antonio,
thanks in part to the amazing case-
work skills of Joyce Sibley.
Likewise, when the earthquake hit
Haiti, there were several Texans buried
in the rubble at one of the local hotels.
Joyce and others stayed in touch with
the family members, set up regular
briefings with the State Department,
and kept the family closely informed
until all were found and accounted for.
The Haitian Government even ar-
rested a group of Texas missionaries
and charged them with kidnapping for
providing relief and housing to or-
phaned Haitian children. A few tense
weeks followed, but they were all freed
once Joyce helped to turn up the heat.
There are too many stories to list
about Joyce’s helping families with
heartbreaking international adoption
situations in Romania, Russia, Haiti,
China, Korea, Guatemala, and Ethi-
opia.
Here is one of my favorite stories.
Last fall, a heart surgeon contacted
our office on a Thursday evening. He
had been traveling out of the country.
When he was coming back to Houston,
he realized he had lost his passport. He
was supposed to travel to Houston
overnight and go straight to the hos-
pital to perform several surgeries.
Joyce, working with other members of
our staff, was able to get a government
official to meet his plane to confirm
his identity and to get him through
customs at 6 a.m. on Friday morning.
He called me when he was on the way
to the hospital and said that thanks to
our office, thanks to Joyce, he was able
to make it there on time to perform
lifesaving surgeries.
There are quite literally thousands of
Texans whose lives have been made
better by Joyce’s decision to stay in
Texas and to devote her professional
time to helping families who needed
help, often in times of great stress.
Dealing with the Federal Government,
the often maddening leviathan of Fed-
eral bureaucracy, Joyce was an expert
at getting that leviathan to move and
helping Texans who were frustrated
and needed relief.
Whether it has been handling an
international crisis or ensuring that a
veteran gets his or her paycheck, Joyce
has been tireless on behalf of Texans in
need of help and guidance. The hall-
mark of a great caseworker is knowing
the system, having great contacts at
the multitude of Federal Agencies, and
pushing back whenever she heard the
word ‘‘no.’’ Instead, she would ask,
isn’t there something else we could do
to help this soldier, to help this vet-
eran, to help this Texan? So many
times, thinking of the ‘‘something else
we can do’’ was exactly what was need-
ed.
Joyce has been an irreplaceable asset
to the U.S. Senate and to the people of
Texas. The good news is that everyone
who has worked with her has her spirit
in their blood now, has been trained di-
rectly, hands-on, by Joyce. It is in
their DNA now to go that extra mile
and to try to get to yes, no matter the
obstacles, when they are looking out
for and fighting for Texans. That is her
legacy—a team inspired by her leader-
ship. And I know that legacy will en-
dure.
Joyce starts a new adventure at the
end of this month as she begins her
well-earned retirement. My team will
be a little bit poorer for having lost
her, but the Senate, the people of
Texas, and thousands of families she
has assisted over the course of nearly
five decades are much richer for having
had her on their team.
Thank you, Joyce, for your work,
your passion, your patriotism, and
most of all, your shining heart. It has
been a pleasure, an honor, and a privi-
lege to serve the people of Texas along-
side you. God bless.
I yield the floor.
Mr. President, I suggest the absence
of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mrs. SHAHEEN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on S.J. Res.
2, a joint resolution disapproving the Presi-
dent’s proposal to take an action relating to
the application of certain sanctions with re-
spect to the Russian Federation.
John Thune, Mike Crapo, Tom Cotton,
Todd Young, John Cornyn, Jerry
Moran, John Boozman, Deb Fischer,
John Hoeven, Susan M. Collins, Cory
Gardner, Dan Sullivan, Marco Rubio,
Richard Burr, John Barrasso, Pat Rob-
erts, Roger F. Wicker, Thom Tillis,
Shelley Moore Capito, Mitch McCon-
nell.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on S.J. Res 2, a
joint resolution disapproving the Presi-
dent’s proposal to take an action relat-
ing to the application of certain sanc-
tions with respect to the Russian Fed-
eration, shall be brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The assistant bill clerk called the
roll.
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS)
is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber wishing to vote or to
change their vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 57,
nays 42, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 6 Leg.]
YEAS—57
Baldwin
Bennet
Blumenthal
Booker
Boozman
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Collins
Coons
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Daines
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gardner
Gillibrand
Harris
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
McSally
Menendez
Merkley
Moran
Murphy
Murray
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Warren
Whitehouse
Wyden
NAYS—42
Alexander
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Cornyn
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Graham
Grassley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
Murkowski
Paul
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NOT VOTING—1
Sanders
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 57, the nays are 42.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn not having voted in the
affirmative, the motion is rejected.
Under the previous order, cloture not
having been invoked, S.J. Res. 2 is re-
turned to the calendar.
The Chair recognizes the majority
leader.
f
NO TAXPAYER FUNDING FOR
ABORTION AND ABORTION IN-
SURANCE FULL DISCLOSURE
ACT OF 2019—Motion to Proceed
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
move to proceed to Calendar No. 11, S.
109.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
Motion to proceed to the consideration of
S. 109, a bill to prohibit taxpayer funded
abortions.
CLOTURE MOTION
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
send a cloture motion to the desk on
the motion to proceed.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The clo-
ture motion having been presented
under rule XXII, the Chair directs the
clerk to read the motion.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:38 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.019 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S248 January 16, 2019
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the mo-
tion to proceed to Calendar No. 11, S. 109, a
bill to prohibit taxpayer funded abortions.
Mitch McConnell, Mike Crapo, Mike
Rounds, James M. Inhofe, John Bar-
rasso, David Perdue, John Kennedy,
John Thune, Thom Tillis, James E.
Risch, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Pat Roberts,
John Boozman, James Lankford, Mi-
chael B. Enzi, Roger F. Wicker, John
Cornyn.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the mandatory quorum
call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Wyoming.
BORDER SECURITY
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, fol-
lowing the September 11, 2001, attacks
on the United States, the National In-
stitutes of Health, which is the Na-
tion’s medical research Agency in Be-
thesda, MD, needed to secure its cam-
pus. The NIH’s grounds were always
open to the public before that. Any-
body could walk or drive through the
300-acre campus and could do it freely,
but in its facing heightened threats, of-
ficials planned to restrict public access
and to build a wall. It was completed in
2005. The wall, with the black metal pe-
rimeter fence with guarded check-
points, became the centerpiece of NIH’s
new perimeter security system. Signs
were posted that said ‘‘No Tres-
passing.’’
On its website, NIH states that the
purpose of this border barrier is ‘‘to en-
sure the safety of our patients, employ-
ees, guests and facilities.’’
NIH wasn’t alone in building a bar-
rier after the attacks in 2001. Across
the street, the National Naval Medical
Center, now known as Walter Reed Na-
tional Military Medical Center, also
walled off its 243-acre campus. These
walls have worked. Both NIH and Wal-
ter Reed remain safe and secure.
Now we need to deal with a security
crisis at our southern border. President
Trump has requested $5.7 billion—it is
about one one-thousandth of the Fed-
eral spending. The President wants to
build more physical barriers—a proven
border security solution. Thirty per-
cent of the border already has a secure
barrier.
Congressional leaders from both par-
ties have supported a border wall in the
past. In 2006, Senate Democrats, in-
cluding then-Senator Barack Obama,
Senator Hillary Clinton, Senator Joe
Biden, and Senator CHUCK SCHUMER
voted to construct a physical barrier
on our southern border. But Democrat
leaders now refuse to back the Presi-
dent’s border security effort, pro-
longing the partial government shut-
down that is going on today.
Meanwhile, the Democrats and media
fact-checkers are out in force to attack
President Trump. They insist there is
no border crisis. The facts are that this
January 10 Investor’s Business Daily
editorial says: ‘‘Yes, There Is A Crisis
At The Border—The Numbers Show
It.’’
First, in terms of how the numbers
show it is that illegal crossings are
climbing, last year, Border Patrol
stopped more than one-half million
people trying to enter the country ille-
gally—more than 100,000 in October and
November alone this past year. That is
a huge increase from the same 2
months in 2017.
Second, apprehensions don’t account
for all illegal crossers. The Homeland
Security Department estimates that
about 20 percent of our crossers enter,
which means about 104,000 illegal im-
migrants entered in 2018 alone.
Third, the U.S. illegal immigrant
population right now is massive. Cur-
rently, over 12 million illegal immi-
grants reside here, comparable to the
entire population of countries like
Chile, the Netherlands, and Syria.
Fourth, illegal crime levels are high-
er than expected. The Center for Immi-
gration Studies has found that nonciti-
zens accounted for more than 20 per-
cent of Federal convictions, although
they represent only 8.4 percent of the
population.
Fifth, Presidents Reagan through
Obama have acknowledged the crisis.
In 2005, then-Senator Barack Obama
said: ‘‘We simply cannot allow people
to pour into the United States unde-
tected, undocumented, unchecked.’’ In
2014, President Obama described the
border situation as a crisis, but he
failed to fix it.
Even President Obama’s last Border
Patrol Chief, Mark Morgan, supports
President Trump. He was actually on
television just today. Trump didn’t
keep him in the job, but Morgan says
that building the wall is key to solving
the security crisis, and the President
should, as he says, ‘‘stay the course.’’
Still, Democrats refuse to negotiate
with this President, so we can’t reopen
those Federal Agencies that have been
closed for more than 3 weeks.
Here is the Homeland Security De-
partment’s latest assessment of the
southern border situation. They say
that each month, 60,000 illegal immi-
grants reach the border. Drug smug-
gling spiked in 2018, with a 38-percent
increase in methamphetamine, a 22-
percent increase in heroin, and a 73-
percent increase in fentanyl. We also
saw a huge surge in arrests of dan-
gerous criminals, including 17,000
adults with criminal records and 6,000
MS–13 and other gang members.
In 2018, 60,000 unaccompanied chil-
dren and 161,000 families reached the
border—a dramatic increase from 2017.
Many were victimized on their journey.
Border Patrol areas that have en-
hanced or expanded physical barriers
have actually seen a dramatic decrease
in illegal traffic. That is why the Presi-
dent has requested additional funds to
construct more barriers.
The facts are the facts. We have a na-
tional security and humanitarian crisis
at the southern border. The problem is
the rise in illegal entries. We need to
solve it. Walls work.
The question is this: Do U.S. citizens
living in at-risk border communities
deserve the same protection as NIH pa-
tients and the staff in Bethesda, MD?
All Americans want a healthy immi-
gration system that enforces the law
and keeps families together. Demo-
crats shouldn’t be playing politics with
border security. It is time to work to-
gether to secure the border, reopen the
government, and protect the American
people.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Massachusetts.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Ms. WARREN. Mr. President, today
is the 26th day of the longest govern-
ment shutdown in American history.
Weeks ago, the Senate voted unani-
mously to keep the government open.
The House has now passed multiple bi-
partisan bills to end the shutdown, but
President Trump refuses to come to
the negotiating table, and Leader
MCCONNELL refuses to let the Senate
vote on these bipartisan bills. As a re-
sult, over 800,000 people across this
country have been sent home or are
working without pay.
Senate Democrats are here to share
the stories of people whose lives are
being upended. I want to thank Sen-
ator MURRAY for organizing these
speeches and Leader SCHUMER for lead-
ing our efforts to reopen the govern-
ment.
I am speaking today on behalf of 8,200
Federal workers in Massachusetts who
have been affected, including TSA
workers at Logan airport, servicemem-
bers, air traffic controllers, healthcare
providers, and staff at our national
parks.
Janelle, one of my constituents,
works at Native American Lifelines of
Boston, an urban Indian health pro-
gram. This program does crucial work
helping to meet the health, dental, and
behavioral health needs for Native peo-
ple in the Boston metropolitan area. It
is a contract site with the Indian
Health Service, an Agency whose fund-
ing has been cut off by the shutdown.
Janelle loves her job, and she cares
deeply about the people she serves. She
doesn’t want them to go hungry. She
doesn’t want them to miss their ap-
pointments. She doesn’t want them to
be unable to fill their prescriptions,
but she worries about what will happen
if the government doesn’t open up
soon. A prolonged shutdown would be a
major hardship for Janelle, but it could
mean a health emergency, even life or
death, for her clients.
Don, another constituent, is helping
Coast Guard families in Massachusetts
make ends meet. His organization, the
Massachusetts Military Support Foun-
dation, has distributed over 5,200
pounds of food since the start of the
shutdown. He knows that if the shut-
down continues, he will have to start
draining his organization’s budget, and
that could mean he will not be able to
help military families afford food sup-
plies come September.
Janelle’s and Don’s stories are just
two examples of how President Trump
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:40 Jan 19, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\JANUARY\S16JA9.REC S16JA9
abonner
on
DSKBCJ7HB2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S249
January 16, 2019
is holding Massachusetts families hos-
tage while he demands a border wall.
Let’s be perfectly clear about what
the President is doing. The shutdown is
not about border security. It is not
about protecting anyone. It doesn’t
make us any safer that President
Trump has padlocked the doors at the
Department of Homeland Security or
that he is asking our Coast Guard, our
FBI agents, our airport security, and
even our Border Patrol agents to work
without pay.
No, this shutdown is a manufactured
crisis that the President is using to fan
the flames of racism and bigotry—all
so he can distract the American people
from demanding a government that
works for them.
This isn’t a new playbook. It is one
the Republicans and the President have
been using for years. Over and over
again, they try to pit White working
people against Black and Brown people,
gay people against straight people,
young people against older people, peo-
ple born in the United States against
people who came here in search of a
better life—pit them all against each
other so they don’t band together, so
they don’t demand real change.
Here is the deal: The American peo-
ple are onto this twisted strategy.
They know that this government
works just great for the rich and the
powerful but not for everyone else.
Across this country, people are in-
sisting on a government that is not
just open for business but a govern-
ment that actually works for them—a
government that expands healthcare
coverage instead of ripping it away
from grandparents and newborns, a
government that tackles the sky-
rocketing cost of prescription drugs in-
stead of selling out to giant drug com-
panies that put profits ahead of pa-
tients, a government that ends the
stranglehold that money has on Wash-
ington instead of stacking the govern-
ment with public officials who are
more interested in lining their own
pockets than serving the public. I could
go on and on with this list.
I came to the U.S. Senate 6 years ago
to fight for working families and to
tackle these problems head-on, to end a
rigged system that created two sets of
rules—one that applies to the rich and
the powerful and one for everybody
else.
Republicans are trying to divide
Americans in order to stop us from get-
ting to work ending this rigged system,
but we are onto their game. The Presi-
dent and Republicans must end this
shutdown now so that hundreds of
thousands of Federal workers can get
their paychecks and get back to work.
If they don’t, hard-working people like
Janelle, Don, and thousands more
across Massachusetts will continue
paying the price.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
TAXES
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, tax
filing season is just around the corner.
This has never been anyone’s favorite
time of the year, paying taxes, but the
uncertainty created by the current par-
tial government shutdown has under-
standably created a bit more angst
than in a usual tax filing season.
The Treasury Department and IRS
have been proactive in taking steps to
minimize the burden of the shutdown
on taxpayers. They recently announced
that tax season will start as planned,
on January 28. The IRS has confirmed
that taxpayers can expect refunds to be
sent out as usual should this shutdown
drag on. Of course, this is the right
conclusion, legally, and the right call
for the taxpayers, as I had an oppor-
tunity to tell IRS Commissioner Rettig
when we spoke recently.
Congress has explicitly provided for a
permanent appropriation for the IRS to
pay tax refunds. This makes common
sense. A tax refund represents the tax-
payer’s money—not Congress’s, not the
government’s but the taxpayers’—de-
spite what some people in Congress
seem to think; that this money belongs
to the government. It should be re-
turned then in a timely fashion and,
thank God for their decision, that is
going to be the case.
With around 75 percent of individuals
receiving a tax refund on an annual
basis, many have come to look to their
refund to make important purchases,
whether that is to replace an old water
heater, make a downpayment on a reli-
able vehicle to get them to work, or
just to make ends meet generally. It
would be wrong for the government to
impose undue financial strains on fam-
ilies across the country because Con-
gress and the President can’t get their
act together.
As we continue to work through our
differences, the least we can do is re-
turn to taxpayers their own money.
This tax season, of course, is a little
different, not only because of the shut-
down but also because it is the first tax
filing season under the tax reforms and
tax cuts enacted in the Tax Cuts and
Jobs Act. A lot of work has gone on to
get us here. Treasury and the IRS have
been working diligently and swiftly to
ensure taxpayers have the information
they need. In a little over a year, they
have put out 16 proposed regulations, 2
final regulations, 45 notices, 21 revenue
procedures, and updated countless
forms, publications, and other guid-
ance—all of this geared toward imple-
menting the law and addressing tax-
payer questions.
Right out of the gate, Treasury and
IRS went to work updating the annual
withholding tables so taxpayers could
immediately begin seeing the benefits
of lower taxes in their paychecks. Of
course, whether a taxpayer had less or
more withheld from their paycheck is
not the final word on whether one re-
ceived a tax cut.
Also, due to changes in withholding,
a smaller or larger refund than usual
may not tell the whole story. I encour-
age taxpayers to compare their 2019 tax
return with that of the previous year
to see the difference. At the end of the
day, the vast majority of taxpayers
will see that less of their hard-earned
money is going to the government.
A chief priority for the new with-
holding tables was, of course, accuracy.
Extensive analysis was done to help
taxpayers get the right amount with-
held from their paycheck—not too
much, not too little. However, as we all
know, no withholding table will ever be
perfect. Every taxpayer may be af-
fected a little differently under the
new law based on their personal cir-
cumstances. The IRS continues to con-
sider whether future improvements to
the withholding structure may be nec-
essary, which I support and will be
monitoring as chairman of the Finance
Committee.
The IRS has also embarked on an ex-
tensive campaign to alert taxpayers to
check and update their withholding.
This included establishing an online
withholding calculator to help tax-
payers determine what, if any, adjust-
ments to their withholding may be nec-
essary.
That said, there are still going to be
some taxpayers who may discover that
they were underwithheld due to
changes in the law and owe taxes at
the end of the year. A subset of these
taxpayers could be subject to a penalty
for underpayment.
The ranking member of the Finance
Committee, Senator WYDEN, raised this
concern in a letter to Commissioner
Rettig on January 3, requesting that
penalty relief be granted. I generally
agree with the ranking member and
have encouraged the IRS to be lenient
on penalties, especially with this first
time through a filing season under the
new tax law. If a taxpayer has under-
withheld as a result of the changes in
the law, and not through the fault of
their own, the IRS should consider
what actions the Agency can take to
provide penalty relief, but the issue of
underwithholding due to the passage of
tax reform should not be exaggerated.
Yes, as the ranking member claims in
his letter to the Commissioner, it is es-
timated that as many as 30 million tax-
payers may have had taxes underwith-
held from their paychecks, but what
hasn’t been said is that 30 million is ac-
tually only about a 3-percentage point
increase from how many taxpayers
would be underwithheld under the old
law.
Moreover, just because a taxpayer
was underwithheld during the year
does not automatically mean they will
be subject to a penalty tax. Safe har-
bors have long been in place to protect
taxpayers whose withholding is slight-
ly off from being penalized.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.028 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S250 January 16, 2019
It is quite possible that some issues
will arise this filing season that we did
not anticipate and will need to be fixed
as we go forward. We already identified
a number of those issues, which I am
hoping my Democratic colleagues will
allow us to fix to further help as many
more constituents as possible.
That doesn’t detract from the fact
that we have delivered real tax relief to
middle-income families, small business
owners, and the family farmer, nor
does it undermine the fact that we
modernized our outdated international
tax system and improved America’s
business competitiveness in the global
economy. Of course, that is going to
benefit the American worker.
These efforts have contributed to a
strong and growing economy. The un-
employment rate is at a half century
low. Wages are rising at the fastest
rate in nearly a decade. Workers, em-
ployers, and small business owners are
all more optimistic than ever.
Unfortunately, I hear increasing calls
from the new House majority pledging
to erase the progress made with the tax
cuts and reforms that we enacted 13
months ago. At least one new Demo-
cratic Member has suggested bringing
back top tax rates as high as 70 percent
to pay for a wish list of far-left, Big
Government programs. Such a confis-
catory tax rate targeted at a relatively
small number of wealthy taxpayers
would barely make a dent in the cost of
programs they wish to implement.
Policymakers across the globe aban-
doned such punitive tax rates over the
past several decades for their negative
effect on economic growth, investment,
and incentives to work. While tax rates
at 70 percent or higher may have been
fairly common in the 1960s, today, not
a single OECD country boasts such
high rates. How soon people forget
about the prolonged economic stagna-
tion and high unemployment of the
1970s when we last had tax rates as
high as 70 percent.
I am going to detract here to show a
chart. How soon we forget that just
raising tax rates doesn’t automatically
bring in more money. For the benefit
of my colleagues and for the benefit of
the public watching on C–SPAN, I
should have had this blown up. I doubt
it is going to do much good for me to
just hold up a small sheet of paper.
This goes back to the year 1955, end-
ing in 2017. The blue line shows the
marginal tax rates over a period of
about 60 years. You can see high tax
rates in the 1960s, going down, up, gen-
erally down, generally down, staying
pretty low in recent years. You can see
that the red line is the amount of
money that comes in from taxes,
whether you have high tax rates or low
tax rates, which kind of tells me that
the taxpayers are a lot smarter than
the Congress of the United States be-
cause when you talk about high mar-
ginal tax rates, they want you to be-
lieve more money is going to come in.
They are probably going to take the
position that if you lower tax rates,
less money is going to come in. But
you see, in the 1950s top rate was 90
percent. Can you imagine Americans
being dumb enough to work hard to
only keep 10 percent of their income?
No. What you do is you change people’s
behavior. They decide, I am going to
work only so much. Why should I work
harder and give more money to the
Federal Government? You see, higher
tax rates don’t do what a lot of people
want you to believe they are going to
do.
I would like to give a little history
on this, because you kind of think that
if we have lower marginal tax rates,
and Republicans are the ones who want
lower tax rates, that you would give
Republicans a lot of credit for reducing
these marginal tax rates. I can remem-
ber the work of Senator Bill Bradley of
New Jersey—probably at least a mod-
erate Democrat. He was probably as re-
sponsible as anybody in the 1980s for
reducing these marginal tax rates, be-
cause Republicans didn’t have guts
enough to do it, and we might not be
where we are right now. So it is not
just Republican thinking that got
these marginal tax rates down. It is
not just Republican thinking that has
kept this red line where it has been for
60 years, at approximately 16 to 20 per-
cent of gross national product—the
amount of the economy that is coming
into the Federal Government.
I hope the talk of such confiscatory
taxation truly is a talk of a few rogue
Members and not representative of
things to come. I wish to think there
will be opportunities for us to work to-
gether in a bipartisan way.
I am firmly in the camp that the tax
reform and tax cuts enacted by the last
Congress represent important revisions
to our tax laws, but I also understand
that no major piece of legislation is en-
tirely perfect. To the extent there is le-
gitimate interest in improving tax
laws, as chairman of the Finance Com-
mittee, I am going to be all ears.
When it comes to making modifica-
tions to tax reform, our first order of
business should be focused on exam-
ining how the law affects individuals,
families, and the businesses in our
States that provide the jobs and bene-
fits they rely on. When necessary, we
should work together to take action
and ensure that the law is fulfilling its
potential. A key part of this discussion
should be enacting technical correc-
tions to the tax law—revisions to en-
sure that the bill does what Members
thought it did when they voted on it.
Some of these are related to just poor
drafting, honest mistakes that were
made.
I also hope that there will be plenty
of opportunity to work on a bipartisan
basis on tax issues involving every-
thing from education, to renewable and
alternative energy, to consumer-di-
rected healthcare options.
However, I fear opportunities to work
together could be put at risk should
my colleagues become fixated on tear-
ing apart tax reform, hiking taxes, and,
of course, going after the President’s
tax returns.
I want to put my Democratic col-
leagues on notice that I have no inten-
tion of undoing structural changes im-
plemented as part of the tax reform.
This would include the lower tax rates
and family benefits, such as the in-
creased child tax credit and standard
deductions.
I am also not interested in elimi-
nating the cap on the deductibility of
State and local taxes, backtracking on
our move toward a more territorial tax
system, or raising tax rates on pass-
through business owners and farmers
or corporations, all of which provide
critical jobs and contribute to eco-
nomic growth across the Nation.
For the first time in probably about
30 years, our businesses are competi-
tive with the rest of the world. When
we have a 35-percent tax rate—as we
did for decades—on corporations, and
the world average is about 23 percent,
how can we expect American corpora-
tions to compete? We are now at 21 per-
cent. It wasn’t long after we went to 21
that we read about China maybe feel-
ing they were uncompetitive and were
going to have to lower their tax rates.
Other countries are thinking about
doing it as well. Just like with the
Reagan tax cuts of the 1980s, the
United States is plowing ahead, setting
a standard for the rest of the world.
Lower tax rates, with businesses and
individuals making decisions on where
they earn their money, how much they
are going to spend, and how much they
are going to save, is a heck of a lot bet-
ter than 535 Members of Congress mak-
ing that decision. When we make deci-
sions about stuff like this, they are po-
litical decisions. When most of the in-
dividual taxpayers and the corpora-
tions of America make decisions, it is
strictly economic and does much more
economic good.
Another one that I don’t want to
mess with is efforts to weaponize the
authority of tax-writing committees to
access tax returns for political pur-
poses. Such an action would be unprec-
edented.
I am optimistic that we can continue
to make progress helping Americans
improve their lives by keeping more of
their hard-earned wages, taking the
chance of starting a new business or
continuing to expand an existing one—
in short, building an opportunity econ-
omy. I invite my colleagues to join me.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Ms. CANTWELL. Mr. President, I
come to the floor to join my colleagues
who were speaking earlier today about
the many U.S. citizens who are Federal
employees who are impacted by the
shutdown. Coast Guard PO2 Amy-Erin
Hamilton, stationed in Seattle, WA, is
one of those individuals. She is the
mother of three children: Sienna, age
10; Tucker, age 9; and Annabella, age 5.
Amy-Erin is married to Dan Hamilton,
who is also an Active-Duty member.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.035 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S251
January 16, 2019
Amy-Erin is a shining example of the
service and leadership we see in our
Coast Guard today. In December, she
was given a meritorious advancement,
which is rare and an incredible honor.
Despite this, though, she is working
without pay and has had to seek out-
side income to support that family I
just mentioned.
This is the 26th day of a Federal Gov-
ernment shutdown. Yesterday, 55,000
Coast Guard personnel did not receive
their midmonth paychecks. The Coast
Guard Commandant issued a letter to
the workforce explaining what was
happening, explaining that this is the
first time that a branch of our military
has not been paid during a government
shutdown.
There are 41,000 Active-Duty mem-
bers, 6,200 Reservist members, 8,500 ci-
vilians, and 50,500 Coast Guard retirees.
That is the U.S. Coast Guard family.
Thirty-one percent of the Coast Guard
families do not have enough emergency
savings to make it through the shut-
down. A junior enlisted Coast Guard
member with less than 2 years of serv-
ice makes only $23,200 a year in base
pay. That is below the poverty level.
Coast Guard members are currently
being deployed overseas—they could be
in a combat zone—and these members
are not receiving pay.
I hope our colleagues will take into
consideration this issue with our Coast
Guard families. They are working hard
to provide great care for us throughout
our country and overseas. When I think
about the fact that a Coast Guard
member could be deployed overseas in
an area that has seen combat, an un-
stable region of the world, and that
they are not even receiving the
childcare subsidy and support to make
sure their families are taken care of
while they are gone taking care of us,
that is just wrong.
So I come here to join my colleagues
who were here earlier today on the
floor giving examples of Americans
throughout the United States who are
working hard for us. It is time we work
to get them their paycheck and con-
tinue to support them so they can sup-
port us.
I know my colleague from Con-
necticut is here and would like to
speak as well, and I thank him for al-
lowing me to fit in this time to talk on
behalf of the Coast Guard families.
I hope the Commandant’s letter can
now be seen as an example of why we
need to act. We need to act to give
these Coast Guard families their pay
and to make sure we are addressing the
shutdown and reopening government.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Con-
necticut.
Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President, I
am honored to follow the Senator, our
neighbor from across the country. We
share a common interest and commit-
ment to one of the great military serv-
ices in this country, the U.S. Coast
Guard.
Connecticut is proud to be the home
of the Coast Guard Academy and nu-
merous Active-Duty-serving Coast
Guard men and women. Not only are
we proud of them, but we are deeply
mindful of the debt we owe them. It is
a debt that is immeasurable in dollars
and cents. It is a debt we owe them for
the safety and security they provide
this country and the blood they have
shed in defense of the country.
Failing to pay them is a moral fail-
ure, and that is why I am proud to be
joining the Senator from Washington
as well as Senator THUNE in a measure
to provide payment for the Coast
Guard, and I hope we will meet this ob-
ligation as soon as possible.
We also have an obligation to other
Federal workers because they are suf-
fering and sacrificing during this shut-
down, now 26 days long.
One of them, among the workers I
met just last Monday, is Adrian Pellot.
He served in the Air Force. He has
worked as a behavior detection officer
for more than a decade. He is also one
of the TSA workers at Bradley not re-
ceiving pay.
He said to me:
We have no income right now. We are
bleeding money. Just day-to-day things.
Food. I still have to pay the bills. The elec-
tric company, the cell phone company—they
don’t care. They are brutal. To feel like we
are poker chips or leverage is very, very in-
furiating. We are people—we have lives—not
just a number to throw around. I want the
government to reopen.
Nothing I say here expresses more
eloquently and powerfully the obliga-
tion we are failing to meet.
I will be proposing legislation to pro-
vide workers like Adrian unemploy-
ment benefit compensation. States like
Connecticut now must seek approval
from the Department of Labor of the
United States to provide unemploy-
ment compensation for workers who
are on the job but unpaid.
The workers who are furloughed and
unpaid can receive that compensation.
The folks showing up to work, keeping
us safe in the skies, assuring that our
security is met at the TSA lines, are
unpaid, and they are uncompensated
out of the State workers’ compensation
system, and they should be.
That is why I will propose legislation
for fundamental fairness and necessary
benefits for workers like Adrian and
his partner, Sarah Small, who has been
a TSA officer for over 11 years. She
currently works part time at Bradley
as a TSA officer, and she is in nursing
school.
She said to me: ‘‘It’s more nerve-
racking because of the fact that if this
shutdown lasts any longer, one of us is
going to have to find something.’’
They are just two examples of thou-
sands across the country. My col-
leagues, every one of you has an Adrian
Pellot or a Sarah Small or a Coast
Guard service man and woman or
someone like them who are working
without unemployment compensation,
having to pay bills, mortgages, put
food on the table. They are unable to
do it because the government is shut
down.
Let us reopen the government. Let us
meet our obligation. Let us do our job,
and the man down the street on Penn-
sylvania Avenue in the White House
ought to be doing his job too.
In the meantime, let’s help them
meet their bills and save them from
debts much as we do servicemembers
with their relief fund; another legisla-
tive measure I will be advocating and
advancing. We owe it to them. We owe
it to the country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
MARCH FOR LIFE
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I am
pleased to be joined on the floor by
Senator BLUNT, Senator WICKER, and
Senator FISCHER to speak about the
importance of protecting and cele-
brating life.
This Friday, Americans from every
State in our Nation, from our tiny
rural towns to our bustling urban cit-
ies, will gather in our Nation’s Capital
to participate in the 46th annual March
for Life.
Each year, I am amazed and inspired
by the immeasurable strength, compas-
sion, and support demonstrated by the
pro-life community, as hundreds of
thousands of its members come to
Washington, DC, and tirelessly work to
protect the most vulnerable in our so-
ciety—the unborn.
As members of the Senate Values Ac-
tion Team, throughout the year, we are
blessed with the opportunity to work
with and hear from so many who are
committed to protecting human life at
all stages.
I thank my colleagues for sharing
this message of life today, and at this
time I would like to yield to the Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, I want to
thank Senator ERNST for yielding and
for her leadership in these issues.
All of us here today are here at a
time when thousands of people from
around the country, including hun-
dreds from Missouri, will be here to
participate in the annual March for
Life. They see it, as we do, that an un-
born child is not a potential person,
but it is a person with potential, a
whole living, distinct human being.
Polling reflects that the American
people understand that in a significant
way. It is not a celebration but a pow-
erful reminder that we value life as
people come here this time of year.
More Americans are coming all the
time to support life. We just had a
meeting with someone who was going
through the recent Knights of Colum-
bus and Marist poll. Three in four
Americans say abortion should be lim-
ited to, at most, the first 3 months of
pregnancy. These numbers continue to
move in the direction of understanding
that life begins at conception, and
more and more people believe that life
deserves to be protected just like any
life would.
A majority of Americans oppose
using taxpayer dollars to pay for any
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.037 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S252 January 16, 2019
abortion at any time. Seventy-five per-
cent of Americans oppose using tax-
payer dollars to fund abortion over-
seas. This includes 64 percent of self-
identified, pro-choice Democrats who
say they are not for spending taxpayer
dollars to fund abortions overseas.
Fifty-six percent of Democrats and 80
percent of Independents comprise that
as well as, as I said before, 64 percent of
pro-choice individuals collectively say
they are not for that.
Preventing taxpayer funding for
abortion has been longstanding law and
has had a bipartisan consensus until
just recently. Now, this is an impor-
tant issue that the country disagrees
on, but the one thing we reached agree-
ment on is, those people who think
there is nothing wrong with abortion
shouldn’t force the tax dollars of peo-
ple who believe it is the most fun-
damentally wrong thing you can do to
be used for abortion.
So the Hyde amendment prevents
taxpayer funding of abortions or abor-
tion coverage in various Federal
healthcare programs, including Med-
icaid and Medicare and the Children’s
Health Insurance Program. All of those
programs are, in effect, walled off from
Federal support if abortion is involved.
A bill I initially passed as chairman
of the Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices Appropriations Committee, re-
newed again this year the Hyde amend-
ment, as it has been renewed every
year since 1976 and signed into law in
every year since 1976 by Republicans
and Democrats in the White House.
Recent calls to appeal the amend-
ment, however, in the Democratic
Party platform and from a number of
my friends on the other side of the
aisle, are just simply out of touch with
where a majority of Americans are and
where 100 percent of the people coming
here for the March for Life are.
Instead, far from being repealed, the
Hyde amendment, in my view, needs to
be made permanent, and it needs to be
applied across the entire Federal
spending spectrum, as it was initially
anticipated. I am proud to be an origi-
nal cosponsor of the No Taxpayer
Funding for Abortion Act, which would
do just exactly that.
I also want to take a moment to rec-
ognize the efforts of what has become
one of the most pro-life administra-
tions in our Nation’s history.
One of the first Executive orders
President Trump signed was to rein-
state and expand the Mexico City pol-
icy. In fact, he wanted to expand it to
the point that he even wanted to
retitle it to the Protecting Life in
Global Health Assistance policy. The
policy prevents Federal tax dollars
from funding foreign NGOs—foreign
nongovernmental organizations—that
perform or promote abortion.
I also want to call attention to the
efforts the administration has taken
proposing regulations that would first
of all prevent title X family planning
grantees from colocating with abortion
clinics or from promoting or referring
clients for abortions. None of that
money was ever to be used for those
purposes, but it is pretty hard when
you are in the same facility, funded by
the same overall group, not to suggest
there is some connection.
President Trump and his administra-
tion have said that would not be al-
lowed. They have passed regulations to
further protect the right of conscience.
In a famous letter written in the last
year of his Presidency, President Jef-
ferson said that the right of con-
science—the right to fervently believe
what you believe is the right thing—
should be the right we hold the most
dear, and the President is trying to be
sure that applies in every possible case
to Federal law as well.
They also voted to separate payment
requirements from abortion coverage
in ObamaCare and have really contin-
ued to do exactly what the President
said he would do in these areas.
I know we all also want to encourage
those who are participating in the
March for Life on Friday. Every human
life matters. The advocacy of people
who come here year after year or per-
haps are coming for the very first time
makes a difference.
So for the efforts of the thousands
who defy the weather—and the anni-
versary of the decision just happens to
be in what almost always turns out to
be the worst weather we have in Wash-
ington during the year, but that
doesn’t seem to deter those who are
marching here or those who are speak-
ing to those who come here to defy the
weather and to March for Life.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. On the Senator from
Iowa’s time, let me join her and the
Senator from Missouri, and I associate
myself with their remarks and their
support, not only for the March for
Life, which will occur on Friday, but
also for the No Taxpayer Funding for
Abortion Act, which I am proud to be
the principal cosponsor of and which
will, we hope, have a vote on the Sen-
ate floor by tomorrow afternoon.
I was a pretty young staffer for then-
Congressman Trent Lott in 1981 when I
first became aware that there was such
a thing as the March for Life. I can as-
sure you that it will be much more
massive this year then it was back in
those early days when Americans were
struggling with what Roe v. Wade
meant and when they weren’t quite so
sure about what the science was about
this practice of abortion.
As each year passes, as more and
more parents see that sonogram, as
more and more grandparents—and I am
a grandparent to six now; I am buddy
to six beautiful grandchildren—see the
sonograms early on and we see the feet
and we see the heartbeat and we see
the faces of these children, we realize
as Americans—and more and more
Americans are coming to the realiza-
tion—that this is a living human that
deserves protection.
Senator BLUNT was accurate in say-
ing we have good polling. Polling is
coming around to our way. Even if
some people consider themselves to be
pro-choice, when you delve down into
the figures and ask them the questions,
it turns out they are not quite so pro-
abortion as we might think.
When we ask the question that the
No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion bill
goes to centrally—Do you support tax-
payer funding for abortion?—the polls
show that 24 percent oppose and 30 per-
cent strongly oppose. A majority, or 54
percent of Americans—some of whom
would actually check the box and say
they are pro-choice—say no, we
shouldn’t go so far as to provide tax-
payer funding for abortions. That is
what this legislation, which tomorrow
afternoon will be considered on the
floor of the Senate, would do.
When asked another question: Should
abortions be banned after 20 weeks,
with the exception of risking the life of
the mother? And 59 percent of Ameri-
cans say yes, they strongly support
that or support banning abortions after
the 20th week.
So I would say that the March for
Life is working, year after year, step
after step, and I hope we get a good
vote on the floor of the Senate tomor-
row.
Do I think this is going to sail
through the House of Representatives
and be sent by NANCY PELOSI’s House
to the President for signature? Prob-
ably not, but we make the case. We
warmly welcome these marchers for
life each and every year, and we appre-
ciate what they have done to move the
needle of public opinion and to protect
those innocent people who have no way
of protecting themselves.
I see that we are joined by my distin-
guished colleague, the senior Senator
from Nebraska, and perhaps she might
have some remarks to say.
I will yield the floor at this point.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
today in support of the thousands of
people who will travel to our Nation’s
Capital this week to join us in the
March for Life. Marching proudly
among them will be many, many Ne-
braskans—families, neighbors, student
organizations, and church groups. They
are going to brave the snow and freez-
ing temperatures to march along the
National Mall as part of a peaceful
rally that draws attention to pro-life
and pro-women policies.
Since I first started my career in
public service, I have supported com-
monsense pro-life measures that pro-
tect women and unborn children. All
too often, women are faced with un-
planned pregnancies, and they experi-
ence condemnation instead of compas-
sion. These women shoulder despair,
pain, and judgment when they should
receive comfort, assistance, and reas-
surance. These mothers should always
know that they have support as they
face challenging years ahead.
In the Senate, I am proud to pledge
my support for several pro-life bills.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.030 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S253
January 16, 2019
This afternoon, I would like to high-
light a few of them.
Once again, I am cosponsoring the
Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection
Act. This legislation would prohibit
abortions after 20 weeks unless it is
necessary to save the life of the mother
or the pregnancy is a result of rape or
incest. Twenty weeks, as advances in
science and medical technology tell us,
is the point at which an unborn child is
capable of feeling pain.
When I served in the Nebraska Legis-
lature, we passed the first ban on abor-
tions after 20 weeks. Republicans and
Democrats, pro-choice and pro-life Sen-
ators, voted in its favor because it is
sound policy. We should enact this
commonsense legislation at the Fed-
eral level as well.
I am also a cosponsor of the Protect
Funding for Women’s Health Care Act.
This bill would prevent the Federal
funding of Planned Parenthood or any
of its affiliates. In 2016, Planned Par-
enthood received nearly $544 million
from the Federal Government. I believe
that Congress must redirect this fund-
ing to where it belongs, and that is to
our community health centers.
In Nebraska we have seven commu-
nity health centers, with 44 clinic sites
all across our State. I have had the op-
portunity to visit these sites, and I
have seen firsthand the high-quality,
compassionate care they provide to
women in need. Our patients in Ne-
braska would be better served if this
Federal funding were directed toward
these centers and also these clinics,
which serve all Nebraskans—all Ne-
braskans everywhere in our State—not
Planned Parenthood.
The Protect Funding for Women’s
Health Care Act is another common-
sense solution that will protect life and
help provide comprehensive healthcare
for women. Finally, I will once again
support the No Taxpayer Funding for
Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full
Disclosure Act, introduced by the sen-
ior Senator from Mississippi. Since the
1970s, the Hyde amendment has prohib-
ited Federal funds for abortions, but it
requires a yearly passage through Con-
gress. This measure would permanently
establish in statute the protections of
the Hyde amendment. These are a few
of the important pro-life policies that I
am working on in the Senate.
Again, I want to welcome all of the
Nebraskans who are traveling over
1,000 miles to take part in the March
for Life. It is great to see the pro-life
movement building such momentum.
More and more young people are join-
ing the cause and standing tall for this
timeless value, and I want to thank
each and every one of them for their
courage and for taking a stand for
what they believe in and for what
science tells us.
They march not with anger or con-
demnation, but with love and hope.
They will be living out the direction of
Mother Teresa, when at the 1994 Na-
tional Prayer Breakfast she said:
A sign of care for the weakest of the
weak—the unborn child—must go out to the
world. . . . then really you will be true to
what the founders of this country stood for.
So to all of the Nebraskans and to all
Americans who will gather here in
Washington for the March for Life,
please know that I support your every
step.
Thank you, Mr. President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Sentor from Iowa.
(The remarks of Ms. ERNST per-
taining to the submission of S. 141 are
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
Ms. ERNST. I suggest the absence of
a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I am
going to speak again shortly from the
floor, but, very briefly, I want to asso-
ciate myself with the comments of my
senior Senator, DEB FISCHER from Ne-
braska, who just spoke and welcomed
Nebraska’s pro-life students to the
Capitol over the next 3 days. It is won-
derful to be associated with a move-
ment that is fundamentally about love
and is about the dignity of every baby.
So I join my senior Senator in wel-
coming Nebraska’s pro-life students to
the Capitol and to Washington, DC, for
the March for Life on Friday.
I thank the President.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I was
just over in the Russell Senate Office
Building, and a group of freshmen from
the House intercepted me and handed
me this piece of paper, this document,
and asked that it be made part of the
RECORD of the Senate, and I have come
to do that.
Let me explain that these freshmen
House Members want to see the Senate
engaged in debate on how to end this
shutdown of our government. They see
in their home districts across this
country tremendous damage occurring
in all kinds of fashions—damage to se-
curity; damage to the economy; dam-
age to families trying to get a home
mortgage, and they can’t get their
FHA approval; damage to farmers who
are seeking that loan that is necessary
to prepare for the next farming season;
damage in the preparation for next
summer’s forest fires.
I have been hearing about this from
my home State. In Oregon, we just had
a training for fighting fires canceled.
We have prescribed burns that need to
be done during the winter that are
being canceled. We have thinning,
which makes the forest more fire-resil-
ient, that is being canceled. We have
the reduction of fuels on the forest
floor that add to the intensity of
fires—the removal of those—being can-
celed. These just add more to the list of
so many ways that folks are being af-
fected across the country.
I am going to share this letter with
the Presiding Officer and our col-
leagues. It says:
Dear Senator McConnell:
We write as Members of the Freshman
Class of the 116th Congress, an historic group
that has the distinction of being the first
Congress to be seated in the midst of a par-
tial government shutdown.
We as a legislative branch have the power
to end this shutdown now. In December, the
Senate unanimously passed legislation that
would have kept the government open. In
January, the House then passed those same
bipartisan bills and sent them to the Senate.
If the Senate were to pass these bills, we
would be able to reopen the government and
then proceed to debate about immigration
reform and border security.
However, it is impossible to have a mean-
ingful policy discussion while the executive
holds public servants hostage. We respect-
fully request that you allow the Congress to
work its will and allow a vote on this bipar-
tisan legislation to end this shutdown so
that we can end this manufactured crisis and
allow our devoted federal workers to get
back to work for the American people.
Sincerely Susie Lee, Member of Congress;
Abby Finkenauer, Member of Congress;
Mikie Sherrill, Member of Congress; Mike
Levin; Jahana Hayes; Lori Trahan; Katie
Hill; Ayanna Pressley; David Trone; Ed Case;
Gill Cisneros; Rashida Tlaib; Kendra Horn;
Angie Craig; Joe Cunningham; Chris Pappas;
Andy Levin; Susan Wild; Sylvia Garcia;
Katie Porter; Debbie Mucarsel-Powell; Ilhan
Omar; Madeline Dean; Haley Stevens; Greg
Stanton; Josh Harder; Lucy McBath; Abigail
Spanberger; Chrissy Houlahan; Donna
Shalala; Lauren Underwood; Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez; Veronica Escobar; TJ Cox,
Dean Phillips; Jahana Hayes; and then a few
more people who have added their names in
script that I may not be able to read accu-
rately.
In total, there are an estimated 46
signatures on this letter addressed to
Senate Majority Leader MITCH MCCON-
NELL.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the letter be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
Washington, DC, January 16, 2019.
Hon. MITCH MCCONNELL,
Majority Leader, U.S. Senate,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR MCCONNELL: We write as
Members of the Freshman Class of the 116th
Congress, an historic group that has the dis-
tinction of being the first Congress to be
seated in the midst of a partial government
shutdown.
We as the legislative branch have the
power to end this shutdown now. In Decem-
ber, the Senate unanimously passed legisla-
tion that would have kept the government
open. In January, the House then passed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:05 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.031 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S254 January 16, 2019
those same bipartisan bills and sent them to
the Senate. If the Senate were to pass these
bills, we would be able to re-open the govern-
ment and then proceed to a debate about im-
migration reform and border security.
However, it is impossible to have a mean-
ingful policy discussion while the executive
holds public servants hostage. We respect-
fully request that you allow the Congress to
work its will and allow a vote on this bipar-
tisan legislation to end the shutdown so that
we can end this manufactured crisis and
allow our devoted federal workers to get
back to work for the American people.
Sincerely,
Susie Lee, Abby Finkenauer, Mikie
Sherrill, Mike Levin, Jahana Hayes,
Lori Trahan, Katie Hill, Ed Case, Gil
Cisneros, Rashida Tlaib, Kendra Horn,
Angie Craig, Chris Pappas, Andy Levin,
Susan Wild, Sylvia Garcia, Katie Por-
ter, Ilhan Omar, Madeleine Dean, Josh
Harder, Debra A. Haaland, Lucy
McBath, Abigail Spanberger, Chrissy
Houlahan, Donna Shalala, Lauren
Underwood, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez,
Veronica Escobar, TJ Cox, Dean Phil-
lips, Elaine G. Luria, Tom Malinowski,
Steven Horsford, Sharice Davids, Joe
Neguse, Cynthia Axne.
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, the
freshmen of the House are speaking a
lot of common sense in this letter.
They are saying: Here we are, looking
at bills that the Senate passed under
Republican leadership and that the
House has passed under Democratic
leadership. That is the foundation for
going forward. Let not the Senate lead-
ership be the obstruction to common
sense. Let not this Chamber sit empty,
sit quiet, and sit without votes on
these bills to put our government back
to work.
They want to see the Senate have the
courage to take positions, to be here
and argue, to say yes or no, but we
don’t say yes or no if there is no bill
before us, and that must confound
these 46 freshmen, who kind of ex-
pected that after more than 200 years
of organizing, we would have a Senate
that could actually operate as a legis-
lative body, not sit here vacant and
quiet in the midst of a national catas-
trophe—a catastrophe of the Trump
shutdown affecting so many families.
There are 800,000 families of Federal
workers, hundreds of thousands more
families of contractors, millions of
Americans who simply want a core
government service so that they can
proceed with their lives—a business
permit, a home mortgage, an agricul-
tural loan, work being done to prevent
forest fires, and a compromise to our
national security in terms of our Coast
Guard and our TSA agents. It makes no
common sense for us to sit here with-
out action.
I praise the House freshmen for
bringing a fresh, intense, commonsense
view to the conversation on Capitol
Hill. Let their words be heard in this
Chamber.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
NOMINATION OF WILLIAM BARR
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I come
to the floor today to discuss the nomi-
nation of William Barr to be Attorney
General.
Today, I want to make clear that I
will be opposed to this nomination for
several reasons. I am just going to out-
line some of my key concerns that
really haven’t been addressed much
over the last few weeks.
I am specifically concerned about his
view that the President of the United
States is effectively royalty, in his
book, and he seems to believe that the
President is unaccountable to the laws
of our Nation or to the normal con-
straints imposed by the Congress.
Today, I am going to focus on what I
consider to be Mr. Barr’s dangerous
views on surveillance and his contempt
for surveillance laws and the Fourth
Amendment.
It is my view this is not a partisan
issue. There has been, for some years, a
bipartisan coalition in the Senate that
has battled to protect the privacy and
constitutional rights of Americans, but
Mr. Barr’s views, after I have laid them
out today, ought to frighten every
Member of this Senate. What Mr. Barr
has said is that whether the Congress
supports broader or narrower surveil-
lance authorities and regardless of
whether Congress votes for more
checks and balances and oversight, it
really doesn’t matter. He has made the
judgment, based on the proposition
which he has stated very clearly, that
the President can essentially do what
he wants.
This nominee, in my view, poses a
unique threat to the rule of law and
the Fourth Amendment. His long-held
views, which presumably he would put
in practice if confirmed, threaten the
very notion that Congress or the courts
have any say in who in America gets
spied on. If he is confirmed as Attorney
General, he could take us back—and
not just 12 years to an era of
warrantless wiretapping. As Mr. Barr
himself has made clear, he would be
taking us back 40 years, to an era be-
fore the Church Committee, when nei-
ther Congress nor the courts had any
role at all in checking or overseeing an
abusive, out-of-control government.
Before the reforms of the 1970s, as
has now been well documented, the
government committed one horrific
abuse after another. It spied on hun-
dreds of thousands of innocent Ameri-
cans. It spied on Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. It spied on activists. It spied
on Congress. When these abuses finally
came to light, Congress acted by pass-
ing the Foreign Intelligence Surveil-
lance Act, which established a secret
court to issue warrants against spies
and terrorists.
Unfortunately, as we now know, the
government violated the law when it
implemented its warrantless wire-
tapping program in 2001. The program
included warrantless collection of the
content of private communications, in-
cluding through warrantless targeting
of phone numbers and email addresses
of people in our country. The program
also included the bulk collection of
phone and email records of enormous
numbers of innocent, law-abiding
Americans. All of this occurred in se-
cret, without warrants or any judicial
oversight at all, and almost no one—no
one in the Congress, nor even most
members of the Intelligence Com-
mittee—knew anything about it.
The secrecy didn’t even end when the
bulk phone and email record programs
were moved under the Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act. The Obama
administration, just like the Bush ad-
ministration, kept this abusive pro-
gram and the secret legal interpreta-
tions behind it from the American peo-
ple, even lying about it in public testi-
mony.
How did these abusive and illegal
programs get their start? With secret
determinations made at the Depart-
ment of Justice that the law didn’t
matter and that the President can do
what he wants.
That brings us to Mr. Barr. His dan-
gerous views on Executive power have
long been consistent—consistent—
throughout his career, from his
writings at the Department of Justice
in the late 1980s to the present, but in
October of 2003, he laid out in public
testimony his position that, in Mr.
Barr’s view, the President is not ac-
countable to surveillance laws and that
the President enjoys huge loopholes in
the Fourth Amendment.
October of 2003 was shortly after Con-
gress had passed the PATRIOT Act,
legislation that many in Congress have
come to view as granting too much au-
thority with too little oversight, but
from Mr. Barr’s perspective, the PA-
TRIOT Act was too limiting and too
constraining, and that wasn’t even the
most troubling part of his testimony.
Right up front, he asked himself the
question of whether the law was ade-
quate to fight terrorism. Here is what
he said. He said he wasn’t worried
about the law, and this is a direct
quote: ‘‘The critical legal powers are
granted directly by the Constitution
itself, not by Congressional enact-
ments.’’ In other words, Mr. Barr’s
view of surveillance is that the laws
passed by Congress do not matter. If
the President wants to violate them, it
is Mr. Barr’s position that he can just
go out and say he has constitutional
authority and do it.
Here is a direct quote from Mr. Barr’s
testimony. Talking about laws going
back to the 1970s, he said: ‘‘Numerous
statutes were passed, such as [the For-
eign Intelligence Surveillance Act],
that purported to supplant Presidential
discretion with Congressionally crafted
schemes whereby judges become the ar-
biter of national security decisions.’’
I am going to unpack that sentence
for a minute. From Mr. Barr’s perspec-
tive, decades of laws passed by the U.S.
Congress are nothing but schemes—
schemes. He is talking about the For-
eign Intelligence Surveillance Act, a
fundamental framework of checks and
balances that Congress has relied on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.007 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S255
January 16, 2019
for four decades to ensure congres-
sional and judicial oversight of surveil-
lance. He is talking about every modi-
fication of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act, from the PATRIOT
Act to what is called section 702, reau-
thorized last year, to the USA Freedom
Act, which was intended to stop the
collection of millions of innocent
Americans’ phone records. Whatever
you think of these statutes, they are
how Congress determines the extent of
the government’s surveillance powers
and exercises its responsibility to pro-
tect the rights of Americans. Mr. Barr
notwithstanding, these duly enacted
laws of Congress are not mere schemes.
Worse still, it is Mr. Barr’s conten-
tion that all of these laws only purport
to have any effect. The President, says
Mr. Barr, has the discretion to ignore
them. By definition, if you are saying
that the President can just ignore the
laws, in effect, that is a position that is
in favor of tyranny. This is as dan-
gerous a position as I have heard in
congressional testimony. It is very
similar to the language that was con-
cocted in the Department of Justice to
justify warrantless wiretapping—and
these are the views coming from the
man who might be Attorney General of
the United States.
Mr. Barr is correct that the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act gives
judges some say in when the govern-
ment can spy on Americans. It is a se-
cret system, one that greatly advan-
tages the government and almost al-
ways precludes challenges from those
who are spied on. The Foreign Intel-
ligence Surveillance Act has been
abused through secret interpretations
of law, but the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Act does involve judges
considering the Fourth Amendment
rights of Americans, and that is what
Mr. Barr objects to.
Based on his own testimony, it is
clear to me that Mr. Barr has funda-
mental problems with the Fourth
Amendment or at least its application
to anything the President might uni-
laterally decide involves national secu-
rity. He believes that if the govern-
ment determines there is a threat,
there is no need to ask a judge for a
warrant.
The Fourth Amendment protects the
rights of the people to be secure
against unreasonable searches and sei-
zures unless there is a probable cause
warrant. That is what the Constitution
says. Mr. Barr, however, has found two
very big loopholes in the Fourth
Amendment.
First, he insists that if the govern-
ment decides a foreigner in the United
States is ‘‘apparently acting as a ter-
rorist,’’ then he or she is not one of the
‘‘people,’’ and the government can just
throw out the Fourth Amendment.
Second, Mr. Barr argues that so long
as the government says there is a
threat, a warrantless search is not un-
reasonable, and the warrant require-
ment under the Fourth Amendment
simply doesn’t apply.
At the core of Mr. Barr’s philosophy
is that no one—not Congress and cer-
tainly not judges—has any business as-
sessing the government’s assertion
about threats.
Here is another quote from Mr. Barr:
These are ‘‘assessments judges are not
competent to make or responsible for
making under the Constitution.’’
For 40 years, judges of the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act Court
have been making these determina-
tions, but, from Mr. Barr’s perspective,
the courts are not competent to decide
who gets spied on; only the President
gets that power.
Some might ask whether Mr. Barr
has had a change of heart, particularly
since Congress has passed additional
surveillance authority in the year
since his testimony. I hope we see in
the days ahead where he stands, wheth-
er he now believes that spying on
Americans and people in the United
States has to be consistent with the
laws passed by Congress, but his 2003
testimony suggests that even new,
sweeping, bipartisan laws that have
passed wouldn’t satisfy him.
A little over a decade ago, Congress
created section 702 of the Foreign In-
telligence Surveillance Act. That al-
lows for warrantless spying on for-
eigners overseas. I have said our coun-
try faces real threats from foreigners
overseas, so I stipulate that is some-
thing that is important to the safety of
the law-abiding people whom we all
represent. I have had serious concerns
about the number of innocent Ameri-
cans whose communications are being
swept up under section 702 collection,
but at least the targets of the surveil-
lance are overseas.
Mr. Barr would go further in his tes-
timony, calling for the warrantless tar-
geting of people inside the United
States. According to Mr. Barr, there
are individuals right here in the United
States who have no Fourth Amend-
ment rights. This is an important issue
today, and it will become more impor-
tant in the days ahead.
I have already stipulated that I think
there are serious threats to our coun-
try overseas. What troubles me is, as
telecommunication systems around the
world become more globally inter-
connected, more and more innocent
Americans are going to get swept up in
these searches. To me, when you are
talking—as Mr. Barr seems to be
doing—that there are individuals in
our country who have no Fourth
Amendment rights, that is why I think
all Senators should be troubled about
these positions he has long espoused.
There is also the matter of collecting
business records, sensitive information
about Americans that are in possession
of a third party. Here, we are talking
about your purchases, who you are
communicating with, where you are lo-
cated at any time of the day.
Mr. Barr believes that the Fourth
Amendment doesn’t apply to any
records held by a company or other
third party, no matter how sensitive
that information is. This view has ac-
tually been rejected recently by the
U.S. Supreme Court. What Mr. Barr
has been saying is actually out of sync
even with the current thinking of the
Supreme Court. The Supreme Court
most recently held that the Fourth
Amendment does apply to the govern-
ment’s collection of location data from
wireless carriers.
Apparently, yesterday Mr. Barr said
he had not read that Supreme Court
decision. Colleagues. I think that
ought to be really troubling to the
Members of this body. We are talking
about location data. Location data can
be a personal safety and national secu-
rity nightmare.
We saw what happened just last
week. In 2018, the wireless companies
all made promises to me that they
wouldn’t make available precise loca-
tion data to hedge funds, bail bonds-
men—all kinds of bottom feeders just
looking to make a buck. What hap-
pened was, in 2018, those wireless com-
panies said they wouldn’t make that
data available any longer to these loca-
tion trackers and bail bondsmen and
the like, and then last week, a bounty
hunter got 300 bucks and found out
those 2018 promises to me meant noth-
ing. So last week, the wireless compa-
nies promised again that they wouldn’t
make location data available to all of
these financially interested parties. I
appreciate their saying it, but I will
tell you, I will believe it when I see it,
because we got a promise in 2018 that
they would be serious about protecting
location data, and we saw last week
that they weren’t.
We have the Supreme Court now
making it clear that the Fourth
Amendment applies to the govern-
ment’s collection of location data from
wireless carriers, but the person who is
up for nomination, Mr. Barr, has not
been willing to or doesn’t find it impor-
tant enough to even read the Supreme
Court decision on this case.
The government’s collection of busi-
ness records is authorized by section
215 of FISA, which was part of the PA-
TRIOT Act. There are serious concerns
about 215. It was abused for years to
carry out a secret program that swept
up the phone records of millions of in-
nocent, law-abiding Americans. Even
after the USA FREEDOM Act, which
was intended to end bulk collection, it
has been used to collect hundreds of
millions of phone records. All the gov-
ernment needs to collect these records
is to show the FISA Court that the
records are relevant to an investiga-
tion. There is no requirement for a
probable cause warrant.
This important law sunsets this year,
so the Congress will have a debate
about whether these authorities are
too broad, whether there is a need for
more checks and balances. I see my
colleague from Texas, who also serves
on the Intelligence Committee. We are
going to have a debate on it. That is
the way it ought to be.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.041 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S256 January 16, 2019
Today, we are talking about what I
consider to be dangerous views es-
poused by Mr. Barr. What Mr. Barr be-
lieves is that the government shouldn’t
have any court oversight at all when it
comes to collecting the records on
Americans. He thinks the government
should just unilaterally issue a sub-
poena and collect those records and
that there would be no oversight what-
ever. The foundation of Mr. Barr’s be-
liefs when it comes to surveillance is
that the President can do whatever he
wants if he believes national security
is at stake.
I am going to close by simply talking
for an additional minute or two about
what it will mean if Mr. Barr is con-
firmed as Donald Trump’s Attorney
General.
Right now, the President is openly
considering a declaration that he, Don-
ald Trump, has emergency powers to
override the will of the Congress, and
he is doing this while relying on a base-
less assertion that there is a national
security crisis.
Until he was fact-checked, he was
making very far-fetched claims about
terrorists coming over the border. He
also regularly calls journalists ‘‘en-
emies of the people’’ and calls for in-
vestigations of his political enemies.
I would oppose the nomination of
anyone with William Barr’s views on
Executive power regardless of who was
President, but the kinds of threats I
am talking about are too serious to ig-
nore.
Donald Trump has openly said and
said specifically how much he would
enjoy unchecked surveillance power.
During the 2016 campaign, when the
Russians were hacking his opponents,
the President of the United States, our
current President, said: ‘‘honestly, I
wish I had that power. I’d love to have
that power.’’
If Donald Trump decides that na-
tional security is at stake and William
Barr is the Attorney General, it would
be Mr. Barr who might give him that
power—power he could use with no
oversight from the courts and without
regard to what Mr. Barr has dismissed
as ‘‘the schemes’’—our laws—of Con-
gress.
In case anyone thinks Mr. Barr would
himself serve as a check on the Presi-
dent, he has also written that that is
not the Attorney General’s job. Just
last year, he wrote that all Executive
power rests in one and only one per-
son—the President—and that the Presi-
dent doesn’t have to convince his At-
torney General that his orders are
legal.
Let me be clear. The issues I have
raised with respect to Mr. Barr’s views
on surveillance are not kind of conjec-
ture or possible theories. What I have
been talking about this afternoon are
the views outlined in Mr. Barr’s own
testimony. I hope every Member of this
body will take the time to read Mr.
Barr’s testimony and consider what is
at stake.
There are Members in both political
parties in this Chamber who have long
been concerned about the expansive
surveillance authorities under the For-
eign Intelligence Surveillance Act and
the possible abuse of that law. Those
concerns are, in my view, small pota-
toes compared to what Mr. Barr has
proposed, which is that the law need
not constrain the President whatso-
ever. For example, some Members of
this body have expressed concern about
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act
warrants in connection with the Russia
investigation and whether all relevant
information has been provided to the
FISA Court. Consider a world in which
the government doesn’t need a warrant
and doesn’t have to justify its surveil-
lance to any court. Consider the possi-
bility of abuse in that world. That is
the world Mr. Barr has testified he
wants.
I also would appeal to my colleagues
with whom I have had some pretty vig-
orous debates over the years about sur-
veillance and who may have no con-
cerns about the current framework of
our laws. We can have our disagree-
ments about how to write the law. Here
in the Senate, we do agree that the
laws passed by the Congress mean
something. They are binding, and they
are not, as Mr. Barr has stated,
‘‘schemes’’ that the President can just
ignore whenever he feels like it.
This nominee has been more than
clear about where he stands. He be-
lieves that the President alone decides
when there is a threat and that when
he does, he doesn’t have to worry about
Congress, judges, or the laws, or the
Constitution. In my view, that is a pre-
scription for trouble, a prescription for
more abuses—abuses that Congress
may or may not even be told about.
But we have been warned. We have
been warned by Mr. Barr’s testimony.
I also would like to note that I have
concerns about Mr. Barr that relate to
classified matters, and I am currently
seeking declassification of those mat-
ters and hope that this will be resolved
prior to any votes on the nominee.
I see colleagues are waiting.
Mr. President, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, yester-
day the Senate Judiciary Committee
began to hear witnesses on the nomina-
tion of Bill Barr to be the next Attor-
ney General of the United States. We
heard first, of course, from Mr. Barr
himself all day yesterday and today
from additional witnesses.
By any standard, Mr. Barr is an ex-
ceptionally qualified individual, in part
because 27 years ago, he was Attorney
General, nominated and confirmed
unanimously—nominated by President
George Herbert Walker Bush. Under his
leadership at the time, the Department
of Justice focused on some of the most
important law enforcement challenges
facing our country at that time. They
worked to fight violent crime and com-
bat the drug epidemic, both of which
continue to do great harm to commu-
nities across the country still today.
As significant as the work done
under his leadership was, I was more
impressed with the fact that after 27
years, he was willing to take on the
task of becoming Attorney General
once again. He said he was sort of
semiretired. He and his wife were look-
ing forward to spending more time
with their children and grandchildren.
But he answered the call to public serv-
ice, and I am grateful that he did. He
knows that our Nation needs a strong
law-and-order Attorney General at the
Department of Justice.
When he spoke at his confirmation
hearing more than 21⁄2 decades ago, he
said:
The Attorney General must ensure that
the administration of justice—the enforce-
ment of the law—is above and away from
politics. Nothing could be more destructive
of our system of government, the rule of law,
or the Department of Justice as an institu-
tion, than any toleration of political inter-
ference with the enforcement of the law.
He repeated that commitment yes-
terday, and I think the need for that
sort of strong statement is more im-
portant today than ever.
I believe Attorney General Barr will
be a good Attorney General, assuming
what is one of the most challenging po-
sitions in the Cabinet because you are
a political appointee but you are also
the chief law enforcement officer in the
country. That sometimes can be dif-
ficult to navigate.
As the nominee noted, doing the job
and doing it well sometimes requires
being prepared to burn your political
capital in order to preserve the rule of
law. I believe this is the most funda-
mental quality of a good Attorney Gen-
eral, and having a leader at the helm of
the Department of Justice with the
right temperament and a fundamental
understanding of this responsibility is
critical now and forever. In recent
years, we witnessed some Attorneys
General carrying out actions that re-
peatedly toed that political line, some-
times crossed it.
Under the Obama administration, the
Department of Justice began to veer
increasingly away from the impartial
administration of law and toward poli-
tics. That shift undoubtedly occurred
at the hands of President Obama’s At-
torneys General who were in the driv-
er’s seat during his administration,
Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch.
Both Holder’s and Lynch’s conduct
has come under a great deal of scru-
tiny—even now, after they have left—
and for good reason.
For example, under then-Attorney
General Holder, there was something
called Operation Fast and Furious in
which the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
and Firearms and the Department of
Justice purposefully allowed the illegal
sale of firearms in Mexico in the hopes
of being able to track them. Unfortu-
nately, there were a number of casual-
ties, including Border Patrolman Brian
Terry, who was killed with one of those
firearms in 2010. Attorney General
Holder never accepted responsibility
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.043 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S257
January 16, 2019
for Brian Terry’s death or ever admit-
ted that allowing these guns to walk
into Mexico, into the hands of some
criminal organizations, was a terrible
mistake.
Under his watch, the IRS targeting
controversy occurred in which politi-
cally aligned groups applying for tax-
exempt status faced official oppression
based upon their political affiliation.
Then, of course, more recently, let’s
not forget then-Attorney General
Lynch’s handling of the Clinton email
scandal—something even James
Comey, the FBI Director, objected to—
along with her famous so-called tarmac
meeting with former President Bill
Clinton when his wife was under an ac-
tive FBI investigation. The conduct of
both Holder and Lynch undermined the
public’s confidence in the impartial ad-
ministration of justice and law at the
Justice Department.
Under the leadership of my friend
and our former colleague, Jeff Ses-
sions, the Department of Justice has
begun to right the ship and again sepa-
rate politics from the impartial admin-
istration of the law, and I am confident
that Mr. Barr will continue to do the
same.
During his confirmation hearing, Mr.
Barr reaffirmed that politicians should
not interfere with criminal investiga-
tions, and he likewise committed not
to interfere with the special counsel’s
investigation. He assured us that his
allegiance will be to the rule of law, to
the Constitution, and to the American
people, and that, above all else, he will
work to protect the professionalism
and integrity of the Department of
Justice and the thousands of dedicated
public servants who work there.
Not only is Mr. Barr exceptionally
qualified for the job, he is prepared on
day one to step in and lead with dis-
tinction.
The Senate unanimously confirmed
his nomination to three different posi-
tions at the Department of Justice, and
I hope we can work expeditiously to
get this fine man to the Department of
Justice once again.
I thank Mr. Barr and his entire fam-
ily for agreeing to bring his talents and
his temperament to the Department of
Justice at a time when those qualities
are so desperately needed, and I look
forward to voting yes on his nomina-
tion.
REMEMBERING HERB KELLEHER
Mr. President, on another matter, I
want to share a few words about the
passing of one of the airline industry’s
most unconventional and most success-
ful executives. That would be Herb
Kelleher, who cofounded Southwest
Airlines.
Herb was born in 1931 in New Jersey,
and his young life and early career
kept him on the east coast. He grad-
uated from Wesleyan University and
New York University School of Law
and served as a law clerk for 2 years at
the New Jersey Supreme Court and
then joined a law firm in Newark. But
as fate intervened in this promising
young lawyer’s career, he met his wife
Joan, a native Texan, and they decided
to move to the Lone Star State, some-
thing he later referred to as the great-
est business decision he ever made.
Building America’s largest domestic
airline carrier was never on Herb’s to-
do list. In the late 1960s, he was an at-
torney in San Antonio, when one day
his client approached him with an idea
about a low-fare airline serving three
Texas cities. Tired of spending so much
time in the car traveling between San
Antonio and Houston and Dallas, he be-
lieved they could make point-to-point
intrastate travel faster and much
cheaper by flying, and also cheaper
than other airlines.
Getting their innovative idea off the
ground wasn’t easy. These men who
founded Southwest Airlines slogged
through years of legal battles before
the airline operated its first flight.
Their vision not only led to the cre-
ation of a budget airline but also drove
down the cost of their competitors, as
competition will do.
To maintain their edge, Southwest
tried some interesting ideas along the
way. After another airline ran an ad
calling Southwest a cheap carrier, Herb
responded by filming a commercial
where he wore a brown paper bag over
his head and promised that the airline
would gladly provide one to any cus-
tomer too embarrassed to be seen fly-
ing on Southwest Airline.
At one point, to compete with the
low fares of other airlines, Southwest
started a program to keep customers,
and they said: You can either pay the
lowest fare or pay full fare and get a
full premium bottle of liquor in the
process. Well, apparently it worked,
and for a short time, I am told, South-
west was the largest liquor distributor
in the State of Texas.
I think one of the most distinctly
Herb Kelleher stories is of a battle
called ‘‘The Malice in Dallas.’’
In 1992, Southwest Airlines and an-
other company realized their slogans—
‘‘Plane Smart’’ and ‘‘Just Plane
Smart’’—were similar. Rather than
settling the matter in court, they set-
tled it by holding a public arm wres-
tling match.
The 61-year-old, with the cigarette
fixed between his teeth, gave his much
younger competitor a run for his
money, but he couldn’t pull off a win.
At the end of the match, the two men
made donations to each other’s chosen
charities. They agreed to share the slo-
gan and called it a day.
Each of these stories has Herb
Kelleher written all over it. He was
known for his gregarious personality,
his incredible work ethic, and his
penchant for the nontraditional, not to
mention his affinity for Wild Turkey.
I first met Herb when I represented
him in a lawsuit early in my legal ca-
reer in San Antonio. He had a larger-
than-life personality, and it was a
pleasure to know him.
We can all learn a lesson from Herb
about the importance of working hard,
treating people with respect, and not
being afraid to have a little bit of fun
along the way. His entrepreneurial
spirit was credited with democratizing
the skies by disrupting the airline in-
dustry, and I believe he was one of the
most consequential leaders in Amer-
ican aviation, and we have all bene-
fited from that.
So I join Herb’s wife Joan, his chil-
dren, his grandchildren, his many
friends, and, of course, his beloved
Southwest Airlines family in mourning
the loss of this larger-than-life figure.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Carolina.
MENTHOL CIGARETTES
Mr. BURR. Mr. President, I also
mourn Herb’s loss. It is odd that I
would be here to protect his ability to
have that cigarette in his mouth as he
was negotiating.
I rise today to discuss the recent an-
nouncement by the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration to move forward with a
ban on menthol cigarettes. This an-
nouncement, to say the least, is sur-
prising. In an administration claiming
to decrease regulation on the American
people, this announcement works com-
pletely counter to that goal—increas-
ing regulation and decreasing the
choices for adult consumers in Amer-
ica.
Making matters worse, the an-
nouncement comes from an Agency
that the American people trust. They
trust them to make decisions based
upon the most sound and reliable
science available. Unfortunately, the
FDA has not provided a sound sci-
entific argument to move forward with
the ban on one type of product that
Americans consume understanding
fully the risk.
On November 30, 2018, I raised this
concern with the Food and Drug Ad-
ministration. As a part of their an-
nouncement, the FDA claimed that
their regulatory actions are based on
information released by the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, or
CDC.
When I asked for the data supporting
this menthol decision, I was informed
that this data would be made available
later this year. I also asked the FDA to
explain to me whether the Agency has
determined that menthol cigarettes
make more children try smoking or
whether these products make it more
difficult for children to stop smoking.
I pause here because I am sure the
Presiding Officer is remembering that
it is illegal for people under 18 to pur-
chase tobacco products.
The FDA simply informed me that
the information I requested would be
part of a proposed rule available for
stakeholder comment.
Now, I think you would agree that it
is highly unusual for a science-based
Agency to refuse to provide the data
informing its regulatory decisions to a
seated Member of the U.S. Congress.
This should set off alarm bells. Any
product regulated by the FDA might
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.044 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S258 January 16, 2019
fall into this category of ‘‘no Member
of Congress being able to know.’’
Well, it may seem odd, but the FDA
regulates 25 cents of every dollar of the
U.S. economy—no wonder it takes so
long and costs so much for new drugs
and devices to come to market.
As a result, I did my own research.
The chart behind me, with 2017 data
from the CDC, shows that children’s
use of traditional menthol cigarettes
has decreased 3 percent since 2011. Let
me say that again. Since 2011, usage by
youth in America of menthol ciga-
rettes has reduced from 5.8 percent to
2.5 percent.
This data runs counter to the need
for increased regulation and decreased
choices for consumers and calls into
question the FDA’s own decision.
In 2009, Congress debated the regula-
tion of tobacco products. I was here for
the entire debate and was an active
participant in the dialogue. I alone pro-
vided over 16 hours of remarks on the
Senate floor so that my colleagues un-
derstood my concerns with this type of
legislation and to ensure, quite frank-
ly, that the voice of North Carolinians
was clearly and deeply understood in
the U.S. Senate.
One issue discussed during that de-
bate was actually the banning of fla-
vors in cigarettes, including menthol.
Congress struggled to come to a con-
sensus on this issue, offering many
iterations at the time of the legisla-
tion, taking different approaches to the
ban of any, all, or none of the flavors
available in cigarettes at the time.
Ultimately, the decision was made
for the FDA to thoroughly study the
effects of menthol cigarettes.
The Agency issued its report in 2011
and commissioned a third-party entity
to study the science behind menthol
cigarettes, for which a report was
issued in 2013.
Now, what resulted from the results
of that study?
For the remainder of President
Obama’s terms in office, which ended
in 2016, their FDA never attempted to
move a menthol ban. Why? Because the
results of that information—that sci-
entific data—did not substantiate
what, in fact, that would accomplish.
In the 5 years since the publication of
these studies, the science has not
changed to justify the ban of an entire
product category by the FDA.
Each year, the CDC issues the latest
data from the National Youth Tobacco
Survey. This survey asks about 20,000
children about their tobacco use, and it
has been conducted since 1999. This sur-
vey covers details of middle and high
schoolers’ use and exposure to a vari-
ety of tobacco products, and it includes
specifics on the use of different product
categories, like traditional cigarettes
and e-cigarettes, as well as data on the
percentage of survey participants who
tried menthol.
The CDC data shows that there has
been a 12-point decrease in the percent-
age of children trying traditional ciga-
rettes since 2011.
Let me state that again.
The CDC’s own data shows that there
has been a 12-percent reduction in the
percentage of children trying tradi-
tional cigarettes since 2011.
Now, this is good news. The use of
cigarettes among children is decreas-
ing, showing that our education and
our public health efforts are, in fact,
working.
As I mentioned before, the survey
shows that the use of menthol ciga-
rettes by children has also declined, de-
creasing 3 percent since 2011.
Even the FDA’s own data shows the
decline in children’s use of traditional
cigarettes.
Now, this chart I have basically
shows that traditional cigarettes have
fallen 12 percent since 2011, compared
to the latest survey data of 2017. It is
probably difficult for some to see, but
the red arrow pointing down certainly
indicates a decrease. The red arrow
pointing up shows an increase. Now,
that should be alarming, and it is an
area that we will talk about in a sec-
ond.
But the solution here is simple. Data
released by the CDC and the FDA pro-
vide a clear marker that the FDA’s
focus should be on areas where chil-
dren’s use is increasing rather than in
areas where we are already making sig-
nificant progress.
I might pause and say that if a prod-
uct is illegal for somebody under 18, I
don’t know how you ban a product and
believe that it wasn’t already banned if
it was illegal.
The FDA’s decision does not pass the
commonsense test. It is time for the
FDA to focus on the things where there
is an increase for children. I give them
examples: marijuana, opioids, fentanyl,
meth. We have debated it on the floor
of the Senate. While we are looking at
one thing and the FDA has got us fo-
cused on it, look at how many chil-
dren’s lives are devastated in this
country—again, with illegal products.
One can only conclude by what we
are doing, which is banning menthol,
that we are emulating Canada. Several
years ago they banned menthol, and
last year they legalized marijuana.
That may be the route we are on. I am
not sure. Nothing surprises me any-
more in Washington.
June of this year will mark the 10th
anniversary of the Tobacco Control
Act, which provided the FDA regu-
latory authority over tobacco prod-
ucts. The law gave the FDA broad au-
thority to regulate these products and
was intended to provide a path forward
for innovative products—tobacco prod-
ucts, as well—placing hope in advance-
ments in research and development to
provide new options for American con-
sumers that are down the continuum of
risk for those individuals who choose,
potentially replacing their use of com-
bustible cigarettes with electronic
ones.
The FDA does not have a single gov-
erning regulation for the review and
the approval of the products Congress
put under its regulatory watch. Almost
a decade after enactment and more
than $5 billion later, the FDA has
failed to issue one foundational regula-
tion governing the viable review of any
tobacco product.
Let me state that again. Almost a
decade after enactment and $5 billion
later, the FDA has failed to issue a
foundational regulation governing the
viable review of any tobacco product.
This failure would be unacceptable
from any other regulated industry. The
Center for Tobacco Products receives
hundreds of millions of user-fee dollars
each year and is still falling behind the
other product review centers at the
FDA. The FDA has a responsibility to
develop clear rules of the road for inno-
vation and potentially less harmful to-
bacco products—some of the very prod-
ucts that are under scrutiny today be-
cause they are in regulatory limbo 10
years later. The Agency has had ample
time to act and, instead, focused its ef-
forts and resources on banning a le-
gally marketed product without the
data to support their own actions.
I urge my colleagues to take a seri-
ous look at the FDA’s decision to ban
menthol cigarettes. The FDA chose to
decrease choices for the American con-
sumer while their counterpart, the
CDC, continues to show a decline in
children’s use of menthol cigarettes.
These two Agencies should, in fact, be
in alignment, using the CDC’s highly
regarded public health data to fully in-
form the FDA’s approach to regulate
these products. The information it re-
leased on November 18, 2018, shows a
steep increase in the use of all tobacco
products. However, the FDA has not
provided the data to show that tradi-
tional cigarettes have contributed to
this increase from 2017 to 2018 in any
way or that menthol played a part in
this increase. If it had—I will take you
back to the original chart—we would
see a significant change in the trend
line of menthol usage of youth.
I would bet my colleagues today that
when you get to 2018, you will continue
to see a decline in menthol. It begs the
question of whether the leadership at
FDA is making decisions with any re-
gard for years of public health data,
coming at the cost of choices for the
American people.
This argument comes down to wheth-
er you believe Americans have a right
to choose. As long as I am an elected
official, I will advocate for adult con-
sumers to have these choices.
I realize this is the floor of great de-
bate, and I am not scared to have a de-
bate on whether tobacco is a legal
product. As long as it is a legal prod-
uct, why would we encumber the con-
sumer with choice when, in fact, we see
a trend line like this as it relates to
youth?
So I say to the FDA and I say to my
colleagues: Don’t hide behind our chil-
dren and tell us that is the reason, be-
cause the data doesn’t support it. The
data says that what we are doing in
education, what we are doing as par-
ents is convincing the next generation
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.046 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S259
January 16, 2019
that this is not a product they want to
use. But when you ban menthol ciga-
rettes, you take many adults who
choose to purchase and to use a legal
product with full understanding of the
risk and tell them: No, we are going to
eliminate the choice of this product.
That is wrong. It is wrong for Con-
gress to do; it is wrong for a regulatory
Agency to do; and it is a blemish on
this administration to announce that
they are reducing regulation when, in
fact, they are going out and instituting
some of the most onerous regulations
on America’s consumers, the American
people who choose.
I urge my colleagues to become edu-
cated on this. I will give them an op-
portunity on multiple occasions for the
balance of this year to hear more about
this industry.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The assistant Democratic
leader.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. DURBIN. Madam President, last
Saturday was a historic day in Spring-
field, IL, my hometown. It was the big-
gest snowfall in one day in our city’s
history. I spent that Saturday not
shaking hands with my constituents
but shaking hands with my shovel, try-
ing to shovel snow away. It was a his-
toric day in Springfield but, sadly, it
was a historic day for America too.
Saturday marked the longest shut-
down of the U.S. Government in the
history of the United States. As of
today, the shutdown has continued for
26 days. Day by day, the harmful ef-
fects of this government shutdown are
getting worse. Alarmingly, the Presi-
dent seems not to really understand or
appreciate the real-life impact this
shutdown is having on many Ameri-
cans.
In all, more than 8,000 Federal work-
ers in my home State of Illinois are
going without a paycheck during this
shutdown—8,000 people who are con-
cerned about paying their bills, as
most working families are. These are
hard-working Americans.
I want to show you a photo of one of
them. He happens to be a friend of
mine. His name is Toby Hauck. This is
Toby here. Toby is a veteran of the
U.S. Air Force. His job in Aurora, IL, is
to make sure that my plane, when it
arrives at O’Hare, lands safely. Toby
Hauck is an air traffic controller. Air
traffic controllers have some of the
most important and most stressful
Federal jobs in America, and this shut-
down is a kick in the gut to Toby
Hauck and all of these air traffic con-
trollers.
Many air traffic controllers, like
Toby, are already working 6 days a
week. I am not happy to report that.
Pushing them to the limits of physical
exhaustion isn’t in the best interest of
safety when it comes to our aircraft,
but because of staffing shortages, that
is what they are faced with, working 6
days a week. The shutdown is making
staff shortages in the air traffic control
facilities across the United States even
worse.
The shutdown has closed down the
FAA academy where new air traffic
controllers are trained and has stopped
training in each facility to implement
new procedures and new equipment.
Toby’s father and grandfather, inci-
dentally, served in the U.S. military,
as he did. This picture depicts his great
son and Toby’s granddaughter. I want-
ed to bring another point home. Toby’s
son is deploying overseas this month.
Toby and his wife will be looking after
their 21⁄2-year-old granddaughter dur-
ing the 10-month deployment. Toby’s
lack of a paycheck since December 31
of last year adds stress to an already
hectic life.
Toby says:
Veterans are very proud of our heritage
and what we have done for the country. And
those of us who continue to serve the Fed-
eral Government as Federal employees con-
tinue that pride throughout their careers.
Toby says:
We are hardworking, proud American em-
ployees doing a job for the American public
that is essential as an air traffic controller.
It’s not acceptable as a veteran, as a federal
employee, as an air traffic controller to use
my profession and my livelihood as a polit-
ical football.
Toby doesn’t stand alone as a veteran
working for the Federal Government.
Veterans are some of the hardest hit
Federal employees of the Trump shut-
down. Today as many as 250,000 Federal
workers and Federal contractors are
going without pay during the shut-
down. According to the Office of Per-
sonnel Management, as of the end of
fiscal year 2016, veterans represented 31
percent of the Federal workforce. This
is more than a 5-percent increase since
2009, when President Obama encour-
aged veterans to apply for employment
with the Federal Government to boost
the hiring of men and women who
served our country in uniform.
In Illinois, we have 50,000 Federal
workers, and almost 28 percent of them
are veterans. More than one-quarter of
all veterans working in the Federal
Government also have a Department of
Veterans Affairs disability rating.
For example, if SNAP, the food
stamp program, runs out, 38 million
Americans could lose their food stamp
benefits. That includes veterans living
in households that participate in
SNAP. You don’t think about that very
often, do you? Do you mean there are
veterans on food stamps? The figure
has averaged about 1.4 million veterans
a year between 2015 and 2017, according
to the Census Bureau. Illinois is home
to nearly 50,000 veterans who are bene-
ficiaries of food stamps and HUD rental
assistance programs on an annual basis
as well. So the very programs that are
going to be hampered, slowed down,
and stopped because of the Trump
shutdown affect veterans across my
State of Illinois and across the Nation.
About 1,150 contracts under the
project-based rental assistance pro-
gram have lapsed, with hundreds more
scheduled to expire because of this
shutdown. People are suffering around
the country.
Federal workers are suffering. Their
workers are suffering and veterans are
suffering because of this Trump shut-
down. More than 380,000 Federal work-
ers have been furloughed; 450,000 or
more are being forced to work without
pay. These are hard-working Ameri-
cans like the TSA officers I met last
week at O’Hare and met just a few days
ago when I flew to St. Louis Lambert
Airport. They go to work every single
day, and their job is to make sure that
dangerous people don’t get on the air-
planes with you, your children, and
your family. They can’t afford to have
their paychecks held hostage by a man-
ufactured crisis.
These families of Federal workers
have bills to pay. A worker at the En-
vironmental Protection Agency, Cyn-
thia Colquitt, is going without a pay-
check after serving 26 years as a Fed-
eral employee. How hard is it? She is a
single mom, and she says, quite hon-
estly: I get by paycheck to paycheck.
She has never missed a mortgage pay-
ment; she is very serious about those
things. But now she is worried the
shutdown will impact her credit rating
if she doesn’t have a paycheck to pay
her bills on time.
Shutdowns not only hurt our Federal
workers, but the impact is also felt by
small businesses around the country
that rely on the business of Federal
workers and the government. This
shutdown is hurting our economy and
only adding to economic uncertainty.
Remember what happened in Decem-
ber? If you happen to have a retirement
account with investments in stocks,
you noticed that December was a pret-
ty horrible month. There was an 8.7-
percent drop in the stock market in
December—the worst December for the
stock market since 1931, during the
Great Depression.
The CEO of JPMorgan Chase is now
warning that if this shutdown lasts an-
other several weeks, it could reduce
our Nation’s quarterly growth to zero.
The victims of the shutdown will not
be the Federal employees; it will affect
the entire economy because the input
into the economy—the things they buy
and pay for—will be diminished.
Just why are we in this mess? Well,
as the President said several weeks ago
on camera in the Oval Office, it is his
shutdown and he is very proud of it. He
said that he was going to hold the
hard-earned paychecks of Americans
hostage in an attempt to fulfill his
campaign promise to build a wall on
the southern border of the United
States, a concrete wall, as he described
it, ‘‘from sea to shining sea,’’ which,
incidentally, he promised would be
paid for by the Mexicans.
Let me say that again. All of the
pain of this shutdown is caused because
the President made a campaign prom-
ise to build this almighty wall. Well,
we know something about walls. They
don’t work very well. We know it
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.047 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S260 January 16, 2019
might have been a great response sev-
eral hundred years ago to build a
wall—not so much today. There are
better ways to make America safe,
other than building a wall. Yet the
President said: It is my wall or a shut-
down.
If we have a debate about border se-
curity, I want to be a part of it, but we
shouldn’t do it while holding the Gov-
ernment of the United States hostage.
Every day of the government shutdown
is another day that President Trump is
harming innocent Americans, pre-
venting hundreds of thousands of
Americans from getting their pay-
checks and millions more from getting
access to vital Federal services.
We should reopen this government
and we ought to do it this afternoon
and we can. One phone call from the
President to Senator MITCH MCCON-
NELL, Republican leader of the Senate,
is all it takes. NANCY PELOSI, the new
Speaker of the House, has already
passed the spending bills to open the
government. She did it last week. She
sent them over here. They are sitting
at the desk up here. We are not touch-
ing them because Senator MCCONNELL
said: I am not going to solve this prob-
lem until the President gives me per-
mission. A little reminder to my col-
league Senator MCCONNELL, under the
Constitution, we are a separate branch
of government. We don’t wait for a per-
mission slip from the President of the
United States to do the job we were
elected to do.
Today we had a vote earlier, and I
looked at the other side of the aisle
and talked to a number of my Repub-
lican colleagues. I wasn’t a bit sur-
prised to find so many of them fed up
with this government shutdown. They
want it to end today, and so do I. Then
we can sit down and negotiate border
security and do it the right way, not
with a gun at our head—I should say, a
gun to the head of 800,000 Federal em-
ployees. Let’s reopen the government
and then continue to negotiate. House
Democrats have given us the bills we
need to do that. Now it is up to Senator
MCCONNELL. Will he come forward
through that door onto the floor, call
these bills, and end this shutdown be-
fore 5 p.m. today?
He could. He has the power to do it.
He can pass the spending bills. He
warns us that President Trump may
not sign these bills. Well, Senator
MCCONNELL has been around the Sen-
ate for decades. He has been around so
long that I am sure he is familiar with
our Constitution. Do you know what?
If the President vetoed these spending
bills, we have the constitutional au-
thority and opportunity to override his
veto—to come up with 67 votes in the
Senate, two-thirds in the House to
override any Presidential veto. I think
the votes are there, and I think that is
the reason Senator MCCONNELL is
afraid to call the bills.
It is time for the Senate to act. Let’s
not wait for a permission slip from
President Trump. Let’s do what we
were elected to do. Let’s spare Toby
Hauck and 800,000 Federal employees,
including many veterans, the hardships
their families are facing.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
NATIONAL DEFENSE
Mrs. FISCHER. Madam President, I
rise to discuss the state of our national
defense. First, I want to recognize the
brave Americans who were killed in a
suicide attack in Syria today. Our
deepest sympathies are with the fami-
lies of those killed and the injured. We
are so grateful to these Americans for
their service and for their sacrifice.
As I enter my seventh year on the
Senate Armed Services Committee, I
can’t help but reflect on our past suc-
cesses. I am proud of what we have ac-
complished by working together to ful-
fill the first responsibility of our Fed-
eral Government to provide for the
common defense. Together, we have
continued the committee’s long-
standing bipartisan tradition of work-
ing to strengthen our military, and we
have been effective on a variety of
fronts.
We have provided our brave men and
women in uniform with the resources
they need to carry out the missions we
give them every year through the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act.
Importantly, for the last 2 years,
Congress and the administration have
worked together to rebuild the Depart-
ment of Defense and reorient it to to-
day’s threats. As the administration’s
National Defense Strategy correctly
identifies, the primary challenge to
U.S. interests today comes not from
terrorist groups but from Russia and
China.
In recognition of this fact, Congress
increased funding to restore readiness
and expand force structure from near-
historic lows. While progress has been
made, significant challenges remain.
The bipartisan support for increased
defense spending must continue, and
Congress must ensure our service men
and women have the necessary training
and equipment for the great power
competition that defines the current
geopolitical landscape. As part of this
effort to ensure our military is pre-
pared for the new threat environment,
we must continue modernizing our nu-
clear forces.
Once again, this Congress I will chair
the Armed Services Committee’s Sub-
committee on Strategic Forces, and
this issue will be my top priority.
Since the end of World War II, our nu-
clear deterrent has formed the bedrock
of our Nation’s security. With Russia
and China increasingly seeking to chal-
lenge U.S. interests and to reshape the
geopolitical landscape in their favor,
the unique role our nuclear forces play
in deterring conflict and preventing
war is becoming increasingly impor-
tant.
Meanwhile, our warheads and deliv-
ery systems age toward obsolescence,
as does the infrastructure that main-
tains our deterrent. Many of these sys-
tems have aged far beyond their de-
signed lifetimes. They cannot be sus-
tained indefinitely. Put simply, as our
nuclear deterrent becomes more impor-
tant to our Nation’s defense, the need
for nuclear modernization only grows.
This conclusion is echoed in the ad-
ministration’s National Defense Strat-
egy, its Nuclear Posture Review, and
the bipartisan National Defense Strat-
egy Commission, which described nu-
clear modernization as a ‘‘critical im-
perative.’’
The previous administration, under
President Obama, also recognized the
need for modernization and began an
effort to recapitalize our nuclear
forces. Right now, major programs are
underway to replace our legacy sys-
tems. This includes the B–21 bomber,
which will replace the B–52 and B–2
bombers, and the long-range standoff
weapon, which will replace the existing
nuclear-armed, air-launched cruise
missile. The ground-based strategic de-
terrent is replacing the Minuteman III
intercontinental ballistic missile. Fi-
nally, the Columbia-class submarine
will replace the Ohio-class submarines
that are currently in service.
The command and control networks
on which our nuclear forces rely are
also in need of replacement, as is the
scientific infrastructure that main-
tains our stockpile of aging warheads.
In some cases, such as with the pro-
duction of plutonium pits—essentially
the cores of our nuclear weapons—we
must reconstitute lost capabilities.
Adding to the challenge, as a result of
decisions to delay and defer funding,
there is no margin for error in the
schedule.
This is the position we find ourselves
in. Our existing platforms are simulta-
neously aging out just as their replace-
ments are scheduled to be ready. Some-
thing General Selva, the Vice Chair-
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, refers
to as just-in-time modernization. That
means any delay, any error, could put
at risk our ability to field an effective
nuclear deterrent in the future. We
cannot allow that to happen. In the
face of growing threats, our deterrent
must remain strong.
As chairman of the Strategic Forces
Subcommittee, I understand I carry
the solemn responsibility to make sure
the nuclear forces that have deterred
conflict, safeguarded our livelihoods,
and preserved our Nation’s power for
decades continues to protect the next
generation of Americans. While U.S.
Strategic Command is located in Sarpy
County, NE, it is a national asset with
a global mission—over 180,000 soldiers,
sailors, airmen, marines, and civilians
are working every day around the
world in support of the command’s mis-
sion.
During this Congress, I am looking
forward to working with my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle on this key
priority and continuing our work in
providing for a strong national defense.
Thank you.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.048 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S261
January 16, 2019
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, we
are 26 days into President Trump’s
completely unnecessary government
shutdown—26 days of pain and uncer-
tainty; 26 days of missed paychecks
and missed bills—26 days, the longest
in our country’s history.
I have heard from so many constitu-
ents in my home State of Washington
who have been impacted by this shut-
down. These are heart-wrenching sto-
ries of workers who do not know how
much longer they can make it without
a paycheck. Members of our U.S. Coast
Guard—the very men and women who
stand ready 24/7 to make harrowing
rescues and keep our country safe—
didn’t get paid yesterday. They did not
get paid yesterday, marking the first
time ever that servicemembers have
not been paid because of a shutdown.
There are small business owners who
don’t know when their SBA loans will
come through; people who are dedi-
cated to our national parks—our na-
tional treasures—who are in despair as
they hear about trash piling up and ir-
reparable damage being done; people
waiting in lines at airports; people wor-
ried about food inspections; worried
about losing their homes or their cars
or their jobs. Entire families, entire
communities are impacted, uncertain,
and scared.
In my home State of Washington and
in every State in this country, I have
come to the floor time and again to
share these stories, along with many of
my Democratic colleagues. We have
called on Republican leaders to stand
with us, stand with their constituents,
and schedule a vote to end the shut-
down. All it would take is a vote. We
know it would pass, and we can move it
through the House and send it to the
President.
S. 109
What have Republican leaders done,
instead of scheduling a vote to help
workers and families and small busi-
ness owners and our economy; what
have they done, instead of standing
with their constituents to reopen this
government and end this madness?
Well, they have done what they have
always done when they don’t know
what else to do. They scheduled a vote
to attack women and their healthcare.
I almost couldn’t believe it when I
heard it. This government is shut
down. People are hurting. They want
solutions. They want the government
to open, and Republicans are going to
vote to effectively ban abortion cov-
erage. That is the business on the floor.
Instead of voting to pay Federal
workers, they are trying to tell women
what kind of health insurance they can
or can’t have. Instead of working to
make sure our airports are secure, they
want to undermine women’s access to
the healthcare they choose. Instead of
ending the chaos and dysfunction and
getting our country back on track,
they want to chip away again at every
woman’s constitutionally protected
right to make her own healthcare deci-
sions. Instead of working with us to
end the shutdown and then having a de-
bate on border security or anything
else they want to talk about, they are
planning a vote that will not do any-
thing but tell women across the coun-
try what they already know: Repub-
licans in Washington, DC, think they
know better than you about your
healthcare.
Let me be clear. They don’t.
This is disgusting. Women and men
across the country are not going to
stand for it. We can vote right now to
open the government. We can vote
right now to help our workers and our
families. We can vote right now to end
governing by Presidential tantrum. If
Republicans don’t do this—if they
choose, as they have, to attack women
and to throw their healthcare under
the bus instead of doing their basic
jobs—then the people across this coun-
try are going to see exactly where they
stand—not with them, not with their
families, not with their constituents,
and certainly not with women.
I urge the Republicans to end this
madness—to pull this anti-women
health vote—and to, instead, schedule
a vote to reopen the government. That
is what we should be focused on. That
is what Americans want us to do. We
need to end this. Let’s reopen the gov-
ernment, not attack women one more
time.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
MARCH FOR LIFE
Mr. INHOFE. Mr. President, more
than 100,000 people and families will
join together in the March for Life in
Washington that is going to take place
tomorrow. They will brave the cold—
there is supposed to be sleet and bad
weather—for one simple reason, to give
voice to the voiceless, the unborn, our
most vulnerable among us but are still
deserving of the right to life.
Jeremiah 1:5 says:
Before I formed you in the womb I knew
you,
Before you were born I sanctified you.
To everyone who comes to the March
for Life, know that we hear you, and
we are standing with you, just as we
have in the past.
This is not a new topic, not for me to
speak on either. Twenty-five years ago,
I came down to tell a story. At that
time, I was in the House. This has been
going on for a long period of time. I
came down here to tell the story of
Hannah Rosa Rodriguez. This is a
quote from 1992:
Mr. Chairman, there is a big mis-
conception regarding abortion and the
issue of women and their right to pro-
tect their bodies. It is not that right
that I object to but the right that is
given them to kill an unborn fetus—an
unborn child.
I want to share with you a story that
my colleague CHRIS SMITH told me
some time ago on this floor. That was
1992.
Ana Rosa Rodriguez is an abortion
survivor. This is another group of peo-
ple we haven’t talked about very much
on the floor. At birth, she was a
healthy 3-pound baby girl, except for
her injury; she was missing an arm.
Ana survived a botched abortion.
Her mother attempted to get an
abortion in her 32nd week of pregnancy
when she was perfectly healthy—8
weeks past what New York State law
legally allows. In the unsuccessful
abortion attempt, the baby’s right arm
was ripped off. However, they failed to
kill Ana Rosa. She lived. Pro-life sup-
porters agree that nightmare situa-
tions like the Rodriguez case are prob-
ably not common, but abortion-related
deaths and serious injuries occur more
frequently than most people are aware.
It is amazing that we can pay so
much attention to issues such as
human rights abroad and can allow the
violent destruction of over 26 million
children here at home. We are fortu-
nate that Ana was not one of those
children. She survived.
That was 1992, but today we still
don’t have Federal protections for the
babies who survive the brutal abortion
process. I am working with Senator
SASSE, who is leading the effort this
year to reintroduce the Born Alive
Abortion Survivor Act, which would
ensure that a baby who survives an
abortion will receive the same treat-
ment as any child naturally born pre-
mature at the same age, without pre-
scribing any particular form of treat-
ment. That is just morally right, and I
don’t see how anyone could vote
against something like that. We will
find out.
Just a few years later, in 1997, I was
on the floor of this body, the U.S. Sen-
ate, with my good friend former Sen-
ator Rick Santorum, to try to pass the
partial birth abortion ban and end the
horrific practice of late-term abor-
tions. I remember how active Senator
Rick Santorum was at that time, a real
leader in the pro-life cause. I spoke
then, 1997, on the floor:
I thank the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania for yielding time. I think he
made one of the best presentations I
have heard on the floor of this body. I
want to say that, when he deals with
the facts, he is dealing with the facts
but, you know, we are also dealing
today with perceptions.
I tried to make a list of those things
I have heard over and over. There is a
lot of redundancy on this floor, but
there are some things that have not
been stated. I would like to share a
couple of those with you.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.051 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S262 January 16, 2019
I am going to do something that is a
little unusual because I am going to
read some Scriptures to you. It is not
totally unprecedented in this body. In
fact, I have done it many, many times.
The distinguished Senator from West
Virginia does it quite often.
I was talking about Bob Byrd. We re-
member Bob Byrd. He is deceased now,
but this was 1997, and he read Scrip-
tures every day on the floor of this
Senate.
So I would like to read a couple of
Scriptures, just for those who care.
Anyone who does not, just don’t listen.
First of all, I have used this a num-
ber of times. Jeremiah 1:35 says: ‘‘Be-
fore I formed you in the womb I knew
you; Before you were born I sanctified
you.’’ The 139th Psalm, no matter
which interpretation you use, makes it
very clear when life begins. Life begins
at conception.
Then I was, not too long ago, at the
U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum. I
had been to the museum in Jerusalem,
and I found the same thing was printed
on the last brick as you are going
through. This is Deuteronomy 30:19. It
said: ‘‘I call heaven and earth as wit-
nesses today against you, that I have
set before you life and death, blessing
and cursing; therefore choose life, that
both you and your descendants may
live.’’
Last, I am also concerned that some-
thing that is as dramatic and as sig-
nificant as this issue is going to go un-
noticed; that maybe there are Senators
out there who are not really into this
issue, and they might want to vote the
party line or they might want to say,
well, maybe there aren’t as many of
these procedures out there, so they just
really are not knowledgeable on the
subject. So I will read Proverbs 24:11–
12:
Rescue those who are unjustly sentenced
to death; don’t stand back and let them die.
Don’t try to disclaim responsibility by say-
ing you didn’t know about it. For God, who
knows all hearts, knows yours, and He knows
you knew.
That is pretty specific.
Mr. President, I was listening to the
Senator from Massachusetts who said
it does not do any good if we pass this
because the President is going to veto
it anyway.
That was actually in 1997. The Presi-
dent, if you remember, at that time, I
advised the chairman, was Bill Clinton.
But I suggest to you that the Presi-
dent may not veto it, and if he does
veto it, maybe some people will come
over who were not here a year ago on
this side of the aisle.
See, this was 1997. It was pretty close
back then. It could have gone either
way.
One individual at the time was Ron
Fitzsimmons, who just last year in-
sisted that the number of partial birth
abortions were a relative handful now
admits: ‘‘I lied through my teeth.’’ He
was lying. So if the President is predi-
cating his decision to veto this ban on
the basis of what was told to him by
Ron Fitzsimmons, there is every rea-
son to believe he could turn around on
the issue. I suggest also that we are
talking now not just about a procedure
but a culture.
I have a very good friend by the name
of Charles Colson. We all remember
Chuck Colson. He is the guy who start-
ed the Campus Crusade for Christ. He
gave these remarks upon winning the
prestigious Templeton Prize for a con-
tribution to religion. Listen very care-
fully. He puts it all together, not iso-
lating one procedure or one issue. He
said:
Courts [like to] strike down even perfunc-
tory prayers, and we are surprised that
schools, bristling with barbed wire, look
more like prisons than prisons do. Univer-
sities reject the very idea of truth, and we
are shocked when their best and their bright-
est loot and betray.
Celebrities mock the traditional family,
even revile it as a form of slavery, and we
are appalled at the tragedy of broken homes
and millions of unwed mothers. The media
celebrate sex without responsibility, and we
are horrified by plagues. Our lawmakers jus-
tify the taking of innocent lives in sterile
clinics, and we are terrorized by the dis-
regard for life in blood-soaked streets.
I think that puts into context what
we are now approaching—that it is not
just a normal type of abortion.
I have a great deal of respect for one
of the most intellectual Members of
this body. Keep in mind that this is
1997. His name is Patrick Moynihan—a
very good man. He is from New York.
Not many people know that he actu-
ally lived in his early years as my
neighbor in Tulsa, OK. Again, at that
time, nobody knew it until I mentioned
it.
He was a self-proclaimed pro-choice
Senator. He said: ‘‘And now we have
testimony that it is not just too close
to infanticide; it is infanticide, and one
would be too many.’’
That is Patrick Moynihan. He is
thought of and respected as one of the
great liberal scholars of this body.
This is where we get the numbers
game. I heard it said on the floor many
times that we are talking about maybe
1 percent or that maybe talking about
those who are in the ninth month may
be an infinitesimal number, but in fact,
one is too many. It was said on the
floor that we may be only talking
about 200 lives being taken during the
normal delivery process. That is when
a baby is given a natural birth and,
yet, they take the life by using this
barbaric procedure. We have all kinds
of documentation that it is being done
in the ninth month and during the nor-
mal birth process. They say only 200—
only 200 lives are taken.
I agree with Patrick Moynihan. I am
totally in a different philosophy than
he is, but one is too many.
I am from Oklahoma, and some of
you remember that we lost 168 lives in
the Murrah Federal Office Building
bombing. This was the largest domestic
terrorist attack in American history.
Did anybody say that is only 168 lives
that were lost in Oklahoma City? No,
the entire Nation came with compas-
sion and mourned with us.
One life—I agree with Senator Moy-
nihan—is too many.
One other issue that has not been dis-
cussed in this debate this year—keep in
mind that is 1997—is that of pain. Rath-
er than go into it—I do not think any-
one refutes the fact that a small baby,
if that baby is certainly past the sec-
ond trimester, feels pain every bit as
much as anybody who is in here, as any
Member of the U.S. Senate would feel
pain.
There was a study conducted in Lon-
don, and I have the results here, but I
think everyone understands that this
is something that is very real—that
these babies do feel pain.
My junior Senator gave an excellent
speech on the floor, and he talked
about all of these issues in a different
way, but he is doing it currently, and
we are talking about now quite a num-
ber of years ago.
I have a picture of a good friend of
mine with me. His name is Jase—
James Edward Rapert.
Back when people our age were hav-
ing babies—I am talking about myself
now. Kay and I have been married 59
years. We have 20 kids and grandkids.
We know a little bit about this. Back
at that time when they were having ba-
bies, they wouldn’t even let you in the
hospital, let alone the delivery room.
When my daughter Molly called up
and said, ‘‘Daddy, the time is here;
could you come over,’’ I went over to
the hospital, and she said: Would you
like to come into the delivery room?
I said: Yes, I would.
I saw for the first time what many of
you in this room have seen and many
of the women have experienced first-
hand. I was there when this little guy
was born. It is hard to describe to some
of the men here who have not been
through that experience of seeing this
wonderful life begin, and I can remem-
ber when, in that room where the deliv-
ery took place, it occurred to me that
when baby Jase, my grandson, was
born, that is the moment when they
could have used this procedure inflict-
ing all of the pain you have heard de-
scribed so many times: going into the
cranium with the scissors, opening the
scissors, sucking the brains out, and
the skull collapses.
That is pain, and there are individ-
uals who want to keep a procedure like
this legal. If you did that to a dog, they
would picket in front of your office.
Somehow, we have developed a culture
that puts a greater value on the lives
of critters than human life. I watched
baby Jase being born. I suggest to
those of you who are concerned about
choice that this is really the choice. It
is either that choice or this choice, and
these choices we are facing today.
This is something on which I agree
with the Senator from Pennsylvania. I
was talking at that time about Rick
Santorum.
We should not be having to talk
about it. To think that 100 years from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.054 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S263
January 16, 2019
now they may look back and talk
about that barbaric society that killed
their own young, and here we are just
trying to save a few lives from a very
painful death. Nonetheless, that is the
issue we are faced with today.
I gave that speech in 1997 and again
in 1998 and year after year until we won
the battle and finally ended the prac-
tice of partial-birth abortion in 2003—a
ban that was upheld by the Supreme
Court in 2007. There is still much more
that needs to be done to end abortion
on demand culture.
President Trump gets this. He was
the first sitting President to speak at
March for Life, and his administration
has made real progress to advance the
pro-life agenda. He has reinstated the
Mexico City policy. We remember what
that was. It was the one that bans tax-
payer money from funding abortions
abroad and directed the Justice De-
partment to formally investigate
Planned Parenthood.
President Trump also directed the
Department of Health and Human
Services to expand religious and con-
science exemptions to protect individ-
uals’ religious liberty.
I am working in Congress to end the
practice of abortion on demand that
strips opportunity away from unborn
babies and deprives them of the right
to life.
This week I have joined my col-
leagues in introducing five common-
sense bills—this is taking place right
now, as we speak—in addition to the
Born Alive Abortion Survivors Act, by
Senator SASSE, which I mentioned ear-
lier in this presentation. The No Tax-
payer Funding of Abortion Act, work-
ing with Senator WICKER, would estab-
lish a governmentwide statutory prohi-
bition on taxpayer subsidies for abor-
tion and abortion coverage—simple
enough. I am pleased that Majority
Leader MCCONNELL has set up a proce-
dural vote for this bill today.
There is the Life at Conception Act,
which Senator PAUL has, which would
recognize that life begins at concep-
tion.
The Title X Abortion Provider Prohi-
bition Act, led by Senator BLACK-
BURN—one of our brand-new freshman
Senators—would prohibit title X fam-
ily planning funds. Those are taxpayer
funds now being used to subsidize abor-
tions.
You might be wondering how that is
different from the one just talked
about. Here is how. Every year,
Planned Parenthood receives nearly $60
million from the American taxpayer
through title X family planning pro-
gram. The program is intended to as-
sist low-income women with family
planning services. Unfortunately, this
money is being used to subsidize mas-
sive organizations that engage in abor-
tion activities, such as Planned Par-
enthood, and we need to stop that.
The Protect Funding for Women’s
Health Care Act, led by Senator ERNST,
would prohibit all Federal funding of
Planned Parenthood.
I also cosponsored the Child Inter-
state Abortion Notification Act, led by
Senator RUBIO, which would prohibit
individuals from taking minors across
State lines where they have lax laws
just to have an abortion, stopping their
States from having the jurisdiction.
Finally, and perhaps most impor-
tantly, I am cosponsoring Senator
GRAHAM’s Pain-Capable Unborn Child
Protection Act, which would prohibit
abortions from being performed on un-
born babies after 20 weeks, when we
know they can feel pain. Only five
countries allow abortions after 20
weeks, including the United States and
North Korea, and that is unacceptable.
I wish to acknowledge a very impor-
tant day. Religious Freedom Day is
today. It is clear that our Founding
Fathers recognized and enshrined the
importance of religious liberty—one of
our most precious and foundational re-
ligious freedoms, which allowed them
to live their lives according to the
teachings of the Bible.
I have long been a strong advocate of
the basic human right to freely wor-
ship, and I am glad we can take a mo-
ment today to recognize that.
Anyway, all from speeches from 1992
and 1997—it is as true today as it was
then. We are ready to start saving lives
instead of taking the most vulnerable
little lives, and we are ready now.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, a few
minutes ago, I got off the phone with
Jasmine Tool, who is an Oregonian liv-
ing with an inoperable brain tumor. As
the shutdown lingers on, I want to
share her story because she has been
bearing the unthinkable consequences
of her illness.
I am going to start today by asking:
How can a country as rich and good
and strong as the United States of
America let Jasmine Tool suffer this
way?
She is a 34-year-old mother of two
young children. She lives in Lake
County, a rural community in south
central Oregon. She is a public servant,
an employee of the U.S. Fish and Wild-
life Service. She has been living with
an inoperable brain tumor. The cancer
has caused related debilitating condi-
tions. She is in and out of hospital
emergency rooms. Her digestive system
is impaired. With the invaluable care
provided by a home health worker, she
takes in liquids and nutritional infu-
sions through tubing that is plugged
into her abdomen.
Because she lives in a rural area, her
treatment can require long-distance
travel. That is hard to deal with when
you are suffering from the flu. Just
imagine how hard it is with a brain
tumor, a broken digestive tract, and
feeding tubes attached to your body
that prevent you from eating or drink-
ing normally.
She is confronting this health chal-
lenge with remarkable bravery, and I
don’t believe there is a single Member
of the U.S. Senate who would wish Jas-
mine’s struggle on their very worst
enemy.
Then comes the government shut-
down.
Jasmine was due to travel to Nevada
this month for treatment related to
her tumor, but last week, as she was
prepared to go, she was informed that
her health insurance had lapsed. Ini-
tially, she thought it might be—we all
know with insurance—kind of a recent
hiccup or recent problem, something
that could be corrected quickly.
This week, she learned that it lapsed
in October—October, months ago—and
her insurance company told her that
only her employer could fix it.
Jasmine’s employer is shut down. No-
body is answering the phones. Right
now, Jasmine Tool is suffering—this
mother of two—and is unable to deter-
mine what caused the lapse in her cov-
erage or what can be done to get it
fixed.
The most immediate threat is this:
Jasmine was told that her home health
assistant cannot continue to help her if
she doesn’t have insurance. That
means that within days this 30-year-old
mom will not be able to get the infu-
sions she needs to stay alive.
Now, if that isn’t enough, Jasmine
has been failed by the government on
multiple occasions. Shortly after she
went on medical leave in early 2017, she
began the process of applying for dis-
ability—disability retirement. She
worked with the appropriate human re-
sources official to prepare the paper-
work to send to the Office of Personnel
Management. She thought, as anybody
would, that the process was underway
and she would hear back soon about
the results of her application.
She just learned recently that the of-
ficial who prepared the documents re-
tired without sending them in. For a
year and a half, while Jasmine fought
cancer and was just hoping to get some
positive news, her disability paperwork
sat in an unused office—just sat there
collecting dust.
She had to travel to that office
against her doctor’s orders to finalize
the paperwork once more and prevent a
loss of benefits. But the Office of Per-
sonnel Management—that is shut down
too. Jasmine hasn’t been able to learn
where her benefits stand.
It is too cruel already that thousands
and thousands of American workers are
going without paychecks. This shut-
down is making victims of those who
do public service. But consider what it
is doing to this young mother of two, a
woman who is currently fighting for
her life right now.
Because of this shutdown, she can’t
figure out how to restore her health in-
surance. She can’t get the status of her
disability application. She could be cut
off—I just talked to her—from her nu-
tritional supplements in a matter of
days. That means Jasmine could
starve. That is what she just told me.
So I have been talking to people who
have suffered from health challenges
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:04 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.055 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S264 January 16, 2019
for a long time—director of the Grey
Panthers about 7 years at home. I lis-
tened to Jasmine and I just said: How
can it be that there is no outbreak of
conscience here—no outbreak of con-
science here in this Senate? How can a
country as rich and powerful as ours
fail Jasmine in such a shameful way?
Our country is going to spend $3.5
trillion on healthcare—$3.5 trillion on
healthcare—this year. It is not a lack
of money that is causing this night-
mare for Jasmine Tool in rural Oregon.
With the government reopened,
things would be different. Things would
be very different for Jasmine. There
would be somebody on the other end of
the phone line to tell Jasmine what
happened to her insurance, and because
of the professionalism of those in these
positions, I think they could tell her
how to renew that insurance. There
would be somebody to tell her what is
happening with her disability applica-
tion. Jasmine could bring back her
home health aide and get the infusions
she needs to survive.
So I am asking the Senate, how can
this be allowed to continue? How can
this be allowed to continue? The Sen-
ate passed a bipartisan government
funding bill by voice vote just 2 weeks
ago in the previous Congress.
I see Senator COLLINS. She has a
longstanding interest in these
healthcare issues. Senator SASSE also,
I know from our conversations, has a
heart and cares about people.
The House passed this legislation.
The pathway out of this shutdown is
right in front of us if the majority
leader would decide when to bring up
the legislation again, and we could do
it tonight. Jasmine Tool could get the
lifesaving healthcare that she needs,
based on our conversation, by week’s
end, so she will not starve.
Otherwise, unless the majority leader
calls it up, it seems to me the White
House has no plan to end this shut-
down. So I just think it has to end
right here—right here in the U.S. Sen-
ate, where all of us say: This cannot go
on any longer.
I just spoke to a young mom in rural
Oregon who is in a fight for her life, a
fight for her survival.
Colleagues who are here, I am sure
Jasmine is not the only such case in
America. Jasmine Tool—my guess is,
there are plenty of others in commu-
nities across the country. Jasmine
Tool does not have the luxury of time.
I am going to go back to my office.
My staff here, my staff folks in Or-
egon—we are just going to be pulling
out all the stops now because it really
is a matter of hours to get Jasmine the
help she needs. We do it recognizing
that there is only one immediate solu-
tion: The shutdown must end, and it
must end now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, govern-
ment shutdowns are never the answer.
No matter how difficult the problem,
we should never resort to shutting
down government. It harms too many
innocent Federal employees—in this
case, 800,000 Federal employees and
their families—and it hampers the abil-
ity of American citizens to deal with
their government.
At the same time, we do have a prob-
lem at our southern border. We do need
to strengthen our border security and
fix our broken immigration system. We
need to address the issue of the Dream-
ers population, those young children
brought to this country through no de-
cision of their own who are now, often,
young adults and who are going to
school or working or otherwise serving
in the military or contributing to our
country.
The outlines of a compromise are evi-
dent, but in order to get there, I be-
lieve we need to assure the President
that we will seriously consider his sup-
plemental request for border security,
a request that includes not just fund-
ing for additional physical barriers to
supplement the more than 600 miles of
physical barriers—walls, fences—that
were built during two previous admin-
istrations but also includes $800 million
to meet the humanitarian needs of
those who are crossing the border. It
also includes additional funding for
Border Patrol agents and for Immigra-
tion and Customs and Border Enforce-
ment.
This simply cannot continue. We
need to come together in good faith, re-
open government for a limited period
of time at least, and negotiate a pack-
age that will strengthen security on
our borders, and that is what I would
urge the President, his administration,
and my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle to do.
In the meantime, we also need to get
back to the work of the Senate. That,
too, is important, and today I rise to
introduce a bill that would help Ameri-
cans who are struggling with high
healthcare expenses. The tax deduction
for certain unreimbursed, out-of-pock-
et medical expenses affects many tax-
payers significantly.
Regrettably, the threshold to claim
this important tax deduction rose from
7.5 percent to 10 percent of income at
the end of 2018, ending its value for
many American taxpayers who simply
will no longer qualify.
Today, I reintroduce legislation,
which I have sponsored with my col-
league Senator CANTWELL, that would
reinstate and make permanent the
lower income threshold for the medical
expense deduction. Our bill, the Med-
ical Expense Savings Act, would once
again allow taxpayers to deduct unre-
imbursed healthcare costs that exceed
7.5 percent of their income.
For those who suffer from preexisting
medical conditions, have chronic ill-
nesses, experience unexpected sickness
or injuries, or require long term care,
out-of-pocket healthcare expenses can
quickly become an unbearable burden.
Too many Americans are forced to
choose between medical services and
other equally necessary expenditures
or they find themselves going deeply in
debt.
The Affordable Care Act increased
the income threshold for taxpayers to
deduct their medical expenses from 7.5
percent to 10 percent. I very much op-
posed that provision of the ACA. For
individuals under 65, the increase went
into effect in 2013, but for those over 65,
individuals would have been exposed to
this higher threshold for the first time
in 2017. Fortunately, we were able to
remedy that for those over age 65.
When the ACA increase was phased
in, many individuals struggling with
serious health conditions saw their fi-
nancial health worsen. For example, a
2016 study estimates that parents, in-
cluding many with limited means, al-
ready provide nearly $36 billion annu-
ally in uncompensated medical care at
home to children with special
healthcare needs, such as muscular
dystrophy and cystic fibrosis.
A 2016 survey of cancer survivors
showed that one-third go into debt, and
of those, more than half incurred more
than $10,000 in unreimbursed expenses.
For seniors with significant long-
term care needs, the deduction helps
with the cost of home health or per-
sonal care services or, when needed,
the cost of a long-term care facility,
such as a nursing home. The deduction
can also be used for other expenses
that Medicare generally does not cover,
including dental treatment, vision
care, and certain transportation costs.
Seniors can also use the medical ex-
pense deduction for expenses like
wheelchair ramps, installing railings
and support bars in bathrooms, and
lowering or modifying kitchen cabinets
and equipment and other home modi-
fications made for medical reasons.
These improvements can allow seniors
with medical conditions or disabilities
to live at home in the safety, comfort,
and familiarity of their own home.
Some seniors find that their savings
become rapidly depleted. They may
spend down their financial resources in
order to receive the services and sup-
port they require through the Medicaid
Program. According to Genworth’s 2018
Cost of Care Survey, home health aide
services can cost $50,000 annually,
while a private room at a nursing home
can cost nearly $100,000. By retaining a
lower threshold for the medical ex-
pense tax deduction, some families
would be able to continue to pay these
essential costs themselves.
Some erroneously believe that this
deduction only benefits the wealthy,
when, in fact, it is mainly lower and
middle-income Americans who have
been hurt. According to AARP, nearly
70 percent of taxpayers taking the de-
duction in 2014 reported income of
$75,000 or less, and nearly half reported
incomes of $50,000 or less. In Maine, ac-
cording to AARP, almost 36,000 of our
residents claimed this deduction in
2014, and nearly 19,000 of these individ-
uals reported an income of $50,000 or
less.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.057 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S265
January 16, 2019
That is why, during the tax reform
debate in 2017, I introduced a successful
amendment that rolled back the in-
come threshold to 7.5 percent for tax-
payers to deduct their medical ex-
penses in 2017 and 2018. My amendment
expanded upon the efforts of Senators
ROB PORTMAN and SHERROD BROWN,
who had worked to prevent this in-
crease from going into effect for indi-
viduals over 65. As I said, my amend-
ment was incorporated into the new
tax law, and thus, for 2017 and for 2018,
the threshold for deducting these out-
of-pocket medical costs was 7.5 percent
of income. But at the end of last year,
that expired.
The AARP and 44 other consumer
groups have strongly endorsed the ef-
fort undertaken by Senator CANTWELL
and me, stating that ‘‘it provides im-
portant tax relief which helps offset
the costs of acute and chronic medical
conditions for older Americans, chil-
dren, pregnant women, disabled indi-
viduals, and other adults as well as the
costs associated with long-term care
and assisted living.’’
This is a step we can take to rein-
state an expired tax deduction that
will make a real difference to people
who are struggling with high out-of-
pocket medical costs.
I urge my colleagues to support our
legislation that will help our families
cope with high medical costs by mak-
ing sure that this important deduction
remains available for future tax years.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to have printed in the RECORD a
letter from AARP dated January 15,
2019, endorsing the Collins-Cantwell
legislation.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
AARP,
Washington, January 15, 2019.
Hon. SUSAN COLLINS,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
Hon. MARIA CANTWELL,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATORS COLLINS AND CANTWELL: On
behalf of our members and all Americans age
50 and older, AARP is writing to thank you
for introducing the Medical Expense Savings
Act (S. 110), legislation to permanently ex-
tend the 7.5 percent income threshold for the
medical expense deduction AARP, with its
more than 38 million members in all 50
states, the District of Columbia, and the U.S.
territories, represents individuals seeking fi-
nancial stability while managing their
health care and every effort should be made
to keep the threshold for the deduction as
low as possible to help protect those with
high medical costs.
The medical expense deduction provides
important tax relief that helps offset the
cost of acute and chronic medical conditions
for older Americans, children, and individ-
uals with disabilities. For many, the medical
expense deduction can help offset high out-
of-pocket expenses—expenses that qualify in-
clude money paid for diagnosis, treatment,
equipment, long-term care services, and
long-term care insurance premiums.
The tax filers who claim the medical ex-
pense deduction have historically been age 50
or older and living with a chronic condition
or illness. The average Medicare beneficiary
spends about $5,680 out of pocket on medical
care. The medical expense deduction makes
health care more affordable for people with
significant out-of-pocket expenses.
Furthermore, older Americans often face
high costs for long-term services and sup-
ports—which are generally not covered by
Medicare—as well as hospitalizations and
prescription drugs. The median cost for a
private room in a nursing home is over
$97,000 annually, while the median cost for
even more cost-effective home-based care is
still over $30,000 per year (for 20 hours of care
a week). In 2013, roughly 25.8 million bene-
ficiaries in traditional Medicare spent at
least 10 percent of their income on out-of-
pocket health care expenses. Tax relief in
this area can provide needed resources, espe-
cially important to middle income seniors
with high long-term care and medical costs.
The medical expense deduction is a critical
tool in managing health care cost for Ameri-
cans with high out-of-pocket expenses. For
these reasons, we are pleased to endorse this
legislation and look forward to working on a
bipartisan basis with you to enact this legis-
lation into law. If you have any questions or
need additional information, please feel free
to contact me or Jasmine Vasquez.
Sincerely,
JOYCE A. ROGERS,
Senior Vice President,
Government Affairs.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, I yield
the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
f
EXPRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT DISQUALIFYING A
NOMINEE TO FEDERAL OFFICE
ON THE BASIS OF MEMBERSHIP
IN THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
VIOLATES THE CONSTITUTION
OF THE UNITED STATES
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I rise
today to offer a very basic resolution. I
want Senators to unanimously reaffirm
our oath of office to a Constitution
that explicitly rejects religious big-
otry.
It is useful to regularly remind our-
selves that Americans are First
Amendment people. Each of the five
freedoms in the First Amendment—
speech, press, religion, assembly, and
protest—defines who we are. In Amer-
ica, we talk, we read, we argue, and we
march and worship without fear. Be-
cause of this fundamental celebration
of human dignity and human freedom,
America is big enough to welcome a
whole bunch of meaty and messy fights
on everything from whom you vote for
to whom you call God.
Just as the First Amendment pro-
hibits the government from dictating
anyone’s religious beliefs, so, too, the
Constitution explicitly rejects reli-
gious tests for Federal office. Our Con-
stitution explicitly rejects religious
tests for Federal office. This isn’t a Re-
publican belief; this isn’t a Democratic
belief; this is an American belief. But,
tragically, over the last couple of
years, some strange things have been
happening in this body, and we seem to
be forgetting some of those basic 101
American civics truths.
I want to tell you a story. Brian
Buescher from my State was recently
nominated by the President to be a
Federal judge for the District of Ne-
braska. This is an honor for him and
his family, a celebration of his brain,
work ethic, and his integrity. By the
way, Brian is also Catholic and an ac-
tive member of the Knights of Colum-
bus.
The Knights of Columbus, for those
of you who don’t know, is the largest
Catholic fraternal service organization
in the world. The Knights’ 1.6 million
members of the organization raise mil-
lions of dollars for charity every year,
and they contribute millions of hours
of volunteer service.
Like a lot of guys back in Nebraska,
Brian joined the Knights of Columbus
to give back and to also be involved in
a bunch of fish frys. This is not the
stuff of headlines, but it is the stuff of
basic neighborliness.
This is where the story gets weird be-
cause at Brian’s confirmation hearing
before the Senate Judiciary Committee
a few weeks ago, one of my colleagues
on the Judiciary Committee called the
Knights of Columbus ‘‘an extremist or-
ganization.’’ Huh? It got worse. Brian
then got a letter from a Member of this
body asking him if he would resign his
membership in the Knights of Colum-
bus if he were confirmed to the Federal
bench to ‘‘avoid the appearance of
bias.’’
This is nuts. We are talking about
the largest Catholic fraternal organiza-
tion in the world being called an ex-
tremist organization and a nominee for
the Federal bench being asked to re-
sign from this organization so that he
can serve without the appearance of
bias. The clear implication here was
that Brian’s religious beliefs and his
religious affiliations—in this case, an
affiliation with a Catholic organization
that invests countless hours and mil-
lions of dollars annually serving spe-
cial needs kids—Brian was supposedly
therefore potentially unfit for Federal
service. This is the same kind of gar-
bage that was thrown at a Member of
this body, John F. Kennedy, 60 years
ago when he was campaigning for the
Presidency.
So today I have introduced a resolu-
tion—a 101-level, basic resolution—that
simply reaffirms the belief of this body
in American religious liberty. The res-
olution simply says that it is the sense
of the Senate that disqualifying a
nominee for the Federal bench or any
Federal office on the basis of his Catho-
lic beliefs or membership in the
Knights of Columbus violates the no
religious test clause of the Constitu-
tion. It seems obvious on its face.
In this resolution, we are simply re-
affirming with President Kennedy and
with countless other Americans across
230 years—Protestant, Catholic, Jew,
Muslim, Hindu, Buddhist, Agnostic,
Atheist and others—we are simply re-
affirming the idea that America is big
enough for disagreements. Stated dif-
ferently, we are saying that we believe
the U.S. Government is not in the busi-
ness of trying to resolve debates about
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.059 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S266 January 16, 2019
Heaven and Hell; rather, the business
of the U.S. Government is to preserve
peace and order so that you and your
neighbors can precisely wrestle about
things such as Heaven and Hell or
sports loyalties or dietary preferences.
America can handle principled plu-
ralism and honest, serious debate.
This resolution ought to have the
support of every single Member of this
body. After all, each of us took an oath
to defend this very idea when we first
came here. This is what America is ac-
tually about.
The text of the resolution before us
states:
Expressing the sense of the Senate that
disqualifying a nominee to Federal office on
the basis of membership in the Knights of
Columbus violates the Constitution of the
United States.
Whereas, throughout the history of the
United States, the religious liberty protected
by both the First Amendment and the No Re-
ligious Test Clause of the Constitution of the
United States has been at the heart of the
American experiment;
Whereas, in 1960, the presidential can-
didacy of John F. Kennedy was met with sig-
nificant anti-Catholic bigotry;
Whereas, then-Senator Kennedy responded
to the bigotry with these timeless words:
‘‘For while this year it may be a Catholic
against whom the finger of suspicion is
pointed, in other years it has been, and may
someday be again, a Jew or a Quaker or a
Unitarian or a Baptist. . . . Today I may be
the victim, but tomorrow it may be you,
until the whole fabric of our harmonious so-
ciety is ripped at a time of great national
peril.’’;
Whereas the Knights of Columbus (in this
preamble referred to as the ‘‘Knights’’) con-
stitute the largest Catholic fraternal service
organization in the world;
Whereas the Knights have a proud tradi-
tion of standing against the forces of preju-
dice and oppression, such as the Ku Klux
Klan and Nazi Germany;
Whereas the Knights are founded on the
principles of charity, unity, fraternity, and
patriotism; and
Whereas, in 2017, the Knights made more
than $185,000,000 in charitable contributions
and volunteered more than 75,600,000 service
hours: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that disqualifying a nominee to Federal of-
fice on the basis of membership in the
Knights of Columbus violates clause 3 of ar-
ticle VI of the Constitution of the United
States, which establishes that Senators
‘‘shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to
support th[e] Constitution’’ and ‘‘no reli-
gious Test shall ever be required as a Quali-
fication to any Office or public Trust under
the United States.’’
Period. Full stop.
If a Senator has a problem with this
resolution, they are probably in the
wrong line of work because this is what
America is. This is a super basic point.
No religious tests. If someone has a
problem with this resolution, what
other parts of the Constitution are
they against? Freedom of the press?
Women’s right to vote? Freedom of
speech?
This isn’t hard. There are no reli-
gious tests for serving on the Federal
bench. We in this body should rebuke
these anti-Catholic attacks.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Senate proceed to the
consideration of S. Res. 19, submitted
earlier today.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 19) expressing the
sense of the Senate that disqualifying a
nominee to Federal office on the basis of
membership in the Knights of Columbus vio-
lates the Constitution of the United States.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. SASSE. I ask unanimous consent
that the resolution be agreed to, the
preamble be agreed to, and that the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table with no
intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution (S. Res. 19) was agreed
to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in today’s RECORD under ‘‘Sub-
mitted Resolutions.’’)
Mr. SASSE. I thank the Members of
this body for reaffirming basic con-
stitutional 101 stuff today. I will report
back to Brian Buescher, the nominee
for the Federal Bench for the District
of Nebraska, that he can ignore those
questions he received about whether he
would resign his membership in the
Knights of Columbus before this body
proceeds to vote on his confirmation.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
MR. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING TOM WEISNER
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, Aurora,
IL, is blessed with a long history of vi-
sionary leadership. The first public
school district in my State was found-
ed in Aurora in 1851. Aurora was a cen-
ter of abolitionist activism before the
Civil War.
In 1881, Aurora, of Chicago’s north-
west suburbs, became one of the first
cities in America to line its streets
with electric lights, and people began
to call it a City of Lights—Paris on the
Plains.
Sadly, last month, 2 days after
Christmas, one of Aurora’s brightest
lights was extinguished. Former Au-
rora mayor Tom Weisner died after a
long, brave, and public struggle with
cancer. He was 69 years old.
Tom Weisner spent his earliest years
in nearby Batavia, IL. He came to Au-
rora in the 1960s to attend Marmion
Military Academy. It was during his
time at Marmion that Tom met his fu-
ture wife, Marilyn Hogan, who was
then a student at Marmion’s ‘‘sister
school,’’ Aurora Madonna High School.
What a great pair. As a young couple
in the 1980s, Tom and Marilyn served
together in the Peace Corps, helping
rainforest dwellers in the highlands of
Guadalcanal in the Solomon Islands.
They were married for 46 years.
After finishing their Peace Corps
service in 1986, Tom and Marilyn re-
turned to Aurora, and Tom was hired
by the city’s then-mayor, David Pierce,
to be Aurora’s director of emergency
services. Over the next 18 years, he
headed a number of city agencies, in-
cluding the departments of motor vehi-
cles, public property, and community
services and organizational develop-
ment.
‘‘It was in his three terms as Auro-
ra’s mayor, from 2005 to 2016, that Tom
Weisner left his greatest mark. His
keen understanding of organizational
efficiency, his commitment to public
service, and his passion for children,
for a vibrant, sustainable economy, for
the arts and environment, and many
other concerns helped to make Aurora
a better place to live, own a business,
and raise a family.
There is one statistic that says a lot
about the kind of leader Tom Weisner
was: In his 11 years as mayor, Aurora
rehabilitated 11 bridges. At a time
when government at all levels is strug-
gling and often failing to maintain
basic public infrastructure, Aurora re-
paired 11 bridges in 11 years. The
strengthened bridges helped spur a re-
birth of Aurora’s downtown.
The Fox River is one of Aurora’s
greatest economic and cultural assets.
Mayor Weisner authorized the city’s
first long-term plan for the river. He
oversaw the removal of a dam on the
Fox River, which opened up space for
bike paths and new commercial ven-
tures, and he helped organize a re-
gional coalition of communities to im-
prove the southern portion of the Fox
River.
Tom Weisner championed new con-
servation and sustainability policies
that made Aurora a greener city. At
the same time, he supported changes
that made it easier and faster to obtain
city building and other permits.
He oversaw the construction of a new
police headquarters, with new tools
and more resources, and crime in Au-
rora decreased.
Children were a special concern of
Mayor Weisner. Under his leadership,
Aurora created a new program called
SPARK to help children from birth to
age 5 to prepare for kindergarten.
SPARK stands for ‘‘Strong, Prepared,
and Ready for Kindergarten.’’ It is a
collaboration involving Aurora’s public
schools and public library, the local
United Way, and other groups. Nearly
5,500 children and their families have
benefited from its services.
Next year, a new Paramount School
of Performing Arts will open and offer
young people a chance to study under
some of the best teaching artists and
professionals in the country. Tom
helped raise money to make this hap-
pen.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.060 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S267
January 16, 2019
The DuPage Mayors and Managers
Conference honored Tom in 2015 as its
Governmental Leader of the Year. The
American Public Works Association
awarded him its Exemplary Service
Award in 2017, the year after Tom re-
tired.
Tom Weisner’s public achievements
are even more remarkable, given the
private pain that he and Marilyn en-
dured during his years as mayor. In
2006, they lost the younger of their two
sons, Thaddeus, to complications of
cerebral palsy. The following year,
Tom was first diagnosed with colon
cancer. He continued to serve the peo-
ple of Aurora through two surgeries
and long bouts of treatment. When his
cancer became public, he used his own
health challenges as a public service
reminder, urging people to get
colonoscopies and early treatment.
In 2013, Aurora welcomed RiverEdge
Park, a tremendous new waterfront
open space and concert venue. Years
earlier, when the Great Recession
threatened to derail the project, Mayor
Weisner helped ensure that it contin-
ued. In 2016, the Aurora city council
voted unanimously to rename the park
in Tom Weisner’s honor. It is a fitting
tribute to a leader who loved few
things more than enjoying music in his
city’s parks, dressed in a brightly
printed Tommy Bahama shirt and san-
dals.
Loretta and I offer our condolences
to Tom’s wife Marilyn, their son An-
thony, their two granddaughters, and
to Tom’s many friends.
He ran the race, he fought the good
fight. Now he is gone, but the light
that Mayor Tom Weisner helped to
bring to Aurora will continue to shine
for a long while.
f
TRIBUTE TO RON POWELL
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I want
to take a moment to thank a leader
who has worked for nearly 60 years to
create a strong economy built on pride,
progressive values, and shared pros-
perity for all Americans.
Ronald Powell is the legendary presi-
dent of Local 881 of the United Food
and Commercial Workers International
Union. He is also a vice president on
the UFCW International Union and a
vice president of the Illinois State
AFL-CIO. He is retiring this month
after an astonishing 58 years as a proud
union member and leader.
You may not be familiar with the ini-
tials UFCW, but you almost surely ben-
efit from the good work of its mem-
bers. The men and women of the UFCW
include grocery store workers and bak-
ery clerks, hospital and nursing home
employees—even barbers and beauty
shop employees.
When Ron Powell joined the United
Retail Workers union, a forerunner to
Local 881, in 1961, the union had fewer
than 5,000 members. Fifty-eight years
later, UFCW Local 881 represents more
than 34,000 working men and women in
Illinois, northwest Indiana, and parts
of Missouri and Kentucky. The growth
of Local 881 in an age when the labor
movement is under relentless attack
and many unions are losing members is
a testament to Ron Powell’s leadership
and his commitment to dignity and
fairness for working people.
Ron Powell became president of
UFCW Local 881 in 1983, just 2 years
after the local was chartered. Strength,
vision, and compassion are the hall-
marks of his service. Illinois’ working
families and our State’s economy have
both benefited from his progressive and
innovative leadership.
In addition, under Ron Powell’s lead-
ership, Local 881 Ron has raised hun-
dreds of thousands of dollars for the
Leukemia and Lymphoma Society,
with the hope to find a cure. It has also
raised funds for the Jackson Park Hos-
pital in Chicago and for the Little City
Foundation, which helps Chicago-area
children with developmental disabil-
ities.
My old friend, Senator Paul
Wellstone, liked to sum up his defini-
tion of good economic policy by saying,
‘‘We all do better when we all do bet-
ter.’’
Ron Powell believes in that same,
proven plan for economic growth and
justice. Working families in my, State
of Illinois and far beyond are better off
because of his decades of service on
their behalf. I am honored to join those
families in honoring Ron Powell on his
distinguished career, and as a former
member of UFCW’s early unions, I wish
him the very best as he begins the next
chapter in his remarkable life.
f
COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDU-
CATION, LABOR, AND PENSIONS
RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, in
accordance with rule XXVI.2 of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, I submit
for publication in the CONGRESSIONAL
RECORD the rules of procedure for the
Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions, as unanimously
adopted by the committee on January
16, 2019.
I ask unanimous consent that the
text of the Rules of Procedure be print-
ed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
SENATE COMMITTEE ON HEALTH, EDUCATION,
LABOR, AND PENSIONS
LAMAR ALEXANDER, CHAIRMAN
RULES OF PROCEDURE (AS AGREED TO JANUARY
16, 2019)
Rule 1.—Subject to the provisions of rule
XXVI, paragraph 5, of the Standing Rules of
the Senate, regular meetings of the com-
mittee shall be held on the second and fourth
Wednesday of each month, at 10:00 a.m., in
room SD–430, Dirksen Senate Office Build-
ing. The chairman may, upon proper notice,
call such additional meetings as he may
deem necessary.
Rule 2.—The chairman of the committee or
of a subcommittee, or if the chairman is not
present, the ranking majority member
present, shall preside at all meetings. The
chairman may designate the ranking minor-
ity member to preside at hearings of the
committee or subcommittee.
Rule 3.—Meetings of the committee or a
subcommittee, including meetings to con-
duct hearings, shall be open to the public ex-
cept as otherwise specifically provided in
subsections (b) and (d) of rule 26.5 of the
Standing Rules of the Senate.
Rule 4.—(a) Subject to paragraph (b), one-
third of the membership of the committee,
actually present, shall constitute a quorum
for the purpose of transacting business. Any
quorum of the committee which is composed
of less than a majority of the members of the
committee shall include at least one member
of the majority and one member of the mi-
nority.
(b) A majority of the members of a sub-
committee, actually present, shall con-
stitute a quorum for the purpose of
transacting business: provided, no measure
or matter shall be ordered reported unless
such majority shall include at least one
member of the minority who is a member of
the subcommittee. If, at any subcommittee
meeting, a measure or matter cannot be or-
dered reported because of the absence of such
a minority member, the measure or matter
shall lay over for a day. If the presence of a
member of the minority is not then ob-
tained, a majority of the members of the
subcommittee, actually present, may order
such measure or matter reported.
(c) No measure or matter shall be ordered
reported from the committee or a sub-
committee unless a majority of the com-
mittee or subcommittee is physically
present.
Rule 5.—With the approval of the chairman
of the committee or subcommittee, one
member thereof may conduct public hearings
other than taking sworn testimony.
Rule 6.—Proxy voting shall be allowed on
all measures and matters before the com-
mittee or a subcommittee if the absent
member has been informed of the matter on
which he is being recorded and has affirma-
tively requested that he be so recorded.
While proxies may be voted on a motion to
report a measure or matter from the com-
mittee, such a motion shall also require the
concurrence of a majority of the members
who are actually present at the time such
action is taken.
The committee may poll any matters of
committee business as a matter of unani-
mous consent; provided that every member
is polled and every poll consists of the fol-
lowing two questions:
(1) Do you agree or disagree to poll the pro-
posal; and
(2) Do you favor or oppose the proposal.
Rule 7.—There shall be prepared and kept a
complete transcript or electronic recording
adequate to fully record the proceedings of
each committee or subcommittee meeting or
conference whether or not such meetings or
any part thereof is closed pursuant to the
specific provisions of subsections (b) and (d)
of rule 26.5 of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, unless a majority of said members vote
to forgo such a record. Such records shall
contain the vote cast by each member of the
committee or subcommittee on any question
on which a ‘‘yea and nay’’ vote is demanded,
and shall be available for inspection by any
committee member. The clerk of the com-
mittee, or the clerk’s designee, shall have
the responsibility to make appropriate ar-
rangements to implement this rule.
Rule 8.—The committee and each sub-
committee shall undertake, consistent with
the provisions of rule XXVI, paragraph 4, of
the Standing Rules of the Senate, to issue
public announcement of any hearing or exec-
utive session it intends to hold at least one
week prior to the commencement of such
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.006 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S268 January 16, 2019
hearing or executive session. In the case of
an executive session, the text of any bill or
joint resolution to be considered must be
provided to the chairman for prompt elec-
tronic distribution to the members of the
committee.
Rule 9.—The committee or a subcommittee
shall require all witnesses heard before it to
file written statements of their proposed tes-
timony at least 24 hours before a hearing,
unless the chairman and the ranking minor-
ity member determine that there is good
cause for failure to so file, and to limit their
oral presentation to brief summaries of their
arguments. Testimony may be filed elec-
tronically. The presiding officer at any hear-
ing is authorized to limit the time of each
witness appearing before the committee or a
subcommittee. The committee or a sub-
committee shall, as far as practicable, uti-
lize testimony previously taken on bills and
measures similar to those before it for con-
sideration.
Rule 10.—Should a subcommittee fail to re-
port back to the full committee on any
measure within a reasonable time, the chair-
man may withdraw the measure from such
subcommittee and report that fact to the
full committee for further disposition.
Rule 11.—No subcommittee may schedule a
meeting or hearing at a time designated for
a hearing or meeting of the full committee.
No more than one subcommittee executive
meeting may be held at the same time.
Rule 12.—It shall be the duty of the chair-
man in accordance with section 133(c) of the
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946, as
amended, to report or cause to be reported to
the Senate, any measure or recommendation
approved by the committee and to take or
cause to be taken, necessary steps to bring
the matter to a vote in the Senate.
Rule 13.—Whenever a meeting of the com-
mittee or subcommittee is closed pursuant
to the provisions of subsection (b) or (d) of
rule 26.5 of the Standing Rules of the Senate,
no person other than members of the com-
mittee, members of the staff of the com-
mittee, and designated assistants to mem-
bers of the committee shall be permitted to
attend such closed session, except by special
dispensation of the committee or sub-
committee or the chairman thereof.
Rule 14.—The chairman of the committee
or a subcommittee shall be empowered to ad-
journ any meeting of the committee or a
subcommittee if a quorum is not present
within fifteen minutes of the time schedule
for such meeting.
Rule 15.—Whenever a bill or joint resolu-
tion shall be before the committee or a sub-
committee for final consideration, the clerk
shall distribute to each member of the com-
mittee or subcommittee a document, pre-
pared by the sponsor of the bill or joint reso-
lution. If the bill or joint resolution has no
underlying statutory language, the docu-
ment shall consist of a detailed summary of
the purpose and impact of each section. If
the bill or joint resolution repeals or amends
any statute or part thereof, the document
shall consist of a detailed summary of the
underlying statute and the proposed changes
in each section of the underlying law and ei-
ther a print of the statute or the part or sec-
tion thereof to be amended or replaced show-
ing by stricken-through type, the part or
parts to be omitted and, in italics, the mat-
ter proposed to be added, along with a sum-
mary of the proposed changes; or a side-by-
side document showing a comparison of cur-
rent law, the proposed legislative changes,
and a detailed description of the proposed
changes.
Rule 16.—An appropriate opportunity shall
be given the minority to examine the pro-
posed text of committee reports prior to
their filing or publication. In the event there
are supplemental, minority, or additional
views, an appropriate opportunity shall be
given the majority to examine the proposed
text prior to filing or publication. Unless the
chairman and ranking minority member
agree on a shorter period of time, the minor-
ity shall have no fewer than three business
days to prepare supplemental, minority or
additional views for inclusion in a com-
mittee report from the time the majority
makes the proposed text of the committee
report available to the minority.
Rule 17.—(a) The committee, or any sub-
committee, may issue subpoenas, or hold
hearings to take sworn testimony or hear
subpoenaed witnesses, only if such investiga-
tive activity has been authorized by major-
ity vote of the committee.
(b) For the purpose of holding a hearing to
take sworn testimony or hear subpoenaed
witnesses, three members of the committee
or subcommittee shall constitute a quorum:
provided, with the concurrence of the chair-
man and ranking minority member of the
committee or subcommittee, a single mem-
ber may hear subpoenaed witnesses or take
sworn testimony.
(c) The committee may, by a majority
vote, delegate the authority to issue sub-
poenas to the chairman of the committee or
a subcommittee, or to any member des-
ignated by such chairman. Prior to the
issuance of each subpoena, the ranking mi-
nority member of the committee or sub-
committee, and any other member so re-
questing, shall be notified regarding the
identity of the person to whom it will be
issued and the nature of the information
sought and its relationship to the authorized
investigative activity, except where the
chairman of the committee or sub-
committee, in consultation with the ranking
minority member, determines that such no-
tice would unduly impede the investigation.
All information obtained pursuant to such
investigative activity shall be made avail-
able as promptly as possible to each member
of the committee requesting same, or to any
assistant to a member of the committee des-
ignated by such member in writing, but the
use of any such information is subject to re-
strictions imposed by the rules of the Sen-
ate. Such information, to the extent that it
is relevant to the investigation shall, if re-
quested by a member, be summarized in
writing as soon as practicable. Upon the re-
quest of any member, the chairman of the
committee or subcommittee shall call an ex-
ecutive session to discuss such investigative
activity or the issuance of any subpoena in
connection there with.
(d) Any witness summoned to testify at a
hearing, or any witness giving sworn testi-
mony, may be accompanied by counsel of his
own choosing who shall be permitted, while
the witness is testifying, to advise him of his
legal rights.
(e) No confidential testimony taken or
confidential material presented in an execu-
tive hearing, or any report of the pro-
ceedings of such an executive hearing, shall
be made public, either in whole or in part or
by way of summary, unless authorized by a
majority of the members of the committee
or subcommittee.
Rule 18.—Presidential nominees shall sub-
mit a statement of their background and fi-
nancial interests, including the financial in-
terests of their spouse and children living in
their household, on a form approved by the
committee which shall be sworn to as to its
completeness and accuracy. The committee
form shall be in two parts—
(I) information relating to employment,
education and background of the nominee re-
lating to the position to which the individual
is nominated, and which is to be made pub-
lic; and,
(II) information relating to financial and
other background of the nominee, to be made
public when the committee determines that
such information bears directly on the nomi-
nee’s qualifications to hold the position to
which the individual is nominated.
Information relating to background and fi-
nancial interests (parts I and II) shall not be
required of nominees for less than full-time
appointments to councils, commissions or
boards when the committee determines that
some or all of the information is not rel-
evant to the nature of the position. Informa-
tion relating to other background and finan-
cial interests (part II) shall not be required
of any nominee when the committee deter-
mines that it is not relevant to the nature of
the position.
Committee action on a nomination, includ-
ing hearings or meetings to consider a mo-
tion to recommend confirmation, shall not
be initiated until at least five days after the
nominee submits the form required by this
rule unless the chairman, with the concur-
rence of the ranking minority member,
waives this waiting period.
Rule 19.—Subject to statutory require-
ments imposed on the committee with re-
spect to procedure, the rules of the com-
mittee may be changed, modified, amended
or suspended at any time; provided, not less
than a majority of the entire membership so
determine at a regular meeting with due no-
tice, or at a meeting specifically called for
that purpose.
Rule 20.—When the ratio of members on
the committee is even, the term ‘‘majority’’
as used in the committee’s rules and guide-
lines shall refer to the party of the chairman
for purposes of party identification. Numer-
ical requirements for quorums, votes and the
like shall be unaffected.
Rule 21.—First degree amendments must
be filed with the chairman at least 24 hours
before an executive session. The chairman
shall promptly distribute all filed amend-
ments electronically to the members of the
committee. The chairman may modify the
filing requirements to meet special cir-
cumstances with the concurrence of the
ranking minority member.
Rule 22.—In addition to the foregoing, the
proceedings of the committee shall be gov-
erned by the Standing Rules of the Senate
and the provisions of the Legislative Reorga-
nization Act of 1946, as amended.
GUIDELINES OF THE SENATE COMMITTEE ON
HEALTH, EDUCATION, LABOR, AND PENSIONS
WITH RESPECT TO HEARINGS, MARKUP SES-
SIONS, AND RELATED MATTERS
HEARINGS
Section 133A(a) of the Legislative Reorga-
nization Act requires each committee of the
Senate to publicly announce the date, place,
and subject matter of any hearing at least
one week prior to the commencement of such
hearing.
The spirit of this requirement is to assure
adequate notice to the public and other
Members of the Senate as to the time and
subject matter of proposed hearings. In the
spirit of section 133A(a) and in order to as-
sure that members of the committee are
themselves fully informed and involved in
the development of hearings:
1. Public notice of the date, place, and sub-
ject matter of each committee or sub-
committee hearing should be inserted in the
Congressional Record seven days prior to the
commencement of such hearing.
2. At least seven days prior to public notice
of each committee or subcommittee hearing,
the majority should provide notice to the
minority of the time, place and specific sub-
ject matter of such hearing.
3. At least three days prior to the date of
such hearing, the committee or sub-
committee should provide to each member a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.037 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S269
January 16, 2019
list of witnesses who have been or are pro-
posed to be invited to appear.
4. The committee and its subcommittee
should, to the maximum feasible extent, en-
force the provisions of rule 9 of the com-
mittee rules as it relates to the submission
of written statements of witnesses twenty-
four hours in advance of a hearing.
Witnesses will be urged to submit testi-
mony even earlier whenever possible. When
statements are received in advance of a hear-
ing, the committee or subcommittee (as ap-
propriate) should distribute copies of such
statements to each of its members. Witness
testimony may be submitted and distributed
electronically.
EXECUTIVE SESSIONS FOR THE PURPOSE OF
MARKING UP BILLS
In order to expedite the process of marking
up bills and to assist each member of the
committee so that there may be full and fair
consideration of each bill which the com-
mittee or a subcommittee is marking up the
following procedures should be followed:
1. Seven days prior to the proposed date for
an executive session for the purpose of mark-
ing up bills the committee or subcommittee
(as appropriate) should provide written no-
tice to each of its members as to the time,
place, and specific subject matter of such
session, including an agenda listing each bill
or other matters to be considered and includ-
ing:
(a) a copy of each bill, joint resolution, or
other legislative matter (or committee print
thereof) to be considered at such executive
session; and
(b) a copy of a summary of the provisions
of each bill, joint resolution, or other legis-
lative matter to be considered at such execu-
tive session including, whenever possible, an
explanation of changes to existing law pro-
posed to be made.
2. Insofar as practical, prior to the sched-
uled date for an executive session for the
purpose of marking up bills, the committee
or a subcommittee (as appropriate) should
provide each member with a copy of the
printed record or a summary of any hearings
conducted by the committee or a sub-
committee with respect to each bill, joint
resolution, or other legislative matter to be
considered at such executive session.
f
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE,
SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION
RULES OF PROCEDURE
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation has adopted rules gov-
erning its procedures for the 116th Con-
gress. Pursuant to rule XXVI, para-
graph 2, of the Standing Rules of the
Senate, I ask unanimous consent that
the accompanying rules for the Senate
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation be printed in the
Record.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE,
SCIENCE, AND TRANSPORTATION
116TH CONGRESS
RULE I—MEETINGS OF THE COMMITTEE
1. IN GENERAL.—The regular meeting dates
of the Committee shall be the first and third
Wednesdays of each month. Additional meet-
ings may be called by the Chairman as the
Chairman may deem necessary, or pursuant
to the provisions of paragraph 3 of rule XXVI
of the Standing Rules of the Senate.
2. OPEN MEETINGS.—Meetings of the Com-
mittee, or any subcommittee, including
meetings to conduct hearings, shall be open
to the public, except that a meeting or series
of meetings by the Committee, or any sub-
committee, on the same subject for a period
of no more than 14 calendar days may be
closed to the public on a motion made and
seconded to go into closed session to discuss
only whether the matters enumerated in
subparagraphs (A) through (F) would require
the meeting to be closed, followed imme-
diately by a record vote in open session by a
majority of the members of the Committee,
or any subcommittee, when it is determined
that the matter to be discussed or the testi-
mony to be taken at such meeting or meet-
ings—
(A) will disclose matters necessary to be
kept secret in the interests of national de-
fense or the confidential conduct of the for-
eign relations of the United States;
(B) will relate solely to matters of Com-
mittee staff personnel or internal staff man-
agement or procedure;
(C) will tend to charge an individual with
crime or misconduct, to disgrace or injure
the professional standing of an individual, or
otherwise to expose an individual to public
contempt or obloquy, or will represent a
clearly unwarranted invasion of the privacy
of an individual;
(D) will disclose the identity of any in-
former or law enforcement agent or will dis-
close any information relating to the inves-
tigation or prosecution of a criminal offense
that is required to be kept secret in the in-
terest of effective law enforcement;
(E) will disclose information relating to
the trade secrets of, or financial or commer-
cial information pertaining specifically to, a
given person if—
(1) an Act of Congress requires the infor-
mation to be kept confidential by Govern-
ment officers and employees; or
(2) the information has been obtained by
the Government on a confidential basis,
other than through an application by such
person for a specific Government financial or
other benefit, and is required to be kept se-
cret in order to prevent undue injury to the
competitive position of such person; or
(F) may divulge matters required to be
kept confidential under other provisions of
law or Government regulations.
3. STATEMENTS.—Each witness who is to
appear before the Committee or any sub-
committee shall file with the Committee, at
least 24 hours in advance of the hearing, a
written statement of the witness’s testimony
in as many copies as the Chairman of the
Committee or subcommittee prescribes. In
the event a witness fails to file a timely
written statement in accordance with this
rule, the Chairman of the Committee or sub-
committee, as applicable, may permit the
witness to testify, or deny the witness the
privilege of testifying before the Committee,
or permit the witness to testify in response
to questions from members without the ben-
efit of giving an opening statement.
4. FIELD HEARINGS.—Field hearings of the
full Committee, and any subcommittee
thereof, shall be scheduled only when au-
thorized by the Chairman and ranking mi-
nority member of the full Committee.
RULE II—QUORUMS
1. BILLS, RESOLUTIONS, AND NOMINATIONS.—
A majority of the members, which includes
at least 1 minority member, shall constitute
a quorum for official action of the Com-
mittee when reporting a bill, resolution, or
nomination. Proxies may not be counted in
making a quorum for purposes of this para-
graph.
2. OTHER BUSINESS.—One-third of the en-
tire membership of the Committee shall con-
stitute a quorum for the transaction of all
business as may be considered by the Com-
mittee, except for the reporting of a bill, res-
olution, or nomination or authorizing a sub-
poena. Proxies may not be counted in mak-
ing a quorum for purposes of this paragraph.
3. TAKING TESTIMONY.—For the purpose of
taking sworn testimony a quorum of the
Committee and each subcommittee thereof,
now or hereafter appointed, shall consist of 1
member of the Committee.
RULE III—PROXIES
When a record vote is taken in the Com-
mittee on any bill, resolution, amendment,
or any other question, the required quorum
being present, a member who is unable to at-
tend the meeting may submit his or her vote
by proxy, in writing or through personal in-
structions.
RULE IV—CONSIDERATION OF BILLS AND
RESOLUTIONS
IT SHALL NOT BE IN ORDER DURING A MEETING
OF THE COMMITTEE TO MOVE TO PROCEED TO
THE CONSIDERATION OF ANY BILL OR RESOLU-
TION UNLESS THE BILL OR RESOLUTION HAS
BEEN FILED WITH THE CLERK OF THE COM-
MITTEE NOT LESS THAN 48 HOURS IN ADVANCE
OF THE COMMITTEE MEETING, IN AS MANY
COPIES AS THE CHAIRMAN OF THE COMMITTEE
PRESCRIBES. THIS RULE MAY BE WAIVED WITH
THE CONCURRENCE OF THE CHAIRMAN AND
THE RANKING MINORITY MEMBER OF THE FULL
COMMITTEE.
RULE V—SUBPOENAS; COUNSEL; RECORD
1. SUBPOENAS.—The Chairman, with the ap-
proval of the ranking minority member of
the Committee, may subpoena the attend-
ance of witnesses for hearings and the pro-
duction of memoranda, documents, records,
or any other materials. The Chairman may
subpoena such attendance of witnesses or
production of materials without the approval
of the ranking minority member if the
Chairman or a member of the Committee
staff designated by the Chairman has not re-
ceived notification from the ranking minor-
ity member or a member of the Committee
staff designated by the ranking minority
member of disapproval of the subpoena with-
in 72 hours, excluding Saturdays and Sun-
days, of being notified of the subpoena. If a
subpoena is disapproved by the ranking mi-
nority member as provided in this para-
graph, the subpoena may be authorized by
vote of the Members of the Committee, the
quorum required by paragraph 1 of rule II
being present. When the Committee or Chair-
man authorizes a subpoena, it shall be issued
upon the signature of the Chairman or any
other Member of the Committee designated
by the Chairman. At the direction of the
Chairman, with notification to the ranking
minority member of not less than 72 hours,
the staff is authorized to take depositions
from witnesses. The ranking minority mem-
ber, or a member of the Committee staff des-
ignated by the ranking minority member,
shall be given the opportunity to attend and
participate in the taking of any deposition.
Witnesses at depositions shall be examined
upon oath administered by an individual au-
thorized by law to administer oaths, or ad-
ministered by any member of the Committee
if one is present.
2. COUNSEL.—Witnesses may be accom-
panied at a public or executive hearing, or
the taking of a deposition, by counsel to ad-
vise them of their rights. Counsel retained
by any witness and accompanying such wit-
ness shall be permitted to be present during
the testimony of the witness at any public or
executive hearing, or the taking of a deposi-
tion, to advise the witness, while the witness
is testifying, of the witness’s legal rights. In
the case of any witness who is an officer or
employee of the government, or of a corpora-
tion or association, the Chairman may rule
that representation by counsel from the gov-
ernment, corporation, or association or by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.037 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S270 January 16, 2019
counsel representing other witnesses, creates
a conflict of interest, and that the witness
may only be represented during testimony
before the Committee by personal counsel
not from the government, corporation, or as-
sociation or by personal counsel not rep-
resenting other witnesses. This paragraph
shall not be construed to excuse a witness
from testifying in the event the witness’s
counsel is ejected for conducting himself or
herself in such manner as to prevent, im-
pede, disrupt, obstruct, or interfere with the
orderly administration of a hearing or the
taking of a deposition. This paragraph may
not be construed as authorizing counsel to
coach the witness or to answer for the wit-
ness. The failure of any witness to secure
counsel shall not excuse the witness from
complying with a subpoena.
3. RECORD.—An accurate electronic or sten-
ographic record shall be kept of the testi-
mony of all witnesses in executive and public
hearings and depositions. If testimony given
by deposition is transcribed, the individual
administering the oath shall certify on the
transcript that the witness was duly sworn
in his or her presence and the transcriber
shall certify that the transcript is a true
record of the testimony. The transcript with
these certifications shall be filed with the
chief clerk of the Committee. The record of
a witness’s testimony, whether in public or
executive session or in a deposition, shall be
made available for inspection by the witness
or the witness’s counsel under Committee
supervision. A copy of any testimony given
in public session, or that part of the testi-
mony given by the witness in executive ses-
sion or deposition and subsequently quoted
or made part of the record in a public ses-
sion, shall be provided to that witness at the
witness’s expense if so requested. Upon in-
specting the transcript, within a time limit
set by the Clerk of the Committee, a witness
may request changes in the transcript to
correct errors of transcription and grammat-
ical errors. The witness may also bring to
the attention of the Committee errors of fact
in the witness’s testimony by submitting a
sworn statement about those facts with a re-
quest that it be attached to the transcript.
The Chairman or a member of the Com-
mittee staff designated by the Chairman
shall rule on such requests.
RULE VI—BROADCASTING OF HEARINGS
Public hearings of the full Committee, or
any subcommittee thereof, shall be televised
or broadcast only when authorized by the
Chairman and the ranking minority member
of the full Committee.
RULE VII—SUBCOMMITTEES
1. HEARINGS.—Any member of the Com-
mittee may sit with any subcommittee dur-
ing its hearings.
2. CHANGE OF CHAIRMANSHIP.—Subcommit-
tees shall be considered de novo whenever
there is a change in the chairmanship, and
seniority on the particular subcommittee
shall not necessarily apply.
f
S. RES. 19
Ms. HIRONO. Mr. President, S. Res.
19 is unnecessary because no religious
test is being applied to nominees for
Federal office. If my colleague, the jun-
ior Senator from Nebraska, wants to
embrace the alt-right’s position by of-
fering this resolution, that is his busi-
ness.
Rather than passing a resolution to
address a problem that doesn’t exist,
we should focus on something real, like
ending this totally unnecessary, un-
justified shutdown that is harming mil-
lions of Americans.
I ask unanimous consent for, state-
ments supporting the separation of
church and state from Catholics for
Choice, People for the American Way,
and several Hawaii residents.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
CATHOLICS FOR CHOICE,
Washington, DC, January 4, 2019.
Hon. MAZIE HIRONO,
U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee,
Washington, DC.
DEAR SENATOR HIRONO: Catholics for
Choice represents the majority of Catholics
across the United States that believes that
each woman should be free to follow her con-
science in moral matters regarding reproduc-
tive health.
We were very disappointed to see your col-
leagues, Senators Hirono and Harris, at-
tacked for duly questioning district court
nominee Brian Buescher about his ability to
keep judicial impartiality due to his mem-
bership in the hardline Catholic organiza-
tion, Knights of Columbus. They had every
reason to raise these questions due to the
Knights’ troubling record.
Today’s Knights of Columbus have strayed
far from their civic roots as a philanthropic
organization. Our enclosed report, The
Knights of Columbus: Crusaders for Dis-
crimination, provides a detailed look at how
they have brazenly used their 501c8 status to
pour money, effort and influence into polit-
ical contests and policy debates.
As our investigation showed, they have
spent more than $10 million since 2014 in di-
rect antichoice and anti-LGBT lobbying, like
their petition in Albuquerque to try to ban
later abortion. The Knights’ organization
uses a large portion of its time and effort
funding ultrasound equipment for fake
health centers that actively deceive and
pressure women to keep unwanted preg-
nancies. The insurance arm of the Knights
ranks in the top one percent of the North
American insurance market, yet pays no fed-
eral and nearly no state or local taxes. Make
no mistake: they do not represent what the
majority of Catholics believe on issues of re-
productive health or the separation of
church and state.
We believe this and other attacks on Sen-
ators fulfilling their obligations to question
judicial nominees are just the latest tactic
in shifting the conversation about religious
liberty toward making special accommoda-
tions to those who wish to refuse, impede
and impose rather than to protect the true
religious liberty of all, no matter their be-
liefs. As Religious Freedom Day nears—and
we usher in a historic new Congress that em-
bodies our country’s religious plurality—we
must remember that our society allows for
free religious exercise, but also protects
against religious influence in politics.
Catholics for Choice works at the intersec-
tion of religious liberty, reproductive free-
dom and freedom of conscience for all. We
are at your and your staff’s disposal as the
committee continues to protect fundamental
freedoms through its work. Should you have
any questions, please contact me at
gnorthern@catholicsforchoice.org or 202–986–
6093.
Sincerely,
GLENN NORTHERN,
Domestic Program Director.
[From Honolulu Civil Beat, Jan. 14, 2019]
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
(By Lisa H. Gibson, Ray Markey, Maya
Maxym)
U.S. Sen. Mazie Hirono, Democrat of Ha-
waii, is under attack.
She stands for women, both as a champion
of a woman’s right to choose and as a de-
fender of those who have been sexually as-
saulted; she fought Trump and the Repub-
licans in defense of the Affordable Care Act,
against the Muslim ban and the Kavanaugh
Supreme Court nomination. She is being at-
tacked because she has become one of the
most eloquent and effective voices of the val-
ues Indivisible Hawaii cherishes.
The attack comes not only from rightwing
ideologues, it now comes from Hawaii’s own
member of the House of Representatives,
Tulsi Gabbard, a Democrat who on Friday
announced her candidacy for the presidency.
Her article in The Hill accuses Democratic
Party members of the Senate Judiciary Com-
mittee of ‘‘fomenting religious bigotry’’ and
‘‘weaponizing religion’’ during their ques-
tioning of nominee Brian Buescher to the
U.S. District Court in Nebraska.
This thinly veiled attack on Sen. Hirono,
who sits on the Senate Judiciary Committee
which is responsible for approving judicial
nominees, is a ludicrous assertion and a
stunning act of hypocrisy on the part of Rep.
Gabbard. The assertion is that Hirono is a re-
ligious bigot because of questions designed
to reveal a nominee’s clear record of anti-
choice activism as a barrier to his appro-
priateness for a judicial appointment.
This attack is not only inaccurate, it ex-
poses Gabbard’s self-serving attempt to
project herself as a defender of religious free-
dom—a position which is inconsistent with
her own actions. Rather than align herself
with India’s overt right-wing Hindu Nation-
alists or Syria’s Assad, we suggest Rep.
Gabbard follow Sen. Hirono as a model of
both authentic patriotic behavior and de-
fense of civil rights.
Members of Indivisible Hawaii and other
groups have visited Sen. Hirono’s offices, as
well as those of the other members of Ha-
waii’s Congressional delegation, dozens of
times since President Donald Trump’s Jan.
20, 2017, inauguration. We know firsthand
that she has championed our beliefs because
we have talked with her and her staff many
times. We have followed her votes, watched
her on television, read her Facebook Page
and emails, and attended her town halls.
Sen. Hirono immigrated to Hawaii as a
child and understands from personal experi-
ence the challenges faced by immigrants.
She is the first Buddhist to serve in the Sen-
ate. Her years of public service establish a
record which, in particular, show her to be a
defender of religious tolerance as well as the
values of democratic government and the
rule of law upon which our country depends.
We witnessed what Gabbard did at, during,
and after the Democratic Party Convention
ion 2016 to attack not Trump or the Repub-
licans, but former Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton and the Democratic Party. Since
Trump’s election Gabbard’s silence in re-
sponse to Trump’s efforts to dismantle the
institutions of our democracy has been deaf-
ening and stands in stark contrast to Sen.
Hirono’s forthright, clear and courageous ac-
tions to fight the racist, misogynist, and au-
thoritarian actions of Trump and the GOP.
The Hill article mimics her past behavior—
why does she choose to do this again?
As we fight to preserve our democracy
unity is more important than ever. An at-
tack on Sen. Mazie Hirono as a champion of
progressive values in the Democratic Party
is an attack on all of us who want to take
our country back. We must stand with Sen.
Hirono and other champions of democracy to
be successful.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.039 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S271
January 16, 2019
[Jan. 8, 2019]
PEOPLE FOR THE AMERICAN WAY: CONSERV-
ATIVES’ DISHONEST USE OF ‘RELIGIOUS BIG-
OTRY’ TO DEFLECT ATTENTION FROM NOMI-
NEE’S DISTURBING RECORDS
(By Rev. Leslie Watson Malachi)
Happy New Year! Well, for most of us it
should be—unless you are fighting to protect
our courts. New year, same old tactic by con-
servatives, who are hoping to insulate nar-
row-minded judicial nominees from scrutiny
by smearing people who ask critical ques-
tions about their records and rhetoric.
This dishonest ‘‘religious bigotry’’ strat-
egy has been around as long as the organized
effort to shift the federal judiciary to con-
servatism and reverse decades of precedent
that protect Americans’ legal and constitu-
tional rights. In the recent past, for example,
these groups have charged some Catholic
senators with wanting to keep Catholics off
the federal bench.
The latest smear is being pushed by the no-
toriously right-wing editorial board of the
Wall Street Journal, which has run an at-
tack on Senators Kamala Harris and Mazie
Hirono. The Journal’s editorial is an over-
the-top response to written questions sub-
mitted by Sens. Harris and Hirono to federal
court nominee Brian Buescher about his
commitment to upholding legal equality for
LGBTQ Americans and American women’s
legal right to abortion.
In their questions, the senators noted
Buescher’s long-time membership in the
Knights of Columbus, a Catholic fraternal
organization that does much laudable chari-
table work, but which was also a top funder
of anti-marriage-equality efforts and sup-
ports restrictions on federal family-planning
funds. Before the 2016 election, the group’s
influential leader declared that Catholics
cannot vote for candidates who support abor-
tion rights.
Given these facts, the senators asked
Buescher whether he could assure litigants
that he would deal with these issues fairly
and impartially as a federal judge.
(Buescher’s answer stated that while he had
run for political office as a ‘‘pro-life can-
didate,’’ as a judge he would ‘‘faithfully
apply all United States Supreme Court and
Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals precedent on
all issues, including Roe v. Wade’’ and
Obergefell.)
The Journal’s editorial board responded to
the senators’ reasonable line of questioning
with outrage and horror. By seeking to pro-
tect LGBTQ equality and reproductive
rights, and asking questions about the
Knights’ public policy positions, the edi-
torial implied, Sens. Harris and Hirono were
resurrecting the kind of anti-Catholic big-
otry directed at John F. Kennedy and earlier
presidential candidate Al Smith. The edi-
torial said the questions were part of a ‘‘dis-
tressing pattern’’ that seeks to ‘‘banish’’ re-
ligious people from public life—the kind of
false charge Religious Right groups have
often leveled to deflect criticism of their po-
litical agendas or tactics.
This is not only absurd, but an insult to
American voters.
The Journal also gave space to conserv-
ative African American pastor Eugene Riv-
ers to repeat the charge, saying that the sen-
ators’ questions were ‘‘about silencing be-
lievers of any kind whose views differ from
the progressive view on social issues.’’ He
unbelievably suggested that opponents of
Buescher’s confirmation would be voting to
deny his chance to be a public servant based
on his baptism in the Catholic Church.
These inflammatory charges are designed
to create distraction. It is not only accept-
able, but necessary for senators to explore
whether a nominee for a powerful lifetime
job as a federal judge will uphold every
Americans’ rights. In the case of Buescher
this is doubtful, given that as an unsuccess-
ful candidate for attorney general of Ne-
braska, he said he did not believe LGBT
Americans should be protected by anti-dis-
crimination laws the way people are pro-
tected from racial or ethnic discrimination.
It was also at this time that he declared that
he supported the ‘‘complete reversal’’ of Roe
v. Wade. Buescher has a long record as a par-
tisan ideological warrior, an additional rea-
son cited by the Leadership Conference on
Civil Rights in opposing his confirmation.
Religious freedom is a core constitutional
principle, and as the Constitution makes
clear, there must be no religious test for
public office. We rely on the federal courts to
enforce all Americans’ constitutional rights.
That means judges, regardless of their reli-
gious or personal beliefs, must be counted on
to uphold Americans’ legal protections. Sub-
sequently, a person’s political positions or
legal ideology grounded in their faith does
not make those legal and political stances
off-limits to questioning or criticism.
With Senate Republicans rubber-stamping
even President Trump’s most extreme and
unqualified nominees, right-wing intimida-
tion tactics must not prevent senators from
fulfilling their constitutional obligation to
ensure that lifetime federal judges are com-
mitted to protecting the rights of all Ameri-
cans.
Thank you, Senators Harris and Hirono!
It’s a new year, and it’s time to retire this
old dishonest tactic of silencing and at-
tempts to shame. Let the questions be asked
and let them be answered.
[From the Honolulu Star-Advertiser, Jan. 6,
2019]
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
(By Gary Edwards)
With regard to Donna L. Ching’s letter
(‘‘Leave religion out in vetting qualifica-
tions,’’ Star-Advertiser, Dec. 27): While I
agree that a person’s religious affiliation,
alone, should not be a means of exclusion for
public office, I do not agree that religion
should be ‘‘left out of the conversation.’’
One of the real concerns in vetting can-
didates for public office is how they will
apply their personal beliefs, including their
religion, to the role they seek to fill. And
while freedom of religion is a vital right, so
is freedom from religion.
Significant damage can be done to our so-
ciety by those who would seek to impose
their religious beliefs and values on others
through the force of law. These beliefs and
values do not always align with the prin-
ciples of our Constitution, and laws based on
them would deny others their freedom and
fair treatment.
I’m glad U.S. Sens. Mazie Hirono and
Kamala Harris are probing these issues.
Kaneohe.
[From the Wall Street Journal, Jan. 15, 2019]
SENATORS WERE RIGHT TO ASK THOSE
QUESTIONS ON RELIGION
(By Michael Keegan)
Regarding your editorial ‘‘Kamala Harris’s
Dark Knights’’ (Jan. 3): Sens. Harris and
Mazie Hirono’s questions for Brian Buescher
were focused on appropriate and important
questions, namely whether the nominee
could be counted on as a federal judge to rec-
ognize and protect the legal equality of
LGBTQ Americans and the right of Amer-
ican women to have access to safe and legal
abortion.
You charge that such questioning is about
trying to ‘‘banish’’ people from public life for
their religious beliefs and associations. In re-
ality, protecting the legal rights of all Amer-
icans of all faiths by ensuring that nominees
for powerful lifetime seats on America’s fed-
eral courts are committed to enforcing them
is one of senators’ most important respon-
sibilities, one that the current Republican
majority has abandoned in its rush to
achieve ideological domination of the courts.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO KORI KELLER
∑ Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, this
week I have the honor of recognizing
Kori Keller of Yellowstone County for
her impact on the Billings community,
through her work at the Ramsey Keller
Memorial.
Mrs. Keller, a Billings native, has
dedicated her time to aiding parents
who have undergone the hardship of
losing a child too young. Mrs. Keller
and her husband lost their precious
daughter Ramsey soon after she was
born.
As a way of honoring their daughter,
Kori and her husband founded the
Ramsey Keller Memorial. The Ramsey
Keller Memorial is dedicated to helping
families who have lost children under
the age of 1 year old. The foundation
raises money through both an annual
race and a pink-tie affair to pay for the
funerals of Montana infants that have
passed away before their first birthday.
Since then, Kori has been an advocate
and provided comfort for numerous
parents going through the same hard-
ships she experienced.
I congratulate Kori on her growing
role in the State of Montana. She has
been a constant source of hope and aid
to families going through similar hard-
ships she has endured. I look forward
to seeing the success of the Ramsey
Keller Memorial, as it continues to
pour into Montana family’s lives.∑
f
REMEMBERING EUCARIO
BERMUDEZ
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, I would
like to honor the life and legacy of Co-
lombian-American journalist and
broadcaster, Eucario Bermudez.
Bermudez, a beloved south Florida
radio legend amongst the Hispanic
community, died earlier this month
after years of service to the Hispanic
community in the State of Florida.
Today I pay tribute to Eucario’s life,
with immense gratitude for his work
and dedication.∑
f
RECOGNIZING INDIAN PASS RAW
BAR
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Mr. President, today I
would like to highlight the hard work
and unique entrepreneurial spirit that
can be found across my home State of
Florida. As chairman of the Senate
Committee on Small Business and En-
trepreneurship, each week I recognize a
small business that exemplifies hard
work and dedication toward the local
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.030 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S272 January 16, 2019
community. Today, it is my distinct
privilege to honor Indian Pass Raw Bar
from Port St. Joe in Gulf County, FL,
as the Senate Small Business of the
Week.
Indian Pass Raw Bar has deep histor-
ical ties to the Florida Panhandle
along the coastline of the Gulf of Mex-
ico, tracing its roots to a commissary
store founded in 1903, for workers in
the then-booming turpentine industry.
It is located in the same building as
the original Indian Pass Trading Post
that opened in 1929, where Mrs. Gypsy
McNeil established her talent with her
delicious seafood gumbo.
In 1986, Hurricane Kate struck the
Florida Panhandle and destroyed the
Indian Pass Trading Post. The McNeil
family showed resilience after the
storm and recovered by converting the
general store into an oyster bar, set-
ting the stage for business to sky-
rocket.
Twenty-three miles from Apalachi-
cola, FL, Indian Pass Raw Bar serves
the panhandle’s world-famous oysters
and iconic seafood dishes, such as
steamed shrimp and crab legs. Drinks
are served on an honor system where
customers keep their tabs to turn in at
checkout, treating customers like
trusted friends. It has become a re-
nowned location for Floridians and
tourists alike to enjoy time with fam-
ily. Southern Living magazine once de-
scribed Indian Pass Raw Bar as ‘‘quite
possibly the best seafood shack in ex-
istence.’’ It has also received praise
from the Garden & Gun magazine as
one of Florida’s ‘‘Hidden Hotspots.’’ In-
dian Pass Raw Bar’s success continued
with the opening of a second location
in June 2017, in downtown Port St. Joe,
FL.
In October 2018, category 5 Hurricane
Michael devastated the Florida Pan-
handle, including Gulf County. The
storm severely damaged Indian Pass
Raw Bar, as high winds blew off the
front door, forcefully removed the air-
conditioning system, and threw its
iconic street sign hundreds of yards
away. However, just as they did after
the 1986 storm, the McNeil family is re-
building and looks forward to con-
tinuing to serve their world-famous
oysters again this spring. Upon reopen-
ing, they will welcome visitors to the
gulf coast of Florida for their 90th year
in business.
The Indian Pass Raw Bar became
what it is today partly because of Hur-
ricane Kate in 1986. The McNeil family
understands how devastating these
storms truly are and the impact they
can have on small business and work-
ing families. To help their community,
the McNeil family enthusiastically
opened their facilities as emergency
supply distribution centers to their
neighbors in need, despite having their
own difficulties. Meredith McNeil said
in October 2018: ‘‘This whole area, the
whole Gulf, we’ve done this before.
We’re all resilient.’’
This is the kind of commitment to
community that is unique to American
small business. During a catastrophe,
the Indian Pass Raw Bar helped bring
their fellow citizens together by offer-
ing emergency supplies in order to help
their customers and to give back to the
community that has supported their
business. Indian Pass Raw Bar is an ex-
ample of Florida’s exceptional entre-
preneurship, continuing a 90-year his-
tory, being resilient and innovative in
its approach to challenges, and giving
back to the community during a time
of need. I would like to congratulate
the McNeil family and all the employ-
ees at Indian Pass Raw Bar for being
named the Senate Small Business of
the Week for the week of January 14 to
18, 2019. I wish them continued success
in their future endeavors.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Mr. Pate, one of his sec-
retaries.
f
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
As in executive session the Presiding
Officer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
which were referred to the appropriate
committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT RELATIVE TO THE CON-
TINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY THAT WAS DE-
CLARED IN EXECUTIVE ORDER
12947 OF JANUARY 23, 1995, WITH
RESPECT TO TERRORISTS WHO
THREATEN TO DISRUPT THE
MIDDLE EAST PEACE PROCESS—
PM 1
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report, which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency declared in Executive
Order 12947 of January 23, 1995, with re-
spect to foreign terrorists who threat-
en to disrupt the Middle East peace
process, is to continue in effect beyond
January 23, 2019.
The crisis with respect to grave acts
of violence committed by foreign ter-
rorists who threaten to disrupt the
Middle East peace process that led to
the declaration of a national emer-
gency on January 23, 1995, has not been
resolved. Terrorist groups continue to
engage in activities that have the pur-
pose or effect of threatening the Middle
East peace process and that are hostile
to United States interests in the re-
gion. Such actions continue to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to
the national security, foreign policy,
and economy of the United States.
Therefore, I have determined that it is
necessary to continue the national
emergency declared in Executive Order
12947 with respect to foreign terrorists
who threaten to disrupt the Middle
East peace process and to maintain in
force the sanctions against them to re-
spond to this threat.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, January 16, 2019.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 10:28 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 113. An act to require the purchase of
domestically made flags of the United States
of America for use by the Federal Govern-
ment.
H.R. 135. An act to amend the Notification
and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination
and Retaliation Act of 2002 to strengthen
Federal antidiscrimination laws enforced by
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission and expand accountability within
the Federal Government, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 136. An act to amend title 5, United
States Code, to protect unpaid interns in the
Federal Government from workplace harass-
ment and discrimination, and for other pur-
poses.
H.R. 202. An act to amend the Inspector
General Act of 1978 relative to the powers of
the Department of Justice Inspector Gen-
eral.
H.R. 247. An act to amend chapter 36 of
title 44, United States Code, to make certain
changes relating to electronic Government
services, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 113. An act to require the purchase of
domestically made flags of the United States
of America for use by the Federal Govern-
ment; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 135. An act to amend the Notification
and Federal Employee Antidiscrimination
and Retaliation Act of 2002 to strengthen
Federal antidiscrimination laws enforced by
the Equal Employment Opportunity Com-
mission and expand accountability within
the Federal Government, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 136. An act to amend title 5, United
States Code, to protect unpaid interns in the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.062 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S273
January 16, 2019
Federal Government from workplace harass-
ment and discrimination, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Homeland Secu-
rity and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 202. An act to amend the Inspector
General Act of 1978 relative to the powers of
the Department of Justice Inspector Gen-
eral; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
H.R. 247. An act to amend chapter 36 of
title 44, United States Code, to make certain
changes relating to electronic Government
services, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Mrs.
GILLIBRAND, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 137. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the credit for
employers establishing workplace child care
facilities, to increase the child care credit to
encourage greater use of quality child care
services, to provide incentives for students
to earn child care-related degrees and to
work in child care facilities, and to increase
the exclusion for employer-provided depend-
ent care assistance; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and
Mrs. BLACKBURN):
S. 138. A bill to modify the boundary of the
Shiloh National Military Park located in the
States of Tennessee and Mississippi, to es-
tablish Parker’s Crossroads Battlefield as an
affiliated area of the National Park System,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and
Mrs. BLACKBURN):
S. 139. A bill to designate the bridge lo-
cated in Blount County, Tennessee, on the
Foothills Parkway (commonly known as
‘‘Bridge 2’’ ) as the ‘‘Dean Stone Bridge’’; to
the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. ALEXANDER (for himself and
Mrs. BLACKBURN):
S. 140. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior to study the suitability and fea-
sibility of designating the President James
K. Polk Home in Columbia, Tennessee, as a
unit of the National Park System, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. BLUNT, Mr. RISCH, Mr.
COTTON, Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. ROUNDS,
Mr. CRAPO, Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr.
SASSE, Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. RUBIO,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. MORAN, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, Mr. THUNE, Mr. ENZI, Mr.
INHOFE, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr. CASSIDY,
Mr. ROMNEY, Mr. GRAHAM, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. DAINES,
Mr. CORNYN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr. PAUL, Mr.
BOOZMAN, Mr. CRAMER, Mr. BAR-
RASSO, and Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina):
S. 141. A bill to prohibit Federal funding of
Planned Parenthood Federation of America;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. RUBIO:
S. 142. A bill to impose privacy require-
ments on providers of internet services simi-
lar to the requirements imposed on Federal
agencies under the Privacy Act of 1974; to
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. GARDNER, Mr.
KING, and Mr. HEINRICH):
S. 143. A bill to authorize the Department
of Energy to conduct collaborative research
with the Department of Veterans Affairs in
order to improve healthcare services for vet-
erans in the United States, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. ENZI (for himself and Mr. BAR-
RASSO):
S. 144. A bill to designate the mountain at
the Devils Tower National Monument, Wyo-
ming, as Devils Tower, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr. ALEX-
ANDER, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CRUZ, Mr.
CORNYN, Mr. RUBIO, Mr. SASSE, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. 145. A bill to expand opportunity
through greater choice in education, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr.
WYDEN):
S. 146. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide for Move Amer-
ica bonds and Move America credits; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. LEE,
and Ms. ERNST):
S. 147. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. LEE,
Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. BLUNT, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. PORTMAN,
and Mr. YOUNG):
S. 148. A bill to require a full audit of the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System and the Federal reserve banks by the
Comptroller General of the United States,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
By Mr. CASEY (for himself and Mr.
MORAN):
S. 149. A bill to establish a Senior Scams
Prevention Advisory Council; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
By Mr. SANDERS (for himself, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. SCHUMER, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
BROWN, Ms. CANTWELL, Mr. CARDIN,
Ms. DUCKWORTH, Mr. DURBIN, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mrs. GILLIBRAND, Ms.
HARRIS, Ms. HIRONO, Mr. KAINE, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. MARKEY,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. MURPHY, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. REED, Ms. ROSEN, Mr.
SCHATZ, Ms. SMITH, Ms. STABENOW,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Ms. WARREN, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, and Mr. WYDEN):
S. 150. A bill to provide for increases in the
Federal minimum wage, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr.
MARKEY):
S. 151. A bill to deter criminal robocall vio-
lations and improve enforcement of section
227(b) of the Communications Act of 1934,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. COTTON (for himself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN):
S. 152. A bill to direct the President to im-
pose penalties pursuant to denial orders with
respect to certain Chinese telecommuni-
cations companies that are in violation of
the export control or sanctions laws of the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Ms.
KLOBUCHAR):
S. 153. A bill to promote veteran involve-
ment in STEM education, computer science,
and scientific research, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. BALDWIN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. KAINE, Mr. BENNET, and
Ms. SINEMA):
S. 154. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to improve oversight of con-
tracts for services and financial processes of
the Department of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mr. JONES (for himself, Ms. HAS-
SAN, and Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 155. A bill to improve the financial lit-
eracy of secondary school students; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Ms. BALDWIN:
S. 156. A bill to prevent conflicts of inter-
est that stem from executive branch employ-
ees receiving bonuses or other compensation
arrangements from non-Government sources,
from the revolving door that raises concerns
about the independence of executive branch
employees, and from the revolving door that
casts aspersions over the awarding of Gov-
ernment contracts and other financial bene-
fits; to the Committee on Homeland Security
and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. CRUZ (for himself, Mr. JOHN-
SON, Mr. SASSE, Mr. PAUL, Mr. BLUNT,
Mr. COTTON, Mr. TOOMEY, Mr.
LANKFORD, and Mr. LEE):
S. 157. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to permit kindergarten
through grade 12 educational expenses to be
paid from a 529 account; to the Committee
on Finance.
By Mr. PAUL:
S. 158. A bill to prohibit Federal funding of
Planned Parenthood Federation of America;
to the Committee on Health, Education,
Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mr. INHOFE,
Mr. CRAPO, Mr. RISCH, Mr. HOEVEN,
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. CRAMER,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. THUNE, and Mr.
BOOZMAN):
S. 159. A bill to implement equal protec-
tion under the 14th Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States for the right
to life of each born and preborn human per-
son; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. GRAHAM (for himself, Mr.
RUBIO, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. BLUNT, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. LANKFORD, Mr. PORTMAN,
Mr. GRASSLEY, Mr. TILLIS, Mr.
HOEVEN, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. CRAPO,
Mr. BRAUN, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. SASSE,
Mr. INHOFE, Ms. ERNST, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. CRAMER, Mrs.
BLACKBURN, Mr. ROUNDS, Mrs. HYDE-
SMITH, Mr. PERDUE, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
SULLIVAN, Mr. WICKER, Mr. YOUNG,
Mr. ENZI, Mr. BURR, Mr. CASSIDY, Mr.
ROMNEY, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. JOHNSON,
Mr. DAINES, Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina, Mr. ROBERTS, Mr. COTTON, Mr.
LEE, Mr. PAUL, Mr. MCCONNELL, Mr.
TOOMEY, and Mr. THUNE):
S. 160. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to protect pain-capable unborn
children, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SULLIVAN:
S. 161. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to conduct a
study and submit a report on filing require-
ments under the Universal Service Fund pro-
grams; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.021 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S274 January 16, 2019
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr. BROWN,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER, Mr.
CARDIN, Mr. KAINE, Mr. MARKEY, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. WARREN, Ms. HAS-
SAN, Mr. JONES, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
UDALL, Mr. HEINRICH, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. KING, Ms. HIRONO,
Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. SCHATZ, Mr.
TESTER, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL):
S. 162. A bill to provide back pay to low-
wage contractor employees, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity and Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. SULLIVAN (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI):
S. 163. A bill to prevent catastrophic fail-
ure or shutdown of remote diesel power en-
gines due to emission control devices, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
vironment and Public Works.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. CRAPO, Ms. BALDWIN,
Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. TESTER, Mr. BOOZ-
MAN, Mrs. SHAHEEN, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
JONES, Mr. HOEVEN, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 164. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to remove the prohibition on
eligibility for TRICARE Reserve Select of
members of the reserve components of the
Armed Forces who are eligible to enroll in a
health benefits plan under chapter 89 of title
5, United States Code; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. BLUMENTHAL (for himself,
Ms. HARRIS, and Mr. MURPHY):
S. 165. A bill to amend chapter 85 of title 5,
United States Code, to clarify that Federal
employees excepted from a furlough are eli-
gible for unemployment compensation; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Mr. GRAHAM:
S. 166. A bill to provide provisional pro-
tected presence status for certain aliens and
to provide mandatory appropriations relat-
ing to border security; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. YOUNG:
S. 167. A bill to amend the National Trails
System Act to extend the Lewis and Clark
National Historic Trail, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. YOUNG (for himself and Mr.
BRAUN):
S. 168. A bill to retitle Indiana Dunes Na-
tional Lakeshore as Indiana Dunes National
Park, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Mr.
WYDEN, Mr. PORTMAN, Mr. CARPER,
Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and Mrs. CAPITO):
S. 169. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an exemption
from gross income for civil damages as rec-
ompense for trafficking in persons; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself and Ms.
STABENOW):
S. 170. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to limit the amount of cer-
tain qualified conservation contributions; to
the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. CORNYN):
S. 171. A bill to authorize the Office on Vio-
lence Against Women to improve the han-
dling of crimes of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking by in-
corporating a trauma-informed approach
into the initial response to and investigation
of such crimes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself, Mrs.
SHAHEEN, Mr. BARRASSO, Mr. JONES,
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina, and Ms.
SINEMA):
S. 172. A bill to delay the reimposition of
the annual fee on health insurance providers
until after 2021; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. SASSE:
S. Res. 19. A resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that disqualifying a
nominee to Federal office on the basis of
membership in the Knights of Columbus vio-
lates the Constitution of the United States;
considered and agreed to.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CARDIN,
and Mr. COONS):
S. Con. Res. 1. A concurrent resolution
calling for credible, transparent, and safe
elections in Nigeria, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 20
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Ms. STABENOW) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 20, a bill to amend the Ethics
in Government Act of 1978 to require
the disclosure of certain tax returns by
Presidents and certain candidates for
the office of the President, and for
other purposes.
S. 39
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Florida (Mr. SCOTT) were added as
cosponsors of S. 39, a bill to provide
that Members of Congress may not re-
ceive pay after October 1 of any fiscal
year in which Congress has not ap-
proved a concurrent resolution on the
budget and passed the regular appro-
priations bills.
S. 47
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
ROMNEY) and the Senator from Maine
(Mr. KING) were added as cosponsors of
S. 47, a bill to provide for the manage-
ment of the natural resources of the
United States, and for other purposes.
S. 69
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
YOUNG) was added as a cosponsor of S.
69, a bill to allow reciprocity for the
carrying of certain concealed firearms.
S. 83
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from Wyoming
(Mr. ENZI) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 83, a bill to amend section 203 of
Public Law 94–305 to ensure proper au-
thority for the Office of Advocacy of
the Small Business Administration,
and for other purposes.
S. 92
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from Mississippi (Mrs.
HYDE-SMITH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 92, a bill to amend chapter 8 of
title 5, United States Code, to provide
that major rules of the executive
branch shall have no force or effect un-
less a joint resolution of approval is en-
acted into law.
S. 96
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
96, a bill to revise the authorized route
of the North Country National Scenic
Trail in northeastern Minnesota and to
extend the trail into Vermont to con-
nect with the Appalachian National
Scenic Trail, and for other purposes.
S. 98
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S. 98,
a bill to authorize the President to
award the Medal of Honor to James
Megellas, formerly of Fond du Lac,
Wisconsin, and currently of Colleyville,
Texas, for acts of valor on January 28,
1945, during the Battle of the Bulge in
World War II.
S. 104
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. TOOMEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 104, a bill to amend title
31, United States Code, to provide for
automatic continuing resolutions.
S. 106
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Arkansas (Mr. BOOZMAN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 106, a bill to
reauthorize and extend funding for
community health centers and the Na-
tional Health Service Corps.
S. 113
At the request of Mr. JOHNSON, the
names of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT), the Senator from Wyo-
ming (Mr. ENZI) and the Senator from
Pennsylvania (Mr. TOOMEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. 113, a bill to appro-
priate funds for pay and allowances of
excepted Federal employees, and for
other purposes.
S. 119
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. BRAUN), the Senator from Ten-
nessee (Mrs. BLACKBURN) and the Sen-
ator from Louisiana (Mr. KENNEDY)
were added as cosponsors of S. 119, a
bill to amend title 18, United States
Code, to prohibit taking minors across
State lines in circumvention of laws re-
quiring the involvement of parents in
abortion decisions.
S. 120
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 120, a bill to protect vic-
tims of stalking from gun violence.
S. 131
At the request of Mr. CASSIDY, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) was added as a cosponsor of S. 131,
a bill to amend title XIX of the Social
Security Act to prohibit Federal Med-
icaid funding for the administrative
costs of providing health benefits to in-
dividuals who are unauthorized immi-
grants.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.025 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S275
January 16, 2019
S.J. RES. 3
At the request of Mrs. HYDE-SMITH,
the names of the Senator from Utah
(Mr. LEE) and the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. GARDNER) were added as co-
sponsors of S.J. Res. 3, a joint resolu-
tion proposing an amendment to the
Constitution of the United States rel-
ative to balancing the budget.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Ms. ERNST (for herself, Mr.
LANKFORD, Mr. BLUNT, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. COTTON, Mr. GRASS-
LEY, Mr. ROUNDS, Mr. CRAPO,
Mrs. BLACKBURN, Mr. SASSE,
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH, Mr. RUBIO,
Mrs. FISCHER, Mr. MORAN, Mr.
KENNEDY, Mr. THUNE, Mr. ENZI,
Mr. INHOFE, Mr. HAWLEY, Mr.
CASSIDY, Mr. ROMNEY, Mr. GRA-
HAM, Mr. HOEVEN, Mr. ROBERTS,
Mr. DAINES, Mr. CORNYN, Mr.
CRUZ, Mr. PAUL, Mr. BOOZMAN,
Mr. CRAMER, Mr. BARRASSO, and
Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina):
S. 141. A bill to prohibit Federal
funding of Planned Parenthood Federa-
tion of America; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Ms. ERNST. Thank you very much to
my colleagues, the Senator from Ne-
braska, the Senator from Mississippi,
as well as our other colleague, the Sen-
ator from Missouri. Thank you for
joining us on the floor today to express
our support for those who march for
life. Thank you so much.
As my colleagues can attest, the in-
valuable message being shared by the
pro-life community this week has im-
plications far beyond that of simply
the March for Life. As I travel across
my home State of Iowa, I see this life-
affirming message in our pregnancy re-
source centers, maternity homes, and
adoption agencies. These comprehen-
sive on-the-ground services provide
women and families with service op-
tions that are changing and saving
lives every single day.
These life-affirming services are the
foundation of the pro-life movement
across our Nation, and I sincerely
thank those centers and agencies for
their critical work to fight for vulner-
able lives throughout the year.
I see the same message in the re-
markable stories of individual families,
such as the Pickering family from
Newton, IA. I have had the opportunity
to share the phenomenal story of
Micah Pickering on the Senate floor
before. As you may recall, Micah was
born at just 20 weeks postfertilization.
He was only about the size of a bag of
M&M’s—the size of the palm of my
hand. That was Micah. Yet Micah was
also a perfect, fully-formed baby boy,
with 10 fingers and 10 toes. In fact, no
one makes his case more eloquently
than Micah himself.
When I first met Micah, I had a pic-
ture of him displayed in my office from
the day that he was born—again, the
size of the palm of my hand. Micah im-
mediately ran up to that picture. He
pointed at it, and he said: ‘‘Baby.’’
Micah recognized right away that
even at just 20 weeks postfertilization,
the humanity of the child was undeni-
able.
Micah’s parents and the doctors and
nurses at the University of Iowa Hos-
pitals & Clinics recognized this human-
ity, as well, and were dedicated to his
survival. Today Micah is a happy,
healthy, and energetic 6-year-old boy.
Stories like Micah’s are extraor-
dinary reminders that the life-affirm-
ing services, for which the pro-life
community marches, have real and sig-
nificant impacts on the lives of fami-
lies across America.
Since coming to Congress, I have also
tried to do my part to ensure that this
message from those in my home State
of Iowa and from other communities
all across the Nation is taken back and
turned into action in Washington. For
me, that has meant supporting crucial
pro-life initiatives, such as the Pain-
Capable Unborn Child Protection Act,
which would prevent abortions after 20
weeks of development—the very same
age at which my dear Micah was born.
Another critical piece of legislation,
the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Pro-
tection Act, would create concrete en-
forcement provisions to hold abortion-
ists accountable if they do not provide
the same degree of care to a baby who
survives an abortion as they would any
child born naturally premature at that
same age.
Fighting for commonsense legisla-
tion that protects innocent life has
been a priority of mine in the Senate.
But Congress must also do more to en-
sure that taxpayers are not forced to
subsidize abortion or the abortion in-
dustry giants, such as Planned Parent-
hood.
During the 115th Congress, I led the
fight in the Senate to pass critical leg-
islation, which was signed into law in
2017, that ensures States are not forced
to provide entities like Planned Par-
enthood, the Nation’s single largest
provider of abortions, with Federal
title X dollars.
I am grateful to have worked with
former Congresswoman Diane Black,
my Senate colleagues, and President
Trump to make sure States are not
forced to award providers like Planned
Parenthood with taxpayer dollars like
title X family planning grants.
As I have stated time and again, tax-
payers should not be forced to foot the
bill for roughly one-half billion dollars
annually for an organization like
Planned Parenthood, which exhibits
such disrespect for human life. With
that in mind, today I reintroduced leg-
islation that would defund Planned
Parenthood while still protecting vital
funding for women’s healthcare serv-
ices. Contrary to what they claim,
Planned Parenthood is not the Nation’s
preeminent provider of women’s
healthcare. In fact, Planned Parent-
hood facilities do not even perform in-
house mammograms; something so
simple is not performed by Planned
Parenthood.
On the other hand, just as my col-
league the senior Senator from Ne-
braska stated, community health cen-
ters continue to greatly outnumber
Planned Parenthood clinics nationwide
and provide more comprehensive pre-
ventive and primary health services,
including cervical and breast cancer
screenings, diagnostic laboratory and
radiology services, well childcare, pre-
natal and postnatal care, immuniza-
tions, and so much more. Access to
comprehensive health services is abso-
lutely critical to women and families
across this Nation, and federally quali-
fied health centers offer such services,
regardless of a person’s ability to pay.
A recent GAO study that I requested,
along with many of my colleagues in
both the House and the Senate, showed
that over a 3-year period, federally
qualified health centers served 25 mil-
lion individuals compared to only 2.4
million individuals that Planned Par-
enthood served. That is more than 10
times more people served by those
healthcare centers.
Furthermore, a recent Marist poll
shows that 54 percent of Americans do
not support taxpayer dollars going to-
ward abortions. While there are Fed-
eral regulations that prevent Federal
dollars from directly covering abor-
tion, these laws are governed by a com-
plicated patchwork of policies and
funding riders that must be reapproved
during the appropriations process
every single year.
Since 1976, the Hyde amendment has
been attached to appropriations bills in
order to block Federal funds from pay-
ing for abortions. However, this policy,
which once drew widespread bipartisan
support, has recently been under at-
tack. For the first time ever, the Af-
fordable Care Act authorized and ap-
propriated funds that bypassed the
Hyde amendment funding restrictions.
In 2016, the Democratic Party added
the repeal of the Hyde amendment pro-
tections to its Presidential platform.
The Hyde amendment is a long-
standing and critical provision that
protects Federal dollars and ensures
that taxpayers are not footing the bill
for abortion procedures. That is why I
support the No Taxpayer Funding for
Abortion and Abortion Insurance Full
Disclosure Act of 2019, which was re-
cently reintroduced in the Senate. This
legislation would permanently codify
the Hyde amendment, ensuring that
funding restrictions remain in place
and are applied to all Federal pro-
grams. Furthermore, this bill takes im-
portant steps to eliminate certain tax
benefits related to abortions and im-
prove disclosure requirements related
to insurance coverage of abortion.
Preventing our taxpayer dollars from
paying for abortion procedures—a posi-
tion that a majority of Americans
agree with—should not be a com-
plicated process vulnerable to partisan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.022 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S276 January 16, 2019
attack. Congress must take steps to
ensure that permanent protections
apply governmentwide.
As such, I urge the Senate to con-
sider the No Taxpayer Funding for
Abortion and Abortion Insurance Dis-
closure Act on the floor in order to pro-
tect not only our taxpayer dollars but
the innocent lives of our most vulner-
able.
I appreciate all of the marchers who
will be coming to Washington, DC, in
the following days and spending their
time in a most worthy effort, which is
our annual March for Life. God bless
them all. Of course, God bless my
Iowans for that journey.
Thank you very much.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and
Mr. MARKEY):
S. 151. A bill to deter criminal
robocall violations and improve en-
forcement of section 227(b) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 151
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Telephone
Robocall Abuse Criminal Enforcement and
Deterrence Act’’ or the ‘‘TRACED Act’’.
SEC. 2. FORFEITURE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 227 of the Com-
munications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(4) CIVIL FORFEITURE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Any person that is de-
termined by the Commission, in accordance
with paragraph (3) or (4) of section 503(b), to
have violated any provision of this sub-
section shall be liable to the United States
for a forfeiture penalty pursuant to section
503(b)(1). The amount of the forfeiture pen-
alty determined under this subparagraph
shall be determined in accordance with sub-
paragraphs (A) through (F) of section
503(b)(2).
‘‘(B) VIOLATION WITH INTENT.—Any person
that is determined by the Commission, in ac-
cordance with paragraph (3) or (4) of section
503(b), to have violated this subsection with
the intent to cause such violation shall be
liable to the United States for a forfeiture
penalty. The amount of the forfeiture pen-
alty determined under this subparagraph
shall be equal to an amount determined in
accordance with subparagraphs (A) through
(F) of section 503(b)(2) plus an additional
penalty not to exceed $10,000.
‘‘(C) RECOVERY.—Any forfeiture penalty de-
termined under subparagraph (A) or (B) shall
be recoverable under section 504(a).
‘‘(D) PROCEDURE.—No forfeiture liability
shall be determined under subparagraph (A)
or (B) against any person unless such person
receives the notice required by paragraph (3)
or (4) of section 503(b).
‘‘(E) STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.—No for-
feiture penalty shall be determined or im-
posed against any person—
‘‘(i) under subparagraph (A) if the violation
charged occurred more than 1 year prior to
the date of issuance of the required notice or
notice of apparent liability; and
‘‘(ii) under subparagraph (B) if the viola-
tion charged occurred more than 3 years
prior to the date of issuance of the required
notice or notice of apparent liability.
‘‘(F) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Notwith-
standing any law to the contrary, the Com-
mission may not determine or impose a for-
feiture penalty on a person under both sub-
paragraphs (A) and (B) based on the same
conduct.’’; and
(2) by striking subsection (h).
(b) APPLICABILITY.—The amendments made
by this section shall not affect any action or
proceeding commenced before and pending
on the date of enactment of this Act.
(c) DEADLINE FOR REGULATIONS.—The Fed-
eral Communications Commission shall pre-
scribe regulations to implement the amend-
ments made by this section not later than
270 days after the date of enactment of this
Act.
SEC. 3. CALL AUTHENTICATION.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) STIR/SHAKEN AUTHENTICATION FRAME-
WORK.—The term ‘‘STIR/SHAKEN authen-
tication framework’’ means the secure tele-
phone identity revisited and signature-based
handling of asserted information using to-
kens standards proposed by the information
and communications technology industry to
attach a certificate of authenticity to each
phone to verify the source of each call.
(2) VOICE SERVICE.—The term ‘‘voice serv-
ice’’—
(A) means any service that is inter-
connected with the public switched tele-
phone network and that furnishes voice com-
munications to an end user using resources
from the North American Numbering Plan or
any successor to the North American Num-
bering Plan adopted by the Commission
under section 251(e)(1) of the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 251(e)(1)); and
(B) includes—
(i) transmissions from a telephone fac-
simile machine, computer, or other device to
a telephone facsimile machine; and
(ii) without limitation, any service that
enables real-time, two-way voice commu-
nications, including any service that re-
quires internet protocol-compatible cus-
tomer premises equipment (commonly
known as ‘‘CPE’’) and permits out-bound
calling, whether or not the service is one-
way or two-way voice over internet protocol.
(b) AUTHENTICATION FRAMEWORK.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraphs (2)
and (3), not later than 18 months after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Federal
Communications Commission shall require a
provider of voice service to implement the
STIR/SHAKEN authentication framework in
the internet protocol networks of voice serv-
ice providers.
(2) IMPLEMENTATION.—The Federal Commu-
nications Commission shall not take the ac-
tion described in paragraph (1) if the Com-
mission determines that a provider of voice
service, not later than 12 months after the
date of enactment of this Act—
(A) has adopted the STIR/SHAKEN authen-
tication framework for calls on the internet
protocol networks of voice service providers;
(B) has agreed voluntarily to participate
with other providers of voice service in the
STIR/SHAKEN authentication framework;
(C) has begun to implement the STIR/
SHAKEN authentication framework; and
(D) will be capable of fully implementing
the STIR/SHAKEN authentication frame-
work not later than 18 months after the date
of enactment of this Act.
(3) IMPLEMENTATION REPORT.—Not later
than 12 months after the date of enactment
of this Act, the Federal Communications
Commission shall submit to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation
of the Senate and the Committee on Energy
and Commerce of the House of Representa-
tives a report on the determination required
under paragraph (2), which shall include—
(A) an analysis of the extent to which pro-
viders of a voice service have implemented
the STIR/SHAKEN authentication frame-
work; and
(B) an assessment of the efficacy of the
STIR/SHAKEN authentication framework,
as being implemented under this section, in
addressing all aspects of call authentication.
(4) REVIEW AND REVISION OR REPLACE-
MENT.—Not later than 3 years after the date
of enactment of this Act, and every 3 years
thereafter, the Federal Communications
Commission, after public notice and an op-
portunity for comment, shall—
(A) assess the efficacy of the call authen-
tication framework implemented under this
section;
(B) based on the assessment under subpara-
graph (A), revise or replace the call authen-
tication framework under this section if the
Commission determines it is in the public in-
terest to do so; and
(C) submit to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation of the
Senate and the Committee on Energy and
Commerce of the House of Representatives a
report on the findings of the assessment
under subparagraph (A) and on any actions
to revise or replace the call authentication
framework under subparagraph (B).
(5) EXTENSION OF IMPLEMENTATION DEAD-
LINE.—The Federal Communications Com-
mission may extend any deadline for the im-
plementation of a call authentication frame-
work required under this section by 12
months or such further amount of time as
the Commission determines necessary if the
Commission determines that purchasing or
upgrading equipment to support call authen-
tication would constitute a substantial hard-
ship for a provider or category of providers.
(c) SAFE HARBOR AND OTHER REGULA-
TIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Federal Communica-
tions Commission shall promulgate rules—
(A) establishing when a provider of voice
service may block a voice call based, in
whole or in part, on information provided by
the call authentication framework under
subsection (b);
(B) establishing a safe harbor for a pro-
vider of voice service from liability for unin-
tended or inadvertent blocking of calls or for
the unintended or inadvertent
misidentification of the level of trust for in-
dividual calls based, in whole or in part, on
information provided by the call authentica-
tion framework under subsection (b); and
(C) establishing a process to permit a call-
ing party adversely affected by the informa-
tion provided by the call authentication
framework under subsection (b) to verify the
authenticity of the calling party’s calls.
(2) CONSIDERATIONS.—In establishing the
safe harbor under paragraph (1), the Federal
Communications Commission shall consider
limiting the liability of a provider based on
the extent to which the provider—
(A) blocks or identifies calls based, in
whole or in part, on the information pro-
vided by the call authentication framework
under subsection (b);
(B) implemented procedures based, in
whole or in part, on the information pro-
vided by the call authentication framework
under subsection (b); and
(C) used reasonable care.
(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this section shall preclude the Federal Com-
munications Commission from initiating a
rulemaking pursuant to its existing statu-
tory authority.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.033 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S277
January 16, 2019
SEC. 4. PROTECTIONS FROM SPOOFED CALLS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
consistent with the call authentication
framework under section 3, the Federal Com-
munications Commission shall initiate a
rulemaking to help protect a subscriber from
receiving unwanted calls or text messages
from a caller using an unauthenticated num-
ber.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS.—In promulgating
rules under subsection (a), the Federal Com-
munications Commission shall consider—
(1) the Government Accountability Office
report on combating the fraudulent provi-
sion of misleading or inaccurate caller iden-
tification required by section 503(c) of divi-
sion P of the Consolidated Appropriations
Act 2018 (Public Law 115–141);
(2) the best means of ensuring that a sub-
scriber or provider has the ability to block
calls from a caller using an unauthenticated
North American Numbering Plan number;
(3) the impact on the privacy of a sub-
scriber from unauthenticated calls;
(4) the effectiveness in verifying the accu-
racy of caller identification information; and
(5) the availability and cost of providing
protection from the unwanted calls or text
messages described in subsection (a).
SEC. 5. INTERAGENCY WORKING GROUP.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General, in
consultation with the Chairman of the Fed-
eral Communications Commission, shall con-
vene an interagency working group to study
Government prosecution of violations of sec-
tion 227(b) of the Communications Act of 1934
(47 U.S.C. 227(b)).
(b) DUTIES.—In carrying out the study
under subsection (a), the interagency work-
ing group shall—
(1) determine whether, and if so how, any
Federal laws, including regulations, policies,
and practices, or budgetary or jurisdictional
constraints inhibit the prosecution of such
violations;
(2) identify existing and potential Federal
policies and programs that encourage and
improve coordination among Federal depart-
ments and agencies and States, and between
States, in the prevention and prosecution of
such violations;
(3) identify existing and potential inter-
national policies and programs that encour-
age and improve coordination between coun-
tries in the prevention and prosecution of
such violations; and
(4) consider—
(A) the benefit and potential sources of ad-
ditional resources for the Federal prevention
and prosecution of criminal violations of
that section;
(B) whether to establish memoranda of un-
derstanding regarding the prevention and
prosecution of such violations between—
(i) the States;
(ii) the States and the Federal Govern-
ment; and
(iii) the Federal Government and a foreign
government;
(C) whether to establish a process to allow
States to request Federal subpoenas from
the Federal Communications Commission;
(D) whether extending civil enforcement
authority to the States would assist in the
successful prevention and prosecution of
such violations;
(E) whether increased forfeiture and im-
prisonment penalties are appropriate, such
as extending imprisonment for such a viola-
tion to a term longer than 2 years;
(F) whether regulation of any entity that
enters into a business arrangement with a
common carrier regulated under title II of
the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C.
201 et seq.) for the specific purpose of car-
rying, routing, or transmitting a call that
constitutes such a violation would assist in
the successful prevention and prosecution of
such violations; and
(G) the extent to which, if any, Depart-
ment of Justice policies to pursue the pros-
ecution of violations causing economic
harm, physical danger, or erosion of an in-
habitant’s peace of mind and sense of secu-
rity inhibits the prevention or prosecution of
such violations.
(c) MEMBERS.—The interagency working
group shall be composed of such representa-
tives of Federal departments and agencies as
the Attorney General considers appropriate,
such as—
(1) the Department of Commerce;
(2) the Department of State;
(3) the Department of Homeland Security;
(4) the Federal Communications Commis-
sion;
(5) the Federal Trade Commission; and
(6) the Bureau of Consumer Financial Pro-
tection.
(d) NON-FEDERAL STAKEHOLDERS.—In car-
rying out the study under subsection (a), the
interagency working group shall consult
with such non-Federal stakeholders as the
Attorney General determines have the rel-
evant expertise, including the National Asso-
ciation of Attorneys General.
(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than
270 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the interagency working group shall
submit to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation of the Senate
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce
of the House of Representatives a report on
the findings of the study under subsection
(a), including—
(1) any recommendations regarding the
prevention and prosecution of such viola-
tions; and
(2) a description of what progress, if any,
relevant Federal departments and agencies
have made in implementing the rec-
ommendations under paragraph (1).
SEC. 6. ACCESS TO NUMBER RESOURCES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) EXAMINATION OF FCC POLICIES.—Not
later than 180 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Federal Communica-
tions Commission shall commence a pro-
ceeding to determine whether Federal Com-
munications Commission policies regarding
access to number resources, including num-
ber resources for toll free and non-toll free
telephone numbers, could be modified, in-
cluding by establishing registration and
compliance obligations, to help reduce ac-
cess to numbers by potential perpetrators of
violations of section 227(b) of the Commu-
nications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(b)).
(2) REGULATIONS.—If the Federal Commu-
nications Commission determines under
paragraph (1) that modifying the policies de-
scribed in that paragraph could help achieve
the goal described in that paragraph, the
Commission shall prescribe regulations to
implement those policy modifications.
(b) AUTHORITY.—Any person who know-
ingly, through an employee, agent, officer,
or otherwise, directly or indirectly, by or
through any means or device whatsoever, is
a party to obtaining number resources, in-
cluding number resources for toll free and
non-toll free telephone numbers, from a com-
mon carrier regulated under title II of the
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 201 et
seq.), in violation of a regulation prescribed
under subsection (a) of this section, shall,
notwithstanding section 503(b)(5) of the Com-
munications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 503(b)(5)),
be subject to a forfeiture penalty under sec-
tion 503 of that Act. A forfeiture penalty
under this subsection shall be in addition to
any other penalty provided for by law.
By Mr. DAINES (for himself, Mr.
MANCHIN, Mr. CRAPO, Ms. BALD-
WIN, Mrs. CAPITO, Mr. TESTER,
Mr. BOOZMAN, Mrs. SHAHEEN,
Mr. MORAN, Mr. JONES, Mr.
HOEVEN, and Ms. ROSEN):
S. 164. A bill to amend title 10,
United States Code, to remove the pro-
hibition on eligibility for TRICARE
Reserve Select of members of the re-
serve components of the Armed Forces
who are eligible to enroll in a health
benefits plan under chapter 89 of title
5, United States Code; to the Com-
mittee on Armed Services.
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 164
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘TRICARE
Reserve Improvement Act’’.
SEC. 2. MODIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR
TRICARE RESERVE SELECT OF CER-
TAIN MEMBERS OF THE SELECTED
RESERVE.
Section 1076d(a) of title 10, United States
Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘(1) Except
as provided in paragraph (2), a member’’ and
inserting ‘‘A member’’; and
(2) by striking paragraph (2).
f
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 19—EX-
PRESSING THE SENSE OF THE
SENATE THAT DISQUALIFYING A
NOMINEE TO FEDERAL OFFICE
ON THE BASIS OF MEMBERSHIP
IN THE KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
VIOLATES THE CONSTITUTION
OF THE UNITED STATES
Mr. SASSE submitted the following
resolution; which was considered and
agreed to:
S. RES. 19
Whereas, throughout the history of the
United States, the religious liberty protected
by both the First Amendment and the No Re-
ligious Test Clause of the Constitution of the
United States has been at the heart of the
American experiment;
Whereas, in 1960, the presidential can-
didacy of John F. Kennedy was met with sig-
nificant anti-Catholic bigotry;
Whereas then Senator Kennedy responded
to the bigotry with these timeless words:
‘‘For while this year it may be a Catholic
against whom the finger of suspicion is
pointed, in other years it has been, and may
someday be again, a Jew or a Quaker or a
Unitarian or a Baptist. . . . Today I may be
the victim, but tomorrow it may be you,
until the whole fabric of our harmonious so-
ciety is ripped at a time of great national
peril.’’;
Whereas the Knights of Columbus (in this
preamble referred to as the ‘‘Knights’’) con-
stitute the largest Catholic fraternal service
organization in the world;
Whereas the Knights have a proud tradi-
tion of standing against the forces of preju-
dice and oppression, such as the Ku Klux
Klan and Nazi Germany;
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.027 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S278 January 16, 2019
Whereas the Knights are founded on the
principles of charity, unity, fraternity, and
patriotism; and
Whereas, in 2017, the Knights made more
than $185,000,000 in charitable contributions
and volunteered more than 75,600,000 service
hours: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Senate
that disqualifying a nominee to Federal of-
fice on the basis of membership in the
Knights of Columbus violates clause 3 of ar-
ticle VI of the Constitution of the United
States, which establishes that Senators
‘‘shall be bound by Oath or Affirmation, to
support th[e] Constitution’’ and ‘‘no reli-
gious Test shall ever be required as a Quali-
fication to any Office or public Trust under
the United States’’.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 1—CALLING FOR CREDIBLE,
TRANSPARENT, AND SAFE ELEC-
TIONS IN NIGERIA, AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES
Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself, Mr.
ISAKSON, Mr. BOOZMAN, Mr. CARDIN, and
Mr. COONS) submitted the following
concurrent resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Foreign
Relations:
S. CON. RES. 1
Whereas it is in the national interest of
the United States to maintain a strong bilat-
eral relationship with a politically stable,
democratic, and economically sound Nigeria
that can play a leadership role in the region
and the continent more broadly;
Whereas Nigeria has presidential elections
scheduled for February 16, 2019, and guber-
natorial and National Assembly elections
scheduled for March 2, 2019;
Whereas credible elections could further
consolidate democratic gains achieved in Ni-
geria over the last two decades since the
transition from military to civilian demo-
cratic rule;
Whereas a 2017 survey conducted by
Afrobarometer found that 72 percent of Nige-
rians agreed that democratic elections are
the best means of choosing their country’s
leaders, thus indicating that the country’s
citizens are deeply committed to democracy;
Whereas collaboration between civil soci-
ety actors and the international community
was a key factor that contributed to success-
ful elections in 2015;
Whereas successive elections in Nigeria
have featured varying degrees of violence;
Whereas there have been deeply concerning
instances of incitement to violence in Nige-
ria by members of both the ruling coalition
and the opposition inciting supporters to
ethnic violence as a means by which to gain
electoral advantage, intimidate electoral ri-
vals, or suppress voter turnout;
Whereas, during the Ekiti and Osun guber-
natorial elections in July 2018 and Sep-
tember 2018, respectively, there were con-
cerning incidents in which some elements of
Nigeria’s security agencies displayed par-
tisanship and a lack of objectivity, which
risks escalating tensions within the country;
Whereas Nigeria’s Independent National
Electoral Commission (INEC) has improved
the voting process, notably through the in-
troduction of continuous voter registration,
the adoption of simultaneous accreditation
and voting, improvements to the secrecy of
the ballot, and the advancement of smart
card reader technology;
Whereas the statement of the September
2018 Joint National Democratic Institute/
International Republican Institute Pre-Elec-
tion Assessment Mission to Nigeria cited re-
maining challenges and concerns such as
delays in finalizing the legal framework for
the elections, delayed release of funds for the
elections, security threats in the Middle Belt
and North East, instances of vote-buying,
and incitement to violence and
disinformation; and
Whereas ensuring transparency in elec-
toral preparations and building public con-
fidence in the electoral process is vital for
the success of the upcoming elections in Ni-
geria: Now, therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That the Senate—
(1) reaffirms that the people of the United
States will continue to stand with the people
of Nigeria in support of peace and democ-
racy;
(2) calls on the Government of Nigeria and
all political parties and actors to—
(A) take actions to facilitate elections that
are credible, transparent, and peaceful in
order to support the will of the people and
advance the consolidation of democracy and
the stability of the broader region;
(B) condemn in the strongest terms the use
of speech that incites to violence, and refrain
from any rhetoric or action that seeks to de-
monize or delegitimize opponents, sow divi-
sion among Nigerians, or otherwise inflame
tensions;
(C) seek to resolve any disputes over re-
sults peacefully, including through the legal
system as necessary; and
(D) respect the impartiality of the Inde-
pendent National Electoral Commission;
(3) calls on the Government of Nigeria to—
(A) refrain from deploying security forces
in a partisan manner;
(B) ensure that security services maintain
the highest level of professionalism and im-
partiality in facilitating the electoral proc-
ess, enable accredited observers and journal-
ists to perform their work, and protect the
right of citizens to exercise their votes free-
ly;
(C) move expeditiously to finalize the pro-
posed reforms to the legal framework for the
2019 elections; and
(D) enforce laws against election malfea-
sance, including vote buying, and ensure
equal and robust application through such
measures as the establishment of the Elec-
toral Offenses Commission and Tribunal;
(4) urges all Nigerians to fully and peace-
fully engage in the electoral process, insist
on full enfranchisement, reject inflam-
matory or divisive rhetoric or actions, and
seek to resolve any disputes over results
through the legal system;
(5) calls upon the Independent National
Electoral Commission to sustain confidence
and trust in its management of the electoral
process by—
(A) taking concrete measures to combat
vote buying through voter education cam-
paigns, enforcement of laws against voter in-
ducement, and a nationwide ban on cell
phones in the voting cubicle;
(B) releasing specimen ballots well in ad-
vance of Election Day so that civil society
and other electoral stakeholders can conduct
sufficient education to orient voters;
(C) making adequate arrangements to en-
sure the participation in the election of in-
ternally displaced persons (IDPs); and
(D) taking steps to clean the voter roll and
ensure timely production and distribution of
the Permanent Voter Card to new voters;
(6) encourages political parties in Nigeria
to adhere to and enforce existing codes of
conduct that commit parties to democratic
electoral standards regarding campaign use
of resources, engagement of voters, peaceful
resolution of disputes, and acceptance of
verified and credible results;
(7) condemns any efforts on the part of any
politicians or political parties in Nigeria to
politicize the security and law enforcement
agencies;
(8) encourages civil society organizations
in Nigeria to—
(A) promote the peaceful participation of
citizens in the electoral process and draw on
existing inter-religious and peacebuilding
bodies to enhance their efforts;
(B) disseminate information about citizen-
based observation findings and analysis to
increase public knowledge and under-
standing about the conduct of the elections;
and
(C) continue leading important early warn-
ing and response mechanisms to mitigate
election-related violence, including moni-
toring efforts to incite violence or further in-
flame tensions;
(9) supports efforts by the Department of
State, including the Bureau of Conflict and
Stabilization Operations, and the United
States Agency for International Develop-
ment (USAID) to assist election-related
preparation in Nigeria, including through
programs focused on conflict mitigation; and
(10) calls on the United States Government
and other international partners, especially
election-focused nongovernmental organiza-
tions, to—
(A) continue to support efforts by the Gov-
ernment of Nigeria to address the remaining
electoral preparation challenges and identify
gaps in which additional resources or diplo-
matic engagement could make important
contributions to the conduct of the elec-
tions; and
(B) support civil society organizations and
media organizations working towards trans-
parency and accountability in the use of
state resources around the election period.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 1. Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr. VAN
HOLLEN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the joint resolution
S.J . Res. 2, disapproving the President’s pro-
posal to take an action relating to the appli-
cation of certain sanctions with respect to
the Russian Federation; which was ordered
to lie on the table.
SA 2. Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Mr. WARNER) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 109, to prohibit taxpayer funded
abortions; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 3. Mr. McCONNELL (for Mr. JOHNSON
(for himself and Mr. PETERS)) proposed an
amendment to the bill H.R. 251, to extend by
15 months the Chemical Facility Anti-Ter-
rorism Standards Program of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, and for other
purposes.
SA 4. Mr. McCONNELL (for Mr. JOHNSON
(for himself and Mr. PETERS)) proposed an
amendment to the bill H.R. 251, supra.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 1. Mr. KAINE (for himself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed by him to the
joint resolution S.J. Res. 2, dis-
approving the President’s proposal to
take an action relating to the applica-
tion of certain sanctions with respect
to the Russian Federation; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
SEC. 2. APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR 2019.
(a) The provisions of the following meas-
ures of the 116th Congress are hereby enacted
into law:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.036 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S279
January 16, 2019
(1) H.R. 21, as passed by the House of Rep-
resentatives on January 3, 2019.
(2) H.J. Res. 1, as passed by the House of
Representatives on January 3, 2019.
(b) In publishing this Act in slip form and
in the United States Statutes at Large pur-
suant to section 112 of title 1, United States
Code, the Archivist of the United States
shall include after the date of approval at
the end appendixes setting forth the texts of
the measures referred to in subsection (a) of
this section and the text of any other meas-
ure enacted into law by reference by reason
of the enactment of this Act.
SA 2. Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, and Mr. WARNER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by him to the bill S. 109, to
prohibit taxpayer funded abortions;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. APPROPRIATIONS FOR FISCAL YEAR
2019.
(a) The provisions of the following meas-
ures of the 116th Congress are hereby enacted
into law:
(1) H.R. 21, as passed by the House of Rep-
resentatives on January 3, 2019.
(2) H. J. Res. 1, as passed by the House of
Representatives on January 3, 2019.
(b) In publishing this Act in slip form and
in the United States Statutes at Large pur-
suant to section 112 of title 1, United States
Code, the Archivist of the United States
shall include after the date of approval at
the end appendixes setting forth the texts of
the measures referred to in subsection (a) of
this section and the text of any other meas-
ure enacted into law by reference by reason
of the enactment of this Act.
SA 3. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. JOHN-
SON (for himself and Mr. PETERS)) pro-
posed an amendment to the bill H.R.
251, to extend by 15 months the Chem-
ical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Home-
land Security, and for other purposes;
as follows:
On page 2, line 7, striking ‘‘6 years’’ and in-
sert ‘‘5 years and 3 months’’.
SA 4. Mr. MCCONNELL (for Mr. JOHN-
SON (for himself and Mr. PETERS)) pro-
posed an amendment to the bill H.R.
251, to extend by 15 months the Chem-
ical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Home-
land Security, and for other purposes;
as follows:
Amend the title so as to read: ‘‘An Act to
extend by 15 months the Chemical Facility
Anti-Terrorism Standards Program of the
Department of Homeland Security, and for
other purposes.’’.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 5 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, January 16, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct an Executive
Session.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, January 16, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing on the nomina-
tion of Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to
be Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency.
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
The Committee on the Judiciary is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, January
16, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing
on the nomination of William Pelham
Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney Gen-
eral, Department of Justice.
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Wednes-
day, January 16, 2019, at 10 a.m., to
conduct a closed briefing.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AGING
The Special Committee on Aging is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, January
16, 2019, at 9:30 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Fighting Elder Fraud:
Progress Made, Work to be Done’’.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that my intern,
Celine Wolff, have privileges of the
floor for the remainder of the day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
APPOINTMENTS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Chair, on behalf of the Democratic
Leader, pursuant to the provisions of
Public Law 99–93, as amended by Public
Law 99–151, appoints the following Sen-
ators as members of the United States
Senate Caucus on International Nar-
cotics Control The Honorable DIANNE
FEINSTEIN of California (Vice Chair-
man); The Honorable SHELDON WHITE-
HOUSE of Rhode Island; The Honorable
JACKY ROSEN of Nevada.
The Chair announces, on behalf of
the Majority Leader, pursuant to the
provisions of Public Law 100–458, sec.
114(b)(2)(c), the appointment of the fol-
lowing individual to serve as a member
of the Board of Trustees of the John C.
Stennis Center for Public Service
Training and Development for a six-
year term: Thomas Daffron of Maine.
f
CHEMICAL FACILITY ANTI-TER-
RORISM STANDARDS PROGRAM
EXTENSION ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of Calendar No. 8, H.R. 251.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the bill by title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 251) to extend by two years the
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Homeland Se-
curity, and for other purposes.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the bill.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the Johnson amendment
at the desk be considered and agreed
to, the bill, as amended, be considered
read a third time and passed, the John-
son title amendment be agreed to, and
that the motions to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment (No. 3) was agreed to
as follows:
(Purpose: To extend by 15 months the Chem-
ical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program of the Department of Homeland
Security)
On page 2, line 7, striking ‘‘6 years’’ and in-
sert ‘‘5 years and 3 months’’.
The amendment was ordered to be
engrossed and the bill to be read a
third time.
The bill was read the third time.
The bill (H.R. 251), as amended, was
passed.
The amendment (No. 4) was agreed to
as follows:
(Purpose: To amend the title)
Amend the title so as to read: ‘‘An Act to
extend by 15 months the Chemical Facility
Anti-Terrorism Standards Program of the
Department of Homeland Security, and for
other purposes.’’.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 17, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 4 p.m. Thursday, January
17; further, that following the prayer
and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, following leader
remarks, the Senate resume consider-
ation on the motion to proceed to S.
109; finally, notwithstanding the provi-
sions of rule XXII, there be 30 minutes
of debate equally divided between the
two leaders or their designees, and
upon the use or yielding back of that
time, the Senate vote on the motion to
invoke cloture on the motion to pro-
ceed to S. 109.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order following the remarks of
Senator MERKLEY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.033 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S280 January 16, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
f
GOVERNMENT FUNDING
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, the
most important words of our Constitu-
tion are the first three: ‘‘We the Peo-
ple.’’ Those three words, written in big,
bold, beautiful script, convey the mis-
sion of our Constitution. We are a na-
tion, as Abraham Lincoln opined, ‘‘of
the people, by the people, and for the
people.’’ That was the mission.
Our Constitution also lays out how
our Founding Fathers intended to be a
nation of, by, and for the people to be
governed by coequal branches, with the
branch carrying the weight of policy
development being Congress: the
House, and the Senate. The Executive
is to have quite a different role in exe-
cuting the laws. Judiciary has yet an-
other role in weighing whether the
laws are in accordance with the param-
eters of the Constitution—the prin-
ciples of the Constitution.
So there we are, the branch of gov-
ernment—the Senate and the House—
with the power of the purse, with the
responsibility for laying out the gov-
erning vision and rules for our Nation.
Yet, one-quarter of our government
goes unfunded for a fourth week. Why
is this Chamber not full of Senators?
Why are we not debating funding bills?
Why is there not a bill before the Sen-
ate right now? It is because the rhythm
of the floor in this Chamber is guided
by the majority leader. The majority
leader refuses to put the bill on the
floor so we can go about our work, put-
ting the government back in business
and ending this shutdown.
The majority leader has refused to
have the Senate fulfill its responsi-
bility and, indeed, has said: ‘‘ . . . will
not take up any proposal that does not
have a real chance of . . . getting a
Presidential signature.’’
In the Constitution, we have the abil-
ity to set law without a Presidential
signature. It is certainly not a waste of
time to be here debating proposals for
funding the government. In fact, this is
a complete abdication of our responsi-
bility. It is an abdication at a time
when 800,000 American families have a
mother or father who is not getting
paid, when many more thousands of
contractors are not getting paid. Mil-
lions of Americans are seeking govern-
ment services and finding there is no
one to answer their phone call or their
letter or process their online applica-
tion, whether for an FAA mortgage,
whether for an agricultural grant or
loan for the next farming season,
whether it is any of a host of hundreds
of roles the government plays in facili-
tating the commerce and life of this
Nation.
President Trump and the Senate ma-
jority are holding seven funding bills
hostage. Hostage-taking is not the
wisest move. Only one of these hos-
tages has anything to do with the bat-
tle over the border. So why not release
six of these hostages? Why not end the
Trump-McConnell shutdown and re-
lease six of the seven hostages and on
the seventh do a continuing resolution
so we can continue debating the issues
at stake while putting people back to
work. That is a pretty good idea.
Here is the genius of the idea, which
is, these are bills that already have
support in the Senate. If we were to
look at that support, we would find it
was substantial when these bills came
through in a bipartisan fashion under a
Republican-led Senate. You have the
Republican endorsement from here and
you have the Democratic endorsement
from the House. That is the making of
a path forward.
Yet we need to remind the Members
how our Constitution is constructed.
Article I section 7 says in an abbre-
viated format: ‘‘If he approve he shall
sign it, but if not he shall return it,
with his Objections.’’ Then it goes back
to the House and Senate, whichever
body first initiated it. ‘‘ . . . and if ap-
proved by two-thirds . . . it shall be-
come a Law.’’
Let’s recognize that the vision of our
Constitution was not for us to sit on
some chair or bench somewhere wait-
ing for someone far down Pennsylvania
Avenue to tell us what to do. That is
not fulfilling our job. The President is
supposed to implement the laws we
pass—the vision we adopt—not for us
to sit here doing nothing, waiting for
the man in the Oval Office to tell us he
has some message from on high on
what we are supposed to do. No, that is
not the vision of our Constitution.
It is disturbing that a responsibility
we all signed on to—we took our oath
of office—is being neglected in this
Chamber at this moment, when so
many Americans are suffering as a re-
sult.
Those funding bills that I was speak-
ing of and that partisan support, how
strong it was—the Agriculture bill, In-
terior, Financial Services, General
Government, Transportation, Housing,
and Urban Development. Those passed
this floor just a few weeks ago on a 92-
to-6 vote. How much more bipartisan
does it get?
The State and Foreign Operations
bill passed out of the Republican-led
Appropriations Committee 31 to 0. The
Commerce, Justice, and Science spend-
ing bill passed 30 to 1 in our spending
committee. Homeland Security passed
out 26 to 5.
So these have a powerful imprint of
overwhelming bipartisan support in
this Chamber, and yet we sit here
afraid to take action and lay out the
vision we have a responsibility to lay
out.
I hope every Member will say back
home that they invite the feedback of
their constituents; that they will hold
townhalls because then they will hear
what I hear, which is that is an absurd-
ity. It is an irresponsibility. It is a fail-
ure of leadership. It is a neglect of
duty, and that is not what this Cham-
ber should be about. It is not a proud
moment to have such dysfunction in
the heart of the Senate.
I am reminded of the historical ref-
erence: ‘‘While Nero fiddles, Rome
burns.’’ It is a reference to the year
A.D. 64, when Rome burned to the
ground. The historian Suetonius
records that Nero was responsible for
the fire, and he watched it from a
tower while playing an instrument and
singing about the destruction of a dif-
ferent place—the destruction of Troy.
Here we sit today with our leader-
ship’s fiddling while our Nation suffers,
while our leadership watches from afar
from the tower, playing some fiddle for
its amusement, instead of taking ac-
tion here on the floor of the Senate.
While the Republican Senate leader-
ship fiddles, our farmers aren’t getting
the funds or assistance they need to
get through the winter to prepare for
the next season because the Depart-
ment of Agriculture is closed for busi-
ness.
While the Republican leadership of
this Chamber fiddles, firefighters
whom we ask to risk their lives in
fighting massive infernos in our Na-
tion’s forests are missing out on crit-
ical training and preparation time for
the next fire season. In addition, the
work being done to thin the forests, to
make the forests more fire resistant, is
suspended. The work getting the fuel
off the forest floors to make them more
fire resistant is suspended. The pre-
scription burns being done to make the
forests more fire resistant are can-
celed. Yet this is the time they have to
happen. While the leadership fiddles, it
is setting the stage for more savage
forest fires to wreak havoc on the
Western States in the United States in
the summer to come.
While the Republican leadership of
this Chamber fiddles, 100,000 low-in-
come tenants are at risk because there
is no staffer in place at Housing and
Urban Development to renew the 1,100
affordable housing contracts that ex-
pired last month.
While the leadership fiddles, small,
rural economies, like that of Lakeview,
OR, are stuck in limbo and are unable
to move forward on critical projects.
According to the South Central Oregon
Economic Development District’s di-
rector, they are working at trying to
give a loan to a small business in
Lakeview, but they need EPA staff ap-
proval to be able to use the grant fund-
ing for an environmental assessment
before they can borrow funds to buy a
building. So they are up the creek
while the Republican leadership fid-
dles.
The real victims in this misguided
standoff are the hundreds of thousands
of Federal workers who aren’t being
paid and the contractors who might
never be paid. Let’s listen to them.
What do they have to say about this?
Are they writing and saying: ‘‘Love
this dysfunction in the Senate. Love
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.066 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S281
January 16, 2019
the failure of leadership. Love the in-
competence. Love the fact that nobody
is working here to solve the problem’’?
No, that is not what they are saying.
Erin, a furloughed Forest Service em-
ployee of Sandy, OR, writes that both
she and her husband are Forest Service
employees who have been furloughed in
the Mt. Hood National Forest, and they
are terrified about their personal fi-
nances.
Erin writes:
I have two boys that I will still have to
continue to pay daycare for so I do not lose
their spot. That’s $1,400 a month alone.
She went on to write:
We have to be smart on how we balance
our finances because the cost of living is
going up, but our salaries have not been in-
creased besides a minor cost-of-living adjust-
ment last year. So I am very worried what a
long shutdown means for my family and my
coworkers.
Erin and her husband have every
right to be worried about what is in the
future for her family. They are suf-
fering the effects of this shutdown
through no fault of their own.
Steven, of southeast Portland,
writes:
I am writing as a constituent, residing in
southeast Portland, and as a furloughed Fed-
eral employee. I do not in any way support
President Trump’s efforts to build a wall
along our southern border. The proposed wall
is unneeded. It would be a wantonly wasteful
use of taxpayer money. It would be environ-
mentally destructive, and it would further
the inhumane disregard of the rights of those
seeking asylum.
Steven is a Federal worker who is
not being paid, and he doesn’t support
this shutdown.
Julie, the wife of a firefighter in
Redmond, OR, wrote last week that her
husband ‘‘isn’t able to work because of
the government shutdown.’’ In just
over a week, they are supposed to hire
all of their seasonal firefighters for the
summer. If they can’t work, the hiring
will get delayed or not happen, which
will put communities at serious risk
this summer from wilderness fires.
This risk for this coming summer is
very real in our State of Oregon.
Julie writes:
In no way is it OK to let the government
shut down. . . . Don’t participate in holding
our own country hostage.
Dr. Genevieve Grady, of Sheridan,
OR, wrote:
I am a licensed clinical psychologist who is
working at the Federal Bureau of Prisons in
Sheridan, OR. I am also a single mom with
two children under the age of 5. As an essen-
tial Federal employee, I am required to con-
tinue to work without being paid. As a li-
censed psychologist, I could cultivate out-
side work with Agency permission to supple-
ment my income. However, I am unable to do
this due to having to continue working full
time. Given that I am a single mother of two
small children, I must provide care for my
children during all other hours of the day. In
order to maintain a roof over my and my
children’s heads, I have had to contact my
Federal student loan company to seek relief.
Unfortunately, they cannot alter my student
loan status any earlier than February 6. My
daycare provider, who watched my children
so that I may continue going to work with-
out pay, is an in-home provider with three
teenaged children of her own. I cannot ask
her to go without pay as she too needs to
continue keeping her family financially sta-
ble.
She writes:
There are very few expenses in my life that
can go without money: food, daycare, gas to
get to work, car insurance to drive legally, a
phone required for my job to contact me in
an emergency, medical expenses. Both of my
kids have been sick during this furlough and
have had to see the doctor to get medication.
After 26 days without pay, these bills con-
tinue to require cash to pay, and I continue
to wonder how much longer I should keep
coming to work or when I should look for an-
other job.
Linnea from Roseburg, OR, writes:
The unrepentant hostage holding of peo-
ple’s wages is cruel and shows just how re-
moved the Trump administration is from the
American people. I live in a single-income
household in which the only breadwinner is a
government employee, my mother. This
means that we went through the holidays
not knowing when the next paycheck was
going to come. We still don’t know.
Britt, a furloughed IRS worker who
was proud of his government service
and called it his small way of partici-
pating in our democracy, writes:
My savings is small and will not last
through an extended shutdown. I have al-
ready applied for unemployment insurance
compensation, but that process takes several
weeks before I actually receive any money. I
have never had to file for unemployment be-
fore, and it’s quite unsettling that I am
forced to resort to government aid.
Like so many other Oregonians in a
State that is 20-percent National For-
est, Brien, of Pendleton, OR, writes:
As a United States Forest Service em-
ployee, I am waiting for relocation reim-
bursement on a current move. I used most of
my savings to move duty stations 2 months
ago, and with the current furlough, I cannot
afford to miss a pay period even if I will get
it in the end. I am currently paying interest
on my move that was to be covered by the
Forest Service. If the furlough lasts longer
than January 13, it will be extremely dif-
ficult to avoid late payment charges on utili-
ties, mortgage, and other bills. Don’t hold
me and my middle-class family hostage to
rich men’s antics.
That is exactly what is happening
with a President who is so far removed
from the reality of ordinary people,
with a President who worked with the
leadership of this body in the Senate to
approve a series of spending bills that
we passed by a vast bipartisan major-
ity but who then changed his mind and
withdrew his support after they were
passed. The President switched his po-
sition after the bills went through the
Senate. The President bragged about
owning this shutdown. He didn’t have 1
second of worry about the plight of an
ordinary American who was struggling
to pay his bills.
From his ivory tower, his skyscraper
in Florida, and his club—and, oh, he is
still happy with his golf courses—he
has no idea of the pain this is inflicting
on people. If someone explains it to
him, he doesn’t care. That says a lot
about the failure of leadership. As this
writer said, ‘‘Don’t hold me and my
middle-class family hostage to rich
men’s antics.’’
Air traffic controllers are essential
to the safety of our air traffic across
this country. I received a stack of
handwritten letters last week—old-
fashioned, ink on paper, all kinds of
paper, all colors of pens. They were
handwritten by Oregon air traffic con-
trollers who have been absolutely in-
censed with what is going on. Being an
air traffic controller is an unbelievably
tough job. Air traffic controllers are
responsible for thousands of lives at
any given moment. They have to be on
their game 100 percent of the time. It
can’t be 99.5 or a plane is going to
crash on you that day. These folks are
working without pay. It is inflicting
stress and anxiety on people who
should have their absolute, full atten-
tion solely on the job of making sure
no plane hits another.
James Ferguson, of Forest Grove,
writes:
If the shutdown lasts any longer, I will lose
my health insurance and will no longer be
able to pay for my 1-year-old son’s physical
therapy, potentially adding additional
months to correct his spine and neck muscle
problems.
This is another example of the pain.
Here is a parent who feels the medical
affliction of his child is going to be ac-
centuated by the actions of the Repub-
lican leadership in the Senate and
President Trump in the Oval Office.
James isn’t complaining that he needs
to go shopping for new clothes or that
he wants to check out a new car. He is
worried about getting medical care for
his infant child. He is worried about his
infant child’s recovery and of his im-
provement being stalled or damaged by
this callous, inhumane shutdown.
Trevor Stokes, of Hillsboro, OR, and
his wife are veterans of the U.S. Navy.
They certainly are no strangers to sac-
rificing for their country.
In fact, in his letter, Trevor writes:
Over the past few weeks, during the shut-
down, I have worked both Christmas and
New Year’s as well as their eves. I was not
able to spend time with my family, which is
a necessary sacrifice.
Then he writes:
Now our financial future is uncertain due
to a potentially long unpaid period. I’ve had
to withdraw from mutual funds just to cover
monthly financial obligations. My family
and the families of my air traffic colleagues
have suffered from the sudden loss of income.
Please end the shutdown.
We ask so much of these people. We
ask long hours and missed holidays in
the name of protecting us as travelers.
Shouldn’t we also be looking out for
them in their time of need?
Why don’t we reopen the Department
of Transportation and make sure our
air traffic controllers start getting
paid? All of these individuals are say-
ing: Do your job. Do your job. Do your
job. Senate leadership, do your job.
Put the bills that have passed the
Senate already back on the floor so
that we can send them to the Oval Of-
fice. Let us do our job.
This Trump-McConnell shutdown,
this inaction of the Senate, abdicating
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.067 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S282 January 16, 2019
its responsibility—isn’t that exactly
parallel to Nero fiddling while Rome
burned? That fire here in America is
touching the lives of so many. There
are 800,000 workers without pay. Thou-
sands more are contractors. Millions of
Americans are caught in limbo in the
midst of an important transaction—ap-
plying for an agricultural loan, trying
to get a mortgage, signing up for help
from the Small Business Administra-
tion to launch their business, getting
their paperwork processed in one of
1,000 different ways, and here, the lead-
ership fiddles while the American pub-
lic suffers. It is wrong.
It may not be comfortable to have a
debate on the spending bills. It may
not be comfortable to vote on these
bills. It may not be sweet to support or
oppose a particular amendment, but do
you know what is worse? What is worse
is doing nothing.
That is what this Chamber is doing
right now. It is doing nothing, despite
our responsibility to millions of Ameri-
cans to act. Let’s change that. Let’s
change it now.
I understand that the majority is
going on a retreat. Instead of going on
a retreat to play the fiddle, how about
you be here on the floor and put these
bills on the floor? Let’s get all 100 Sen-
ators on the floor to actually talk to
each other, to actually wrestle with
the issues, to actually make our argu-
ments, and to actually take the votes
instead of going off somewhere to
party. That is just wrong.
I encourage the majority leader to
read the letter that was sent to him
today from the freshmen from the
House of Representatives down the
hall. The freshmen haven’t been here
long enough to become cynical. They
haven’t become trapped in the partisan
boundaries and warfare that seem to
ensnare so much of this Chamber and
the Chamber across the way. No, they
are here, fresh from other occupations
and other responsibilities, still full of
common sense and the passion to do
what is right for the American people.
So let’s listen to them.
Today they sent a letter to Majority
Leader MCCONNELL, which I read on the
floor earlier today, and they said: Put
the bills on the floor, put the spending
bills on the floor—the bills that have
already passed here in the Republican-
led Senate or that passed overwhelm-
ingly by the Republican-led Appropria-
tions Committee, endorsed by the
Democratic House. Put them on the
floor and act.
Let’s listen to the freshmen down the
hall. They are reminding us that we
have a responsibility to act, and let’s
do so immediately.
Thank you.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 4 P.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 4 p.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:35 p.m.,
adjourned until Thursday, January 17,
2019, at 4 p.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
MINDY BRASHEARS, OF TEXAS, TO BE UNDER SEC-
RETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR FOOD SAFETY, VICE
ELISABETH ANN HAGEN, RESIGNED.
NAOMI C. EARP, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE, VICE JOE LEONARD, JR.
SCOTT HUTCHINS, OF INDIANA, TO BE UNDER SEC-
RETARY OF AGRICULTURE FOR RESEARCH, EDUCATION,
AND ECONOMICS, VICE CATHERINE E. WOTEKI.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
WILLIAM BOOKLESS, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE PRINCIPAL
DEPUTY ADMINISTRATOR, NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECU-
RITY ADMINISTRATION, VICE MADELYN R. CREEDON.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
VERONICA DAIGLE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, VICE FREDERICK VOLLRATH,
RESIGNED.
DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
JOSEPH BRUCE HAMILTON, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING OCTOBER 18, 2022, VICE
DANIEL J. SANTOS, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
THOMAS MCCAFFERY, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, VICE JONATHAN
WOODSON, RESIGNED.
DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD
JESSIE HILL ROBERSON, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING OCTOBER 18, 2023. (RE-
APPOINTMENT)
LISA VICKERS, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE DE-
FENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD FOR A
TERM EXPIRING OCTOBER 18, 2021, VICE JOSEPH BRUCE
HAMILTON, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
SETH DANIEL APPLETON, OF MISSOURI, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVEL-
OPMENT, VICE KATHERINE M. O’REGAN.
EXPORT–IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
SPENCER BACHUS III, OF ALABAMA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE EXPORT–IMPORT
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 20, 2023, VICE PATRICIA M. LOUI, TERM EX-
PIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
THELMA DRAKE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE FEDERAL TRAN-
SIT ADMINISTRATOR, VICE PETER M. ROGOFF, RE-
SIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
DINO FALASCHETTI, OF MONTANA, TO BE DIRECTOR,
OFFICE OF FINANCIAL RESEARCH, DEPARTMENT OF THE
TREASURY, FOR A TERM OF SIX YEARS, VICE RICHARD B.
BERNER, RESIGNED.
NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
RODNEY HOOD, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE NATIONAL CREDIT UNION ADMINISTRATION
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING AUGUST 2, 2023, VICE RICH-
ARD T. METSGER, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
ROBERT HUNTER KURTZ, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVEL-
OPMENT, VICE SANDRA BROOKS HENRIQUEZ, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
JEFFREY NADANER, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF COMMERCE, VICE DAVID W. MILLS,
RETIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
BIMAL PATEL, OF GEORGIA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF THE TREASURY, VICE CHRISTOPHER CAMP-
BELL, RESIGNED.
EXPORT–IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
JUDITH DELZOPPO PRYOR, OF OHIO, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE EXPORT–IMPORT
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 20, 2021, VICE LARRY W. WALTHER, TERM EX-
PIRED.
KIMBERLY A. REED, OF WEST VIRGINIA, TO BE PRESI-
DENT OF THE EXPORT–IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED
STATES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 20, 2021, VICE
FRED P. HOCHBERG, RESIGNED.
CLAUDIA SLACIK, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE EXPORT–IMPORT
BANK OF THE UNITED STATES FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 20, 2023, VICE SEAN ROBERT MULVANEY, TERM
EXPIRED.
CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION
ANN MARIE BUERKLE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A COMMIS-
SIONER OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM OF SEVEN YEARS FROM OCTOBER 27,
2018. (REAPPOINTMENT)
ANN MARIE BUERKLE, OF NEW YORK, TO BE CHAIRMAN
OF THE CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION, VICE
ELLIOT F. KAYE.
METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS
AUTHORITY
ALAN E. COBB, OF KANSAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE METROPOLITAN WASH-
INGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY FOR A TERM EXPIRING
NOVEMBER 22, 2023, VICE WILLIAM SHAW MCDERMOTT,
TERM EXPIRED.
AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS
RICK A. DEARBORN, OF OKLAHOMA, TO BE A DIRECTOR
OF THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR A TERM OF
FIVE YEARS, VICE JEFFREY R. MORELAND, TERM EX-
PIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
DIANA FURCHTGOTT–ROTH, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN
ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION. (NEW PO-
SITION)
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
LANE GENATOWSKI, OF NEW YORK, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY–ENERGY,
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, VICE ELLEN DUDLEY WIL-
LIAMS.
AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS
JOSEPH RYAN GRUTERS, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A DIREC-
TOR OF THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR A TERM
OF FIVE YEARS, VICE ALBERT DICLEMENTE, TERM EX-
PIRED.
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING
JANICE MIRIAM HELLREICH, OF HAWAII, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORA-
TION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 31, 2024, VICE HOWARD ABEL HUSOCK, TERM EX-
PIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION
HEIDI R. KING, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE ADMINISTRATOR
OF THE NATIONAL HIGHWAY TRAFFIC SAFETY ADMINIS-
TRATION, VICE MARK R. ROSEKIND.
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING
ROBERT A. MANDELL, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING FOR A TERM EXPIRING JAN-
UARY 31, 2022, VICE BRENT FRANKLIN NELSEN, TERM EX-
PIRED.
DON MUNCE, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION FOR PUB-
LIC BROADCASTING FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 31,
2024, VICE LORETTA CHERYL SUTLIFF, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
BARRY LEE MYERS, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE UNDER
SECRETARY OF COMMERCE FOR OCEANS AND ATMOS-
PHERE, VICE KATHRYN D. SULLIVAN, RESIGNED.
CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING
BRUCE M. RAMER, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING FOR A TERM EXPIRING JAN-
UARY 31, 2024. (REAPPOINTMENT)
SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
MICHELLE A. SCHULTZ, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE SURFACE TRANSPORTATION BOARD
FOR THE TERM OF FIVE YEARS. (NEW POSITION)
AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS
LEON A. WESTMORELAND, OF GEORGIA, TO BE A DIREC-
TOR OF THE AMTRAK BOARD OF DIRECTORS FOR A TERM
OF FIVE YEARS. (NEW POSITION)
METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS
AUTHORITY
WILLIAM SHAW MCDERMOTT, OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO
BE A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
METROPOLITAN WASHINGTON AIRPORTS AUTHORITY
FOR A TERM EXPIRING MAY 30, 2024, VICE NINA MITCHELL
WELLS, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
RITA BARANWAL, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF ENERGY (NUCLEAR ENERGY),
VICE PETER BRUCE LYONS, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
SUSAN COMBS, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF THE INTERIOR, VICE RHEA S. SUH, RE-
SIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
WILLIAM COOPER, OF MARYLAND, TO BE GENERAL
COUNSEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, VICE STE-
VEN CROLEY, RESIGNED.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G16JA6.069 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S283
January 16, 2019
CHRISTOPHER FALL, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY,
VICE CHERRY ANN MURRAY.
ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC PRESERVATION
AIMEE KATHRYN JORJANI, OF WISCONSIN, TO BE
CHAIRMAN OF THE ADVISORY COUNCIL ON HISTORIC
PRESERVATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 19, 2021,
VICE MILFORD WAYNE DONALDSON, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
JOHN FLEMING, OF LOUISIANA, TO BE ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF COMMERCE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT,
VICE ROY K. J. WILLIAMS.
TENNESSEE VALLEY AUTHORITY
JOHN L. RYDER, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE TENNESSEE VALLEY
AUTHORITY FOR A TERM EXPIRING MAY 18, 2021, VICE MI-
CHAEL MCWHERTER, TERM EXPIRED.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
PETER C. WRIGHT, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE ASSISTANT AD-
MINISTRATOR, OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE, ENVIRON-
MENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, VICE MATHY
STANISLAUS.
SOCIAL SECURITY ADVISORY BOARD
MICHAEL J. ASTRUE, OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ADVISORY BOARD
FOR A TERM EXPIRING SEPTEMBER 30, 2022, VICE ALAN L.
COHEN, TERM EXPIRED.
JASON J. FICHTNER, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
TO BE A MEMBER OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ADVISORY
BOARD FOR A TERM EXPIRING SEPTEMBER 30, 2024, VICE
LANHEE J. CHEN, TERM EXPIRED.
FEDERAL HOSPITAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND
JAMES B. LOCKHART III, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE FEDERAL
HOSPITAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND FOR A TERM OF
FOUR YEARS, VICE CHARLES P. BLAHOUS III, TERM EX-
PIRED.
FEDERAL OLD–AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE
TRUST FUND
JAMES B. LOCKHART III, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE FEDERAL
OLD–AGE AND SURVIVORS INSURANCE TRUST FUND AND
THE FEDERAL DISABILITY INSURANCE TRUST FUND FOR
A TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE CHARLES P. BLAHOUS III,
TERM EXPIRED.
FEDERAL SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE
TRUST FUND
JAMES B. LOCKHART III, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE FEDERAL
SUPPLEMENTARY MEDICAL INSURANCE TRUST FUND
FOR A TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE CHARLES P.
BLAHOUS III, TERM EXPIRED.
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
DAVID FABIAN BLACK, OF NORTH DAKOTA, TO BE DEP-
UTY COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY FOR THE
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 19, 2019, VICE CAROLYN W.
COLVIN, TERM EXPIRED.
DAVID FABIAN BLACK, OF NORTH DAKOTA, TO BE DEP-
UTY COMMISSIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY FOR A TERM
EXPIRING JANUARY 19, 2025. (REAPPOINTMENT)
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
ELIZABETH DARLING, OF TEXAS, TO BE COMMISSIONER
ON CHILDREN, YOUTH, AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, VICE RAFAEL J. LOPEZ.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
MICHAEL J. DESMOND, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE CHIEF
COUNSEL FOR THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE AND
AN ASSISTANT GENERAL COUNSEL IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF THE TREASURY, VICE WILLIAM J. WILKINS.
MICHAEL FAULKENDER, OF MARYLAND, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY, VICE KAREN
DYNAN.
UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE
COMMISSION
AMY KARPEL, OF WASHINGTON, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMIS-
SION FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE TERM EXPIRING
JUNE 16, 2020, VICE F. SCOTT KIEFF, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
JEFFREY KESSLER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF COMMERCE, VICE PAUL PIQUADO, RE-
SIGNED.
SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION
ANDREW M. SAUL, OF NEW YORK, TO BE COMMIS-
SIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY FOR THE TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 19, 2019, VICE MICHAEL J. ASTRUE, RESIGNED.
ANDREW M. SAUL, OF NEW YORK, TO BE COMMIS-
SIONER OF SOCIAL SECURITY FOR THE TERM EXPIRING
JANUARY 19, 2025. (REAPPOINTMENT)
UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE
COMMISSION
RANDOLPH J. STAYIN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL TRADE COM-
MISSION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JUNE 16, 2026, VICE MER-
EDITH M. BROADBENT, TERM EXPIRED.
OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
IRVING BAILEY, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE OVERSEAS PRIVATE IN-
VESTMENT CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING DE-
CEMBER 17, 2021, VICE MATTHEW MAXWELL TAYLOR KEN-
NEDY, TERM EXPIRED.
MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
ALEXANDER CRENSHAW, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MILLENNIUM
CHALLENGE CORPORATION FOR A TERM OF THREE
YEARS, VICE MARK GREEN, TERM EXPIRED.
OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
LOUIS DEJOY, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE OVERSEAS PRI-
VATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIR-
ING DECEMBER 17, 2020, VICE JAMES M. DEMERS, TERM
EXPIRED.
MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
GEORGE M. MARCUS, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MILLENNIUM
CHALLENGE CORPORATION FOR A TERM OF THREE
YEARS, VICE MORTON H. HALPERIN, TERM EXPIRED.
SUSAN M. MCCUE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE MILLENNIUM CHAL-
LENGE CORPORATION FOR A TERM OF TWO YEARS. (RE-
APPOINTMENT)
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
RICHARD C. PARKER, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE AN
ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES
AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, VICE T.
CHARLES COOPER, RESIGNED.
OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
CHRISTOPHER P. VINCZE, OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO BE
A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE OVER-
SEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION FOR A TERM
EXPIRING DECEMBER 17, 2019, VICE TODD A. FISHER,
TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JOHN P. ABIZAID, OF NEVADA, TO BE AMBASSADOR EX-
TRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF SAUDI ARA-
BIA.
STEPHEN AKARD, OF INDIANA, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE OFFICE OF FOREIGN MISSIONS, WITH THE RANK OF
AMBASSADOR, VICE GENTRY O. SMITH, RESIGNED.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
JOHN BARSA, OF FLORIDA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT AD-
MINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, VICE MARCELA
ESCOBARI.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
PAMELA BATES, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE ORGANIZA-
TION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT,
WITH THE RANK OF AMBASSADOR.
MARSHALL BILLINGSLEA, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE AN
UNDER SECRETARY OF STATE (CIVILIAN SECURITY, DE-
MOCRACY, AND HUMAN RIGHTS), VICE SARAH SEWALL,
RESIGNED.
LYNDA BLANCHARD, OF ALABAMA, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
SLOVENIA.
INTER–AMERICAN FOUNDATION
KIMBERLY BREIER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE INTER–AMERICAN
FOUNDATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING SEPTEMBER 20, 2020,
VICE ADOLFO A. FRANCO, TERM EXPIRED.
UNITED NATIONS
ANDREW P. BREMBERG, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE REP-
RESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO
THE OFFICE OF THE UNITED NATIONS AND OTHER INTER-
NATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS IN GENEVA, WITH THE RANK
OF AMBASSADOR.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
BRIAN J. BULATAO, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN UNDER SEC-
RETARY OF STATE (MANAGEMENT), VICE PATRICK
FRANCIS KENNEDY.
KATE MARIE BYRNES, OF FLORIDA, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA.
MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORATION
SEAN CAIRNCROSS, OF MINNESOTA, TO BE CHIEF EXEC-
UTIVE OFFICER, MILLENNIUM CHALLENGE CORPORA-
TION, VICE DANA J. HYDE.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JOSEPH CELLA, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE AMBASSADOR EX-
TRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF FIJI, AND TO
SERVE CONCURRENTLY AND WITHOUT ADDITIONAL COM-
PENSATION AS AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KIRIBATI, THE REPUBLIC OF
NAURU, THE KINGDOM OF TONGA, AND TUVALU.
UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
MINA CHANG, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT ADMIN-
ISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT, VICE JONATHAN NICHOLAS
STIVERS.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
R. CLARKE COOPER, OF FLORIDA, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE (POLITICAL–MILITARY AFFAIRS),
VICE PUNEET TALWAR, RESIGNED.
INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION, UNITED
STATES AND CANADA
JANE L. CORWIN, OF NEW YORK, TO BE COMMISSIONER
ON THE PART OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE INTER-
NATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION, UNITED STATES AND
CANADA, VICE LANA POLLACK.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
EDWARD F. CRAWFORD, OF OHIO, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO IRELAND.
ROBERT A. DESTRO, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE FOR DEMOCRACY, HUMAN
RIGHTS, AND LABOR, VICE TOMASZ P. MALINOWSKI.
JEFFREY L. EBERHARDT, OF WISCONSIN, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE
SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PRESIDENT FOR NU-
CLEAR NONPROLIFERATION, WITH THE RANK OF AMBAS-
SADOR.
DAVID T. FISCHER, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF MO-
ROCCO.
MICHAEL J. FITZPATRICK, OF VIRGINIA, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF
MINISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR.
KENNETH S. GEORGE, OF TEXAS, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE ORIENTAL REPUB-
LIC OF URUGUAY.
JAMES S. GILMORE, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE U.S. REP-
RESENTATIVE TO THE ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY
AND COOPERATION IN EUROPE, WITH THE RANK OF AM-
BASSADOR.
BRETT P. GIROIR, OF TEXAS, TO BE REPRESENTATIVE
OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE EXECUTIVE BOARD OF
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION, VICE THOMAS
FRIEDEN.
JEFFREY ROSS GUNTER, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
ICELAND.
KENNETH A. HOWERY, OF TEXAS, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF SWE-
DEN.
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
DARRELL E. ISSA, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY, VICE
LEOCADIA IRINE ZAK.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
RONALD DOUGLAS JOHNSON, OF FLORIDA, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
EL SALVADOR.
DOUG MANCHESTER, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE COMMON-
WEALTH OF THE BAHAMAS.
LANA J. MARKS, OF FLORIDA, TO BE AMBASSADOR EX-
TRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRI-
CA.
RONALD MORTENSEN, OF UTAH, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE (POPULATION, REFUGEES, AND
MIGRATION), VICE ANNE CLAIRE RICHARD.
W. PATRICK MURPHY, OF VERMONT, A CAREER MEM-
BER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MIN-
ISTER–COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAOR-
DINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA TO THE KINGDOM OF CAMBODIA.
BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS
MICHAEL PACK, OF MARYLAND, TO BE CHIEF EXECU-
TIVE OFFICER OF THE BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOV-
ERNORS FOR THE TERM OF THREE YEARS. (NEW POSI-
TION)
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
JOHN RAKOLTA, JR., OF MICHIGAN, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE UNITED ARAB
EMIRATES.
LEANDRO RIZZUTO, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO BARBADOS, AND TO
SERVE CONCURRENTLY AND WITHOUT ADDITIONAL COM-
PENSATION AS AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE FEDERATION OF SAINT KITTS AND NEVIS, SAINT
LUCIA, ANTIGUA AND BARBUDA, THE COMMONWEALTH
OF DOMINICA, GRENADA, AND SAINT VINCENT AND THE
GRENADINES.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.017 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S284 January 16, 2019
INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND
MARK ROSEN, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE UNITED STATES
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR OF THE INTERNATIONAL MONE-
TARY FUND FOR A TERM OF TWO YEARS, VICE
MARGRETHE LUNDSAGER, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DANIEL N. ROSENBLUM, OF MARYLAND, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC
OF UZBEKISTAN.
DAVID SCHENKER, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF STATE (NEAR EASTERN AFFAIRS),
VICE ANNE W. PATTERSON, RESIGNED.
INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION, UNITED
STATES AND CANADA
ROBERT C. SISSON, OF MICHIGAN, TO BE COMMIS-
SIONER ON THE PART OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE
INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION, UNITED STATES
AND CANADA, VICE DERETH BRITT GLANCE.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DAVID STILWELL, OF HAWAII, TO BE AN ASSISTANT
SECRETARY OF STATE (EAST ASIAN AND PACIFIC AF-
FAIRS), VICE DANIEL R. RUSSEL.
PEACE CORPS
ALAN R. SWENDIMAN, OF NORTH CAROLINA, TO BE
DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF THE PEACE CORPS, VICE CARLOS
J. TORRES.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
DONALD R. TAPIA, OF ARIZONA, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO JAMAICA.
KIP TOM, OF INDIANA, FOR THE RANK OF AMBASSADOR
DURING HIS TENURE OF SERVICE AS U.S. REPRESENTA-
TIVE TO THE UNITED NATIONS AGENCIES FOR FOOD AND
AGRICULTURE.
CHRISTINE J. TORETTI, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
MALTA.
MATTHEW H. TUELLER, OF UTAH, A CAREER MEMBER
OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF MINISTER–
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF IRAQ.
INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION, UNITED
STATES AND CANADA
LANCE V. YOHE, OF NORTH DAKOTA, TO BE COMMIS-
SIONER ON THE PART OF THE UNITED STATES ON THE
INTERNATIONAL JOINT COMMISSION, UNITED STATES
AND CANADA, VICE RICHARD M. MOY.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
ADRIAN ZUCKERMAN, OF NEW JERSEY, TO BE AMBAS-
SADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO ROMANIA.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
KATHE HICKS ALBRECHT, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMAN-
ITIES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2024, VICE
BRUCE R. SIEVERS, TERM EXPIRED.
PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION
GORDON HARTOGENSIS, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE DI-
RECTOR OF THE PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORA-
TION FOR A TERM OF FIVE YEARS, VICE W. THOMAS
REEDER, JR., RESIGNED.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
CHARLES WICKSER BANTA, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE ARTS FOR
A TERM EXPIRING SEPTEMBER 3, 2022, VICE MARIA
ROSARIO JACKSON, TERM EXPIRED.
KEEGAN F. CALLANAN, OF VERMONT, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2024, VICE MANFREDI
PICCOLOMINI, RESIGNED.
DAVID ARMAND DEKEYSER, OF ALABAMA, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMAN-
ITIES FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020, VICE
DAWN HO DELBANCO, TERM EXPIRED.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
ROBERT J. GREY, JR., OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13, 2020. (RE-
APPOINTMENT)
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
KIM R. HOLMES, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A TERM
EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2022, VICE PAULA BARKER DUFFY,
TERM EXPIRED.
CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY
SERVICE
VICTORIA ANN HUGHES, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION
FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE FOR A TERM
EXPIRING OCTOBER 6, 2021. (REAPPOINTMENT)
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
MICHELLE ITCZAK, OF INDIANA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE ARTS FOR A TERM EX-
PIRING SEPTEMBER 3, 2020, VICE IRVIN M. MAYFIELD, JR.,
TERM EXPIRED.
PHYLLIS KAMINSKY, OF ARIZONA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2020, VICE ADELE LOGAN
ALEXANDER, TERM EXPIRED.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
ABIGAIL L. KUZMA, OF INDIANA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13, 2019, VICE
CHARLES NORMAN WILTSE KECKLER, RESIGNED.
ABIGAIL L. KUZMA, OF INDIANA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES
CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13, 2022. (RE-
APPOINTMENT)
JOHN G. LEVI, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERVICES COR-
PORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13, 2020. (RE-
APPOINTMENT)
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
BARBARA COLEEN LONG, OF MISSOURI, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE ARTS FOR A
TERM EXPIRING SEPTEMBER 3, 2022, VICE DEEPA GUPTA,
TERM EXPIRED.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
JOHN G. MALCOLM, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, TO
BE A MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING
JULY 13, 2020, VICE MARTHA L. MINOW, TERM EXPIRED.
FRANK X. NEUNER, JR., OF LOUISIANA, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERV-
ICES CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13, 2019,
VICE SHARON L. BROWNE, RESIGNED.
FRANK X. NEUNER, JR., OF LOUISIANA, TO BE A MEM-
BER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL SERV-
ICES CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13, 2022.
(REAPPOINTMENT)
CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY
SERVICE
HEATHER REYNOLDS, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE CORPORATION FOR
NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE FOR A TERM EX-
PIRING SEPTEMBER 14, 2021, VICE DEAN A. REUTER, TERM
EXPIRED.
LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION
GLORIA VALENCIA–WEBER, OF NEW MEXICO, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE LEGAL
SERVICES CORPORATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 13,
2020. (REAPPOINTMENT)
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
CARLETON VARNEY, OF MASSACHUSETTS, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE ARTS FOR
A TERM EXPIRING SEPTEMBER 3, 2022, VICE PAUL W.
HODES, TERM EXPIRED.
JEAN M. YARBROUGH, OF MAINE, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE NATIONAL COUNCIL ON THE HUMANITIES FOR A
TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 26, 2022, VICE MARTHA WAG-
NER WEINBERG, TERM EXPIRED.
FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH REVIEW
COMMISSION
WILLIAM I. ALTHEN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH REVIEW COM-
MISSION FOR A TERM OF SIX YEARS EXPIRING AUGUST
30, 2024. (REAPPOINTMENT)
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
WILLIAM BEACH, OF KANSAS, TO BE COMMISSIONER OF
LABOR STATISTICS, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR, FOR A
TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE ERICA LYNN GROSHEN,
TERM EXPIRED.
NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE
HUMANITIES
MARY ANNE CARTER, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE CHAIR-
PERSON OF THE NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS
FOR A TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE R. JANE CHU, RE-
SIGNED.
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION
JANET DHILLON, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMIS-
SION FOR A TERM EXPIRING JULY 1, 2022, VICE JENNY R.
YANG, TERM EXPIRING.
SHARON FAST GUSTAFSON, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE GEN-
ERAL COUNSEL OF THE EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPOR-
TUNITY COMMISSION FOR A TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE
P. DAVID LOPEZ, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
JOHN LOWRY III, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF LABOR FOR VETERANS’ EMPLOYMENT AND
TRAINING, VICE MICHAEL HERMAN MICHAUD.
SCOTT A. MUGNO, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE AN AS-
SISTANT SECRETARY OF LABOR, VICE DAVID MORRIS MI-
CHAELS.
JOHN P. PALLASCH, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF LABOR, VICE PORTIA Y. WU.
FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH REVIEW
COMMISSION
MARCO M. RAJKOVICH, JR., OF KENTUCKY, TO BE A
MEMBER OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH
REVIEW COMMISSION FOR A TERM OF SIX YEARS EXPIR-
ING AUGUST 30, 2024, VICE ROBERT F. COHEN, JR., TERM
EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
CHERYL MARIE STANTON, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE WAGE AND HOUR DIVISION, DE-
PARTMENT OF LABOR, VICE DAVID WEIL, RESIGNED.
FEDERAL MINE SAFETY AND HEALTH REVIEW
COMMISSION
ARTHUR R. TRAYNOR III, OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
BIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE FEDERAL MINE SAFETY
AND HEALTH REVIEW COMMISSION FOR A TERM EXPIR-
ING AUGUST 30, 2022, VICE PATRICK K. NAKAMURA, TERM
EXPIRED.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
RON A. BLOOM, OF NEW YORK, TO BE A GOVERNOR OF
THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE FOR A TERM EX-
PIRING DECEMBER 8, 2020, VICE MICKEY D. BARNETT,
TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
WILLIAM BRYAN, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE UNDER SEC-
RETARY FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY, DEPARTMENT
OF HOMELAND SECURITY, VICE L. REGINALD BROTHERS,
JR., RESIGNED.
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
JULIA AKINS CLARK, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A MEMBER
OF THE MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD FOR THE
TERM OF SEVEN YEARS EXPIRING MARCH 1, 2021, VICE
ANNE MARIE WAGNER, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
JOSEPH V. CUFFARI, OF ARIZONA, TO BE INSPECTOR
GENERAL, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, VICE
JOHN ROTH.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
ROBERT M. DUNCAN, OF KENTUCKY, TO BE A GOV-
ERNOR OF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE FOR A
TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 8, 2025. (REAPPOINTMENT)
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
DENNIS DEAN KIRK, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD FOR THE
TERM OF SEVEN YEARS EXPIRING MARCH 1, 2023, VICE
SUSAN TSUI GRUNDMANN, TERM EXPIRED.
DENNIS DEAN KIRK, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE CHAIRMAN OF
THE MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD, VICE SUSAN
TSUI GRUNDMANN.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
ROMAN MARTINEZ IV, OF FLORIDA, TO BE A GOVERNOR
OF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE FOR A TERM
EXPIRING DECEMBER 8, 2024, VICE JAMES C. MILLER III,
TERM EXPIRED.
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD
ANDREW F. MAUNZ, OF OHIO, TO BE A MEMBER OF THE
MERIT SYSTEMS PROTECTION BOARD FOR THE TERM OF
SEVEN YEARS EXPIRING MARCH 1, 2025, VICE MARK A.
ROBBINS, TERM EXPIRED.
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
CALVIN R. TUCKER, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE A GOV-
ERNOR OF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE FOR A
TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 8, 2023, VICE CAROLYN L.
GALLAGHER, TERM EXPIRED.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
RONALD D. VITIELLO, OF ILLINOIS, TO BE AN ASSIST-
ANT SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY, VICE SARAH
R. SALDANA.
OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE
WILLIAM R. EVANINA, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE DI-
RECTOR OF THE NATIONAL COUNTERINTELLIGENCE AND
SECURITY CENTER. (NEW POSITION)
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT
BOARD
ADITYA BAMZAI, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT BOARD
FOR THE REMAINDER OF THE TERM EXPIRING JANUARY
29, 2020, VICE ELISEBETH COLLINS COOK, RESIGNING.
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
SHANNON LEE GOESSLING, OF FLORIDA, TO BE DIREC-
TOR OF THE VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN OFFICE, DE-
PARTMENT OF JUSTICE, VICE SUSAN B. CARBON.
PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT
BOARD
TRAVIS LEBLANC, OF MARYLAND, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE PRIVACY AND CIVIL LIBERTIES OVERSIGHT BOARD
FOR A TERM EXPIRING JANUARY 29, 2022, VICE JAMES XA-
VIER DEMPSEY, TERM EXPIRED.
UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION
VIRGIL MADDEN, OF INDIANA, TO BE A COMMISSIONER
OF THE UNITED STATES PAROLE COMMISSION FOR A
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.017 S16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S285
January 16, 2019
TERM OF SIX YEARS, VICE PATRICIA CUSHWA, TERM EX-
PIRED.
FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION
JAMES E. TRAINOR III, OF TEXAS, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION FOR A TERM EX-
PIRING APRIL 30, 2023, VICE MATTHEW S. PETERSEN,
TERM EXPIRED.
GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE
ROBERT C. TAPELLA, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE DIRECTOR OF
THE GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE, VICE DAVITA
VANCE–COOKS.
SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
DAVID CHRISTIAN TRYON, OF OHIO, TO BE CHIEF COUN-
SEL FOR ADVOCACY, SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRA-
TION, VICE DARRYL L. DEPRIEST, RESIGNED.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:28 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A16JA6.017 S16JAPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E51
January 16, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF STEPHEN P.
MARKO, PAST GRAND KNIGHT
OF KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS
COUNCIL 302
HON. MATT CARTWRIGHT
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. CARTWRIGHT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to congratulate Stephen P. Marko, who
will be honored by the Knights of Columbus
Council 302 during their 121st Anniversary
celebration on Saturday, January 26, 2019.
Stephen is the immediate past Grand Knight
of Wilkes-Barre Council 302.
Stephen was born on February 25, 1971 to
the late Stephen J. Marko and the former Jo-
anne Dezinski. He is a graduate of James M.
Coughlin High School Class of 1989. He con-
tinued his education at Luzerne County Com-
munity College, where he studied Electronics
and Laser Electro Optics Technology. Stephen
is a veteran of the United States Army Re-
serve and was deployed with the 365th Engi-
neering Company C during Operation Desert
Storm in 1991. He is currently employed at
Tobyhanna Army Depot as an Electronics Me-
chanic.
Stephen joined Knights of Columbus Coun-
cil 302 in 2012. He served as Warden and
Deputy Grand Knight of the Council and was
elected to the role of Grand Knight in 2016.
Following his two-year tenure as Grand
Knight, he now serves as the treasurer for the
council. He is also a member and Pilot of the
Bishop Hafey 4th Degree Assembly.
Stephen married the former Jacqueline
Cromack of Wilkes-Barre on November 25,
2000. They are active members of Exaltation
of the Holy Cross Church in Hanover Town-
ship. They are step-parent and parent, respec-
tively, to four children: Abigail, Alison, Kerry
Anne, and Richard.
It is an honor to celebrate Stephen as he is
recognized as Past Grand Knight. May he
continue to serve the Knights of Columbus
and his community with commitment and dedi-
cation.
f
HONORING THE LONGVIEW HIGH
SCHOOL LOBOS, 2018 CLASS 6A
DIVISION II TEXAS HIGH SCHOOL
FOOTBALL CHAMPIONS
HON. LOUIE GOHMERT
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. GOHMERT. Madam Speaker, it may
have taken eighty-one years, but the
doggedness and passion that fueled the city of
Longview, Texas, to harness the great oil
boom and a state championship title in 1937
has once again proven undauntable—resulting
in the Longview High School Lobos capturing
the top rung in Texas high school athletics to
become the 2018 Class 6A Division II Texas
State High School Football Champions.
As the Lobos’ fight song attests, the team
was determined to ‘‘circle in and hit them
hard’’ when facing the tangle with the Beau-
mont West Brook Bruins, culminating in a
thrilling 35–34 victory for the Wolf Pack in
front of a spectacular throng numbering more
than 48,000 strong, a big majority of which
were apparently loyal Lobos fans.
The down-to-the-wire fight was the culmina-
tion of a perfect 16–0 season for the Lobos,
and was even more gratifying since the Lobos
had faced West Brook in the playoffs for three
straight years. This was the first opportunity,
however, for the two teams to grapple for the
state trophy.
This represented the first top tier title oppor-
tunity for the Lobos after decades of near
misses and close calls, providing passionate
fans a long season to bask in the momentum
and a history making trip to capture state wide
bragging rights.
Though the Lobos were down at halftime 28
to 20, they certainly were not out because of
their heart, their talent, their coaching and
their community support. This was a Longview
team that simply refused to stay down, and re-
fused to lose.
And the Lobos earned those bragging rights
in spectacular fashion, coming from behind in
the closing minutes of the fourth quarter to se-
cure a fantastic win. Trailing Beaumont West
Brook 34–29 with 8:17 left in the 4th quarter,
Quarterback Haynes King’s outstanding pass-
ing pushed the Lobos offense to West Brook’s
red zone. Stalwart running back Jessie Ander-
son then punched through to the end zone,
giving the Lobos a 35–34 lead with 4:42 left in
the game. The Lobos were ahead by one, but
played the odds and went for two points in
case West Brook tried a field goal. Though the
extra two-point conversion was unsuccessful,
the two were unneeded because of the way
the Lobo defense, yet again, rose to the occa-
sion and crushed the Bruins’ comeback at-
tempt along with their hopes for victory.
No question Beaumont West Brook de-
served to be in the State Championship, had
an absolutely fabulous team, and played a
stellar game. But the Longview Lobos proved
they had everything a fan could want in an un-
beatable football team. They made Longview,
Gregg County, and all East Texas swell with
pride.
The game’s Offensive Most Valuable Player
was Lobo quarterback Haynes King who was
16-of-27 for 423 passing yards. He connected
on two touchdown passes and rushed for a
touchdown as part of his 65 rushing yards.
Kamden Perry secured a Class 6A state
championship game record of 8 catches for
218 yards including a 77-yard touchdown
catch. Perry’s amazing reception record was
joined by Kaden Kearbey’s great catches that
added another 87 yards, which included a
touchdown on a 40-yard catch.
Kyas Moore, who also has another year to
play with the Lobos, caught a breathtaking
pass that took Longview 54 yards down the
field on their 4th quarter go-ahead drive.
Though Jessie Anderson’s total rushing
yards was not his high this year, he showed
once again how incredibly valuable he is to
this championship team. His two touchdowns
on two punishing runs showed him to be a
weapon that is anything but secret. In fact, his
second touchdown was the final and go-ahead
score of the game.
The Lobo defense showed the huge crowd
at Cowboy Stadium in Arlington that both
sides of the ball deserved to be State
Champs. Tyshawn Taylor made 11 brutal
tackles, including pairing with a crashing hit by
Ja’Vontae Writt, creating a final Bruin drive-
stop because of its recovery by Micheal Martin
with 1:02 left in the game.
The Defensive Most Valuable Player was
Jephaniah Lister with a team-high 12 tackles.
Yet another defensive standout was Isiah
Rodgers who had 10 tackles and one broken
up pass. Of course the play of Robert Pierce
and Jaylon Allen have to be mentioned as
they both participated in an important sack.
As many college and pro teams have
learned, a team must have a good kicker to
be of championship caliber which is exactly
what the Lobos have in J.K. Martin, who
kicked a fourth quarter 28-yard field goal, and
four times prevented any runback at all with
touchbacks in the end zone. He also showed
college quality in averaging 44 yards on his
two punts.
Proving who had the better offense not only
with the score, Longview had 569 yards of
total offense compared to 493 by West Brook.
After the Lobo go-ahead score in the 4th
quarter, West Brook Bruins took the Lobo kick
off and began their drive to try to retake the
lead. But that is when the crushing blow cre-
ated the fumble Martin recovered. Even then
the game was not on ice until a first down was
made by a long run by Keilyn Williams to cre-
ate a first and goal with only 2:08 to play, but
Longview showed its grace in victory by taking
a knee until the clock ran out and the Lobos’
stellar win was secure.
It is an esteemed honor to pay tribute to the
members of the 2018 state championship
Longview Lobos team: Otarvio Buchanan,
Jephaniah Lister, Kybrien Jackson-Jamerson,
Ja’vontae Writt, Ty’monyahe Abney, Jessie
Anderson, Cedric Hopkins, Dylan Davis, Jacob
Johnson, Daquavion Randall, Jy’christon Bax-
ter, Haynes King, Marqualon Haynes, Kamden
Perry, Jayden Williams, Jecoby Jackson, Jor-
dan Malone, Spiro Mijalis, Da’kiemion
Mumphrey, Datravious Nelson, Micheal Martin,
Markevion Haynes, J.K. Martin, Tyree Hale,
Kameron Sublett, Keith Halton, Dalton Serrato,
Kaden Kearbey, Jacobie Bowman, Keilyn Wil-
liams, Patrick Webb, Cameron Wilson, Jakobe
Ross, Isiah Rodgers, Jaharious Jones, Jamien
Horne, Dezmond Armstrong, Reginald Hutch-
ins, De’leon Jones, Tainique Taylor, Aisaiah
Taylor, Charlie Templeton, Shannon Jackson,
Kevin Jones, Robert Vinson, Tyshawn Taylor,
De’cameron Thomas, Kaden Meredith,
Jacorey Valentine, Lavayvian Godlock,
Davyon Mitchell, Laqualon Hale, Asiyas Hall,
Alex Zulueta, Hunter Jones, Coy Sanders,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16JA8.001 E16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E52 January 16, 2019
Corey Evans, Davian Reese, Harvey Boyd,
Dasabrian Parker, Logan Noguera, Logan
Peters, Dakirin Buchanan, Ruben Flores, Rob-
ert Pierce, Xavier Blanton, Andrew Beltran,
Brandon Snyder, Bryant Arthur III, Timothy
Polk, Syre Moore, Kaleb Snoddy, Jahkamian
Carr, Daniel Mancha, Devin Brooks, Bailey
Smith, Xabier Evans, Isaiah George, Joaquin
Tovar, Leundrae Craven, Brady Miller, Kevon
Green, Brian Bell, Jacob Warner, Marcus Wil-
liams, Alessandro Lazalde, Marcus Harry,
Gavin Roberts, Jhy’mhriyon Gay, Jamie
Jones, Connor Cox, Parker Cox, Cedric Smith,
Daniel Warner, Lakeithan Duffey, Jonathan
Tutt, Logan Washburn, Eliyjah Cox, Elijah
Byrd, Malik Miller, Da’qwaylen Reed, Tavion
Sterling, Trevor Ford, David Parks, Kaylon
Allen, Damykal Mcmillan, Anthony Parker,
Jakeilan Howard, Quintele Jackson, Kyas
Moore, Trevor N. Tamplin, Miguel Maldonado,
Daze Wallace, Kenterias Parker, Asriel Jones,
Austin Pencheon, Jorge Rebollar, Samuel
Mijalis, Jhailon Braden, Asontte Smith, Aiden
Diaz, Jaydyn James-Rollins, Michael
Mavhunga, Antonio Onofre, Sawyer Goram-
Welch, Joe Jones, Kiyaus Ingram, Owen
Kuenemann, Spencer Powell, Jonathon Davis,
Jared Reese, Carlos Vazquez, Jordan Wal-
lace, and Jaylon Allen.
The Lobos are a perfect representation of
what can be accomplished when a team pos-
sesses both perseverance and discipline,
combined with motivation, guidance, and re-
solve from an experienced and proficient
coaching staff. Among those individuals com-
mitted to ‘‘Making A Difference: One Student
At A Time’’ are: Superintendent Dr. James
Wilcox; Assistant Superintendent Secondary
Education James Brewer, Athletic Director/
Head Football Coach John King; Assistant
Athletic Director Johnny Hamilton; Football
Staff consisting of Oscar Wilson, Chris Vallery,
Jon Writt, C.J. Lottinger, David Ashley, Casey
Pearce, Randy Huffstickler, Scott Hartt, Chris
Lashley, Brandon Bonds, Trevor Murphy, Brad
Faulkner, Tracy Carpenter, Jalen Claiborne,
Robert Hanna, Cade Carnett; Athletic Trainers
Deirdre Scotter, Jessica Hill, Kristin Croley; as
well as Band Director Tommy Moore, Viewette
Director Deborah Mcgowan, and Cheerleader
Sponsor Heather Gee.
It is with great pride that I join with the citi-
zens of Longview, as well as the entire First
District of Texas, in congratulating the Long-
view Lobos on their State Football Champion-
ship. This is an outstanding accomplishment,
and may God continue to bless these young
people, along with their families, friends and
neighbors in Longview.
f
CELEBRATING THE LIFE OF
RANDY GHAN
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the life of my longtime friend Mr.
Randy Ghan, who passed away on December
7, 2018 at the age of 67. Randy will be re-
membered as a dedicated and committed
labor leader and advocate for worker rights in
the Central Valley. Randy worked tirelessly to
ratify the Central Labor Council, creating one
of the strongest labor councils in California.
He dedicated his life to the labor movement
and is known as a labor icon.
Randy was born on November 5, 1951 in
Fresno, California to Irene Kuns and Melvin
Ghan. He attended Humboldt State University.
Randy’s labor career began when he joined
the Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers
Union and Local 85 (Bakers 85) at the Perfec-
tion Macaroni factory in Fresno. Randy was
elected as the first shop steward in the history
of the factory when he was just 20 years old.
His efficiency and passion to succeed earned
him a position on the union bargaining team.
While on the bargaining team, Randy showed
strong work ethic and was offered a job with
the union and joined the executive board of
the Central Labor Council (CLC).
After being on the executive board of the
CLC for 15 years, Randy ran for Secretary-
Treasurer (CEO) and won with the support
from his allies in UFCW 1288 and SEIU 752.
Randy took on the position when the CLC was
struggling financially and he successfully re-
vamped the organization. Randy got CLC out
of debt by affiliating dozens of new unions and
brokering deals to save money and build polit-
ical capacity. Today, the CLC stands as one
of the best funded labor councils in California.
One of Randy’s proudest accomplishments
was the creation of the CLC Partnership,
which provides employment readiness serv-
ices to workers across Fresno. The joint ef-
forts of CLC, Propath and Regenerate Cali-
fornia Innovation has assisted numerous peo-
ple in finding gainful employment. In an act of
kindness and true leadership, Randy gave his
salary for the hours worked in the partnership
to hire additional staff at the CLC.
In appreciation of his years of hard work,
Randy was recognized as Labor Leader of the
Year by the CLC in 1992 and 2017. He was
the only labor leader to ever receive this honor
twice.
Randy was preceded in death by his loving
partner Sharon Hodson. He leaves behind his
sister Judy, daughters Maria and Tracey, nu-
merous grandchildren, great grandchildren and
many friends.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the life and achievements of
my friend Randy Ghan. Randy leaves a legacy
of advocacy and selflessness to improve the
lives of so many in the Valley. He will be
missed dearly by those who had the pleasure
of knowing him.
f
IN MEMORY OF MRS. JOHNNIE LEE
BROWN COLLIER
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor a dedicated woman of
God, great wife, steadfast mother, and friend
of longstanding, Mrs. Johnnie Lee Brown Col-
lier. Sadly, Mrs. Collier passed away on De-
cember 27, 2018. Her funeral service was
held on Thursday, January 3, 2019 at 11 a.m.
at the Fourth Street Missionary Baptist Church
in Columbus, Georgia.
Mrs. Johnnie Lee Brown Collier was born on
October 22, 1926, in Columbus, Georgia to
the union of Cleola Daniel Brown and John
Brown, Sr. She gave her life to Christ and was
baptized at an early age at Rosehill Memorial
Baptist Church. From that time on, God con-
tinued to be the center of her life until her
passing. She served as the Sunday School
Superintendent and Church Clerk at Rosehill
before moving her membership to the Fourth
Street Missionary Baptist Church in 1957. Her
first pastor at Fourth Street was the late Rev-
erend Henry Harris. Mrs. Collier paved the
way for others as she was the first Church
Secretary at Fourth Street. She was a natural
and gifted leader as she served in a variety of
leadership positions at Fourth Street to include
the Deacon’s Wives (she served as Chair-
person for two terms), PICCM Community
Leader in Zebulon Community, Women’s Day
Speaker, 1961, Chairperson of Program and
Pastoral Relations Committee, and was the
Roast and Toast Honoree in 1996.
Mrs. Collier was the epitome of a great wife
and mother. She married the late Deacon
Samuel Lee Collier on April 26, 1950. God
blessed this union for 34 years until Deacon
Collier’s untimely death on May 27, 1984. Six
children were born to this union to include two
sets of twins: Bernice Collier Collins, Bernard
Collier (deceased), Agnes Collier Averett,
Samuel Lee Collier, Jr., Michelle Collier
McClain, and Michael Collier. Fred Rogers
once said that, ‘‘It’s not so much what you
have in life that matters, It’s what we do with
what we have.’’ Mrs. Collier did a lot for others
with what she had. In addition to her own chil-
dren, she served as a mother figure to her sib-
lings and countless others she found in need
of guidance and a helping hand.
Former Congresswoman Shirley Chisholm
once said that, ‘‘Service is the rent that we
pay for the space that we occupy here on this
earth.’’ Mrs. Collier paid her rent and she paid
it well. She served in a variety of community
organizations to include: Electric City Chapter
482 of the Order of the Eastern Stars (Worthy
Matron), Spencer High Alumni (Class of
1943), Muscogee County Board of Elections
(Voting Precinct Manager); and she traveled to
various state conventions to further her knowl-
edge of the voting process. She was also an
entrepreneur and a photographer. Her profes-
sional career took her to the Medical Center,
the Area Mental Health Clinic, and the Enrich-
ment Services Program. Her benevolence ex-
tended throughout the community and she
often used her influence and networking to
help others to find gainful employment.
Madam Speaker, my wife Vivian and I,
along with the more than 730,000 constituents
of the Second Congressional District of Geor-
gia, salute and honor the life of Mrs. Johnnie
Lee Brown Collier. I ask my colleagues in the
House of Representatives to join us in extend-
ing our deepest condolences to Mrs. Collier’s
family during this time of bereavement. We
pray that they will be consoled and comforted
by an abiding faith and the Holy Spirit in the
days, weeks and months ahead.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILL HUIZENGA
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. HUIZENGA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today regarding missed votes due to a funeral.
Had I been present for roll call vote number
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16JA8.003 E16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E53
January 16, 2019
30, On Motion to Suspend the Rules and Pass
H.R. 116, the Investing in Main Street Act, I
would have voted yea. Had I been present for
roll call vote number 31, On Motion to Sus-
pend the Rules and Pass H.J. Res. 27, Mak-
ing further continuing appropriations for fiscal
year 2019, and for other purposes, I would
have voted nay. Had I been present for roll
call vote number 32, On Motion to Suspend
the Rules and Pass H. Res. 41, Rejecting
White nationalism and White supremacy, I
would have voted yea. Had I been present for
roll call vote number 33, On Motion to Sus-
pend the Rules and Pass H.R. 135, Federal
Employee Antidiscrimination Act, I would have
voted yea.
f
IN HONOR OF ERIC LANDIS
HON. ANDY BARR
OF KENTUCKY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. BARR. Madam Speaker, I rise to honor
Eric Landis, who is stepping down as my Sen-
ior Defense and Homeland Security Advisor to
take on a new role with the Federal Bureau of
Investigation. Eric serves our nation proudly
as a member of the Kentucky Air National
Guard. In 2010, he was deployed to Europe in
support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and to
Iraq for a 10 month tour in support of Oper-
ation New Dawn. On behalf of a grateful na-
tion, I thank him for his service and patriotism.
I first became acquainted with Eric Landis
when we worked together in the administration
of Kentucky Governor Ernie Fletcher. Eric later
took the Constitutional Law Courses I taught
at the University of Kentucky. He subsequently
worked on my congressional campaign, and
after I was elected to Congress in 2012, Eric
moved to Washington D.C. and became a cru-
cial member of my staff. He understands
issues that are important to the people of Ken-
tucky’s Sixth District, particularly matters deal-
ing with national security, our military, and vet-
erans’ affairs. Eric’s patriotism shines through
every day and his love of country is evident to
all who meet him.
Eric Landis brought infectious enthusiasm
and unwavering optimism to his daily work. He
treated each of my constituents with the ut-
most respect and was able to diffuse any con-
tentious situation. Eric’s dedication to the peo-
ple of Kentucky’s Sixth District is unparalleled
and unwavering. He leaves a lasting legacy as
a servant leader.
I am honored to call Eric Landis a loyal and
trusted friend. I wish him all the best as he
leaves to take on a new opportunity. I thank
Eric Landis for his friendship, his tireless work
on behalf of the people of the Sixth District,
and his outstanding service to our country.
f
HONORING JOEL NELSEN FOR HIS
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE CEN-
TRAL VALLEY
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
commemorate the achievements of Mr. Joel
Nelsen, the recipient of the 2018 Distinguished
Citizen Award from the Sequoia Council of the
Boy Scouts of America. Joel is being honored
for his many years outstanding civic service to
the community and agriculture industry. Joel
has exemplified what it means to be a leader
in the community through his involvement and
dedication to the Central Valley.
Joel was born in San Diego, California. He
served four years in the United States Navy
before graduating from California State Univer-
sity, Fullerton, where he obtained a Bachelor
of Arts in Communications. Joel began his ca-
reer in agriculture with the Fresh Produce
Council in Los Angeles. He eventually was re-
cruited to work in the Central Valley’s agri-
culture industry, joining California Citrus Mu-
tual as Executive Officer in 1982. For over 30
years, Joel has been on the forefront of var-
ious issues affecting the produce, citrus, and
agriculture industries. As a result, he was ap-
pointed President of California Citrus Mutual,
overseeing association’s 2,200 members.
Joel has demonstrated a significant level of
involvement in the community through his ca-
reer. He is Vice-Chair of the United States Cit-
rus Science Council. Joel has also been ap-
pointed to four terms on USDA’s Agricultural
Technical Advisory Committee for Trade, and
in 2015 he was selected by his colleagues to
be chairman of the committee. In addition,
Joel is the founding Chairman for the Agri-
Business Presidents’ Council, a member of
the University of California President’s Advi-
sory Commission on Agriculture and Natural
Resources and serves on the Executive Com-
mittee for the Citrus Health Response Pro-
gram.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
in the U.S. House of Representatives join me
in recognizing Mr. Joel Nelsen, recipient of the
Distinguished Citizen Award from the Sequoia
Council of the Boy Scouts of America. I ask
that you join me in wishing Joel and his family
continued success and prosperity.
f
IN HONOR OF DR. JOHN TANAKA’S
RETIREMENT FROM THE UNI-
VERSITY OF WYOMING
HON. LIZ CHENEY
OF WYOMING
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Ms. CHENEY. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to extend my congratulations to University of
Wyoming professor Dr. John Tanaka on his
retirement.
Dr. Tanaka has dedicated his life to re-
searching range and land management prac-
tices that improve and restore lands and
ranches throughout the West. Dr. Tanaka has
received multiple state and federal research
grants and has made major contributions to
improving sustainable range management
practices. After nearly 40 years of dedication
to range management and rangeland science,
Dr. Tanaka will be retiring and will have the
opportunity to relax and enjoy all that Wyo-
ming has to offer.
The University of Wyoming and the many
ranchers and landowners who have benefitted
from his pioneering research are incredibly
grateful for Dr. Tanaka’s years of service.
Again, Madam Speaker, I would like to extend
my congratulations to Dr. Tanaka on his long
career and his retirement.
RECOGNIZING THE CENTER FOR
PREVENTION OF ABUSE PEORIA,
ILLINOIS
HON. DARIN LaHOOD
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. LAHOOD. Madam Speaker, today, I rec-
ognize the Center for Prevention of Abuse
(CFPA), in Peoria, Illinois, and their vital serv-
ices offered to Illinois communities. As we rec-
ognize Human Trafficking and National Slav-
ery Prevention Month, it is important we also
commemorate organizations, like CFPA,
across the nation that work relentlessly to
combat the growing humanitarian crisis of
human trafficking.
Started in 1975 as a single rape crisis hot-
line, CFPA has grown to a highly respected
statewide organization with a dynamic and ef-
fective leadership team. Along with human
trafficking services, CFPA is the only organiza-
tion in Illinois that provides domestic violence,
sexual abuse and assault, and adult protective
services under one roof. Last year, CFPA pro-
vided comprehensive care to seventeen vic-
tims of labor and sex trafficking. Additionally,
CFPA provides a safe place to escape and re-
ceive the necessary care to those being ex-
ploited for sex and labor purposes.
While Central and Southern Illinois may not
be major hubs for human trafficking, CFPA
has helped residents of small and rural com-
munities across the state recognize the seri-
ousness of this hidden crime occurring in our
back yards. In 2018, CFPA conducted forty-
eight hours of training for law enforcement,
first responders, and medical providers. CFPA
has continued to work tirelessly to raise
awareness by training community members
and providing the necessary resources so traf-
ficking crimes can be effectively reported.
The state of Illinois has benefitted greatly
from the efforts and resources provided by
CFPA. I extend my sincere appreciation to the
leadership team and volunteer staff at the
Center for Prevention of Abuse for their con-
tinued work raising awareness and helping
victims of human trafficking.
f
CONSTITUENTS AFFECTED BY THE
GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWN
HON. KATHY CASTOR
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Ms. CASTOR of Florida. Madam Speaker,
the House will vote again today to immediately
reopen the U.S. government and end Presi-
dent Trump’s government shutdown. It is
unwananted and wrong to force our Coast
Guard, our Customs and Border, TSA officers,
air traffic controllers and others to work with-
out getting paid. I have heard from many
Tampa area government public servants, con-
tractors and their family members who have
shared with me how the shutdown is affecting
them.
One of my Tampa neighbors who runs a
small business in her retirement years to help
support her son with mental disabilities ad-
vised me that ‘‘[As a] tax preparer—I cannot
get responses from the IRS that affect [my] cli-
ents.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16JA8.006 E16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E54 January 16, 2019
Another neighbor who hoped to retire by
years end is also running out of hope says,
‘‘We are told there is no more funding after
January 18 for the courts, and our colleagues
in the U.S. Attorney’s office failed to be paid
[today], although they stay on the job pros-
ecuting criminals.’’
Another wrote to me after learning about
what his own customers are going through: ‘‘I
was touched by [the story of] a young woman
who I gave an estimate to. She is engaged to
a young man who works for the Federal Bu-
reau of Prisons. As she explained it, he is re-
quired to work without being paid, as they try
to begin their lives together.’’
Another neighbor is not a government em-
ployee, but is still affected by the shutdown:
‘‘My wife and I are in the process of starting
a new business and are dependent on an
SBA loan,’’ he wrote me. ‘‘We’ve spent
months looking for a location in this very tight
commercial real estate market and finally
found one. We don’t want to lose the oppor-
tunity to secure the location, start our new
business and begin hiring employees just be-
cause the president makes demands that our
representative legislature and our voters do
not agree with.’’
Still another: ‘‘I am extremely upset about
this government shutdown. I am a private con-
tractor working on a government contract. I
have been unemployed for weeks because of
this. I can’t pay my bills.’’
Our TSA officers, Customs officers and air
traffic controllers at Tampa International Air-
port are outstanding. TSA Officer Luis Men-
doza advised me that ‘‘I’ve been with TSA for
12 years. I have experienced previous shut-
downs and close calls, but I really feel that
this one is going to be a tough one to get
through. The officers in Tampa are trying to
hang in there because as they shared, ‘We do
believe in the Oath we took to protect the fly-
ing public and guard against threats.’ But
many are trying to figure out how to pay for
gas, child care services, and groceries before
rent, bills and medical care.’’
I also spoke with Admiral Karl Schultz who
leads the Coast Guard this morning regarding
our shared deep concern that our frontline
Coast Guard service members are not being
paid. In fact, one Coast Guard mother wrote
me, ‘‘I have a son in the Coast Guard in
Tampa, Florida that due to the government
shut down will not be paid . . . I first hand
know how this affects an individual and it
take(s) several if not a life time to recover
from this. These people should not have to
suffer for others just trying to make a vote.’’
I urge the White House and GOP Senators
to take up the bills to reopen America’s gov-
ernment along with the detailed plan we have
negotiated for modern border security—and do
it today.
Otherwise there will be more headlines like
the one on the front page of my hometown
newspaper that says ‘‘Federal workers’ new
need: food assistance’’. Thanks to Tampa
International Airport, Feeding Tampa Bay,
United Way Suncoast, USAA, the Crisis Cen-
ter and others who are supporting our neigh-
bors caught in Pres. Trump’s government
shutdown, but this is no substitute for the gov-
ernment of the United States of America to
function and provide the services all of our
constituents need, for public servants to get
paid and to fulfill the oath to protect and de-
fend America.
HONORING THE CAREER OF DR.
GENE W. KALLSEN
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the career of Dr. Gene W. Kallsen,
on the occasion of his retirement as Emer-
gency Faculty and Clinical Professor of Emer-
gency Medicine at UCSF, Fresno and Com-
munity Regional Medical Center’s Emergency
Department. Dr. Kallsen served his last shift
as an emergency physician on December 28,
2018. This is the culmination of a medical ca-
reer spanning over 40 years in emergency
medicine in Fresno. Under his exemplary lead-
ership, Dr. Kallsen has achieved success
through innovative thinking and integrity.
Dr. Kallsen, a native of Minnesota, attended
the University of Minnesota Medical School
and completed his undergraduate studies at
the University of Minnesota College of Liberal
Arts. Dr. Kallsen received his residency train-
ing at the University of California, San Fran-
cisco—Fresno and competing an internship at
the University of Washington Affiliate/
Harborview Medical Center.
Dr. Kallsen first began his career as an
emergency medical resident at UCSF Fresno,
where he maintained stable relationships with
staff and patients. His strong work ethic and
dedication to helping people earned him a po-
sition as a faculty member, and eventually as
Chief and Medical Director for the program.
During the program’s 43-year history, UCSF
Fresno’s emergency program has graduated
more than 300 residents. Dr. Kallsen’s time at
UCSF Fresno can be characterized by his
compassion and willingness to go the extra
mile to help his patients and students.
Dr. Kallsen’s distinguished career includes
more than 10 years as Fresno County’s first
Emergency Medical Services director, two
years as chair of the California Commission of
Emergency Medical Services, 23 years as
chief of UCSF Fresno’s Emergency Medicine
Department, five years as assistant dean at
UCSF Fresno and over 28 years in leadership
roles with the Central Faculty Medical Group.
He also led the emergency medicine depart-
ment transition from University Medical Center
to Community Regional Medical Center.
Today, Community Regional’s Emergency De-
partment is one of the largest and busiest in
California, seeing an average of 110,000 pa-
tients a year. In addition, Dr. Kallsen and his
wife Pam have established the Gene W.
Kallsen, MD, Endowed Chair in Emergency
Medicine at UCSF Fresno, to ensure that the
teaching program will continue to recruit the
finest physicians and medical educators to
head its emergency medicine program for
years to come.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in honoring Dr. Gene W. Kallsen for
his remarkable career achievements with
Community Regional Medical Center’s Emer-
gency Room. Dr. Kallsen will leave a robust
foundation for the Emergency Department to
continue to build upon. He has created a last-
ing legacy that will continue to help the people
of the San Joaquin Valley. I wish Dr. Kallsen
the very best as he enters this new phase of
his life.
IN HONOR OF THE 50TH WEDDING
ANNIVERSARY OF ALFREDO AND
GUILLERMINA HERNÁNDEZ
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise to
commemorate the 50th wedding anniversary
of Alfredo and Guillermina Hernández.
Alfredo and Guillermina were married De-
cember 18, 1968, in México Distrito Federal.
While still residing in Mexico, they had three
children: Veronica, José Alfredo and David
Alejandro.
Alfredo and Guillermina immigrated with
their children to the United States on Sep-
tember 29, 1979. They settled in Santa Ana,
California, where they became productive
members of their community, never taking for
granted the opportunities our great country
has provided them.
For 30 years until he retired, Alfredo worked
for Miniondas, a Spanish newspaper based
out of Santa Ana, and Mrs. Hernández has
been a small business owner in Santa Ana
since 1987. Their hard work and dedication
bettered not only their lives, but the lives of
their children, grand-children and the genera-
tions of children who will follow in their foot-
steps.
Their eldest daughter, Veronica, has been
employed with the Santa Ana Unified School
District for 28 years, and is married to
Ladislao Guillen.
Their son, José Alfredo, who has been in
practice for 18 years as an immigration and
criminal defense attorney, served the SAUSD
for 10 years as an elected member of the
School Board. He established his own law firm
in December of 2006, and is married to Alma,
an attorney who serves as a Riverside County
prosecutor.
Their son, David Alejandro, served as a
United States Marine for 14 years and now
works at the Department of Health & Human
Services, and is married to Laura.
The legacy of this couple continues not only
through their three children, but also through
their nine grandchildren, one of whom is serv-
ing in the United States Army Reserve, an-
other who has obtained a university degree,
and others who are pursuing their educations,
dreams, and goals.
Considering the strong values, they were
provided with from their own parents, it’s not
surprising that Mr. and Mrs. Hernández
achieved this significant milestone. Alfredo’s
parents, now passed, were married for 50
years, and Guillermina’s parents have been
married for 69 years and counting.
Madam Speaker, please join me in acknowl-
edging the accomplished lives of Alfredo and
Guillermina Hernández and the gift they’ve
given their children, a set of values that stem
from their humble roots as immigrants. To-
gether, they have produced an extraordinary
family, whose members are now living the
American Dream.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA8.011 E16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E55
January 16, 2019
HONORING PAULA AND JIM
BUONOMO
HON. JAMES P. McGOVERN
OF MASSACHUSETTS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. MCGOVERN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Paula and Jim Buonomo for
their distinguished careers and continued dedi-
cation to making their community a better
place to live and raise a family.
Over the past 30 years, Paula has held
many prominent roles and has served with
distinction on the Shrewsbury School Com-
mittee, as a member Shrewsbury Town Meet-
ing, on the Board of Directors for the Worces-
ter County Food Bank, and as Chair of the
Shrewsbury Democratic Town Committee. I
would also like to thank Paula for her time
spent as a District Representative in my of-
fice—where I saw her affinity for helping oth-
ers first hand.
Jim has also consistently proven his devo-
tion to improving the lives of others through
his time serving on the Board of Directors at
the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, and
playing a crucial role in many other initiatives
aimed at improving the lives of students in
Shrewsbury.
On January 26th, the Shrewsbury Education
Foundation will present Paula and Jim with the
Community Service Award, recognizing the
couple for consistently going above and be-
yond in their service to their community, and
particularly the Shrewsbury Public Schools.
Throughout the years, they have stepped up
and worked together at critical times to im-
prove the lives of students, including the cam-
paigns for the Floral Street School and
Shrewsbury High School. They also played a
significant role in making the Shrewsbury Pub-
lic Library and new athletic complex a reality—
which will benefit the residents of Shrewsbury
for generations to come.
Madam Speaker, on behalf of the United
States Congress and the people of Massachu-
setts, I would like to thank and recognize
Paula and Jim for their work in improving the
Shrewsbury School District and the Massachu-
setts education system. Their tireless efforts
have forever changed Shrewsbury and the
Commonwealth for the better.
f
HONORING MR. WILLIAM ASTOR
KIRK
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor Mr. William
Astor Kirk on his great contributions to civil
rights activism.
Raised in the East Texas town of Harleton,
William began his journey to higher education
at Wiley College, a historically black college
located in Pittsburg, Texas. He transferred and
continued his trajectory at the prestigious
Howard University in Washington, earning
both his bachelor’s and master’s degrees in
Political Science. He then pursued his doc-
torate at the University of Texas. He also com-
pleted postgraduate studies at the London
School of Economics and Political Science in
England as a Fulbright scholar. He later
served as a regional director of the U.S. Office
of Economic Opportunity and as an adjunct
associate professor of organization theory in
the Graduate School of Management and
Technology at the University of Maryland. He
was founder and CEO of the Organization
Management Services Corporation.
Kirk, also a United Methodist layperson,
served as a director of the public affairs de-
partment of the Board of Church and Society
of the United Methodist Church from 1961 to
1966 and as the board’s interim top executive
in 1987 and 1988. He played a historic role in
ending institutional segregation in the United
Methodist Church.
Overcoming discrimination was a fight he
knew well. He had earned a doctorate in polit-
ical science at the University of Texas at Aus-
tin—the university’s first Ph.D. awarded to an
African-American.
Kirk also led Huston-Tillotson students in
various protests against segregated public fa-
cilities in Austin during that era, and he was
said to be instrumental in the desegregation of
the city’s library and other facilities.
He was known as a complete gentleman, a
person who believed in forgiving and in not al-
lowing bitterness to define his life.
Before his death, Kirk had prepared an om-
nibus resolution to end discrimination against
sexual minorities, to be presented at the 2012
General Conference of The United Methodist
Church.
William Astor Kirk died on Friday, August
12, 2011, at 89 years of age. He and his wife
Vivian, who died in 2010, had been members
of Foundry United Methodist Church in Wash-
ington since 1984, and he served in many
leadership roles. He is survived by his son,
William A. Kirk, Jr., his late daughter Marie
Kirk Dunn, daughter-in-law Hillary, his late
son-in-law Reginald Dunn, and four grand-
daughters Ayanna, Jenelle, Allison and
Stefanie.
Madam Speaker, today I honor the life of
Mr. William Astor Kirk for his many contribu-
tions to ending discriminatory practices in the
United Methodist Church as well as through-
out the City of Austin. William made a career
of serving others, and his work had a direct
and positive influence on the lives of literally
thousands.
f
CELEBRATING THE 100TH BIRTH-
DAY OF MR. DONALD G. JEWELL
HON. STEVE STIVERS
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. STIVERS. Madam Speaker, I rise today
on behalf of the people of Ohio’s 15th Con-
gressional District to celebrate the 100th birth-
day of one of Millersport, Ohio’s most distin-
guished citizens, a man who continues to
bring smiles to others, Mr. Donald G. Jewell.
An incredibly intelligent and hardworking
man, Mr. Jewell valiantly offered his skills in
service to our nation as a member of the Civil-
ian Conservation Corps and the United States
Air Force. He earned the rank of Master Ser-
geant and received the Bronze Star during
World War II. His commitment to his fellow
soldiers cannot be understated, as he still re-
flects fondly on their success and dedication.
Mr. Jewell has been a fixture of our commu-
nity since 1945. In that time, he has helped
make Millersport a wonderful place to live,
work, and raise a family. An important contrib-
utor to our local economy, he owned a gas
station and managed the Midland Screw Fac-
tory. Moreover, from his time on the village
council to the founding of the Sweet Corn Fes-
tival, he spent his days diligently working to
improve the lives of his neighbors and bring
smiles to their faces.
Most importantly, Mr. Jewell has built a
wonderful and fulfilling life in Millersport with
his late wife June by his side, surrounded by
his son, Edwin; three grandchildren, six great-
grandchildren, and three great-great-grand-
children.
He is an exemplary citizen and Millersport is
undeniably a better place because of Mr. Don-
ald G. Jewell, and I encourage my colleagues
to join me in wishing him a very happy 100th
birthday.
f
RECOGNIZING THE LIFE AND
SERVICE OF BILL O’MALLEY
HON. ERIC SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. SWALWELL of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today along with Congressman
MARK DESAULNIER, Congresswoman BARBARA
LEE, Congressman MIKE THOMPSON, and Con-
gressman JERRY MCNERNEY to recognize Bill
O’Malley for his public service and legacy in
our East Bay community.
Bill was born in Boston in 1924 and served
in the U.S. Navy at a young age. After World
War II, he studied at Fordham University in
New York. In 1953, Bill and his wife, Claire
Dunn, moved to California where they raised
nine children. He graduated first in his class
from Golden Gate University School of Law
while attending at night.
A lifetime public servant, Bill held almost
every role in Contra Costa County’s legal sys-
tem. He served as a deputy district attorney,
deputy public defender, and was a founding
member of the county’s public defender’s of-
fice. In 1968, Bill was appointed as Contra
Costa County’s District Attorney. During his
16-year tenure, he helped open the county’s
first rape crisis center and domestic violence
shelter. Following his years as district attor-
ney, Bill was elected to be a Superior Court
judge where he presided over criminal, civil,
and family law until his retirement in 1995.
Outside of the courtroom, Bill was an avid
outdoorsman and traveler. He visited every
state in the United States and visited all na-
tional parks and historic monuments, a feat
not easily accomplished. In his retirement he
loved spending time with his family and ex-
ploring his passion for history by studying
World War I and visiting European battle-
grounds.
His proudest achievement, though, was his
family. Bill is survived by his sister, Grace Fitz-
gerald; sons Jake and Dan; daughters Nancy,
Denise, Betsy, Grace, Patty, and Mary; as well
as 13 grandchildren and six great-grand-
children. Bill was particularly gratified that his
daughter, Nancy, became the first woman to
serve as Alameda County District Attorney.
I join Congressman MARK DESAULNIER,
Congresswoman BARBARA LEE, Congressman
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A16JA8.014 E16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E56 January 16, 2019
MIKE THOMPSON, and Congressman JERRY
MCNERNEY in recognizing Bill’s volunteerism
and enthusiasm as a public servant in his
community. He will be sincerely missed by
those who had the pleasure of knowing him,
and he will be remembered for his endless
service to Contra Costa County.
f
COMMENDING PRIVATE JOHN
GILLEY
HON. VIRGINIA FOXX
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize the sacrifice
of Private John Gilley. The service and sac-
rifice of men and women like Private John
Gilley are truly what makes our country great.
Private Gilley served his country honorably in
World War One, where he was wounded in
the Battle of Courtrai. As a member of the
30th Division of the Army National Guard,
which was attached to British Forces, Private
Gilley took part in the campaign which re-
sulted ultimately in the 30th Division breaching
the Hindenburg Line to force the Armistice
which ended the war.
Thankfully, Private Gilley survived his
wounds and was discharged in February of
1919. Our area, the State of North Carolina
and our Country are fortunate that he returned
to Westfield, North Carolina where he and his
wife raised their nine children.
While the Purple Heart was not available
during World War One, Private Gilley was cer-
tainly eligible for it and it is fitting that it is
being awarded to his family in his honor now.
It has been my distinct privilege to work with
Private Gilley’s family to bring to light his sac-
rifice and give him the recognition he de-
serves. It is never too late to remember and
honor those who have put our country’s val-
ues above their own safety and well-being.
I am here to commend not only Private
Gilley but also to commend his family for their
perseverance in achieving the recognition he
so richly deserves and for continuing his
model of patriotism.
f
HONORING THE CAREER OF LES
WRIGHT—FRESNO COUNTY AGRI-
CULTURAL COMMISSIONER
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the career of Les Wright, on the oc-
casion of his retirement as Fresno County’s
Agricultural Commissioner and Sealer of
Weights and Measures. Les’ final day as Agri-
cultural Commissioner will be January 25,
2019. This is the culmination of a successful
27-year civil service, leadership and manage-
ment career throughout the State of California.
Les, a native of Modoc County, earned his
Associates degree in Production Agriculture
from Shasta College. He began his career in
government in 1976, serving at a border in-
spection station. With a background as a
rancher, it did not take long for Les to realize
his true passion was in agriculture. He quickly
rose up the ranks, serving as the Agricultural
Commissioner/Sealer for Modoc County, Dep-
uty Commissioner of Kings County and Chief
Deputy Commissioner of Fresno County. He
was appointed Fresno County’s Agricultural
Commissioner on August 5, 2013.
As the Fresno County Agricultural Commis-
sioner, Les’ primary objective is to promote
and protect the county’s multibillion-dollar agri-
cultural industry. In his role, he oversees the
number one agriculture producing county in
the nation. Fresno County produces over 350
types of crops and is known to many as the
breadbasket of the world. He is passionate
about his work and serves as advocate for
growers through the county. Passion for the
agricultural industry run deep in the Wright
household, as Les’ wife Marilyn Kinoshita-
Wright is also retiring this month from her po-
sition as Tulare County Agricultural Commis-
sioner.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
join me in honoring Les Wright for his career
achievements as Fresno County Agricultural
Commissioner. Les will leave a robust founda-
tion for Fresno County to continue to build
upon. I wish Les and his wife Marilyn the very
best as they enter this new phase of their life.
f
A TIMELINE OF STEVE KING’S
RACIST REMARKS AND DIVISIVE
ACTIONS
HON. BOBBY L. RUSH
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Mr. RUSH. Madam Speaker, I would like to
include in the RECORD, an article by Trip Ga-
briel that was published in the New York
Times on January 15, 2019 detailing racist re-
marks and divisive actions made by Rep.
STEVE KING.
[From the New York Times, Jan. 15, 2019]
A TIMELINE OF STEVE KING’S RACIST
REMARKS AND DIVISIVE ACTIONS
(By Trip Gabriel)
While some Republicans suggested the
Iowa congressman’s views were new to them,
Mr. King has a long and documented history
of denigrating racial minorities.
Representative Steve King of Iowa, who
was stripped of his House committee seats on
Monday night after making remarks defend-
ing white supremacy, has a long history of
racist comments and insults about immi-
grants.
Republicans rarely rebuked him until re-
cently, with some suggesting that Mr. King’s
language and views were new to them.
‘‘This just popped up on Friday,’’ Rep-
resentative Steve Scalise, the second-rank-
ing House Republican, said on Sunday, when
asked if the party would penalize Mr. King
for saying, in an interview with The Times,
‘‘White nationalist, white supremacist, West-
ern civilization—how did that language be-
come offensive?’’
National Republicans courted his political
support in Iowa: He was a national co-chair-
man of Ted Cruz’s 2016 presidential effort and
of Gov. Kim Reynolds’ 2018 election. House
leadership appointed him chairman of the
subcommittee on the Constitution and civil
justice. And President Trump boasted in the
Oval Office that he raised more money for
Mr. King than for anyone else. Yet Mr. King,
who won a ninth term in November, has pub-
licly promoted white nationalists and neo-
Nazis on Twitter and disparaged nonwhite
groups for years.
2002
Mr. King, in the Iowa State Senate, files a
bill requiring schools teach that the United
States ‘‘is the unchallenged greatest nation
in the world and that it has derived its
strength from . . . Christianity, free enter-
prise capitalism and Western civilization.’’
Mr. King is the chief sponsor of a law mak-
ing English the official language of Iowa.
2005
Now in Congress, Mr. King introduces the
English Language Unity Act, a bill to make
English the official language of the United
States.
Mr. King sues the Iowa Secretary of State
for posting voting information on an official
website in Spanish, Laotian, Bosnian and Vi-
etnamese.
2006
At a rally in Las Vegas, Mr. King calls the
deaths of Americans at the hands of undocu-
mented immigrants ‘‘a slow-motion Holo-
caust.’’ He claims that 25 Americans die
daily because of undocumented immigrants,
an unsupported and illogical leap from gov-
ernment statistics, which years later influ-
ences talking points by President Trump.
On the House floor, Mr. King demonstrates
a model of a 12-foot concrete border wall
topped with electrified wire that he de-
signed: ‘‘We need to do a few other things on
top of that wall, and one of them being to
put a little bit of wire on top here to provide
a disincentive for people to climb over the
top or put a ladder there. We could also elec-
trify this wire . . . We do that with livestock
all the time.’’
2010
Mr. King on the House floor, speaking of
how law enforcement officers can spot un-
documented immigrants:
What kind of clothes people wear . . . what
kind of shoes people wear, what kind of ac-
cent they have . . . sometimes it’s just a
sixth sense they can’t put their finger on.
2011
Mr. King in a speech opposing the Afford-
able Care Act’s mandate to cover contracep-
tion:
Preventing babies being born is not medi-
cine. That’s not constructive to our culture
and our civilization. If we let our birthrate
get down below the replacement rate, we’re a
dying civilization.
2012
On a panel at the Conservative Political
Action Conference with Peter Brimelow, an
open white nationalist, Mr. King referred to
multiculturalism as:
A tool for the Left to subdivide a culture
and civilization into our own little ethnic
enclaves and pit us against each other.
2013
Mr. King on why he opposes legal status
for Dreamers, who were brought into the
country as children:
For everyone who’s a valedictorian, there’s
another 100 out there that weigh 130 pounds
and they’ve got calves the size of canta-
loupes because they’re hauling 75 pounds of
marijuana across the desert. Those people
would be legalized with the same act.
2015
Mr. King invites the far-right, anti-Islam
Dutch politician Geert Wilders to Wash-
ington and appears with him at the Capitol.
Mr. Wilders has called Islam ‘‘not a reli-
gion,’’ said the Quran was ‘‘worse than Mein
Kampf,’’ and called for the closing of
mosques.
Mr. King tweets a selfie with Mr. Wilders
in front of a portrait of Winston Churchill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA8.017 E16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E57
January 16, 2019
Mr. Wilders praises Mr. King for having ‘‘the
guts to speak out.’’
2016
At the Republican National Convention in
July, Mr. King claims that nonwhite groups
haven’t contributed as much as whites to
civilization: ‘‘This whole business does get a
little tired. I would ask you to go back
through history and figure out where are
these contributions that have been made by
these other categories of people you are talk-
ing about. Where did any other subgroup of
people contribute more to civilization?’’
Mr. King to The Washington Post days
later: ‘‘The idea of multiculturalism, that
every culture is equal—that’s not objectively
true . . . We’ve been fed that information for
the past 25 years, and we’re not going to be-
come a greater nation if we continue to do
that.’’
In a tweet during a meeting in Amsterdam
with Mr. Wilders and Frauke Petry, the lead-
er of Germany’s far-right Alternative for
Germany party, Mr. King says, ‘‘Cultural
suicide by demographic transformation must
end.’’
In October, Marine Le Pen, the leader of
France’s far-right party, tweets a picture of
her meeting with Mr. King, the first elected
American official to meet her.
Also in October, Mr. King meets in Austria
with leaders of the far-right Freedom Party,
including Heinz-Christian Strache and Nor-
bert Hofer. The party was founded in the
1950s by former Nazis.
2017
‘‘Wilders understands that culture and de-
mographics are our destiny. We can’t restore
our civilization with somebody else’s ba-
bies,’’ Mr. King tweets in his endorsement of
Mr. Wilders in Dutch elections.
On March 14, Mr. King defends the tweet on
Breitbart radio: ‘‘We’re watching as Western
civilization is shrinking in the face of the
massive, epic migration that is pouring into
Europe. That’s the core of that tweet.
They’re importing a different culture, a dif-
ferent civilization—and that culture and civ-
ilization, the imported one, rejects the host
culture. And so they are supplanting West-
ern civilization with Middle Eastern civiliza-
tion and I say, and Geert Wilders says, West-
ern civilization is a superior civilization—it
is the first world.’’
On Iowa talk radio, Mr. King recommends
‘‘The Camp of the Saints,’’ a racist 1973 novel
about an invasion of Europe by nonwhite im-
migrants.
Mr. King tweets agreement with Viktor
Orban, Hungary’s authoritarian leader:
‘‘Mixing cultures will not lead to a higher
quality of life but a lower one.’’
2018
Mr. King says he does not want Somali
Muslims working in meatpacking plants in
Iowa: ‘‘I don’t want people doing my pork
that won’t eat it, let alone hope I go to hell
for eating pork chops.’’
Asked by a reporter for HuffPost if he is a
white nationalist or white supremacist, Mr.
King responds: ‘‘I don’t answer those ques-
tions. I say to people that use those kind of
allegations: Use those words a million times,
because you’re reducing the value of them
every time, and many of the people that use
those words and make those allegations and
ask those questions can’t even define the
words they’re using.’’
In an interview with a web publication in
Austria, unzensuriert.at, which is linked to
the far-right Freedom Party, Mr. King again
praises the novel ‘‘Camp of the Saints’’:
‘‘This narrative should be imprinted into ev-
eryone’s brain. When you are importing peo-
ple, even importing one single person, you
are importing their culture.’’
In the same interview, Mr. King dem-
onstrates familiarity with the ‘‘Great Re-
placement’’ conspiracy theory, also known
as ‘‘white genocide,’’ which posits that an
international elite, including prominent
Jews like George Soros, are plotting to make
white populations minorities in Europe and
North America. ‘‘Great replacement, yes,’’
Mr. King says. ‘‘These people walking into
Europe by ethnic migration, 80 percent are
young men. They are somebody else’s ba-
bies.’’
Mr. King endorses a Toronto mayoral can-
didate, Faith Goldy, who had recited the ‘‘14
words’’ used by neo-Nazis and gave an inter-
view to a podcast for the neo-Nazi website
The Daily Stormer.
The Anti-Defamation League writes to
Speaker Paul D. Ryan calling for the censure
of Mr. King for endorsing Ms. Goldy. The
group also notes that the Austrian Freedom
Party is ‘‘riddled with anti-Semitism and
Holocaust trivialization.’’
Representative Steve Stivers, chairman of
the Republican House election committee,
condemns Mr. King in a tweet: ‘‘We must
stand up against white supremacy and hate
in all forms, and I strongly condemn this be-
havior.’’
Asked on Oct. 21 on WHO-TV in Iowa,
‘‘What is a white nationalist?’’ Mr. King an-
swers: ‘‘First of all, I think you have to be
white, but then we’ve got Rachel Dolezal
who didn’t have to be black to be black. It is
a derogatory term today. I wouldn’t have
thought so maybe a year or two or three ago.
But today they use it as a derogatory term
and they imply you are a racist. That’s the
bottom line for that.’’
2019
‘‘White nationalist, white supremacist,
Western civilization—how did that language
become offensive? Why did I sit in classes
teaching me about the merits of our history
and our civilization?’’ Mr. King said in an
interview with The New York Times pub-
lished last week.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday,
January 17, 2019 may be found in the
Daily Digest of today’s RECORD.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:47 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A16JA8.020 E16JAPT1
D45
Wednesday, January 16, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S233–S285
Measures Introduced: Thirty-six bills and two res-
olutions were introduced, as follows: S. 137–172, S.
Res. 19, and S. Con. Res. 1. Pages S273–74
Measures Passed:
Knights of Columbus: Senate agreed to S. Res.
19, expressing the sense of the Senate that disquali-
fying a nominee to Federal office on the basis of
membership in the Knights of Columbus violates
the Constitution of the United States. Pages S265–66
Chemical Facility Anti-Terrorism Standards
Program Extension Act: Senate passed H.R. 251, to
extend by 15 months the Chemical Facility Anti-
Terrorism Standards Program of the Department of
Homeland Security, after agreeing to the following
amendments proposed thereto: Page S279
McConnell (for Johnson/Peters) Amendment No.
3, to extend by 15 months the Chemical Facility
Anti-Terrorism Standards Program of the Depart-
ment of Homeland Security. Page S279
McConnell (for Johnson/Peters) Amendment No.
4, to amend the title. Page S279
Measures Considered:
Sanctions With Respect to the Russian Federa-
tion: Senate continued consideration of S. J. Res. 2,
disapproving the President’s proposal to take an ac-
tion relating to the application of certain sanctions
with respect to the Russian Federation. Pages S233–47
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 57 yeas to 42 nays (Vote No. 6), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, not having
voted in the affirmative, Senate rejected the motion
to close further debate on the joint resolution.
Page S247
Subsequently, the joint resolution was returned to
the Calendar.
No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abor-
tion Insurance Full Disclosure Act—Cloture:
Senate began consideration of the motion to proceed
to consideration of S. 109, to prohibit taxpayer fund-
ed abortions. Pages S247–65
A motion was entered to close further debate on
the motion to proceed to consideration of the bill,
and, in accordance with the provisions of Rule XXII
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, and pursuant to
the unanimous-consent agreement of Wednesday,
January 16, 2019, a vote on cloture will occur at ap-
proximately 4:30 p.m., on Thursday, January 17,
2019. Pages S247–48
A unanimous-consent-time agreement was reached
providing for further consideration of the motion to
proceed to consideration of the bill at approximately
4 p.m., on Thursday, January 17, 2019; and that
notwithstanding the provisions of Rule XXII, there
be 30 minutes of debate, equally divided between
the two Leaders, or their designees, and upon the use
or yielding back of that time, Senate vote on the
motion to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed
to consideration of the bill. Page S279
Appointments:
United States Senate Caucus on International
Narcotics Control: The Chair, on behalf of the
Democratic Leader, pursuant to the provisions of
Public Law 99–93, as amended by Public Law
99–151, appointed the following Senators as mem-
bers of the United States Senate Caucus on Inter-
national Narcotics Control: Senators Feinstein (Vice
Chairman), Whitehouse, and Rosen. Page S279
John C. Stennis Center for Public Service
Training and Development: The Chair announced,
on behalf of the Majority Leader, pursuant to the
provisions of Public Law 100–458, sec. 114(b)(2)(c),
the appointment of the following individual to serve
as a member of the Board of Trustees of the John
C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and
Development for a six-year term: Thomas Daffron of
Maine. Page S279
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report relative to
the continuation of the national emergency that was
declared in Executive Order 12947 of January 23,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D46 January 16, 2019
1995, with respect to terrorists who threaten to dis-
rupt the Middle East peace process; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs. (PM–1) Page S272
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Mindy Brashears, of Texas, to be Under Secretary
of Agriculture for Food Safety.
Naomi C. Earp, of Maryland, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Agriculture.
Scott Hutchins, of Indiana, to be Under Secretary
of Agriculture for Research, Education, and Econom-
ics.
William Bookless, of California, to be Principal
Deputy Administrator, National Nuclear Security
Administration.
Veronica Daigle, of Virginia, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Defense.
Joseph Bruce Hamilton, of Texas, to be a Member
of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a
term expiring October 18, 2022.
Thomas McCaffery, of California, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense.
Jessie Hill Roberson, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a
term expiring October 18, 2023.
Lisa Vickers, of Texas, to be a Member of the De-
fense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term ex-
piring October 18, 2021.
Seth Daniel Appleton, of Missouri, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
Spencer Bachus III, of Alabama, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank
of the United States for a term expiring January 20,
2023.
Thelma Drake, of Virginia, to be Federal Transit
Administrator.
Dino Falaschetti, of Montana, to be Director, Of-
fice of Financial Research, Department of the Treas-
ury, for a term of six years.
Rodney Hood, of North Carolina, to be a Member
of the National Credit Union Administration Board
for a term expiring August 2, 2023.
Robert Hunter Kurtz, of Virginia, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment.
Jeffrey Nadaner, of Maryland, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Commerce.
Bimal Patel, of Georgia, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of the Treasury.
Judith DelZoppo Pryor, of Ohio, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank
of the United States for a term expiring January 20,
2021.
Kimberly A. Reed, of West Virginia, to be Presi-
dent of the Export-Import Bank of the United States
for a term expiring January 20, 2021.
Claudia Slacik, of New York, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of
the United States for a term expiring January 20,
2023.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be a Com-
missioner of the Consumer Product Safety Commis-
sion for a term of seven years from October 27,
2018.
Ann Marie Buerkle, of New York, to be Chairman
of the Consumer Product Safety Commission.
Alan E. Cobb, of Kansas, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Metropolitan Washington
Airports Authority for a term expiring November
22, 2023.
Rick A. Dearborn, of Oklahoma, to be a Director
of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five
years.
Diana Furchtgott-Roth, of Maryland, to be an As-
sistant Secretary of Transportation.
Lane Genatowski, of New York, to be Director of
the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy, De-
partment of Energy.
Joseph Ryan Gruters, of Florida, to be a Director
of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five
years.
Janice Miriam Hellreich, of Hawaii, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for
Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31,
2024.
Heidi R. King, of California, to be Administrator
of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administra-
tion.
Robert A. Mandell, of Florida, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2022.
Don Munce, of Florida, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public
Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2024.
Barry Lee Myers, of Pennsylvania, to be Under
Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere.
Bruce M. Ramer, of California, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Pub-
lic Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31,
2024.
Michelle A. Schultz, of Pennsylvania, to be a
Member of the Surface Transportation Board for the
term of five years.
Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Direc-
tor of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of
five years.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D47
January 16, 2019
William Shaw McDermott, of Massachusetts, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Metro-
politan Washington Airports Authority for a term
expiring May 30, 2024.
Rita Baranwal, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Energy (Nuclear Energy).
Susan Combs, of Texas, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of the Interior.
William Cooper, of Maryland, to be General
Counsel of the Department of Energy.
Christopher Fall, of Virginia, to be Director of the
Office of Science, Department of Energy.
Aimee Kathryn Jorjani, of Wisconsin, to be
Chairman of the Advisory Council on Historic Pres-
ervation for a term expiring January 19, 2021.
John Fleming, of Louisiana, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce for Economic Development.
John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Au-
thority for a term expiring May 18, 2021.
Peter C. Wright, of Michigan, to be Assistant Ad-
ministrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental
Protection Agency.
Michael J. Astrue, of Massachusetts, to be a Mem-
ber of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term
expiring September 30, 2022.
Jason J. Fichtner, of the District of Columbia, to
be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board
for a term expiring September 30, 2024.
James B. Lockhart III, of Connecticut, to be a
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Hos-
pital Insurance Trust Fund for a term of four years.
James B. Lockhart III, of Connecticut, to be a
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Old-
Age and Survivors Insurance Trust Fund and the
Federal Disability Insurance Trust Fund for a term
of four years.
James B. Lockhart III, of Connecticut, to be a
Member of the Board of Trustees of the Federal Sup-
plementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund for a term
of four years.
David Fabian Black, of North Dakota, to be Dep-
uty Commissioner of Social Security for the term ex-
piring January 19, 2019.
David Fabian Black, of North Dakota, to be Dep-
uty Commissioner of Social Security for a term ex-
piring January 19, 2025.
Elizabeth Darling, of Texas, to be Commissioner
on Children, Youth, and Families, Department of
Health and Human Services.
Michael J. Desmond, of California, to be Chief
Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service and an As-
sistant General Counsel in the Department of the
Treasury.
Michael Faulkender, of Maryland, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of the Treasury.
Amy Karpel, of Washington, to be a Member of
the United States International Trade Commission
for the remainder of the term expiring June 16,
2020.
Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Commerce.
Andrew M. Saul, of New York, to be Commis-
sioner of Social Security for the term expiring Janu-
ary 19, 2019.
Andrew M. Saul, of New York, to be Commis-
sioner of Social Security for the term expiring Janu-
ary 19, 2025.
Randolph J. Stayin, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the United States International Trade Commission
for a term expiring June 16, 2026.
Irving Bailey, of Florida, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Invest-
ment Corporation for a term expiring December 17,
2021.
Alexander Crenshaw, of Florida, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Chal-
lenge Corporation for a term of three years.
Louis DeJoy, of North Carolina, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private In-
vestment Corporation for a term expiring December
17, 2020.
George M. Marcus, of California, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Millennium Chal-
lenge Corporation for a term of three years.
Susan M. McCue, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Millennium Challenge
Corporation for a term of two years.
Richard C. Parker, of North Carolina, to be an
Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency
for International Development.
Christopher P. Vincze, of Massachusetts, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas
Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring
December 17, 2019.
John P. Abizaid, of Nevada, to be Ambassador to
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Stephen Akard, of Indiana, to be Director of the
Office of Foreign Missions, with the rank of Ambas-
sador.
John Barsa, of Florida, to be an Assistant Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency for International
Development.
Pamela Bates, of Virginia, to be Representative of
the United States of America to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, with the
rank of Ambassador.
Marshall Billingslea, of Virginia, to be an Under
Secretary of State (Civilian Security, Democracy, and
Human Rights).
Lynda Blanchard, of Alabama, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of Slovenia.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D48 January 16, 2019
Kimberly Breier, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foun-
dation for a term expiring September 20, 2020.
Andrew P. Bremberg, of Virginia, to be Rep-
resentative of the United States of America to the
Office of the United Nations and Other Inter-
national Organizations in Geneva, with the rank of
Ambassador.
Brian J. Bulatao, of Texas, to be an Under Sec-
retary of State (Management).
Kate Marie Byrnes, of Florida, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of Macedonia.
Sean Cairncross, of Minnesota, to be Chief Execu-
tive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation.
Joseph Cella, of Michigan, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of Fiji, and to serve concurrently and
without additional compensation as Ambassador to
the Republic of Kiribati, the Republic of Nauru, the
Kingdom of Tonga, and Tuvalu.
Mina Chang, of Texas, to be an Assistant Admin-
istrator of the United States Agency for International
Development.
R. Clarke Cooper, of Florida, to be an Assistant
Secretary of State (Political-Military Affairs).
Jane L. Corwin, of New York, to be Commis-
sioner on the part of the United States on the Inter-
national Joint Commission, United States and Can-
ada.
Edward F. Crawford, of Ohio, to be Ambassador
to Ireland.
Robert A. Destro, of Virginia, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and
Labor.
Jeffrey L. Eberhardt, of Wisconsin, to be Special
Representative of the President for Nuclear Non-
proliferation, with the rank of Ambassador.
David T. Fischer, of Michigan, to be Ambassador
to the Kingdom of Morocco.
Michael J. Fitzpatrick, of Virginia, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Ecuador.
Kenneth S. George, of Texas, to be Ambassador to
the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
James S. Gilmore, of Virginia, to be U.S. Rep-
resentative to the Organization for Security and Co-
operation in Europe, with the rank of Ambassador.
Brett P. Giroir, of Texas, to be Representative of
the United States on the Executive Board of the
World Health Organization.
Jeffrey Ross Gunter, of California, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Iceland.
Kenneth A. Howery, of Texas, to be Ambassador
to the Kingdom of Sweden.
Darrell E. Issa, of California, to be Director of the
Trade and Development Agency.
Ronald Douglas Johnson, of Florida, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of El Salvador.
Doug Manchester, of California, to be Ambassador
to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas.
Lana J. Marks, of Florida, to be Ambassador to
the Republic of South Africa.
Ronald Mortensen, of Utah, to be an Assistant
Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migra-
tion).
W. Patrick Murphy, of Vermont, to be Ambas-
sador to the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Michael Pack, of Maryland, to be Chief Executive
Officer of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for
the term of three years.
John Rakolta, Jr., of Michigan, to be Ambassador
to the United Arab Emirates.
Leandro Rizzuto, of New Jersey, to be Ambas-
sador to Barbados, and to serve concurrently and
without additional compensation as Ambassador to
the Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Domi-
nica, Grenada, and Saint Vincent and the Grena-
dines.
Mark Rosen, of Connecticut, to be United States
Executive Director of the International Monetary
Fund for a term of two years.
Daniel N. Rosenblum, of Maryland, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Uzbekistan.
David Schenker, of New Jersey, to be an Assistant
Secretary of State (Near Eastern Affairs).
Robert C. Sisson, of Michigan, to be Commis-
sioner on the part of the United States on the Inter-
national Joint Commission, United States and Can-
ada.
David Stilwell, of Hawaii, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of State (East Asian and Pacific Affairs).
Alan R. Swendiman, of North Carolina, to be
Deputy Director of the Peace Corps.
Donald R. Tapia, of Arizona, to be Ambassador to
Jamaica.
Kip Tom, of Indiana, for the rank of Ambassador
during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to
the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agri-
culture.
Christine J. Toretti, of Pennsylvania, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Malta.
Matthew H. Tueller, of Utah, to be Ambassador
to the Republic of Iraq.
Lance V. Yohe, of North Dakota, to be Commis-
sioner on the part of the United States on the Inter-
national Joint Commission, United States and Can-
ada.
Adrian Zuckerman, of New Jersey, to be Ambas-
sador to Romania.
Kathe Hicks Albrecht, of California, to be a
Member of the National Council on the Humanities
for a term expiring January 26, 2024.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D49
January 16, 2019
Gordon Hartogensis, of Connecticut, to be Direc-
tor of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation for
a term of five years.
Charles Wickser Banta, of New York, to be a
Member of the National Council on the Arts for a
term expiring September 3, 2022.
Keegan F. Callanan, of Vermont, to be a Member
of the National Council on the Humanities for a
term expiring January 26, 2024.
David Armand DeKeyser, of Alabama, to be a
Member of the National Council on the Humanities
for a term expiring January 26, 2020.
Robert J. Grey, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member
of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Cor-
poration for a term expiring July 13, 2020.
Kim R. Holmes, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2022.
Victoria Ann Hughes, of Virginia, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for
National and Community Service for a term expiring
October 6, 2021.
Michelle Itczak, of Indiana, to be a Member of the
National Council on the Arts for a term expiring
September 3, 2020.
Phyllis Kaminsky, of Arizona, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2020.
Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion for a term expiring July 13, 2019.
Abigail L. Kuzma, of Indiana, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corpora-
tion for a term expiring July 13, 2022.
John G. Levi, of Illinois, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation
for a term expiring July 13, 2020.
Barbara Coleen Long, of Missouri, to be a Member
of the National Council on the Arts for a term ex-
piring September 3, 2022.
John G. Malcolm, of the District of Columbia, to
be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal
Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13,
2020.
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services
Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2019.
Frank X. Neuner, Jr., of Louisiana, to be a Mem-
ber of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services
Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2022.
Heather Reynolds, of Texas, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Na-
tional and Community Service for a term expiring
September 14, 2021.
Gloria Valencia-Weber, of New Mexico, to be a
Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Serv-
ices Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 2020.
Carleton Varney, of Massachusetts, to be a Mem-
ber of the National Council on the Arts for a term
expiring September 3, 2022.
Jean M. Yarbrough, of Maine, to be a Member of
the National Council on the Humanities for a term
expiring January 26, 2022.
William I. Althen, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Com-
mission for a term of six years expiring August 30,
2024.
William Beach, of Kansas, to be Commissioner of
Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, for a term of
four years.
Mary Anne Carter, of Tennessee, to be Chair-
person of the National Endowment for the Arts for
a term of four years.
Janet Dhillon, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of
the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for
a term expiring July 1, 2022.
Sharon Fast Gustafson, of Virginia, to be General
Counsel of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission for a term of four years.
John Lowry III, of Illinois, to be Assistant Sec-
retary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Train-
ing.
Scott A. Mugno, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of Labor.
John P. Pallasch, of Kentucky, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Labor.
Marco M. Rajkovich, Jr., of Kentucky, to be a
Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Re-
view Commission for a term of six years expiring
August 30, 2024.
Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South Carolina, to be
Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, De-
partment of Labor.
Arthur R. Traynor III, of the District of Colum-
bia, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and
Health Review Commission for a term expiring Au-
gust 30, 2022.
Ron A. Bloom, of New York, to be a Governor
of the United States Postal Service for a term expir-
ing December 8, 2020.
William Bryan, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary
for Science and Technology, Department of Home-
land Security.
Julia Akins Clark, of Maryland, to be a Member
of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term
of seven years expiring March 1, 2021.
Joseph V. Cuffari, of Arizona, to be Inspector
General, Department of Homeland Security.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D50 January 16, 2019
Robert M. Duncan, of Kentucky, to be a Gov-
ernor of the United States Postal Service for a term
expiring December 8, 2025.
Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to be a Member
of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term
of seven years expiring March 1, 2023.
Dennis Dean Kirk, of Virginia, to be Chairman of
the Merit Systems Protection Board.
Roman Martinez IV, of Florida, to be a Governor
of the United States Postal Service for a term expir-
ing December 8, 2024.
Andrew F. Maunz, of Ohio, to be a Member of
the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of
seven years expiring March 1, 2025.
Calvin R. Tucker, of Pennsylvania, to be a Gov-
ernor of the United States Postal Service for a term
expiring December 8, 2023.
Ronald D. Vitiello, of Illinois, to be an Assistant
Secretary of Homeland Security.
William R. Evanina, of Pennsylvania, to be Direc-
tor of the National Counterintelligence and Security
Center.
Aditya Bamzai, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for
the remainder of the term expiring January 29,
2020.
Shannon Lee Goessling, of Florida, to be Director
of the Violence Against Women Office, Department
of Justice.
Travis LeBlanc, of Maryland, to be a Member of
the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for
a term expiring January 29, 2022.
Virgil Madden, of Indiana, to be a Commissioner
of the United States Parole Commission for a term
of six years.
James E. Trainor III, of Texas, to be a Member
of the Federal Election Commission for a term expir-
ing April 30, 2023.
Robert C. Tapella, of Virginia, to be Director of
the Government Publishing Office.
David Christian Tryon, of Ohio, to be Chief
Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administra-
tion. Pages S282–85
Messages from the House: Page S272
Measures Referred: Pages S272–73
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S274–75
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S275–78
Additional Statements: Pages S271–72
Amendments Submitted: Pages S278–79
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S279
Privileges of the Floor: Page S279
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—6) Page S279
Adjournment: Senate convened at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 6:35 p.m., until 4 p.m. on Thursday, Jan-
uary 17, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S279.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
ADVANCED NUCLEAR REACTORS
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Energy
and Water Development concluded a hearing to ex-
amine the future of nuclear power, focusing on ad-
vanced reactors, after receiving testimony from Ed-
ward McGinnis, Principal Deputy Assistant Sec-
retary, Nuclear Energy, and Thomas Zacharia, Direc-
tor, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, both of the De-
partment of Energy; and Christina Back, General
Atomics, San Diego, California.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee adopted its rules of procedure and sub-
committee structure for the 116th Congress.
NOMINATION
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine the nomina-
tion of Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Admin-
istrator of the Environmental Protection Agency,
after the nominee, who was introduced by Senator
Inhofe, testified and answered questions in his own
behalf.
BUSINESS MEETING
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions:
Committee announced the following subcommittee
assignments for the 116th Congress:
Subcommittee on Children and Families: Senators Paul
(Chair), Murkowski, Burr, Cassidy, Roberts, Scott
(SC), Romney, Casey, Sanders, Murphy, Kaine, Has-
san, and Smith.
Subcommittee on Employment and Workplace Safety: Sen-
ators Isakson (Chair), Scott (SC), Paul, Romney,
Braun, Burr, Cassidy, Baldwin, Casey, Warren,
Smith, Jones, and Rosen.
Subcommittee on Primary Health and Retirement Security:
Senators Enzi (Chair), Burr, Collins, Cassidy, Rob-
erts, Romney, Braun, Murkowski, Scott (SC), Sand-
ers, Baldwin, Murphy, Warren, Kaine, Hassan,
Jones, and Rosen.
Senators Alexander and Murray are ex officio members
of each subcommittee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D51
January 16, 2019
NOMINATION
Committee on the Judiciary: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine the nomination of William
Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney General,
Department of Justice, after receiving testimony
from former Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey,
Debevoise and Plimpton LLP, and Marc H. Morial,
National Urban League, both of New York, New
York; Derrick Johnson, National Association for the
Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), Balti-
more, Maryland; former Deputy Attorney General
Larry Thompson, Finch McCrannie LLP, and Neil J.
Kinkopf, Georgia State University College of Law,
both of Atlanta, Georgia; Mary Kate Cary, Univer-
sity of Virginia Miller Center, Jonathan Turley,
George Washington University Law School, and
Chuck Canterbury, Fraternal Order of Police, all of
Washington, D.C; and Reverend Sharon Risher,
Charlotte, North Carolina.
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
FIGHTING ELDER FRAUD
Special Committee on Aging: Committee concluded a
hearing to examine fighting elder fraud, focusing on
progress made and work to be done, after receiving
testimony from Derek Schmidt, Kansas Attorney
General, Topeka; Candice Simeoni, Kennebunk Po-
lice Department, Kennebunk, Maine, on behalf of
the York County Elder Abuse Task Force; Erika Fla-
vin, Willow Grove, Pennsylvania; and Judith
Kozlowski, Washington, D.C.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 49 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 582–630; 3 private bills, H.R.
631–633; and 14 resolutions, H. Con. Res. 4; and
H. Res. 46–51, 53–56, were introduced.
Pages H673–76
Additional Cosponsors: Page H678
Report Filed: A report was filed today as follows:
H. Res. 52, providing for consideration of the
joint resolution (H.J. Res. 28) making further con-
tinuing appropriations for fiscal year 2019, and for
other purposes, and providing for consideration of
motions to suspend the rules (H. Rept. 116–3).
Page H673
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Sires to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H605
Recess: The House recessed at 11:21 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H614
Committee Elections: The House agreed to H. Res.
46, electing Members to a certain standing com-
mittee of the House of Representatives. Page H617
Suspension—Proceedings Resumed: The House
agreed to suspend the rules and pass the following
measure. Consideration began Monday, January
14th.
Expanding Contracting Opportunities for Small
Businesses Act of 2019: H.R. 190, to amend the
Small Business Act to eliminate the inclusion of op-
tion years in the award price for sole source con-
tracts, by a 2⁄3 yea-and-nay vote of 415 yeas to 6
nays, Roll No. 36. Page H626
Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2019: The
House passed H.R. 268, making supplemental ap-
propriations for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2019, by a yea-and-nay vote of 237 yeas to 187
nays, Roll No. 39. Pages H626–62
Rejected the Dunn motion to recommit the bill
to the Committee on Appropriations with instruc-
tions to report the same back to the House forthwith
with an amendment, by a recorded vote of 193 ayes
to 231 noes, Roll No. 38. Pages H660–61
Pursuant to the Rule, an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules
Committee Print 116–2, modified by the amend-
ment printed in part A of H. Rept. 116–2, shall be
considered as adopted in the House and in the Com-
mittee of the Whole. Page H639
Agreed to:
Bishop (GA) amendment (No. 1 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–2) that increases emergency as-
sistance funding to agricultural producers who suf-
fered losses from hurricanes, wildfires and other agri-
cultural related losses in 2018; Pages H646–47
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D52 January 16, 2019
Velázquez amendment (No. 4 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–2) that provides $5 million to con-
duct an independent study, including a survey of
participants, on the impact of the additional benefits
provided through disaster nutrition assistance on the
food insecurity, health status, and well-being of pro-
gram participants; Page H650
Velázquez amendment (No. 5 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–2) that provides $25 million for Caño
Martı́n Peña channel ecosystem restoration;
Pages H650–51
Thompson (CA) amendment (No. 7 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–2) that clarifies that
winegrape growers whose crops were tainted by
smoke from a 2018 wildfire are eligible for assist-
ance under this Act, even if the damage is discovered
after the grapes have been removed from the vine;
Pages H651–52
Thompson (CA) amendment (No. 8 printed in
part B of H. Rept. 116–2) that increases funding by
$50 million for the Community Development Fund
to help address unmet infrastructure needs for grant-
ees that received allocations for disasters that oc-
curred in 2017; Page H652
Graves (LA) amendment (No. 9 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–2) that extends eligibility to Army
Corps of Engineers and FEMA projects, but ensures
they do not receive funding in excess of the amount
at which they are authorized; Pages H652–53
Richmond amendment (No. 10 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–2) that amends section to clarify
that the process for addressing duplication of bene-
fits should be handled in accordance with current
law; Pages H653–54
Westerman amendment (No. 11 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–2) that increases the funding for
USFS State and Private Forestry account, with the
goals of helping state and private forest managers re-
cover from the catastrophic fires of 2018 and helping
these land managers prepare for the next fire season;
Pages H454–55
Jayapal amendment (No. 12 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–2) that restricts DHS funding from
being used for the construction or expansion of im-
migration detention facilities; Pages H655–56
Sablan amendment (No. 13 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–2) that increases the funding for the
Northern Marianas Medicaid program by $16 mil-
lion to help the islands in recovery from Typhoon
Mangkhut and Super Typhoon Yutu; Pages H656–58
Sablan amendment (No. 14 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–2) that increases funding for the Mari-
anas food stamps block grant by $15,000,000 to
cover the cost of households, not previously eligible
for aid, who remain in need of assistance because of
continuing income loss after Typhoon Mangkhut and
Super Typhoon Yutu; out of total population of
53,883, the Food and Nutrition Service reports
40,377 people qualified for disaster nutrition bene-
fits; Page H658
González-Colón (PR) amendment (No. 15 printed
in part B of H. Rept. 116–2) that increases the
amount of nutritional assistance appropriated in Sec.
101 by $5,000,000; Pages H658–59
Stewart amendment (No. 6 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–2) that provides increased funding for
hazardous fuels management activities to increase the
resiliency of federal forests, to protect against cata-
strophic wildfires and reduce the amount of damage
caused by such fires (agreed by unanimous consent
to withdraw the earlier request for a recorded vote
to the end that the Chair put the question de novo);
and Pages H651, H659
McGovern amendment (No. 2 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–2) that states that none of the
funds in this bill for the Army Corps of Engineers
or Department of Homeland Security may be used
to plan, develop, or construct the border wall (by a
recorded vote of 230 ayes to 197 noes, Roll No. 37).
Pages H647–49, H659
Rejecccted:
Rice (SC) amendment (No. 3 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–2) that sought to remove the prohibi-
tion on the Secretary of the Department of Housing
and Urban Development’s ability to waive require-
ments related to the environment. Pages H649–50
H. Res. 43, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 268) was agreed to by a yea-and-
nay vote of 230 yeas to 193 nays, Roll No. 35, after
the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-nay
vote of 230 yeas to 194 nays, Roll No. 34.
Pages H618–26
Question of Privilege: Representative Rush rose to
a question of the privileges of the House and sub-
mitted a resolution (H. Res. 53). Subsequently, Rep-
resentative Hoyer moved to refer the resolution to
the Committee on Ethics and was recognized for one
hour on the motion. The motion to refer was agreed
to by voice vote, after the previous question was or-
dered without objection. Pages H662–63
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, January 17th. Page H663
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence—
Appointment: The Chair announced the Speaker’s
appointment of the following Members of the House
to the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence:
Representatives Himes, Sewell (AL), Carson (IN),
Speier, Quigley, Swalwell (CA), Castro (TX), Heck,
Sean Patrick Maloney (NY), Demings, and
Krishnamoorthi. Page H665
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D53
January 16, 2019
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress that the na-
tional emergency declared with respect to foreign
terrorists who threaten to disrupt the Middle East
peace process is to continue in effect beyond January
23, 2019—referred to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc. 116–7).
Page H662
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
today appears on page H671.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Four yea-and-nay votes and
two recorded votes developed during the proceedings
of today and appear on pages H624–25, H625–26,
H626, H659, H660–61, and H661. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 7:42 p.m.
Committee Meetings
FURTHER ADDITIONAL CONTINUING
APPROPRIATIONS ACT, 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.J. Res. 28, the ‘‘Further Additional Continuing
Appropriations Act, 2019’’. The Committee granted,
by record vote of 8–4, a closed rule providing for
consideration of H.J. Res. 28. The rule provides one
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the
chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Appropriations or their designees. The
rule waives all points of order against consideration
of the joint resolution. The rule provides that the
joint resolution shall be considered as read. The rule
waives all points of order against provisions in the
joint resolution. The rule provides one motion to re-
commit. The rule provides that it shall be in order
at any time through the legislative day of January
25, 2019, for the Speaker to entertain motions that
the House suspend the rules as though under clause
1 of rule XV, and that the Speaker or her designee
shall consult with the Minority Leader or his des-
ignee on the designation of any matter for consider-
ation pursuant to this section. Testimony was heard
from Chairman Lowey and Representative Granger.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
JANUARY 17, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
No meetings/hearings scheduled.
House.
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D54 January 16, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
4 p.m., Thursday, January 17
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the motion to proceed to consideration of S. 109,
No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion and Abortion Insur-
ance Full Disclosure Act, and vote on the motion to in-
voke cloture on the motion to proceed to consideration
of the bill at approximately 4:30 p.m.
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Thursday, January 17
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: Consideration of H.J. Res. 28—
Further Additional Continuing Appropriations Act, 2019
(Subject to a Rule).
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Barr, Andy, Ky., E53
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga, E52
Cartwright, Matt, Pa., E51
Castor, Kathy, Fla., E53
Cheney, Liz, Wyo., E53
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E54
Costa, Jim, Calif., E52, E53, E54, E56
Foxx, Virginia, N.C., E56
Gohmert, Louie, Tex., E51
Huizenga, Bill, Mich., E52
LaHood, Darin, Ill., E53
McGovern, James P., Mass., E55
Rush, Bobby L., Ill., E56
Stivers, Steve, Ohio, E55
Swalwell, Eric, Calif., E55
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E55
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:55 Jan 17, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D16JA9.REC D16JAPT1
