Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8115
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2019 No. 162
House of Representatives
The House met at 2 p.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. SCHNEIDER).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
October 15, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable BRADLEY
SCOTT SCHNEIDER to act as Speaker pro tem-
pore on this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Almighty God, we give You thanks
for giving us another day.
As Members return to the Capitol
after 2 weeks of gatherings and work in
their home districts, may they be re-
newed in energy to address the issues
of these historic days.
May a sincere love for and dedication
to our form of government prevail over
partisan interests, that our experiment
in republican democracy might perdure
into a hopeful future.
May we all be forever grateful that
our Nation was founded by gifted poli-
ticians, Founders who gave the world
the great gift of representative govern-
ment, having rights guaranteed by a
Constitution truly inspired.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentleman from Washington (Mr.
NEWHOUSE) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mr. NEWHOUSE led the Pledge of Al-
legiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
HONORING THE CENTRAL WASH-
INGTON HISPANIC CHAMBER OF
COMMERCE
(Mr. NEWHOUSE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today, as National Hispanic Heritage
Month comes to a close, to celebrate
the Central Washington Hispanic
Chamber of Commerce, which is cele-
brating 10 years of service to central
Washington communities.
The Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
was formed to support Yakima Valley’s
growing Latino business community.
They work to develop a professional
network that fosters a thriving busi-
ness environment, encourages job de-
velopment, and promotes business
growth. Their diverse membership is a
testament to the range of positive con-
tributions Hispanic Americans and
Latinos have on our central Wash-
ington communities.
Last month, the chamber hosted
‘‘Taco Fest,’’ a celebration to mark the
beginning of Hispanic Heritage Month
with our friends and neighbors
throughout the Yakima Valley. They
also, annually, hold the Estrella
Awards, which honor exemplary local
Hispanic leaders and professionals.
I am proud to represent the Central
Washington Hispanic Chamber of Com-
merce and its members, whose work
strengthens and improves our local
communities in the Yakima Valley. I
urge all of my colleagues to help me
celebrate their 10-year anniversary,
and I thank all who join me in cele-
brating the contributions of Hispanic
Americans and Latinos during Na-
tional Hispanic Heritage Month.
f
OSCE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY
IN MARRAKECH
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Mr.
Speaker, 2 weeks ago, I participated as
the ranking member with Co-Chairman
Congressman ALCEE HASTINGS and Co-
Chairman Senator ROGER WICKER of
the Joint Commission on Security and
Cooperation in Europe—the Helsinki
Commission—to attend the OSCE Par-
liamentary Assembly in Marrakech,
Morocco, with fellow Congressmen
EMANUEL CLEAVER and ANDY HARRIS.
We were warmly received into North
Africa by President Mohamed
Ennaceur of Tunisia in Tunis. We saw
firsthand the vibrant democracy con-
ducting parliamentary and presidential
elections. We placed a wreath at the
North Africa American Cemetery and
Memorial, where over 6,500 Americans
are memorialized for liberating North
Africa from Nazi occupation.
In Jerusalem, we met with our dedi-
cated U.S. Ambassador to Israel, David
Friedman, who presented an update on
the U.S.-Israeli Alliance. Prime Min-
ister Benjamin Netanyahu enthusiasti-
cally reviewed the ever-changing polit-
ical situation. We were inspired with
an audience with the Patriarch of Jeru-
salem, Theophilos III.
Chief of Staff Alex Johnson provided
well-researched briefing materials for
the assembly in Marrakech.
With parliamentarians from 57 na-
tions, it was refreshing that opportuni-
ties were available for full participa-
tion, led by Assembly President
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.000 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8116 October 15, 2019
Tsereteli of Georgia with Secretary
General Roberto Montella of Italy.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th and the global war on terrorism.
f
SKILLSUSA RALLY
(Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in recogni-
tion of the organization SkillsUSA.
Last month, I had the pleasure of
joining more than 550 students and ad-
visers from 29 different States at
SkillsUSA’s annual Washington Lead-
ership Training Institute program,
which culminated in a rally at the Cap-
itol.
SkillsUSA is a partnership of stu-
dents, teachers, and industry leaders
working together to ensure America
has a skilled workforce that is capable
of closing our Nation’s skills gap
through career and technical edu-
cation, otherwise known as CTE.
There are more than 7 million job
openings in the United States today.
Many of these jobs don’t require a 4-
year college degree, but they do require
skills-based training in any number of
fields, including STEM, nursing, infor-
mation technology, cybersecurity, and
so much more.
CTE is an investment in learners at
every stage of life that empowers stu-
dents to take control of their futures
with valuable training that can lead to
well-paying and rewarding jobs.
SkillsUSA is a leader in this move-
ment.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 3:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 2 o’clock and 7 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1531
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Mr. CUELLAR) at 3 o’clock and
31 minutes p.m.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the Chair
will postpone further proceedings
today on motions to suspend the rules
on which a recorded vote or the yeas
and nays are ordered, or votes objected
to under clause 6 of rule XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
RECOGNIZING HONG KONG’S BI-
LATERAL RELATIONSHIP WITH
THE UNITED STATES
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and agree to the
resolution (H. Res. 543) recognizing
Hong Kong’s bilateral relationship
with the United States, condemning
the interference of the People’s Repub-
lic of China in Hong Kong’s affairs, and
supporting the people of Hong Kong’s
right to protest, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 543
Whereas the United States-Hong Kong Pol-
icy Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–383) states—
(1) ‘‘[s]upport for democratization is a fun-
damental principle of United States foreign
policy’’;
(2) ‘‘the human rights of the people of Hong
Kong are of great importance to the United
States and are directly relevant to United
States interests in Hong Kong [and] serve as
a basis for Hong Kong’s continued economic
prosperity’’; and
(3) ‘‘Hong Kong must remain sufficiently
autonomous from the People’s Republic of
China to justify a different treatment than
accorded to the People’s Republic of China
under United States law’’;
Whereas the United States maintains sub-
stantial economic and political interests in
Hong Kong, with more than 1,200 United
States firms operating in the Special Admin-
istrative Region, due largely to Hong Kong’s
strong business environment, predicated on
respect for the rule of law and an inde-
pendent judiciary;
Whereas the United States supports Hong
Kong’s ‘‘high degree of autonomy’’ promised
by the Joint Declaration between the Gov-
ernment of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and the Government of the People’s
Republic of China on the Question of the
Hong Kong (‘‘Joint Declaration’’ ) in accord-
ance with the ‘‘One Country, Two Systems’’
framework through bilateral agreements,
the promotion of trade and investment, and
the bolstering of educational, academic, and
cultural links;
Whereas the Department of State reported
in its 2019 Hong Kong Policy Act Report,
dated March 21, 2019, that the People’s Re-
public of China has carried out a number of
actions inconsistent with China’s commit-
ments in the Basic Law of the Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region (‘‘Basic
Law’’) and the Joint Declaration, which have
diminished Hong Kong’s high degree of au-
tonomy;
Whereas China has increasingly con-
strained Hong Kong’s freedoms in violation
of the ‘‘One Country, Two Systems’’ frame-
work by, among other actions, supporting
the restriction of entry into Hong Kong for
individuals critical of the Communist Party
of China, instructing to the Hong Kong Gov-
ernment to refuse a United States extra-
dition request in May 2018, and abusing the
national security rationale to justify inter-
ference with matters related to Hong Kong
politics and governance;
Whereas on April 3, 2019, the Government
of Hong Kong introduced the Fugitive Of-
fenders and Mutual Legal Assistance in
Criminal Matters Legislation (Amendment)
Bill 2019 (commonly known as the ‘‘extra-
dition bill’’) that would amend the Fugitive
Offenders Ordinance by expanding the exist-
ing extradition arrangement to include
mainland China, allowing for the handover of
any persons in the territory of Hong Kong,
residents and non-residents, as well as any
materials in their possession;
Whereas the Department of State issued a
statement on June 9, 2019, warning that the
lack of procedural protections in the bill
could negatively impact Hong Kong’s long-
standing protections of human rights, funda-
mental freedoms, and democratic values;
Whereas on June 9, 2019, as many as
1,000,000 people protested against the bill,
and on June 12, 2019, tens of thousands
staged a protest near the Legislative Council
building to express opposition to the bill;
Whereas on June 12, 2019, the Government
of Hong Kong took advantage of the acts of
a small group of protesters to classify the
largely peaceful protest as an unlawful as-
sembly and a ‘‘riot’’, a charge that can result
in a prison sentence of up to 10 years for
those who were arrested;
Whereas the police’s excessive use of force
on June 12, 2019, as seen in video footage, to
disperse the protestors, including the use of
tear gas, bean bag rounds, rubber bullets, ba-
tons, and pepper spray, caused severe inju-
ries to protesters;
Whereas the excessive use of force fueled
tensions and contributed to the worsening of
violence;
Whereas on June 16, 2019, as many as
2,000,000 people peacefully gathered in the
Admiralty district, which is likely the larg-
est protest in Hong Kong’s history;
Whereas on July 21, 2019, a group alleged to
be linked to organized crime violently at-
tacked protestors, innocent bystanders, and
journalists with sticks and metal bars in
Yuen Long, which resulted in the hos-
pitalization of forty-five people, with one
person in critical condition;
Whereas the Hong Kong Police Force have
been slow to take meaningful action against
those who attacked the protestors on July
21, 2019, suggesting the police may be
complicit in their actions;
Whereas the protestors’ demands in-
cluded—
(1) the complete withdrawal of the extra-
dition bill;
(2) the implementation of universal suf-
frage in the election of the Chief Executive
and all members the Legislative Council;
(3) the establishment of an independent
commission to investigate police conduct
during the protests;
(4) the declassification of the protests as a
riots; and
(5) the dropping of all charges against per-
sons who participated in any protests;
Whereas on July 27, 2019, nine people were
injured when police fired rubber bullets at
demonstrators in Yuen Long who were pro-
testing the July 21 violent attacks against
protestors and the lack of a police response
to them;
Whereas on July 29, 2019, China’s spokes-
man for the State Council’s Hong Kong and
Macao Affairs Office issued a statement re-
ferring to the protesters as ‘‘radical ele-
ments committing evil and criminal acts’’;
Whereas on July 30, 2019, China’s Foreign
Ministry falsely claimed that the pro-democ-
racy protests are the ‘‘work of the United
States’’, alleging that American officials
have interfered in Hong Kong’s internal af-
fairs;
Whereas the Chinese Communist Party has
called the protests ‘‘absolutely intolerable’’,
‘‘terrorism’’, and ‘‘terror atrocities’’, raising
fears that China may use the People’s Lib-
eration Army or the People’s Armed Police
to violently suppress the protestors;
Whereas on August 5, 2019, teachers, avia-
tion workers, finance employees, and civil
servants went on strike across seven dis-
tricts, the largest citywide strike in decades,
which evolved into a wave of demonstrations
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.003 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8117
October 15, 2019
and resulted in the police firing approxi-
mately 800 tear gas rounds to clear the
protestors, almost as many as were used in
the previous 8 weeks combined;
Whereas on August 5, 2019, a mob violently
attacked demonstrators with sticks and
metal bars in North Point after the dem-
onstrators were dispersed by police from the
Admiralty district, and again the police did
not respond to the ambush;
Whereas on August 6, 2019, a Chinese Com-
munist Party official threatened the dem-
onstrators by stating, ‘‘those who play with
fire will perish by it’’, and ‘‘as for their [the
demonstrators’] punishment, it’s only a mat-
ter of time’’;
Whereas on August 7, 2019, Chinese state
media began publishing articles accusing the
Political Counselor to the United States
Consulate General in Hong Kong of being ‘‘a
black hand creating chaos in Hong Kong’’, as
well as publicly identifying family members
of the Consulate General staff;
Whereas on August 11, 2019, Hong Kong po-
lice beat fleeing protesters with batons and
fired pepper ball rounds at them at close
range;
Whereas on August 11, 2019, it was reported
that a young woman, allegedly a medic, who
has since become a symbol for the protest
movement, sustained a serious eye injury
from a bean-bag round after the police fired
a projectile into the crowd;
Whereas on August 18, 2019, as many as
1,700,000 Hong Kong people attended a peace-
ful rally against police brutality;
Whereas on August 31, 2019, Hong Kong Po-
lice Force Special Tactical Squad officers
beat with batons protesters and train pas-
sengers at Prince Edward station; and
Whereas on September 4, 2019, Hong Kong
Chief Executive Carrie Lam announced the
Government would withdraw the extradition
bill from the Legislative Council’s agenda
when it reconvenes in October 2019: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) calls on the Government of Hong Kong
to begin negotiations to address the dem-
onstrators’ remaining demands, which in-
clude—
(A) the formal withdrawal of the bill from
the Hong Kong Legislative Council;
(B) the implementation of universal suf-
frage;
(C) the establishment of an independent in-
vestigation into police conduct during the
protests;
(D) the declassification of the protest as a
riot; and
(E) the dropping of all charges against per-
sons arrested during the protests;
(2) condemns—
(A) the Hong Kong police’s use of force
against the demonstrators in ways that are
inconsistent with international standards for
the use of such equipment and in violation of
citizens’ rights to freedom of expression and
peaceful assembly; and
(B) the Hong Kong Government for toler-
ating the use of violent force against pro-
testers by police;
(3) calls on the Administration to review
the appropriateness of sales by United States
firms of munitions and crowd-control equip-
ment to Hong Kong, to ensure that they are
not used to repress peaceful protests;
(4) condemns efforts by the Hong Kong and
Chinese Governments to characterize the
protests as ‘‘riots’’ and to falsely accuse the
United States of orchestrating political in-
stability that they alone created;
(5) shares the concerns of the people of
Hong Kong that the Hong Kong Govern-
ment’s proposed amendments to the Fugitive
Offenders Ordinance, if adopted, would nega-
tively impact the territory’s long-standing
protections of human rights, fundamental
freedoms, and democratic values as en-
shrined in the Basic Law and the Sino-Brit-
ish Joint Declaration;
(6) recognizes that the ‘‘One Country, Two
Systems’’ framework and the Basic Law re-
quire that Hong Kong is afforded a high de-
gree of autonomy with respect to economic
and trade matters and the rule of law;
(7) condemns Chinese state media for tar-
geting staff and family members of the
United States Consulate General in Hong
Kong;
(8) calls on the Government of Hong Kong
and all governments—
(A) to protect the rights of freedom of ex-
pression and peaceful assembly;
(B) to condemn all acts of violence against
those seeking to further their democratic
rights; and
(C) to refrain from the use of violence; and
(9) calls on the Government of Hong Kong
and the Government of China to abide by the
provisions of the Joint Declaration and the
Basic Law.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. SHERMAN) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on H. Res. 543.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
The world is watching Hong Kong,
and Hong Kong is watching the floor of
the House of Representatives. People
by the tens of thousands in Hong Kong
have demonstrated in favor of bills we
are considering here today. In doing so,
they have taken great risk to them-
selves and showed tremendous courage.
The least we could do is pass these
bills.
I rise today to speak in favor of these
bills on Hong Kong. I am proud to co-
sponsor all of the legislation under
consideration dealing with Hong Kong.
I want to first focus on a resolution I
introduced with our colleagues, Mrs.
WAGNER; Mr. CONNOLLY; and Mr. YOHO,
the ranking member of the Sub-
committee on Asia, the Pacific, and
Nonproliferation, my partner on the
Asia, the Pacific, and Nonproliferation
Subcommittee.
This resolution demonstrates that
the so-called extradition bill is an in-
fringement on the rights of the people
of Hong Kong, including their right to
a high degree of autonomy, autonomy
that was granted to Hong Kong when
that city was returned to the control of
Beijing.
This resolution also establishes that
the House of Representatives stands
with Hong Kong protestors and sup-
ports their five major demands. These
demands are:
Complete withdrawal of the extra-
dition bill;
Universal suffrage in the election of
the chief executive and all members of
the Legislative Council;
The establishment of an independent
commission to investigate the police’s
excessive use of force against the
protestors;
The changing of the classification so
these protests are not classified as
riots and the participants are not clas-
sified as rioters; and, finally,
Having all charges against the people
who participate in these protests
dropped.
Many of us in Congress and around
the United States have been inspired
by the people of Hong Kong standing
up for their fundamental rights over
the last few months. One of the pro-
tests brought nearly 25 percent of the
entire population of Hong Kong into
the streets. That is simply unprece-
dented.
It would behoove Beijing to heed the
protestors’ demands. Sadly, instead of
recognizing their own role in causing
these protests, the Chinese Communist
Party has tried to characterize the
demonstrations as the handiwork of
the United States. We categorically re-
ject this assertion.
These protests were motivated, first
and foremost, in reaction to the effort
by the People’s Republic of China and
the Chinese Communist Party to inter-
fere in the autonomy that was prom-
ised to the people of Hong Kong. These
protests were motivated by the policies
of Beijing and the Hong Kong govern-
ment that have increasingly reduced
the city’s high degree of autonomy.
The state-run media has even gone so
far as to accuse a particular State De-
partment official by name of orches-
trating the protests. That is an insult
to the people of Hong Kong, who speak
for themselves and act for themselves.
Moreover, it has put that diplomat and
her family in danger. This is simply
unacceptable behavior, and the Stand
with Hong Kong Resolution criticizes
this egregious action by the Chinese
Government.
Finally, let me reiterate my support
for the other complementary bills that
we are considering today on Hong
Kong.
The first is the Hong Kong Human
Rights and Democracy Act of 2019,
which was introduced by our colleague
Mr. SMITH, who will be managing time
on the other side. This legislation will
amend the Hong Kong Policy Act of
1992 to account for the changes that
have taken place over the last 25 years.
The Hong Kong Human Rights and
Democracy Act also conveys to Beijing
that it cannot undermine the city’s
freedom while expecting America to
still give that city preferential trade
arrangements.
I am also a strong supporter of Con-
gressman JIM MCGOVERN’s PROTECT
Hong Kong Act, which would restrict
U.S. firms’ ability to sell the Hong
Kong police weapons to use against
protestors.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:06 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.001 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8118 October 15, 2019
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield as much time as he
may consume to the gentleman from
Florida (Mr. YOHO).
Mr. YOHO. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
colleagues, Mr. SMITH and Mr. SHER-
MAN, whom I have the pleasure of serv-
ing with on the Foreign Affairs Sub-
committee on Asia, the Pacific, and
Nonproliferation, for raising this im-
portant topic.
I rise today to bring attention to
three very important and timely meas-
ures that the House will consider this
afternoon. These bipartisan measures
passed out of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee unanimously, and they in-
clude H. Res. 543, by Representative
SHERMAN; H.R. 3289, by Representative
SMITH; and H.R. 4270, by Representative
MCGOVERN. I am proud to say that I am
a cosponsor of all three.
Over the past 5 months, mass civilian
protests in Hong Kong have begun to
shed light on the deterioration of the
Chinese Communist Party’s influence
outside of mainland China. Rising re-
sentment in Hong Kong is not simply a
result of the ill-fated extradition law
championed by Chief Executive Carrie
Lam, but the continued encroachment
on freedom and liberties by President
Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist
Party.
Despite the 1997 Sino-British agree-
ment, leaders in Beijing continued
their high-intensity political pressure
campaign to subdue dissent within
Hong Kong, which has emboldened the
people of Hong Kong to stand up
against Beijing, but more for freedom.
This is illustrated by the people of
Hong Kong raising and waving the
American flag while burning the Chi-
nese flag.
The protestors now maintain five de-
mands that Mr. SHERMAN already
talked about: withdrawal of the extra-
dition bill; drop charges against the
protestors; launch an investigation
into the police forces; and universal
suffrage, which would allow voters to
directly pick their leaders instead of
hand-picked leaders of their chief exec-
utive by Beijing.
As the ranking member of the Sub-
committee on Asia, the Pacific, and
Nonproliferation, I have been ex-
tremely outspoken against the contin-
ued deterioration of rights and free-
doms in Hong Kong. The passage of
these important pieces of legislation
will send a strong message to President
Xi Jinping and the Chinese Communist
Party that these abuses will not be tol-
erated by the international commu-
nity.
Keep in mind that China and Great
Britain signed this international agree-
ment in 1997, where it stated that Hong
Kong would be an autonomous region,
self-ruled, and have an independent ju-
diciary system. Only 22 years into it,
Xi Jinping has said, as far as he is con-
cerned, that agreement is null and
void, and so you see the people of Hong
Kong standing up in protest. Because
they have experienced freedom and lib-
erty, they are willing to risk their life.
I just had a group of Hong Kong stu-
dents come in. These are the people
who are right in the forefront of the
protests in Hong Kong, and they came
to our office begging for help from the
American people, from the American
Government.
Now, granted, Hong Kong, we all
know, is a province of China. But we
also know there was an agreement, for
50 years, it was to be autonomously
ruled with an independent judiciary
committee that Xi Jinping and the
Communist Party of China have can-
celed, and I think this is a message for
all people of the intent of what China
is doing.
We, as Members of Congress, have so
much more that we represent. It is not
a political body where we fight back
and forth and discuss different things.
What we represent here in America is
what people around the world are will-
ing to risk their life for and to stand
up, in front of the face of adversity, to
one of the emerging superpowers of the
world and say: We do not accept your
communist authority rule. We want
you to honor liberty and freedom.
See, the people of Hong Kong, they
have experienced freedom and liberties.
Xi Jinping and the Communist Party
can’t understand that because they
have never experienced freedom or lib-
erty. As supposedly the greatest delib-
erative body on the planet, this tran-
scends way beyond what we do here.
This is standing up for ideals that
people around the world are willing to
die for, and it is this body that can
send a strong message to the Chinese
Communist Party, to Xi Jinping that
says we will not let liberties and free-
dom be taken away from people who
have claimed that, who have known
that all their life, and that that should
be honored by those who are trying to
take it apart.
Before they want to take it apart, I
suggest Xi Jinping and the Communist
Party try freedom and liberty: Try de-
mocracy for a while; you might like it.
I think these are three very impor-
tant bills that should pass through this
House unanimously and should pass
through the Senate to show that we
stand in solidarity with the folks, our
friends in Hong Kong; and, if not, if we
don’t send a strong message, it will em-
bolden China.
I hope manufacturers and all busi-
nesses around the world that do busi-
ness in Hong Kong are paying atten-
tion to this, because they are the ones
that are creating a business environ-
ment that feeds China so that they can
continue these terrible acts of suppres-
sion of liberties and freedoms. I hope
the business community will say: You
know what, we stand with the Amer-
ican people.
It pains me when I see people like the
NBA or other organizations, corpora-
tions that will bow down to China, and
they do it for profit. It is time that we
stand up not just as Americans, but
people who are the bearers of liberty
and freedom around the world that the
rest of the world looks to.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield such time as he may
consume to the gentleman from Arkan-
sas (Mr. HILL).
Mr. HILL of Arkansas. Mr. Speaker, I
thank my friend from New Jersey very
much for allowing me to speak on the
subject of Hong Kong today.
I rise in support of all these bills be-
fore us today, particularly the bill
from my friend from New Jersey, the
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democ-
racy Act, and I stand in solidarity with
all freedom-loving people in Hong
Kong.
For more than 4 months, we have
witnessed Hong Kong citizens peace-
fully protest for the right to live in a
free and fair political system.
Over my years, I have traveled to
Hong Kong and witnessed their innova-
tive spirit and work ethic. In fact,
Hong Kong was the model for the post-
World War II growth of the Asian Ti-
gers in their prosperity and innovation.
b 1545
In the 1980s, when a proponent of wel-
fare statism queried pro-growth econo-
mist Melvyn B. Krauss:
‘‘But how many Hong Kongs can the
world have?’’
Dr. Krauss replied, ‘‘As many as the
world will allow itself.’’
Freedom lovers should rally to that
wisdom.
This summer, I had the opportunity
to hear directly from leaders in Hong
Kong dedicated to religious tolerance
and democracy as promised in the one
country, two systems agreement.
The people of Hong Kong continue to
wave American flags during their pro-
tests as a symbol for the freedoms that
they desire.
Rather than receiving support from
all over our great land here in this
country, they have had to witness the
blatant hypocrisy that we have seen
from U.S. companies, including the Na-
tional Basketball Association, more
worried about the bottom line and ret-
ribution from the PRC, rather than
standing up for the basic human rights
that we are so blessed with in this
country and that we advocate for as a
part of our foreign policy all over this
globe.
The free world is looking to us for
leadership, and that is why I thank the
gentleman from New Jersey (Mr.
SMITH), Mr. MCGOVERN, and Mr. SHER-
MAN for supporting these legislative ef-
forts on a bipartisan basis, but more
importantly, supporting the people in
Hong Kong that they have the right to
freedom of expression and democratic
governance guaranteed under that 50-
year arrangement agreed to in 1997 by
both—by both, Mr. Speaker—the
United Kingdom and the People’s Re-
public of China.
Mr. Speaker, I urge all my colleagues
to support these measures today, and I
thank their sponsors.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further requests for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.006 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8119
October 15, 2019
time, and I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume, and I will close.
Mr. Speaker, several years ago, I
joined the then chairman of the For-
eign Affairs Committee, Mr. Royce, in
visiting Hong Kong. We had a chance
to spend a lot of time with both young
and more experienced leaders fighting
for democracy and autonomy for Hong
Kong. And this has, in fact, been the
policy of the United States since the
1992 Hong Kong Policy Act, which es-
tablishes our support for democratiza-
tion as a fundamental principle of U.S.
foreign policy.
In recent days, we have seen dem-
onstrators in Hong Kong asking the
U.S. Congress to pass the three pieces
of legislation that are before us. The
protestors want to know if our support
for democracy is merely rhetorical or
if we are willing to take action to de-
fend our principles.
By passing these three bills today, we
will affirm that the U.S. Congress sup-
ports democracy, human rights, and
appropriate autonomy for Hong Kong.
Mr. Speaker, as to all three bills, I
want to thank Speaker PELOSI and
Chairman ENGEL and many other col-
leagues for their leadership on this
issue.
Mr. Speaker, turning to the specifics
of H. Res. 543, the specific matter be-
fore us at this moment, I want to
thank my Foreign Affairs Committee
colleagues for helping to introduce this
measure, including Mrs. WAGNER, Mr.
CONNOLLY, and Mr. YOHO, who spoke
just a few minutes ago.
H. Res. 543 recognizes our country’s
strong relationship with the people of
Hong Kong. It is an important measure
of solidarity at a time when protesters
are facing police brutality and China is
trying to take away the autonomy that
it promised.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this measure, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H. Res. 543, a resolution
‘‘Recognizing Hong Kong’s bilateral relation-
ship with the United States, condemning the
interference of the People’s Republic of China
in Hong Kong’s affairs, and supporting the
people of Hong Kong’s right to protest.’’
As a senior member of the House Com-
mittee on the Judiciary, I support H. Res. 543
because it calls on the Hong Kong govern-
ment to address the protesters’ five demands,
condemns police brutality against peaceful
protesters, and condemns efforts to falsely ac-
cuse U.S. diplomats of fueling unrest.
On June 30, 1997, China resumed the exer-
cise of sovereignty over Hong Kong, ending
more than 150 years of British colonial rule.
Hong Kong is a customs territory and eco-
nomic entity separate from the rest of China
and is able to enter into international agree-
ments on its own behalf in commercial, eco-
nomic, and certain legal matters.
U.S. policy toward Hong Kong is stated in
the U.S.-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 and
grounded in the determination to promote
Hong Kong’s prosperity, autonomy, and way
of life.
The United States maintains substantial
economic and political interests in Hong Kong.
The U.S. supports Hong Kong’s autonomy
under the ‘‘One Country, Two Systems’’
framework by concluding and implementing bi-
lateral agreements; promoting trade and in-
vestment; broadening law enforcement co-
operation; bolstering educational, academic,
and cultural links; supporting high-level visits
of U.S. officials; and serving the large commu-
nity of U.S. citizens and visitors.
After 22 years, protests erupted over Carrie
Lam’s proposal to amend extradition laws to
allow suspects to be transferred to mainland
China for trial.
A few days after proposing the amendment
to the extradition laws, Carrie Lam suspended
the proposal, but the protests in Hong Kong
continue as the people of Hong Kong demand
the high degree of autonomy promised by the
Sino-British Joint Declaration of 1984.
It is critical for the United States Congress
to stand with the women and men advocating
and speaking up for the autonomy and dignity
of people of Hong Kong.
I applaud the efforts and sacrifices pro-de-
mocracy activists have made and they should
know that the United States fully supports their
desire for freedom and peace, and strongly
condemns the violent and oppressive tactics
of the Hong Kong police.
As a senior member of the House Com-
mittee on Homeland Security, I support the bi-
lateral relationship between Hong Kong and
the United States and the promotion of inter-
national peace.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H. Res. 543 to condemn the
brutality faced by the people of Hong Kong
and which poses a strong threat to the demo-
cratic values we work to protect.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
SHERMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 543, as amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion, as amended, was agreed to.
The title of the resolution was
amended so as to read: ‘‘A resolution
recognizing Hong Kong’s bilateral rela-
tionship with the United States, con-
demning the People’s Republic of
China for violating their obligations to
the people of Hong Kong, and sup-
porting the people of Hong Kong’s right
to freedom of assembly and peaceful
protest.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HONG KONG HUMAN RIGHTS AND
DEMOCRACY ACT OF 2019
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 3289) to amend the Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992 and for other pur-
poses, as amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 3289
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Hong Kong Human Rights and Democ-
racy Act of 2019’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents for this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Statement of policy.
Sec. 4. Amendments to the United States-
Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992.
Sec. 5. Report on enforcement of United
States export control and sanc-
tions laws by Hong Kong.
Sec. 6. Protecting United States interests
with respect to Hong Kong.
Sec. 7. Sanctions relating to undermining
fundamental freedoms and au-
tonomy in Hong Kong.
Sec. 8. Sanctions reports.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives;
(B) the Committee on Financial Services of
the House of Representatives;
(C) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
House of Representatives.
(D) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate;
(E) the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
(F) the Committee on the Judiciary of the
Senate.
(2) CHINA.—The term ‘‘China’’ means the
People’s Republic of China.
(3) SOCIAL CREDIT SYSTEM.—The term ‘‘so-
cial credit system’’ means a system proposed
by the Government of China and scheduled
for implementation by 2020 that would use
existing financial credit systems, public
records, online activity, and other tools of
surveillance to aggregate data on every Chi-
nese citizen and business and use that data
to monitor, shape, and rate certain financial,
social, religious, or political behaviors.
SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States—
(1) to reaffirm the principles and objectives
set forth in the United States-Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–383),
namely that—
(A) the United States has ‘‘a strong inter-
est in the continued vitality, prosperity, and
stability of Hong Kong’’;
(B) ‘‘[s]upport for democratization is a fun-
damental principle of United States foreign
policy’’ and therefore ‘‘naturally applies to
United States policy toward Hong Kong’’;
(C) ‘‘the human rights of the people of
Hong Kong are of great importance to the
United States and are directly relevant to
United States interests in Hong Kong [and]
serve as a basis for Hong Kong’s continued
economic prosperity’’; and
(D) Hong Kong must remain sufficiently
autonomous from the People’s Republic of
China to ‘‘justify treatment under a par-
ticular law of the United States, or any pro-
vision thereof, different from that accorded
the People’s Republic of China’’;
(2) to support the high degree of autonomy
and fundamental rights and freedoms of the
people of Hong Kong, as enumerated by—
(A) the Joint Declaration of the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the Government of
the People’s Republic of China on the Ques-
tion of Hong Kong, done at Beijing December
19, 1984 (referred to in this Act as the ‘‘Joint
Declaration’’);
(B) the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights, done at New York De-
cember 19, 1966; and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.007 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8120 October 15, 2019
(C) the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, done at Paris December 10, 1948.
(3) to support the democratic aspirations of
the people of Hong Kong, including the ‘‘ulti-
mate aim’’ of the selection of the Chief Exec-
utive and all members of the Legislative
Council by universal suffrage, as articulated
in the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region of the People’s Re-
public of China (referred to in this Act as the
‘‘Basic Law’’);
(4) to urge the Government of the People’s
Republic of China and the Government of the
Hong Kong Special Autonomous Region to
uphold their commitment to the people of
Hong Kong, including providing a high de-
gree of autonomy for Hong Kong as articu-
lated in the Joint Declaration and the Basic
Law;
(5) to support the robust exercise by resi-
dents of Hong Kong of the rights to free
speech, the press, and other fundamental
freedoms as provided by the Basic Law and
the Joint Declaration;
(6) to support freedom from arbitrary or
unlawful arrest, detention, or imprisonment
for all Hong Kong residents, as provided to
them by the Basic Law and the Joint Dec-
laration;
(7) to draw international attention to any
violations by the Government of the People’s
Republic of China of the fundamental rights
of the people of Hong Kong and any en-
croachment upon the autonomy guaranteed
to Hong Kong by the Basic Law and the
Joint Declaration;
(8) to protect United States citizens and
legal permanent residents living in Hong
Kong as well as people visiting and
transiting through Hong Kong; and
(9) to maintain the economic and cultural
ties that provide significant benefits to both
the United States and Hong Kong.
SEC. 4. AMENDMENTS TO THE UNITED STATES-
HONG KONG POLICY ACT OF 1992.
(a) CERTIFICATIONS.—Title II of the United
States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22
U.S.C. 5721 et seq.) is amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 205. SECRETARY OF STATE CERTIFICATION
REGARDING THE AUTONOMY OF
HONG KONG.
‘‘(a) CERTIFICATION.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of State
shall annually submit to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representa-
tives and the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions of the Senate a certification, in con-
junction with, and taking into consideration
the contents of, the report required in sec-
tion 301, regarding whether Hong Kong con-
tinues to warrant treatment under par-
ticular treaties, international agreements,
and United States laws, or any provisions
thereof, specified in paragraph (2) in the
same manner as such treaties, international
agreements, and laws were applied to Hong
Kong as of the date of enactment of this sec-
tion.
‘‘(2) PROVISIONS SPECIFIED.—The treaties,
international agreements, and United States
laws specified in this paragraph are the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(A) Commercial agreements.
‘‘(B) Law enforcement cooperation, includ-
ing extradition matters.
‘‘(C) Nonproliferation commitments.
‘‘(D) Sanctions enforcement.
‘‘(E) Export control agreements, including
enforcement of export controls with respect
to dual use technologies.
‘‘(F) Formal treaties and agreements be-
tween the United States and Hong Kong, in-
cluding agreements related to taxation and
currency exchange.
‘‘(G) Other particular laws of the United
States, or any provisions thereof, that ac-
cord to Hong Kong treatment different to
that accorded to the People’s Republic of
China.
‘‘(H) Other bilateral or multilateral agree-
ments determined relevant by the Secretary.
‘‘(3) CONTENTS.—Each assessment under
paragraph (1) shall include an evaluation of
the Government of Hong Kong’s autonomous
decision-making within the executive, legis-
lative, and judicial branches, with respect
to—
‘‘(A) upholding the rule of law; and
‘‘(B) protecting the rights enumerated in—
‘‘(i) the Joint Declaration of the Govern-
ment of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and the Government of
the People’s Republic of China on the Ques-
tion of Hong Kong, done at Beijing December
19, 1984 (the ‘Joint Declaration’);
‘‘(ii) the Basic Law of the Hong Kong Spe-
cial Administrative Region of the People’s
Republic of China (the ‘Basic Law’);
‘‘(iii) the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, done at Paris December 10, 1948; and
‘‘(iv) the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights, done at New York De-
cember 19, 1966.
‘‘(4) FACTORS FOR CONSIDERATION.—In mak-
ing a certification under paragraph (1), the
Secretary of State should consider the
terms, obligations, and expectations ex-
pressed in the Joint Declaration and the
Basic Law.
‘‘(5) ADDITIONAL CERTIFICATIONS.—Notwith-
standing the annual requirement for certifi-
cations under paragraph (1), the Secretary of
State may issue additional certifications at
any time if the Secretary determines that
circumstances in Hong Kong warrant such.
‘‘(6) FORM.—Each certification under para-
graph (1) and any additional certifications
under paragraph (5) shall be submitted in un-
classified from but may include a classified
annex if the Secretary of State determines
such is necessary.
‘‘(b) WAIVER.—The Secretary of State may
waive the application of subsection (a), in
whole or in part, if—
‘‘(1) the Secretary determines that such a
waiver—
‘‘(A) is in the national security interests of
the United States; or
‘‘(B) would protect the autonomy of Hong
Kong; and
‘‘(2) on or before the date on which such a
waiver takes effect, the Secretary notifies
the Committee on Foreign Relations of the
Senate and the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs of the House of Representatives of the
intent to waive such subsection.
‘‘(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The unclassi-
fied portion of the certifications required
under subsection (a) shall be made available
to the public, including through publication
on the Department of State website.’’.
(b) VISA APPLICANTS.—Title II of the
United States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992
(22 U.S.C. 5721 et seq.), as amended by sub-
section (a), is further amended by adding at
the end the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 206. TREATMENT OF HONG KONG APPLI-
CANTS FOR VISAS TO ENTER THE
UNITED STATES.
‘‘It is the sense of Congress that applica-
tions for visas to enter the United States, in-
cluding for work or study, which are sub-
mitted by otherwise qualified applicants
from Hong Kong should not be denied solely
on the basis of politically-motivated arrest,
detention, or other adverse government ac-
tion taken against such applicants as a re-
sult of the participation by such applicants
in protest activities, and that the Secretary
of State should make efforts to implement
such policy, ensure consular officers make
determinations in accordance with such pol-
icy, and coordinate with representatives of
other countries to encourage the adoption of
compatible policies.’’.
(c) REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.—Subsection
(a) of section 301 of the United States-Hong
Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5731) is
amended—
(1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1),
in the first sentence, by striking ‘‘2024’’ and
inserting ‘‘2027’’;
(2) in paragraph (7), by striking ‘‘and’’
after the semicolon at the end;
(3) in paragraph (8), by striking the period
and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(4) by adding at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(9) China’s ability to limit Hong Kong’s
autonomy with respect to the treaties, inter-
national agreements, and United States laws
specified in section 205(a)(2) as result of ac-
tions by the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China that are inconsistent with its
commitments under the Basic Law or the
Joint Declaration;
‘‘(10) the limitations to Hong Kong’s au-
tonomy with respect to the treaties, inter-
national agreements, and United States laws
specified in section 205(a)(2) resulting from
actions by the Government of the Hong Kong
Special Autonomous Region that are incon-
sistent with its commitments under the
Basic Law or the Joint Declaration;
‘‘(11) the specific impacts to any areas of
cooperation between the United States and
Hong Kong as a result of limits, whether
self-imposed or otherwise, to Hong Kong’s
autonomy, including any failures of the
Hong Kong Government to fulfill obligations
with the United States under the treaties,
international agreements, and United States
laws specified in section 205(a)(2);
‘‘(12) the specific actions taken by the
United States Government to mitigate the
negative impact to United States interests of
limitations, whether self-imposed or other-
wise, to Hong Kong’s autonomy or any fail-
ures to fulfill obligations with the United
States under the treaties, international
agreements, and United States laws specified
in section 205(a)(2); and
‘‘(13) whether the rescission of special
treatment under any particular treaties,
international agreements, or particular laws
of the United States, or any provisions
thereof would contribute to further erosion
of Hong Kong’s autonomy.’’.
SEC. 5. REPORT ON ENFORCEMENT OF UNITED
STATES EXPORT CONTROL AND
SANCTIONS LAWS BY HONG KONG.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the President shall transmit to the commit-
tees specified in subsection (b) a report that
includes the following:
(1) An assessment of the policies and ac-
tions of the Government of the Hong Kong
Special Autonomous Region to enforce the
Export Control Reform Act of 2018 (subtitle
B of title XVII of Public Law 115–232) and
other relevant provisions of United States
law related to export controls.
(2) To the extent possible, an identification
of the following:
(A) Any items that were transferred from
Hong Kong in violation of such laws.
(B) The countries and persons to which
such items were transferred.
(C) How such items were used.
(3) An assessment of whether United States
origin items (including software, technology,
and services) have been transferred from
Hong Kong to China in violation of United
States law and have been used by China for
mass surveillance, predictive policing, or for
the social credit system.
(4) An assessment of the policies and ac-
tions of the Government of the Hong Kong
Special Autonomous Region to enforce sanc-
tions imposed by the United States and the
United Nations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.005 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8121
October 15, 2019
(5) A description of the types of goods and
services transshipped or reexported through
Hong Kong in violation of such sanctions
to—
(A) North Korea or Iran; or
(B) other countries, regimes, or persons
subject to such sanctions for engaging in ac-
tivities—
(i) relating to—
(I) international terrorism, international
narcotics trafficking, or the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction; or
(II) corruption and violations of human
rights; or
(ii) that otherwise present a threat to the
national security, foreign policy, or economy
of the United States.
(b) COMMITTEES SPECIFIED.—The commit-
tees specified in this subsection are the fol-
lowing:
(1) The Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate.
(2) The Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
(3) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives.
(4) The Committee on Financial Services of
the House of Representatives.
(c) FORM OF REPORT.—The report required
under subsection (a) shall be transmitted in
unclassified form, but may include a classi-
fied annex.
SEC. 6. PROTECTING UNITED STATES INTERESTS
WITH RESPECT TO HONG KONG.
(a) POLICY STATEMENTS.—It is the policy to
the United States—
(1) to safeguard United States citizens and
lawful permanent residents from extradition,
rendition, or abduction to China from Hong
Kong for trial, detention, or any other pur-
pose;
(2) to safeguard United States businesses in
Hong Kong from economic coercion and in-
tellectual property theft;
(3) pursuant to section 103(7) of the United
States-Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992 (22
U.S.C. 5713(7)), to encourage United States
businesses ‘‘to continue to operate in Hong
Kong in accordance with applicable United
States and Hong Kong law’’; and
(4) pursuant to section 201(b) of such Act
(22 U.S.C. 5721(b)), to evaluate as cir-
cumstances require the Government of Hong
Kong is ‘‘legally competent to carry out its
obligations’’ under treaties and inter-
national agreements established between the
United States and Hong Kong.
(b) NOTIFICATION TO CONGRESS.—
(1) DETERMINATION.—The Secretary of
State shall, with respect to any legislation
proposed or enacted by the Government of
Hong Kong, determine, not later than 30 days
after such legislation is proposed or enacted,
if such proposed or enacted legislation
would—
(A) put United States citizens or lawful
permanent residents at risk for rendition to
China or other countries with which the
United States Government does not have an
extradition agreement; or
(B) otherwise have a significant negative
impact on United States interests with re-
spect to Hong Kong.
(2) NOTIFICATION.—If the Secretary of State
makes a determination in the affirmative
under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall sub-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a notification relating thereto that
includes the following:
(A) An assessment of the potential risks of
the proposed or enacted legislation described
in such paragraph to United States national
interests, including risks to United States
citizens or lawful permanent residents resid-
ing in, traveling to, or transiting through
Hong Kong.
(B) A strategy for protecting United States
interests in Hong Kong with respect to the
proposed or enacted legislation described in
such paragraph.
SEC. 7. SANCTIONS RELATING TO UNDERMINING
FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS AND AU-
TONOMY IN HONG KONG.
(a) IDENTIFICATION OF PERSONS RESPON-
SIBLE FOR UNDERMINING FUNDAMENTAL FREE-
DOMS AND AUTONOMY IN HONG KONG.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The President shall trans-
mit to the appropriate congressional com-
mittees a report, in accordance with para-
graph (2), that identifies each foreign person
that the President determines, based on
credible information, is knowingly respon-
sible for any of the following:
(A) The actual or threatened rendition, ar-
bitrary detention, torture, or forced confes-
sion of any individual in Hong Kong.
(B) Repeated acts or decisions which con-
travene the shared obligations of China and
Hong Kong under the Joint Declaration and
Basic Law and undermine the national inter-
ests of the United States in Hong Kong’s au-
tonomy and the rule of law.
(C) Other gross violations of internation-
ally recognized human rights in Hong Kong.
(2) TIMING OF REPORTS.—The President
shall transmit—
(A) the report required under paragraph
(1)—
(i) not later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act; and
(ii) not less frequently than annually
thereafter in conjunction with the publica-
tion of the report required under section 301
of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act
of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5731); and
(B) an update to the report required under
paragraph (1) not later than 15 days after any
new credible information described in such
paragraph becomes available.
(3) CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN INFORMA-
TION.—In preparing the report required under
paragraph (1), the President shall consider
the following:
(A) Information provided jointly by the
chairperson and ranking member of each of
the appropriate congressional committees.
(B) Credible information obtained by other
countries or nongovernmental organizations
that monitor violations of human rights
abuses.
(4) FORM.—The report required under para-
graph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.
(b) IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.—The Presi-
dent shall impose the sanctions described in
subsection (c) with respect to each foreign
person identified in the report required
under subsection (a)(1).
(c) SANCTIONS DESCRIBED.—The sanctions
described in this subsection are the fol-
lowing:
(1) ASSET BLOCKING.—The President shall
exercise all of the powers granted to the
President under the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.) to the extent necessary to block and
prohibit all transactions in property and in-
terests in property of a foreign person identi-
fied in the report required under subsection
(a)(1) if such property and interests in prop-
erty are in the United States, come within
the United States, or come within the pos-
session or control of a United States person.
(2) INELIGIBILITY FOR VISAS, ADMISSION, OR
PAROLE.—
(A) VISAS, ADMISSION, OR PAROLE.—A for-
eign person described in subsection (a)(1) and
his or her immediate family members is—
(i) inadmissible to the United States;
(ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other doc-
umentation to enter the United States; and
(iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or
paroled into the United States or to receive
any other benefit under the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
(B) CURRENT VISAS REVOKED.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—A foreign person described
in subsection (a)(1) is subject to revocation
of any visa or other entry documentation re-
gardless of when the visa or other entry doc-
umentation is or was issued.
(ii) IMMEDIATE EFFECT.—A revocation
under clause (i) shall—
(I) take effect immediately; and
(II) automatically cancel any other valid
visa or entry documentation that is in the
alien’s possession.
(C) EXCEPTION TO COMPLY WITH INTER-
NATIONAL OBLIGATIONS.—Sanctions under this
paragraph shall not apply with respect to a
foreign person if admitting or paroling such
person into the United States is necessary to
permit the United States to comply with the
Agreement regarding the Headquarters of
the United Nations, signed at Lake Success
June 26, 1947, and entered into force Novem-
ber 21, 1947, between the United Nations and
the United States, or other applicable inter-
national obligations.
(3) PENALTIES.—The penalties provided for
in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the
International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a foreign
person that violates, attempts to violate,
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of
paragraph (1) to the same extent that such
penalties apply to a person that commits an
unlawful act described in subsection (a) of
such section 206.
(d) IMPLEMENTATION.—The President may
exercise all authorities provided under sec-
tions 203 and 205 of the International Emer-
gency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702
and 1704) to carry out this section.
(e) WAIVER.—The President may waive the
application of sanctions under this section
with respect to a foreign person identified in
the report required under subsection (a)(1) if
the President determines and certifies to the
appropriate congressional committees that
such a waiver is in the national interest of
the United States.
(f) TERMINATION OF SANCTIONS.—The Presi-
dent may terminate the application of sanc-
tions under this section with respect to a
foreign person if the President determines
and reports to the appropriate congressional
committees not less than 15 days before such
termination takes effect that—
(1) credible information exists that such
person did not engage in the activity for
which sanctions were imposed;
(2) such person has been prosecuted appro-
priately for the activity for which sanctions
were imposed;
(3) such person has credibly demonstrated
a significant change in behavior, has paid an
appropriate consequence for the activity for
which sanctions were imposed, and has
credibly committed to not engage in an ac-
tivity described in subsection (a)(1) in the fu-
ture; or
(4) the termination of the sanctions is in
the national security interests of the United
States.
(g) EXCEPTION RELATING TO THE IMPORTA-
TION OF GOODS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The authorities and re-
quirements to impose sanctions under this
section shall not include the authority or re-
quirement to impose sanctions on the impor-
tation of goods.
(2) GOOD DEFINED.—In this subsection, the
term ‘‘good’’ means any article, natural or
man-made substance, material, supply or
manufactured product, including inspection
and test equipment, and excluding technical
data.
(h) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) ADMITTED.—The term ‘‘admitted’’ has
the meanings given such term in section 101
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1101).
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:16 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.005 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8122 October 15, 2019
(2) FOREIGN PERSON.—The term ‘‘foreign
person’’ means a person that is not a United
States person.
(3) KNOWINGLY.—The term ‘‘knowingly’’
means, with respect to conduct, a cir-
cumstance, or a result, means that a person
has actual knowledge, or should have known,
of the conduct, the circumstance, or the re-
sult.
(4) PERSON.—The term ‘‘person’’ means an
individual or entity.
(5) UNITED STATES PERSON.—The term
‘‘United States person’’ means—
(A) a United States citizen or an alien law-
fully admitted for permanent residence to
the United States; or
(B) an entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within
the United States, including a foreign branch
of such an entity.
SEC. 8. SANCTIONS REPORTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The President shall
transmit to the appropriate congressional
committees a report that includes the fol-
lowing:
(1) A list of each foreign person with re-
spect to which the President imposed sanc-
tions under section 7 during the year pre-
ceding the transmission of such report.
(2) A description of the type of sanctions
imposed with respect to each such person.
(3) The number of foreign persons with re-
spect to which the President terminated
such sanctions during such year.
(4) The dates on which such sanctions were
imposed or terminated, as applicable.
(5) The reasons for imposing or termi-
nating such sanctions.
(6) A description of the efforts of the Presi-
dent to encourage the governments of other
countries to impose sanctions that are simi-
lar to such sanctions.
(b) FORM.—The report required under sub-
section (a) shall be transmitted in unclassi-
fied form but may contain a classified annex.
(c) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—The unclassified
portion of the report required under sub-
section (a) shall be made available to the
public, including through publication in the
Federal Register.
(d) NONAPPLICABILITY OF CONFIDENTIALITY
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO VISA
RECORDS.—The President shall publish the
report required under subsection (a) without
regard to the requirements of section 222(f)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1202(f)) with respect to confidentiality
of records pertaining to the issuance or re-
fusal of visas or permits to enter the United
States.
SEC. 9. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. SHERMAN) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on H.R. 3289.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself as much time as I may con-
sume.
Mr. Speaker, I want to start by
thanking Mr. SMITH for authoring the
measure before us.
The Hong Kong Human Rights and
Democracy Act is a bill to advance our
support for the people of Hong Kong.
This bill updates the longstanding U.S.
policy on Hong Kong so as to reflect
what is happening on the ground today.
The foundation of our relationship
with Hong Kong was laid back in 1992
when Congress passed the Hong Kong
Policy Act. That is where we got the
one country, two systems approach
that paved the way for our strong part-
nership with Hong Kong.
But we are watching now the Chinese
Communist Party trying to break
down that system, trying to strip Hong
Kong’s autonomy and bring it under
full control of the government of the
mainland. This has motivated millions
of Hong Kongers to take to the streets
and protest in defense of their rights.
To support them, we need to make sure
that our policy is brought up to date so
it can match the challenges of the
U.S.-Hong Kong relationship today.
The Hong Kong Human Rights and
Democracy Act does just that. It
makes clear that the United States
will stand up for Hong Kong’s auton-
omy and democratic aspirations of its
people. It beefs up reporting so that we
can track any efforts by China to inter-
fere in Hong Kong’s affairs and to use
Hong Kong to avoid U.S. export con-
trols. It slaps sanctions on anyone re-
sponsible for undermining Hong Kong’s
autonomy or violating Hong Kongers’
humans rights.
This bill sends a strong message to
China that the United States stands
with the people of Hong Kong.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this measure, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCIAL SERVICES,
Washington, DC, October 8, 2019.
Hon. ELLIOT ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: I am writing con-
cerning H.R. 3289, the Hong Kong Human
Rights and Democracy Act of 2019. In order
to permit the H.R. 3289 to proceed expedi-
tiously to the House Floor, I agree to forgo
formal consideration of the bill.
The Committee on Financial Services
takes this action to forego formal consider-
ation of H.R. 3289 in light of the changes that
have been made to the bill as introduced,
which focuses the bill on matters within the
jurisdiction of the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs. The Committee also does so with our
mutual understanding that, by foregoing for-
mal consideration of H.R. 3289 at this time,
we do not waive any jurisdiction over the
subject matter contained in this or similar
legislation, and that our Committee will be
appropriately consulted and involved as this
or similar legislation moves forward with re-
gard to any matters in the Committee’s ju-
risdiction. The Committee also reserves the
right to seek appointment of an appropriate
number of conferees to any House-Senate
conference involving this or similar legisla-
tion that involves the Committee’s jurisdic-
tion and request your support for any such
request.
Finally, I would appreciate your response
to this letter confirming this understanding,
and I would ask that a copy of our exchange
of letters on this matter be included in the
Congressional Record during Floor consider-
ation of H.R. 3289.
Sincerely,
MAXINE WATERS,
Chairwoman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, October 10, 2019.
Hon. MAXINE WATERS,
Chairman, Committee on Financial Services,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRWOMAN WATERS: I am writing
to you concerning H.R. 3289, the Hong Kong
Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019. I
appreciate your willingness to work coopera-
tively on this legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on Financial Services under House Rule X,
and that your Committee will forgo action
on H.R. 3289 to expedite floor consideration.
I further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I also acknowl-
edge that your Committee will be appro-
priately consulted and involved as this or
similar legislation moves forward, and will
support the appointment of Committee on
Financial Services conferees during any
House-Senate conference convened on this
legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY,
Washington, DC, October 10, 2019.
Hon. ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Affairs,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN ENGEL: This is to advise
you that the Committee on the Judiciary
has now had an opportunity to review the
provisions in H.R. 3289, the ‘‘Hong Kong
Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019’’
that fall within our Rule X jurisdiction. I ap-
preciate your consulting with us on those
provisions. The Judiciary Committee has no
objection to your including them in the bill
for consideration on the House floor, and to
expedite that consideration is willing to
forgo action on H.R. 3289, with the under-
standing that we do not thereby waive any
future jurisdictional claim over those provi-
sions or their subject matters.
In the event a House-Senate conference on
this or similar legislation is convened, the
Judiciary Committee reserves the right to
request an appropriate number of conferees
to address any concerns with these or simi-
lar provisions that may arise in conference.
Please place this letter into the Congres-
sional Record during consideration of the
measure on the House floor. Thank you for
the cooperative spirit in which you have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.005 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8123
October 15, 2019
worked regarding this matter and others be-
tween our committees.
Sincerely,
JERROLD NADLER,
Chairman.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN AFFAIRS,
Washington, DC, October 10, 2019.
Hon. JERROLD NADLER,
Committee on the Judiciary,
House of Representatives, Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN NADLER: I am writing to
you concerning H.R. 3289, the Hong Kong
Human Rights and Democracy Act of 2019. I
appreciate your willingness to work coopera-
tively on this legislation.
I acknowledge that provisions of the bill
fall within the jurisdiction of the Committee
on the Judiciary under House Rule X, and
that your Committee will forgo action on
H.R. 3289 to expedite floor consideration. I
further acknowledge that the inaction of
your Committee with respect to the bill does
not waive any future jurisdictional claim
over the matters contained in the bill that
fall within your jurisdiction. I will also sup-
port the appointment of Committee on the
Judiciary conferees during any House-Senate
conference convened on this legislation.
Lastly, I will ensure that our exchange of
letters is included in the Congressional
Record during floor consideration of the bill.
Thank you again for your cooperation re-
garding the legislation. I look forward to
continuing to work with you as the measure
moves through the legislative process.
Sincerely,
ELIOT L. ENGEL,
Chairman.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, first of all, I want to
thank so many people for working so
hard on this piece of legislation: my
good friend, JIM MCGOVERN, the prin-
cipal cosponsor and just a great friend,
on fighting tyranny in China. He chairs
the China Commission. I am the rank-
ing member. Previously, I have chaired
it, and so we have gone back and forth
in working that leadership. I want to
thank him especially for that.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank, of
course, Chairman ENGEL and Ranking
Member MCCAUL, Chairman SHERMAN
and Ranking Member YOHO for their
strong support for this bipartisan legis-
lation.
Mr. Speaker, there are a number of
staffers who I will speak about in a mo-
ment. No. I will do it now: Scott Flipse
for his great work on this bill, it is
landmark work going back to 5 years
ago; Jon Stivers; Reva Price from the
Speaker’s office, who has been tena-
cious on this legislation; Jennifer
Hendrixson-White; Bryan Burack; Jan-
ice Kaguyutan; Theresa Lou; Darrow
Godeski Merton; Doug Anderson; Piero
Tozzi; Sabrina Tsai. Just so many very
good people who have all pulled to-
gether in a bipartisan way to make
sure that this legislation comes to the
floor and becomes law.
Mr. Speaker, since the 1989
Tiananmen Square massacre 30 years
ago, I have had the privilege of work-
ing with colleagues on both sides of the
aisle, including Speaker PELOSI, on
human rights, the rule of law and de-
mocracy for the People’s Republic of
China.
Mr. Speaker, I also want to thank
KEVIN MCCARTHY, the minority leader
here in the House, the Republican lead-
er, who has put me on as his selection
on the China Commission and for his
strong support for this legislation as
well.
We have always believed, Mr. Speak-
er, that every person in China deserves
better than the brutality so many en-
dure every single day and the system-
atic violations of their universally-rec-
ognized human rights.
Tragically, under President Xi
Jinping, human rights abuses through-
out China have significantly worsened,
including the pervasive use of torture,
religious persecution, and human traf-
ficking.
Solemn promises made by Beijing are
rarely kept, and far too many leaders
of the free world are far too eager to
blindly accept fiction over fact.
Broken promises are the rule, not the
exception under Xi Jinping, and the
people of Hong Kong are suffering be-
cause of it.
During the 2014 Umbrella Movement,
the world saw the courageous people of
Hong Kong demanding that Beijing not
renege on promises made to ensure uni-
versal suffrage, basic rights, and au-
thentic elections in 2017.
Despite President Xi Jinping’s brutal
crackdown on protesters then and now,
triggered this time by an outrageous
proposed policy to facilitate extra-
dition, the resolve, the courage, the te-
nacity, and clarity of purpose of the
people of Hong Kong shines through
the darkness like the Sun.
Two days ago, Reuters reported that
President Xi Jinping told leaders in
Nepal, ‘‘Anyone attempting to split
China in any part of the country will
end in crushed bodies and shattered
bones.’’
President Xi’s government excels in
crushing bodies, shattering bones, tor-
turing dissidents, and filling con-
centration camps, massive crimes
against humanity, for which there has
been little or no accountability or
sanctioning.
But today, Mr. Speaker, we are sim-
ply urging the Chinese President and
the Hong Kong Chief Executive—and
we have that obligation under our own
laws—to faithfully honor the govern-
ment’s promises.
Honor the promises made in the 1984
Sino-British Joint Declaration that fa-
cilitated the conveyance of Hong Kong
from the United Kingdom to China be-
ginning on July 1, 1997, that autonomy,
human rights, including press, assem-
bly, association, and religion, would be
exactly the same as before the
handover for at least 50 years.
Honor the promises made in the
‘‘Basic Law’’ of Hong Kong adopted by
China’s National People’s Congress in
1990, before the giveback of Hong Kong,
that autonomy and rights would be
protected.
Even before the latest round of pro-
tests, Mr. Speaker, the U.S. State De-
partment has noted that rights and lib-
erties in Hong Kong have diminished.
They are not living up to their solemn
promises made in order for the Hong
Kong conveyance to occur.
You know, the great young leader,
Joshua Wong, reminded us that a
fourth of the population of Hong Kong,
about 2 million people, turned out for
one of the peaceful protests. Mr.
Speaker, where has that ever hap-
pened?
Five years ago, Mr. Speaker, in 2014,
joined by Mrs. PELOSI, I introduced the
bipartisan Hong Kong Human Rights
and Democracy Act. We did it again in
2015, in 2017, and again this year, again,
with my good friend from Massachu-
setts.
Our new bill, the Hong Kong Human
Rights and Democracy Act, is a blue-
print for meaningful action. Specifi-
cally, the act directs the Secretary of
State to certify to Congress annually
whether Hong Kong continues to de-
serve special treatment under U.S. law
different from mainland China in such
matters as trade, customs, sanctions
enforcement, law enforcement coopera-
tion, and protection of human rights
and the rule of law.
It encourages the State Department
not to deny visas based on an appli-
cant’s arrest or detention for partici-
pating in nonviolent activities in Hong
Kong.
It requires an annual report from the
Commerce Department on whether the
Hong Kong Government adequately en-
forces U.S. export controls and sanc-
tions laws, including on those goods
and services transshipped to North
Korea, Iran, or other countries relating
to the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction, violations of human
rights, narcotics trafficking, and more.
b 1600
It requires an assessment of whether
U.S. origin items, including software,
technology, and services, have been
transferred from Hong Kong to China
in violation of U.S. law and have been
used by China for mass surveillance,
predictive policing, or for the social
credit system.
Now, some people might ask: What is
this social credit system? Mr. Speaker,
it is a ubiquitous, totalitarian ‘‘brave
new world’’ system scheduled for im-
plementation by 2020 that will use pub-
lic records, online activities, and other
tools of surveillance to aggregate data
on every single, solitary Chinese cit-
izen and business and use that data to
monitor, shape, and rate financial, so-
cial, religious, or political behaviors.
It requires the Secretary of State to
submit a strategy to Congress to pro-
tect U.S. citizens and businesses in
Hong Kong from the erosion of auton-
omy and the rule of law because of ac-
tions taken by the Chinese Communist
governments.
It requires the President to identify
and sanction persons in Hong Kong or
in mainland China responsible for the
erosion of Hong Kong’s autonomy and
serious abuses of human rights.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.007 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8124 October 15, 2019
It tracks the Magnitsky Act, which
Mr. MCGOVERN and I worked so hard to
enact into law, so that we deny visas
and also deny the ability to do business
here to the people who are responsible
for these egregious abuses.
And it requires a waiver provision
that helps ensure that our actions pro-
tect the great people of Hong Kong and
enhance the autonomy rather than in-
advertently harming it. So it gives real
flexibility to the President and to the
State Department to make the right
call.
Finally, Mr. Speaker, I have heard it
said that the business of Hong Kong is
business. It is that. But it is also clear
to me, now, that the business of Hong
Kong is freedom and democracy.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I join
with the gentleman from New Jersey in
praising the staff members who helped
create these bills, not only the one
under consideration, but the other two
that deal with Hong Kong.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 4 minutes to the
gentleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
MCGOVERN), a great champion for
human rights.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I rise
in support of H.R. 3289, the Hong Kong
Human Rights and Democracy Act.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Congressman
CHRIS SMITH for his incredible leader-
ship in introducing this bipartisan leg-
islation and for all of his work on
human rights. I also thank Chairman
ENGEL and Ranking Member MCCAUL,
as well as Chairman SHERMAN, for their
leadership and their support of this bill
and bringing it before the House today
for consideration.
Behind me is a photograph taken on
Monday night in Hong Kong’s Chater
Garden. It is estimated that 130,000
people took part in this rally calling on
the United States Congress to pass the
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democ-
racy Act.
The Hong Kong people need inter-
national support, and I am proud that
the United States House of Representa-
tives is standing in solidarity with
Hong Kong in their struggle.
While the protests were sparked by
the extradition bill, the heart of the
discontent is that many of Hong Kong’s
political leaders do not represent the
people. Instead, Hong Kong’s leaders
are beholden to the Chinese Govern-
ment. Millions of Hong Kongers would
not have to protest in the streets if
they could freely choose their political
leaders.
Since the 2014 umbrella movement
protests, the ‘‘one country, two sys-
tems’’ framework has been rapidly
eroding as free expression has been sti-
fled and the space for democratic par-
ticipation has been restricted. We have
seen the prosecution and sentencing of
prodemocracy leaders, the disqualifica-
tion and removal of prodemocracy leg-
islators, the abduction and arbitrary
detention of booksellers, and the expel-
ling of a Financial Times journalist.
Hong Kong’s high degree of auton-
omy is enshrined in the legally binding
1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration and
Hong Kong’s Basic Law. The joint dec-
laration is an international treaty,
signed by the Chinese Government, and
guarantees the protection of rights and
a separate economic system for main-
land China.
I believe it is time for the United
States to reconsider its policies toward
Hong Kong.
U.S.-Hong Kong relations are gov-
erned by the United States-Hong Kong
Policy Act of 1992 that commits the
United States to treating Hong Kong
as a separate customs territory from
the rest of China as long as Hong Kong
remains sufficiently autonomous. The
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democ-
racy Act would require the Secretary
of State to certify, on an annual basis,
whether Hong Kong continues to war-
rant special treatment different from
mainland China under U.S. law.
It is time we put the Chinese Govern-
ment on annual notice that further
erosion of autonomy or a crackdown
will cause the city, which serves as an
important financial haven for wealthy
Chinese elites, to lose its special eco-
nomic, financial, and trade arrange-
ment with the United States.
Further, the legislation authorizes
sanctions against individuals who vio-
late human rights and states that Hong
Kong visa applicants should not be de-
nied entry to the United States based
on politically motivated arrests based
on their protest activities.
To be clear, we stand together with
the people of Hong Kong and, indeed,
all the people of China when we express
our concerns about the human rights
violations of the Hong Kong and Chi-
nese Governments.
Over the years, Hong Kong has pros-
pered and become the financial center
of Asia because of its strong commit-
ment to the rule of law, good govern-
ance, human rights, and open economic
system. We must use our leverage to
help the people of Hong Kong in their
struggle to secure a democratic future
that protects Hong Kong’s autonomy
and way of life.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support
this legislation, and I urge all of my
colleagues to support this legislation.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I have
no additional speakers on this side, so
I yield myself such time as I may con-
sume for the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, I thank Mr. SMITH for
introducing this legislation.
Thirty years since Tiananmen
Square and Chinese authorities are
still turning to violence and intimida-
tion to crush dissent and attack basic
freedoms. With this important legisla-
tion, we send a clear signal that the
United States stands with the people of
Hong Kong.
Mr. Speaker, I hope all Members will
join me in supporting the passage of
this legislation, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
SHERMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 3289, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PLACING RESTRICTIONS ON TEAR-
GAS EXPORTS AND CROWD CON-
TROL TECHNOLOGY TO HONG
KONG ACT
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I move
to suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 4270) to prohibit commercial ex-
ports of certain nonlethal crowd con-
trol items and defense articles and
services to the Hong Kong Disciplined
Services, and for other purposes, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 4270
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Placing Re-
strictions on Teargas Exports and Crowd
Control Technology to Hong Kong Act’’ or
the ‘‘PROTECT Hong Kong Act’’.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
Congress finds the following:
(1) The United Nations High Commissioner
for Human Rights, along with human rights
organizations, has called for an investigation
of the use of crowd control tactics used in
Hong Kong which fall short of international
standards, including the United Nations
Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Offi-
cials and the Basic Principles on the Use of
Force and Firearms for Law Enforcement Of-
ficials.
(2) United States companies have report-
edly provided the Hong Kong Police Force
with munitions and non-lethal crowd control
equipment that were reportedly used by the
police.
(3) Hong Kong citizens and the inter-
national community have called for changes
to the Hong Kong Police’s crowd control tac-
tics and these requests have gone unheeded
by the Hong Kong Special Administrative
Region Government.
SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
It is the policy of the United States—
(1) to restrict the export of security assist-
ance and crime control and detection instru-
ments and equipment to any government
that engages in a consistent pattern of gross
violations of internationally recognized
human rights, consistent with the require-
ments of section 502B(a) of the Foreign As-
sistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2304(a)); and
(2) to use export controls on crime control
and detection instruments and equipment to
deter the development of a consistent pat-
tern of human rights abuses, distance the
United States from such abuses, and avoid
contributing to civil disorder in a country or
region, in accordance with section 742.7(b) of
part 774 of subtitle B of title 15, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.014 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8125
October 15, 2019
SEC. 4. PROHIBITION ON COMMERCIAL EXPORT
OF COVERED DEFENSE ARTICLES
AND SERVICES AND COVERED MUNI-
TIONS ITEMS TO THE HONG KONG
POLICE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Beginning on the date
that is 30 days after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, except as provided in sub-
section (b), the President shall prohibit the
issuance of licenses to export covered de-
fense articles and services and covered muni-
tions items to the Hong Kong Police.
(b) WAIVER.—The prohibition under sub-
section (a) shall not apply to the issuance of
a license with respect to which the President
submits to the appropriate congressional
committees, not fewer than 30 days before
the date of such issuance, a written certifi-
cation that the exports to be covered by such
license are important to the national inter-
ests and foreign policy goals of the United
States, including a description of the manner
in which such exports will promote such in-
terests and goals.
(c) TERMINATION.—The prohibition under
subsection (a) shall terminate on the date on
which the President certifies to the appro-
priate congressional committees that—
(1) the Hong Kong Police have not engaged
in gross violations of human rights during
the 1-year period ending on the date of such
certification; and
(2) there has been an independent examina-
tion of human rights concerns related to the
crowd control tactics of the Hong Kong Po-
lice and the Government of the Hong Kong
Special Administrative Region has ade-
quately addressed those concerns.
SEC. 5. REPORT ON COVERED DEFENSE ARTI-
CLES AND SERVICES AND COVERED
MUNITIONS ITEMS EXPORTED TO
THE HONG KONG POLICE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 90 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Secretary of State and the Secretary of
Commerce, in consultation with the heads of
other relevant Federal departments and
agencies, shall jointly submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a report
that lists and provides a description of all
covered defense articles and services and
covered munitions items exported to the
Hong Kong Police during the five-year period
ending on such date of enactment.
(b) FORM.—The report required by sub-
section (a) shall be submitted in unclassified
form but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 6. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES.—The term ‘‘appropriate congressional
committees’’ means—
(A) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of
the House of Representatives;
(B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of
the Senate; and
(C) the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs of the Senate.
(2) COVERED DEFENSE ARTICLES AND SERV-
ICES.—The term ‘‘covered defense articles
and services’’ means defense articles and de-
fense services designated by the President
under section 38(a)(1) of the Arms Export
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778(a)(1)).
(3) COVERED MUNITIONS ITEMS.—The term
‘‘covered munitions items’’ means—
(A) items controlled under section 742.7 of
part 742 of subtitle B of title 15, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations (relating to crime control
and detection instruments and equipment
and related technology and software); and
(B) items listed under the ‘‘600 series’’ of
the Commerce Control List contained in
Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of subtitle B of
title 15, Code of Federal Regulations.
(4) HONG KONG.—The term ‘‘Hong Kong’’
has the meaning given such term in section
3 of the United States-Hong Kong Policy Act
of 1992 (22 U.S.C. 5702).
(5) HONG KONG POLICE.—The term ‘‘Hong
Kong Police’’ means—
(A) the Hong Kong Police Force; and
(B) the Hong Kong Auxiliary Police Force.
SEC. 3. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.
The budgetary effects of this Act, for the
purpose of complying with the Statutory
Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be deter-
mined by reference to the latest statement
titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legisla-
tion’’ for this Act, submitted for printing in
the Congressional Record by the Chairman of
the House Budget Committee, provided that
such statement has been submitted prior to
the vote on passage.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. SHERMAN) and the gen-
tleman from New Jersey (Mr. SMITH)
each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous materials on H.R. 4270.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. PELOSI), Speaker of the
House, a woman who has dedicated dec-
ades of her life to the fight for human
rights.
Ms. PELOSI. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding, and I thank
him for his support of democracy and
democratic freedom in Hong Kong.
I want to salute my colleague, Rep-
resentative SMITH of New Jersey, with
whom I have worked for decades on
this subject, whether it is for religious
freedom or freedom of expression in
China.
I thank Mr. MCGOVERN for his impor-
tant leadership as chair of the China
Commission and as chair of the Tom
Lantos Human Rights Commission.
Right now, we are on the PROTECT
Hong Kong Act, as amended, by Mr.
MCGOVERN, and I rise in support of that
legislation and, indeed, the bills that
are on the floor to support democratic
freedom in Hong Kong.
Mr. Speaker, for 4 months, the young
people of Hong Kong have sent a stir-
ring message to the world that the
dreams of freedom, justice, and democ-
racy can never be extinguished by in-
justice and intimidation. The extraor-
dinary outpouring of courage from the
people of Hong Kong stands in stark
contrast to a cowardly government
that refuses to respect the rule of law
or live up to the ‘‘one country, two sys-
tems’’ framework, which was guaran-
teed more than two decades ago.
In 1984, before the United Kingdom
transferred Hong Kong to China, the
Chinese Government promised a high
degree of autonomy for the territory in
the Joint Declaration on the Question
of Hong Kong, providing for an inde-
pendent executive, legislature, and ju-
diciary; ensuring the freedom of
speech, press, assembly, and religion;
prohibiting the central government,
the Chinese Government in Beijing,
from interfering in the affairs that
Hong Kong administers on its own ac-
cording to the Basic Law; and pledging
a path to universal suffrage.
In 1997—that is when we were here
doing this—when the handover oc-
curred, America was hopeful that the
people of Hong Kong would achieve this
high degree of autonomy that they
were promised, and this was a promise
that was participated in by the U.K.
Government. Today, we must sadly
conclude that China has broken that
promise.
For years, the people of Hong Kong
have faced a barrage of unjust and
harsh restrictions on their freedoms,
and those who have stood up for their
rights have been met with a cruel
crackdown.
In Congress, Democrats and Repub-
licans, in the House and in the Senate,
stand united with the people of Hong
Kong. If America does not speak out
for human rights in China because of
commercial interests, then we lose all
moral authority to speak out for
human rights anyplace in the world.
Since Tiananmen Square 30 years
ago, many of us, in a bipartisan way,
have been fighting this fight, and we
have seen that commercial interests
always win. It is always about the
money.
I lost my innocence on human rights
in America and China all those years
ago when I saw that, while we talked a
good talk, when it came right down to
it, it was always about the money.
Again, to those who want to take the
repressive government’s side in this
discussion, I say to you: What does it
profit a person if he gains the whole
world and suffers the loss of his soul?
We do not want to lose the soul of
our country for commercial interests,
whatever those commercial interests
may be.
It is interesting to hear people say
we have to know both sides of the
story. Do you want to hear both sides?
One side is a very repressive regime
that is crushing democratic freedoms
in Hong Kong at the same time that
they have tried to destroy the culture,
the language, and the religion, all at
the same time as they incarcerate in
reeducation camps more than 1 mil-
lion—it could be 3 million—Uyghur
Muslims in China, or they repress reli-
gious freedom there. The list goes on
and on.
And the other side: young people
speaking out for freedoms, democratic
freedoms, in Hong Kong. They are so
impressive.
Mr. SMITH and I have worked, as Mr.
MCGOVERN has, with some three gen-
erations, starting after Tiananmen
Square and tanks rolling over young
people who spoke out for democratic
freedoms in China; the next generation,
a couple, 15 years later; and now this
generation of young people, so impres-
sive are they that even the more senior
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:11 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.008 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8126 October 15, 2019
freedom fighters in Hong Kong are im-
pressed by their courage and their
stick-to-itiveness.
Today, the House is proud to pass the
bicameral and bipartisan Hong Kong
Human Rights and Democracy Act to
reaffirm America’s commitment to de-
mocracy. And that doesn’t mean a de-
mocracy like this. It means democratic
freedoms, human rights, and the rule of
law in the face of Beijing’s crackdown.
b 1615
And Beijing thinks that they can
rule because of money. It always comes
down to that. I thank Chairman
MCGOVERN and Congressman SMITH for
their work to ensure an honest ac-
counting of the situation in Hong
Kong, and to ensure accountability for
those responsible for the crackdown.
We are grateful to Chairman MCGOV-
ERN for his leadership on this PRO-
TECT Hong Kong Act which suspends
sales of crowd control technology and
other equipment to the Hong Kong Po-
lice Force, as Mr. SHERMAN pointed out
earlier. I thank Mr. SHERMAN for his
work on this and thank him for his res-
olution calling for the Hong Kong Gov-
ernment to address protestors’ de-
mands and condemning police bru-
tality, in addition to China’s efforts to
falsely accuse U.S. diplomats of fueling
unrest.
Last week, Martin Lee, the grand-
father of Hong Kong democracy—we
started working with him decades
ago—said: ‘‘We fear Hong Kong will be-
come just another Chinese city.’’ That
means one without any of the freedoms
that they were guaranteed. The future
of Hong Kong, the future of autonomy,
freedom, and justice for millions is at
stake.
America must stand with Hong Kong.
It is very interesting that in the first
weeks of the demonstration, the first
months of the demonstration, 2 million
people, mostly young people, were in
the streets. And people were saying:
Oh, my heavens, 2 million people turn-
ing out. And you remember that 2 mil-
lion is 25 percent of the population of
Hong Kong which is 8 million people. It
is 25 percent of the population that was
in the streets. And the beat goes on.
Hopefully, they will hear from this
Congress our support for their human
rights, and that we will not sell our
souls for money at the expense of our
values.
I also want to thank the distin-
guished chairman of the committee,
Mr. ELIOT ENGEL, for his leadership on
all of this over time. I urge an ‘‘aye’’
vote on all of the above to join in bi-
partisan, bicameral support for the
people of Hong Kong.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from Mas-
sachusetts (Mr. MCGOVERN), the author
of this important bill, a stalwart sup-
porter of human rights.
Mr. MCGOVERN. Mr. Speaker, I want
to thank my colleague from California
for his leadership.
I rise in support of H.R. 4270, the
Placing Restrictions On Teargas Ex-
ports and Crowd Control Technology to
Hong Kong Act, the PROTECT Hong
Kong Act.
I am proud to have introduced this
bipartisan legislation, along with my
colleagues CHRIS SMITH and RO
KHANNA, that responds to the excessive
and unnecessary use of force by the
Hong Kong police, targeting those en-
gaged in peaceful protest. I want to
thank the chairman and ranking mem-
ber of the Foreign Affairs Committee
for bringing this bill so quickly before
the House for consideration.
The PROTECT Hong Kong Act pro-
hibits U.S. exports of defense articles,
munitions, and police equipment to
Hong Kong. Specifically, it stops U.S.
exports of teargas, pepper spray, gre-
nades, rubber bullets, guns, semiauto-
matic rifles, and such defense articles
and munitions to the police.
Let’s be clear about what is hap-
pening in Hong Kong right now. Mil-
lions of people from all walks of life,
including: young people, students,
women, seniors, entrepreneurs, teach-
ers, civil servants, and workers are
standing up to the most powerful, au-
thoritarian government in the world.
Protesters have inspired the world as
they risk their lives, their health, their
jobs, and their education to fight for
the future of Hong Kong. They are
savvy and strategic. They are using
technology to mobilize, stay anony-
mous, and organize. They are capturing
and extinguishing teargas containers.
They have taken down, taken apart,
and shown the world increasing sur-
veillance cameras that monitor every-
day Hong Kongers. They are using art,
music, laser pointers, and the projec-
tion of messages on building to high-
light their struggle.
They organized a human chain of
200,000 people spanning 37 miles. Ten-
ants in Hong Kong’s residential build-
ings organize the shouting of slogans
from their windows every night with
calls and responses echoing throughout
the city. The people of Hong Kong have
made their voices loud and clear.
But instead of listening to them, the
Chinese and Hong Kong Governments
have mishandled the situation at every
turn. The world has now seen eye-
witness evidence compiled by journal-
ists and the media showing that police
have used excessive force and used
equipment in violation of manufac-
turer guidelines and international
standards.
We have seen the police firing rubber
bullets and bean bag rounds at peaceful
protesters at close range. We have seen
them launching teargas canisters, from
high buildings and directly at individ-
uals, into crowded and enclosed areas.
We have seen them failing to give
demonstrators visible and audible
warning before firing, and we have seen
them use batons to beat and subdue
demonstrators and disperse journalists.
In fact, the situation has been so bad
that in June, the British Government
suspended export licenses for the sale
of teargas and crowd control equip-
ment until concerns about human
rights abuses are addressed.
On August 13, the U.N. High Commis-
sioner for Human Rights called for an
investigation of the use of crowd con-
trol tactics in Hong Kong.
Enough is enough. It is time for
American companies to stop selling
weapons that are being used to sup-
press peaceful protests. Instead of
heeding international calls to stop the
crackdown, the Hong Kong Govern-
ment continues to make matters
worse.
On October 1 alone, 269 arrests of pro-
testers, spanning the ages of 12 to 71
were made. Two teenage protesters had
been shot with live ammunition, and
the uptick of violence against journal-
ists has further served to inflame pub-
lic anger against the government and
the police.
Instead of establishing an inde-
pendent commission of inquiry on po-
lice conduct to deescalate the situa-
tion, the Hong Kong Government has
formally invoked the Emergency Regu-
lations Ordinance to ban the use of
masks during public assemblies. This is
an impractical and draconian step to
move the city closer to martial law.
The Hong Kong Government should
repeal this regulation and refrain from
bypassing oversight and scrutiny by
the legislative council in making ad
hoc regulations. An intensified crack-
down will only escalate and promote
violence, and further tarnish the rep-
utation of Hong Kong and its police
force.
At a minimum, it is beyond time for
Congress to send a clear message that
the United States supports the people
of Hong Kong, and that we will no
longer provide assistance to crack
down on pro-democracy protesters. I
urge all of my colleagues to support
H.R. 4270, the PROTECT Hong Kong
Act.
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, first of all, let me say,
I appreciate and respect the eloquent
remarks of the Speaker just a few mo-
ments ago. We are united on Hong
Kong. I think that is very clear, and we
have been working together, along
with a number of other Members, in-
cluding some former Members, like
Frank Wolf from Virginia, who are
united in believing that freedom, and
democracy, and respect for human
rights is everybody’s business, and ev-
erybody is entitled to it. These are
God-given rights. So, again, I want to
thank the Speaker for her wonderful
remarks.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 4270, the PROTECT Hong Kong
Act, sponsored by Chairman JIM
MCGOVERN, and I am very proud to be
a cosponsor on it. The PROTECT Hong
Kong Act mandates export restrictions
on defense articles and munitions to
the Hong Kong police.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.016 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8127
October 15, 2019
As the largest protest movement
Hong Kong has ever seen continues
into its fifth month, major concerns
have arisen about the Hong Kong po-
lice’s independence and profes-
sionalism. The people of Hong Kong are
rightfully furious about well-docu-
mented cases of excessive force, brutal
tactics, and the tolerance of violence
against protesters and journalists by
the government.
The Hong Kong police’s actions are
now a cause in and of themselves of
protest. There has been widespread po-
lice misuse of crowd control equipment
and less lethal weaponry, including in-
cidents that have seriously injured
journalists. Police have used teargas,
rubber bullets, water cannons, sponge
grenades, pepper spray, and batons
against demonstrators, some of which,
indeed, are American-made equipment.
In recent weeks two protesters have
been shot with live rounds.
Meanwhile, while we discuss a move
to ban the sale of such offensive equip-
ment, the Hong Kong Government, via
executive fiat, has simultaneously
moved to ban the use by demonstrators
of defensive equipment used to protect
themselves against police attacks;
namely, gas masks and face masks.
The PROTECT Hong Kong Act will
prohibit the issuing of licenses for the
export of munitions and crowd control
equipment to the Hong Kong police.
The Secretary of State, in consultation
with the Secretary of Commerce and
other relevant Federal agencies, will
also be required to issue a report on
what has been sold to the Hong Kong
police over the past several years.
These prohibitions will remain in ef-
fect until these incidents are independ-
ently examined and the Hong Kong po-
lice have demonstrated truly profes-
sional conduct.
In sum, the U.S. should not be
complicit in any way, shape, or form in
violence being used to squash the le-
gitimate demands guaranteed to the
Hong Kong people by international
treaty. That is unacceptable, and it is
contrary to U.S. interests, and it is
contrary to U.S. law.
I strongly support unanimous sup-
port for this measure, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
5 minutes to the gentleman from New
York (Mr. ENGEL), the chair of the full
Foreign Affairs Committee, a stalwart
supporter of human rights.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friend for yielding to me. He is a valued
member of the House Foreign Affairs
Committee. Let me start by thanking
Mr. MCGOVERN for his hard work on
this legislation.
The relationship between the United
States and Hong Kong is rooted in our
shared values. Among them are a fierce
belief in the freedom of speech, and the
right to assemble. That is why the
American people are so troubled by the
images coming out of Hong Kong late-
ly.
Hundreds of thousands of protesters
who have taken to the streets have
been met with increasing violence by
the Hong Kong Police Force. These
pro-democracy activists faced teargas,
pepper spray, and rubber bullets by the
police force sworn to supposedly pro-
tect them.
I remember when China took over
Hong Kong from the U.K. and said that
they would adhere to a system of two
systems in China, and that the people
of Hong Kong would have freedom like
they had before to speak their mind.
And here it is, probably about 20 years
later, and that is already being eroded,
taken away, and the people of Hong
Kong see that they were promised
something which isn’t being brought
forth from the Beijing regime.
Mr. MCGOVERN’s measure would en-
sure that American companies are not
contributing equipment for the Hong
Kong police to use against protesters.
This bill also calls on the police to
take the steps needed to address those
issues from within. When there are in-
stances of police brutality, there must
be prompt, independent investigations
and proper accountability.
The PROTECT Hong Kong Act shows
the people of Hong Kong that the
United States stands with them in
their fight for their freedoms. It makes
sure that American companies are not
facilitating violence against brave
Democratic protesters.
It is a shame that it has come to this,
but it is really uplifting to watch peo-
ple possess enormous courage in the
wake of having their lives threatened.
In the wake of having their society de-
stroyed, they stood up and they are
standing up to the Beijing regime and
to the people who would try to strip
them of their basic freedoms.
I think that we all, no matter where
we are on this planet, have to admire
the brave people of Hong Kong. We had
the good fortune of meeting a number
of the protesters when Speaker PELOSI
called a press conference a few weeks
ago, and we talked about this bill. It
was really heartening to be able to
speak to these young people one-on-
one. These are young people who have
shown just enormous amounts of cour-
age. And they should know that the
United States will always support
them, will continue to support them,
and we won’t stop until the people of
Hong Kong have their democracy and
the freedom they deserve.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting H.R. 4270.
b 1630
Mr. SMITH of New Jersey. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further requests for
time, so I yield back the balance of my
time.
Mr. SHERMAN. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
The people of Hong Kong have the
right to peaceably assemble without
fear of violence. They need to know
that their friends in the United States
are not providing tools of the violent
repression being used against them.
Mr. Speaker, I am pleased to support
H.R. 4270, and I urge all Members of the
House to do likewise. I yield back the
balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 4270, the ‘‘PROTECT
Hong Kong Act.’’
H.R. 4270 calls for the President to prohibit
the issuance of export licenses for nonlethal
crowd control items and defense articles to the
Hong Kong police.
This prohibition will be terminated once the
Hong Kong police have stopped engaging in a
pattern of gross human rights abuses, and
there has been an independent investigation
conducted on policy brutality.
During the 2019 anti-extradition bill and pro-
democracy protests, the Hong Kong Police
Force used non-lethal crowd control articles
such as water cannon trucks, tear gas, rubber
bullets, sponge grenades, beanbag rounds,
batons, pepper spray, pepper balls, and pro-
jectile launchers.
Hong Kong citizens and the international
community have called for changes to the
Hong Kong Police’s crowd control tactics and
these requests have gone unheeded by the
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
government.
I applaud the efforts and sacrifices pro-de-
mocracy activists have made and they ought
to know that the United States fully supports
their desire for freedom and peace, and we
strongly condemn the violent and oppressive
tactics of the Hong Kong police.
When enacted, H.R. 4270 will prohibit the
issuance of licenses to export covered de-
fense articles and services and covered muni-
tions items to the Hong Kong Disciplined Serv-
ices.
As a senior member of the House Com-
mittee on Homeland Security I find it important
to increase bilateral relations with allies and
abroad to help eliminate the injustices of the
world.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 4270 to confront the
pattern of gross human rights abuses which
pose a strong threat to the democratic values
we work to protect.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
SHERMAN) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 4270, as
amended.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill, as
amended, was passed.
The title of the bill was amended so
as to read: ‘‘A bill to prohibit commer-
cial exports of certain nonlethal crowd
control items and defense articles and
services to the Hong Kong Police, and
for other purposes.’’.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
A message in writing from the Presi-
dent of the United States was commu-
nicated to the House by Miss Kaitlyn
Roberts, one of his secretaries.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:11 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.018 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8128 October 15, 2019
COMMENDING GOVERNMENT OF
CANADA FOR UPHOLDING RULE
OF LAW AND EXPRESSING CON-
CERN OVER ACTIONS BY GOV-
ERNMENT OF THE PEOPLE’S RE-
PUBLIC OF CHINA
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and agree to the reso-
lution (H. Res. 521) commending the
Government of Canada for upholding
the rule of law and expressing concern
over actions by the Government of the
People’s Republic of China in response
to a request from the United States
Government to the Government of Can-
ada for the extradition of a Huawei
Technologies Co., Ltd., executive.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The text of the resolution is as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 521
Whereas, on December 1, 2018, Canadian au-
thorities detained Huawei Technologies Co.,
Ltd., chief financial officer Meng Wanzhou
based on an arrest warrant issued pursuant
to a request made by the United States
under the Extradition Treaty Between the
United States of America and Canada, signed
at Washington December 3, 1971;
Whereas, on January 24, 2019, the United
States filed a superseding indictment in the
United States District Court for the Eastern
District of New York against Huawei Tech-
nologies Co., Ltd. (‘‘Huawei’’), Huawei De-
vice USA Inc., Skycom Tech Co. Ltd.
(‘‘Skycom’’), and Meng Wanzhou;
Whereas the January 24, 2019, indictment
charges two counts of bank fraud, two counts
of conspiracy to commit bank fraud, one
count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud,
one count of wire fraud, one count of con-
spiracy to defraud the United States, two
counts of conspiracy to violate the Inter-
national Emergency Economic Powers Act,
two counts of violations of the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act, one count
of money laundering conspiracy, and one
count of conspiracy to obstruct justice;
Whereas the January 24, 2019, indictment
charges that ‘‘Huawei operated Skycom as
an unofficial subsidiary to obtain otherwise
prohibited U.S.-origin goods, technology, and
services, including banking services, for
Huawei’s Iran-based business while con-
cealing the link to Huawei’’;
Whereas the United States Government is
seeking the extradition of Meng Wanzhou;
Whereas Canadian authorities granted
Meng Wanzhou access to Chinese consular of-
ficials, and she was able to engage a lawyer
of her choice and was released on bail pend-
ing the outcome of the extradition hearing;
Whereas the Chinese Ministry of Foreign
Affairs strongly urged Canada ‘‘to imme-
diately release’’ Meng Wanzhou and threat-
ened that otherwise ‘‘it will definitely have
grave consequences, and [Canada] will have
to bear the full responsibility for it’’;
Whereas the Government of the People’s
Republic of China detained Canadian dip-
lomat Michael Kovrig and Canadian execu-
tive Michael Spavor on December 10, 2018, in
apparent retaliation for the arrest of Meng
Wanzhou;
Whereas Michael Spavor and Michael
Kovrig have faced harsh conditions while in
detention that include limited consular ac-
cess, no access to a lawyer, being unable to
turn off the lights at night, and lengthy in-
terrogations, including in the case of Mr.
Kovrig, about his official activities during
his previous tenure as an accredited dip-
lomat in the People’s Republic of China, po-
tentially in violation of the Vienna Conven-
tion on Diplomatic Relations, done at Vi-
enna April 18, 1961;
Whereas, on January 14, 2019, a third Cana-
dian, Robert Schellenberg, in Chinese cus-
tody for drug smuggling, had his case re-
viewed and his 15-year sentence changed to
the death penalty;
Whereas the Department of State’s Coun-
try Report on Human Rights Practices for
2018 stated that ‘‘[a]rbitrary arrest and de-
tention remained serious problems’’ in China
and that Chinese judges ‘‘regularly received
political guidance on pending cases, includ-
ing instructions on how to rule, from both
the government and the CCP [Chinese Com-
munist Party], particularly in politically
sensitive cases’’; and
Whereas while neither Michael Kovrig nor
Michael Spavor has been formally charged
with any crime under Chinese law, the Gov-
ernment of the People’s Republic of China
formally arrested them on May 6, 2019, fol-
lowing their detention on December 10, 2018:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the House of Representa-
tives—
(1) commends the Government of Canada
for upholding the rule of law and complying
with its international legal obligations, in-
cluding those pursuant to the Extradition
Treaty Between the United States of Amer-
ica and Canada, signed at Washington De-
cember 3, 1971;
(2) commends the Government of Canada
for providing consular access and due process
for Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., chief fi-
nancial officer Meng Wanzhou;
(3) expresses concern over the Government
of the People’s Republic of China’s apparent
arbitrary detention and abusive treatment of
Canadian nationals Michael Spavor and Mi-
chael Kovrig in apparent retaliation for the
Government of Canada’s detention of Meng
Wanzhou; and
(4) joins the Government of Canada in call-
ing for the immediate release of Michael
Spavor and Michael Kovrig and for due proc-
ess for Canadian national Robert
Schellenberg.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. ENGEL) and the gen-
tleman from Texas (Mr. MCCAUL) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members have 5
legislative days in which to revise and
extend their remarks and include ex-
traneous material on H. Res. 521.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, this is a good, bipar-
tisan resolution, and I was glad to join
Ranking Member MCCAUL as a cospon-
sor of this bill. This measure deals with
something that we have all seen late-
ly—how China responds to those who
go against the Chinese Communist Par-
ty’s agenda. Whether we are talking
about individuals, private companies,
or countries, China doesn’t hesitate to
extort, coerce, and punish those who
challenge it.
Right now, our neighbor to the north,
Canada, is experiencing this firsthand.
Back in December, Canada arrested
and extradited the chief financial offi-
cer of Chinese company Huawei for her
role in violating American sanctions
law. The Canadians were completely in
the right here. They were upholding
the rule of law.
China launched an outrageous re-
sponse, arresting two innocent Cana-
dian citizens on trumped-up charges.
These men are still languishing in Chi-
na’s detention and legal process limbo,
deprived of their freedom and denied
basic consular rights—rights that all
countries should honor—solely because
China wanted to use them in a political
bullying tactic. Their rights went out
the window.
This is an outrageous affront to the
rule of law, and we must condemn it.
H. Res. 521 denounces this practice by
China and sends a clear signal that the
United States Congress stands with
Canada in demanding the immediate
release of their innocent citizens.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in supporting this good meas-
ure, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in strong
support of this resolution commending
the Government of Canada for uphold-
ing the rule of law and expressing con-
cern about China’s use of hostage di-
plomacy.
I thank Chairman ENGEL for cospon-
soring this resolution with me. As al-
ways, we work in a very bipartisan way
on this committee.
This resolution recognizes Canada’s
help with the extradition of Huawei
Technologies’ chief financial officer,
Meng Wanzhou. It also expresses con-
cern with China’s retaliatory and hos-
tile actions against Canadian citizens
detained in China.
China’s hostage diplomacy is abhor-
rent. As retaliation for Canada’s arrest
of Ms. MENG, Canadian citizens Mi-
chael Kovrig and Michael Spavor have
been detained in China since last year.
They have been denied due process and
have been subjected to harsh condi-
tions, such as limited consular access,
no attorney representation, and
lengthy interrogations. Meanwhile, Ms.
MENG has received proper treatment in
Canadian custody and is currently re-
leased on bail.
The cases show the stark contrast be-
tween Canada’s commitment to the
rule of law and China’s.
I commend Canada and regret that
Canadian citizens are paying the price
of China’s malfeasance. Canada’s citi-
zens must be released immediately.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this measure.
Mr. Speaker, in closing, I thank the
people of Canada for standing with us
to uphold the rule of law and assist in
the extradition of Huawei’s CFO, who
is accused of willfully violating United
States sanctions to proliferate tech-
nology to Iran. It is unacceptable that
the Chinese Communist Party is pun-
ishing innocent Canadian citizens to
interfere in this criminal process.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.022 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8129
October 15, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support this and stand in solidarity
with Canada. Huawei is creeping
around the world with 5G technology.
Everywhere we see One Belt, One Road,
we see 5G being planted down in these
countries. They literally steal data
from these countries, now covering half
of the globe.
We are in a race with China, and we
need to combat their espionage and in-
tellectual property theft.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. ENGEL. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume for
the purpose of closing.
Mr. Speaker, again, I thank Ranking
Member MCCAUL for his leadership in
introducing this measure and his hard
work in seeing its passage.
China is flouting the international
rule of law, targeting anyone who goes
against them. And now, they have our
ally Canada in their crosshairs.
This is a commonsense resolution
that shows the United States condemns
this behavior and stands with our ally
and with the families of those unjustly
detained.
Mr. Speaker, I am proud to support
it, and I urge my colleagues to do the
same. I thank Mr. MCCAUL for intro-
ducing it, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
ENGEL) that the House suspend the
rules and agree to the resolution, H.
Res. 521.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the resolu-
tion was agreed to.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
ESTABLISHING A GRANT PRO-
GRAM FOR CEMETERY RE-
SEARCH AND PRODUCING EDU-
CATIONAL MATERIALS
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2385) to permit the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to establish a grant
program to conduct cemetery research
and produce educational materials for
the Veterans Legacy Program, as
amended.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2385
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. GRANTS FOR CEMETERY RESEARCH
AND THE PRODUCTION OF EDU-
CATIONAL MATERIALS.
(a) GRANTS AUTHORIZED.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of Veterans
Affairs may establish a grant program to con-
duct cemetery research and produce educational
materials for the Veterans Legacy Program.
(2) ELIGIBLE RECIPIENTS.—The Secretary may
award a grant under this section to any of the
following entities:
(A) An institution of higher learning.
(B) A local education agency.
(C) A non-profit entity that the Secretary de-
termines has a demonstrated history of commu-
nity engagement.
(D) Another recipient the Secretary deter-
mines to be appropriate.
(3) USE OF FUNDS.—A recipient of a grant
under this section may use the grant amount
to—
(A) conduct research related to national,
State, or Tribal veterans’ cemeteries;
(B) produce education materials that teach
about the history of veterans interred in na-
tional, State, or Tribal veterans’ cemeteries; and
(C) promote community engagement with the
histories of veterans interred in national, State,
or Tribal veterans’ cemeteries.
(4) MAXIMUM AMOUNT.—A grant awarded
under this section may not exceed $500,000.
(b) REGULATIONS.—If the Secretary establishes
a grant program under this section, the Sec-
retary shall prescribe regulations regarding—
(1) the evaluation of applications for grants
under the program; and
(2) administration of the program.
(c) REPORT REQUIRED.—Not later than two
years after the Secretary establishes a grant
program under this section, the Secretary shall
submit to the committees on Veterans’ Affairs of
the House of Representatives and the Senate a
report regarding the determination of the Sec-
retary whether the grant program is a finan-
cially effective means to promote the purposes in
subsection (a)(3).
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘Veterans Legacy Program’’
means the program of the National Cemetery
Administration that is responsible for providing
engagement and educational tools and opportu-
nities to the public regarding the service and
sacrifice of veterans interred in national, State,
or Tribal veterans’ cemeteries.
(2) The term ‘‘institution of higher learning’’
has the meaning given that term in section
3452(f) of title 38, United States Code.
(3) The term ‘‘local educational agency’’ has
the meaning given that term in section 8101 of
the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
2385, as amended.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
2385, as amended. This bill was intro-
duced by Representative CONOR LAMB,
vice chair of the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs. It would permit the Sec-
retary of the VA to use grants rather
than Federal contracts to fund ceme-
tery research programs and produce
educational materials as part of the
Veterans Legacy Program. Switching
to a grant program would ease many
administrative burdens associated with
Federal contracts, allow for more time-
ly payment, and broaden the reach of
the program to smaller organizations.
The Veterans Legacy Program was
launched by VA’s National Cemetery
Administration in order to resurrect
the stories of veterans interred at na-
tional cemeteries, to educate future
generations, and to honor the legacy of
our Nation’s heroes.
This program is a broad collection of
public history materials that tell the
story of America’s veterans buried in
national cemeteries. It supports the
National Cemetery Administration’s
mission to honor and memorialize our
veterans by creating educational mate-
rials that local educators can use to
teach their students and others about
the veterans buried in local cemeteries.
Currently, the National Cemetery
Administration awards Federal con-
tracts to colleges, universities, and
other institutions to support the Vet-
erans Legacy Program. These contract
awards are used to develop specific cur-
ricula.
Eligible recipients of these contracts
include institutions of higher learning,
local education agencies, nonprofit en-
tities the Secretary determines have a
demonstrated history of community
engagement, or any other recipient the
Secretary deems appropriate.
Contract funds can also be used to
conduct research related to national,
State, or Tribal veterans’ cemeteries
and produce educational materials
about or promote community engage-
ment with the history of the veterans
interred at those cemeteries. The max-
imum contract amount is $500,000.
Presently, 16 separate contracts have
been awarded, which have produced an
impressive array of digital and nondig-
ital resources.
Cemetery directors say that they are
pleased to see students visiting the
cemeteries as part of their studies.
This renewed interest, by the young
and old alike, revives the lives and sto-
ries of American veterans.
However, the National Cemetery Ad-
ministration and the institutions of
higher education that most often re-
ceive and utilize these contracts tell us
that working with grants is much more
efficient and easier for them to admin-
ister than contracts.
For instance, grants allow an award
cycle that more closely aligns with the
academic calendar of schools and col-
leges. Administrators of the Veterans
Legacy Program said grant programs
would help increase the reach of the
program beyond large universities to
smaller groups that want to become in-
volved.
A grant program also allows for fast-
er funding. Contracts involve a one-
time payment for work at the end of
the project. A grant configuration,
however, would allow for fluid and reg-
ular payments throughout the course
of the work.
Memorializing veterans is a primary
responsibility of this committee, and
we need to support innovative ideas for
bringing energy and interest into na-
tional veterans’ cemeteries. The Vet-
erans Legacy Program is just that.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:11 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.023 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8130 October 15, 2019
Those currently working with the
program at the National Cemetery Ad-
ministration, in institutions of higher
learning, and in community groups tell
us that a grant program, as opposed to
a Federal contract program, would
solve most, if not all, of the adminis-
trative problems related to accessing
funds in a consistent and flexible way.
H.R. 2385 does that by simply allow-
ing the VA to provide grant funding to
the Veterans Legacy Program.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 2385, as amended. This bill,
which is sponsored by Congressman
CONOR LAMB from Pennsylvania, a
United States Marine Corps veteran,
would authorize the Department of
Veterans Affairs to award grants in-
stead of contracts to educational orga-
nizations that research the lives of
those who are interred in our Nation’s
cemeteries.
I thank Chairman TAKANO for the
amendment he offered during the com-
mittee markup of this bill to include
report language to ensure that Con-
gress has the information needed to de-
termine whether this grant program is
financially sound.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
support H.R. 2385, as amended, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
b 1645
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. LAMB), my good friend
and vice chairman of the House Com-
mittee on Veterans Affairs, a veteran
himself and author of H.R. 2385.
Mr. LAMB. Mr. Speaker, I begin by
thanking Chairman TAKANO and Rank-
ing Member ROE for their support get-
ting this bill through committee, and
my Republican colleague, BRIAN
FITZPATRICK, for cosponsoring it with
me.
I rise tonight in support of H.R. 2385.
Mr. Speaker, we are here on the 75th
anniversary of D-Day, and it always
struck me, an American general who
said, if anyone ever needed proof that
the United States of America fought
for a cause and not for conquest, it is
that when we invaded another con-
tinent halfway around the world, the
only soil we ever asked to maintain
was enough to bury our own dead.
It has been true, throughout genera-
tions, that veterans ask very little rec-
ognition or very little thanks for their
service. I have it on good authority
that, when they built the monument to
World War II here in Washington, D.C.,
throughout that whole year, there were
a number of veterans who approached
the construction site after hours or
early in the morning, and they handed
their dog tags to the people who were
working there and just asked them to
throw them down in the pit underneath
those big stone pillars that they were
putting in the monument.
Anyone who has ever served under-
stands that feeling, that total commit-
ment to the cause and lack of desire for
recognition. But we do programs like
the Veterans Legacy Project because
we need to communicate that same
spirit of sacrifice to the next genera-
tion, and that is what this project can
do.
The graves in these national ceme-
teries and the memorials that we find
there cause young people, especially, to
slow down in a world that is speeding
up, and they express a confidence in
the thing it is that they memorialize.
They tell young people that there are
things that are permanent in this
world, as hard as that is to believe, and
that there is nothing more permanent
than the sacrifices that these men and
women have made.
They also tell them that there is one
thing that is not permanent, which is
the freedom that we all live under
every single day, and that it has to be
refreshed and renewed with the sac-
rifices of people in each generation.
So by expanding this program, mak-
ing it more accessible to more high
schools and more colleges and more
community groups, we can spread that
spirit of sacrifice, of permanence, of
total commitment to the cause of free-
dom throughout the next generation,
and I can’t think of any time when
that has been more needed.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
for supporting this bill.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further speakers,
and I am prepared to close.
Mr. Speaker, I once again encourage
all Members to support H.R. 2385, as
amended, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
In closing, I do want to mention a
couple of important stories related to
the Veterans Legacy Program.
Earlier this year, Professor Hedge
Coke of the University of California,
Riverside presented testimony sup-
porting H.R. 2385, as amended.
Her research on the veterans buried
at the Riverside National Cemetery—
by the way, the largest national ceme-
tery in terms of its geography in my
district. She developed teaching cur-
ricula for local teachers. She has re-
markable energy in the remarkable at-
tention that she has brought to the
cemetery. Her students use her edu-
cational programs to revitalize the sto-
ries of the men and women buried
there.
And, Mr. Speaker, at our hearing,
Professor Hedge Coke told us that the
Veterans Legacy Program doesn’t just
bring students and community mem-
bers to the cemeteries; it takes the his-
tory of the cemeteries back to the
classrooms. Undergraduates, graduate
students, and recent alumni of UC Riv-
erside go to local classrooms, from kin-
dergarten through high school, to fos-
ter this programming.
She said that in almost every class-
room, a good third of the students have
significant ties to the cemetery they
didn’t know anything about. This al-
lows discovery of family and neighbor-
hood ties and encourages cultural de-
velopment within the community.
To date, her program has produced
dozens of lesson plans, and she has
worked with over 2,700 students in
local public schools, including the
Sherman Indian High School.
I also want to say that one of the he-
roes that is buried at that cemetery,
Riverside National Cemetery, is
Ysmael ‘‘Smiley’’ Villegas from Casa
Blanca, who earned the Medal of Honor
by charging enemy foxholes in World
War II. He was killed 1 day short of his
21st birthday.
Smiley Villegas’ neighborhood, Casa
Blanca, is a small neighborhood of
about 225 families; yet this neighbor-
hood of 225 families sent 254 troops to
serve in World War II.
Mr. Speaker, the Veterans Legacy
Program helps to memorialize veterans
like Smiley and the enormous con-
tributions of minority communities
like Casa Blanca.
The program recently created an
interactive web app and digital map-
ping of Riverside National Cemetery. It
includes gravestone tributes from local
students, along with information about
the cemetery’s construction, history,
and notes of interest, such as Native
American and indigenous American
veterans buried there.
In Professor Hedge Coke’s words:
‘‘The Legacy Program delivers this ter-
rific meeting of story and culture to
the university, K–12 schools, and the
surrounding cultures and communities
that make up our region.’’
Mr. Speaker, I wholeheartedly en-
courage all of my colleagues to join me
in passing H.R. 2385, and I yield back
the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2385, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
VA WEBSITE ACCESSIBILITY ACT
OF 2019
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 1199) to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to conduct a study re-
garding the accessibility of websites of
the Department of Veterans Affairs to
individuals with disabilities.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.025 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8131
October 15, 2019
H.R. 1199
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘VA Website
Accessibility Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. STUDY REGARDING THE ACCESSIBILITY
OF WEBSITES OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO INDIVID-
UALS WITH DISABILITIES.
(a) STUDY.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall examine
all websites (including attached files and
web-based applications) of the Department of
Veterans Affairs to determine whether such
websites are accessible to individuals with
disabilities in accordance with section 508 of
the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C.
794d).
(b) REPORT.—Not later than 90 days after
completing the study under subsection (a),
the Secretary shall submit a report to Con-
gress regarding such study. The report shall
include the following:
(1) A list of each website, file, or web-based
application described in subsection (a) that
is not accessible to individuals with disabil-
ities in accordance with section 508 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d).
(2) For each website, file, or web-based ap-
plication identified under paragraph (1), a
description of the barriers to bringing such
website, file, or web-based application into
compliance with the requirements of such
section, including barriers relating to staff-
ing.
(3) The plan of the Secretary to bring each
website, file, or web-based application identi-
fied in the list under paragraph (1) into com-
pliance with the requirements of section 508
of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C.
794d).
(c) DEFINITION OF WEBSITE.—In this sec-
tion, the term ‘‘website’’ includes a kiosk at
a Department of Veterans Affairs medical fa-
cility, the use of which is required to check
in for scheduled appointments.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
1199.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
1199, the VA Website Accountability
Act of 2019, introduced by Representa-
tive ELAINE LURIA, chair of our Sub-
committee on Disability Assistance
and Memorial Affairs. This bill directs
VA to conduct a study regarding the
accessibility of VA websites to individ-
uals with disabilities.
Since 1998, Federal law has required
VA to make electronic and information
technology accessible to people with
disabilities. Unimpeded access to VA
resources, including websites and mo-
bile apps, is crucial because it serves as
a gateway to VA services and benefits.
However, VA has a long history of
stating that it is ‘‘working toward
compliance,’’ while failing to ensure
that all of its websites are accessible to
the blind via use of electronic readers.
In fact, VA has had more than 20 years
to comply with the law.
Mr. Speaker, this was especially con-
cerning last year when the Veteran
Crisis Line was updated, and because
the chat feature was no longer acces-
sible for the visually impaired, it left
blind veterans unable to access this
lifesaving resource.
Other barriers visually impaired vet-
erans face when accessing VA websites
include forms that are incompatible
with the screen reader software or
magnification programs; small buttons
that are hidden among other items,
making them very difficult to find; ele-
ments like checked boxes and buttons
that are not properly labeled; and ta-
bles that cannot be navigated cell by
cell so screen reader software and mag-
nification programs cannot read them.
Now, H.R. 1199 does not propose any
changes to existing Federal law; in-
stead, it requires VA to examine all of
its websites to determine whether or
not they are accessible to individuals
with disabilities so it can comply with
the law.
H.R. 1199 also requires VA to compile
a complete list of noncompliant
websites and kiosks and submit a plan
to Congress detailing how it plans to
bring those websites into legal compli-
ance.
Mr. Speaker, the Blinded Veterans
Association estimates there are cur-
rently over 130,000 legally blind vet-
erans living in this country and an-
other 1.5 million veterans with low vi-
sion. But last year, over 42,000 of these
veterans had cases open with a visual
impairment services team coordinator
at VA because they could not access
websites and mobile apps.
The number of visually impaired vet-
erans is expected to grow as the U.S.
population ages in the next 20 years.
We cannot wait another 20 years for VA
to comply with the law.
This growing population will need to
access VA’s websites, apps, medical
center information kiosks, telehealth
tools, disability benefits, and other
programs and services administered by
VA both now and for the foreseeable fu-
ture.
Since many veterans are comfortable
accessing information, scheduling ap-
pointments, and communicating using
information technology, visually im-
paired veterans want the same access
to these tools that VA offers to other
veterans.
When concerns about the accessi-
bility of websites, documents, and
other equipment and media used to
communicate with veterans are mini-
mized or ignored, some of our Nation’s
most vulnerable veterans—those with
catastrophic disabilities—are left be-
hind.
So Mr. Speaker, when these veterans
are denied access to information and
services, they are at risk for further
aggravation of their disabilities and, in
some cases, even suicide.
The longer we wait, the greater the
risk.
I urge all Members to support H.R.
1199, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 1199, the VA Website Accessi-
bility Act of 2019. This bill would re-
quire the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to examine all websites, apps, at-
tachments, and electronic forms, deter-
mine which are inaccessible to vet-
erans with disabilities, and develop a
plan to make each of them accessible.
Visually impaired veterans, in par-
ticular, often face barriers to accessing
information from VA because they are
directed to forms or pages that are in-
compatible with screen readers. This
bill would require VA to take system-
atic action to address these issues, en-
suring that all veterans are able to ac-
cess needed VA information.
Mr. Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues to support H.R. 1199, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Vir-
ginia (Mrs. LURIA), my good friend and
chairman of the Subcommittee on Dis-
ability Assistance and Memorial Af-
fairs, also the sponsor of H.R. 1199 and
a veteran herself.
Mrs. LURIA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in support of this commonsense
and bipartisan bill to make VA
websites accessible and understandable
for all veterans.
Our servicemembers put themselves
in harm’s way to protect American
freedom. It is only right that Congress
uphold our end of the promise by giv-
ing them the care that they earned.
One of my top priorities in Congress
is eliminating barriers preventing our
bravest men and women from receiving
quality medical care, as well as dis-
ability, vocational, and educational
benefits.
I met with a group of blinded vet-
erans, and they explained that the
structure of the VA websites makes it
difficult for them to learn about treat-
ments and schedule their doctor ap-
pointments. I knew I had to act.
To remedy this problem, I introduced
the VA Website Accessibility Act,
which will require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to conduct a study of
the accessibility of VA websites for
veterans with disabilities. Upon com-
pletion of the study, the Secretary will
be required to report to Congress on
the study’s results and provide a plan
to improve these websites.
This bill will ensure that the ail-
ments and trauma our servicemembers
endured during battle will not prevent
them from using the resources that VA
websites have to offer. Veterans af-
fected by blindness or hearing loss have
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:24 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.012 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8132 October 15, 2019
sacrificed for our Nation. They deserve
equal access to all VA services, and I
am honored to champion their cause.
Our heroes should not have to wait
one day longer. Today, we can help
thousands of veterans receive better
access to healthcare resources.
Mr. Speaker, I urge support of the
VA Website Accessibility Act, H.R.
1199.
b 1700
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I have no further speakers
and am prepared to close. I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I would challenge that
people who are sight impaired in this
country have a 75 percent unemploy-
ment rate, if you look at that.
The challenge that I do each year and
what I do to myself when my sight-im-
paired constituents come to my office
is I go back to my small apartment
that I have and I put a blindfold on,
and I try to get around and just do sim-
ple tasks of the day. And you find out
how very difficult that is.
I could not be more supportive of this
legislation, and I thank the gentle-
woman for bringing it up because, try
on your computer when you can’t see
to get information you need to get
services. You have to have someone
there to help you.
We have the technology available
today, if it is used at the VA, so that
these men and women who have served
this country can also have the access
that every other veteran has.
Mr. Speaker, I strongly support this
bill, H.R. 1199, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers and am prepared to
close.
Mr. Speaker, I, again, want to urge
all of my colleagues to join me in pass-
ing H.R. 1199, Mrs. LURIA’s legislation,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 1199, the ‘‘Directing of
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a
study regarding the accessibility of websites of
the Department of Veterans Affairs to individ-
uals with disabilities.’’
H.R. 1199 permits the Secretary of VA to
use grants rather than federal contracts to
fund cemetery research programs and
produce educational materials as part of the
Veterans Legacy Program.
This bill directs the Department of Veterans
Affairs (VA) to report to Congress regarding
the accessibility of VA websites (including
attatched files and web based applications) to
individuals with disabilities.
According to the United States Census Bu-
reau 31,390 residents in Harris County, Texas
are disabled veterans and this study would
greatly benefit them.
The report shall indentify websites, files, and
applications that are not accessible to such in-
dividuals and include the VA’s plan to make
each of them accessible.
There are 21.8 million veterans of the U.S.
armed forces as of 2014, according the Cen-
sus Bureau, approximately 10 percent of
whom are women.
The states with the highest number of vet-
eran residents are California with 2 million,
Texas with 1.6 million and Florida also with
1.6 million.
Each of these states have major military
bases including Fort Hood in Texas, Fort Irwin
in California and Naval Air Station Pensacola.
The Department of Veterans Affairs offers
health and welfare services to veterans but
has fallen short in its task of serving the men-
tal and physical needs of generations of
former troops.
The study required by this bill must be en-
acted no later than 180 days after the date of
the enactment of this bill.
Once this study has been conducted we will
be better able to assist veterans with disabil-
ities in accessing the website for resources.
It is critical for the United States Congress
to ensure that veterans have access to the re-
sources they need.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 1199 to direct the Sec-
retary of Veterans Affairs to conduct a study
regarding the accessibility of websites of the
Department of Veterans Affairs to individuals
with disabilities.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 1199.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
WILSON AND YOUNG MEDAL OF
HONOR VA CLINIC
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 2334) to designate the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs community-
based outpatient clinic in Odessa,
Texas, as the ‘‘Wilson and Young Medal
of Honor VA Clinic’’.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 2334
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DESIGNATION OF WILSON AND
YOUNG MEDAL OF HONOR VA CLIN-
IC.
(a) FINDING.—Congress finds that Private
First Class Alfred ‘‘Mac’’ Wilson of the Ma-
rine Corps and Staff Sergeant Marvin ‘‘Rex’’
Young of the Army were both posthumously
awarded the Medal of Honor for their heroic
actions in the Vietnam War.
(b) DESIGNATION.—The Department of Vet-
erans Affairs community-based outpatient
clinic in Odessa, Texas, shall after the date
of the enactment of this Act be known and
designated as the ‘‘Wilson and Young Medal
of Honor VA Clinic’’.
(c) REFERENCES.—Any reference in a law,
map, regulation, document, paper, or other
record of the United States to the facility re-
ferred to in subsection (b) shall be deemed to
be a reference to the ‘‘Wilson and Young
Medal of Honor VA Clinic’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R.
2334.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise to honor the lives
of Army Staff Sergeant Marvin ‘‘Rex’’
Young and Marine Corps Private First
Class Alfred ‘‘Mac’’ Wilson. I thank my
colleague from Texas (Mr. CONAWAY)
for bringing this bill before us so that
we all may be able to pay tribute to
two of our Nation’s heroes.
As soon as the law allowed, both men
signed up to serve our country during
the height of the Vietnam war. It was
during this war that both Staff Ser-
geant Young and Private First Class
Wilson would ultimately give their
lives in defense of our country.
Private First Class Wilson was born
on January 13, 1948, in Olney, Illinois.
His family moved to Odessa, Texas, in
1950, where he attended local schools
before graduating from Odessa Senior
High School in 1967. He enlisted in the
United States Marine Corps Reserve at
Abilene, Texas, on November 1, 1967,
and was discharged to enlist in the Ma-
rine Corps on January 14, 1968.
At the time of his death, Private
First Class Wilson was a rifleman with
Company M, 3rd Battalion, 9th Ma-
rines, 3rd Marine Division.
Staff Sergeant Young was born on
May 11, 1947, in Alpine, Texas, the
youngest of three children born to Roy
Clinton and Marilyn Young.
He joined the Army from Odessa,
Texas, in September 1966 and by Au-
gust 21, 1968, was serving as a staff ser-
geant in Company C, 1st Battalion, 5th
Infantry Regiment, 25th Infantry Divi-
sion.
At two different points of the Viet-
nam war, these two brave men gave
their lives to support the mission of
their respective units and were both
posthumously awarded the Medal of
Honor.
For Private First Class Wilson, it
was March 3, 1969, when the first pla-
toon of Company M was ambushed by
the North Vietnamese Army after re-
turning from patrol. Intense automatic
weapons fire and grenade attacks
wounded the platoon’s gunner and as-
sistant gunner.
Acting as squad leader, Private Wil-
son put himself in between enemy fire
and his men to retrieve the machine
gun from the wounded marines so that
his platoon could maintain a heavy
volume of fire against the enemy.
When he reached the M–60 machine
gun, a North Vietnamese soldier threw
a grenade at him, landing between Pri-
vate First Class Wilson and another
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:49 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.029 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8133
October 15, 2019
marine. Private First Class Wilson first
fired a burst from his M–16 rifle, killing
the enemy, and then shouted to his
companion and, unhesitatingly, threw
himself on the grenade, absorbing the
full force of the explosion with his
body.
Because of his selfless act of valor,
his platoon members were able to give
maximum effort to aggressively and
successfully defeat the enemy.
On August 21, 1968, a regimental sized
force of the North Vietnamese Army
attacked Staff Sergeant Young’s pla-
toon while on a reconnaissance mis-
sion. Staff Sergeant Young assumed
command of the platoon after the act-
ing platoon leader was killed, orga-
nizing and deploying his men to repel
the enemy force.
While wave after wave of the enemy
attacked, he courageously moved from
position to position, encouraging and
directing fire at the North Vietnamese
Army while exposing himself to enemy
bullets.
When Staff Sergeant Young noticed
that parts of his squad were unable to
retreat, he fought his way to them, de-
spite sustaining a critical head injury,
so they could safely withdraw. While
fighting with the squad as it fought its
way to the rear, Staff Sergeant Young
was seriously wounded in the arm and
his leg was badly shattered.
Without wanting to slow the retreat
of his squad, he refused assistance and
ordered their withdrawal while pro-
viding protective cover until the
enemy engulfed his position.
These two heroes sacrificed their
lives for their fellow servicemembers
and our freedom.
Mr. Speaker, my colleagues and I,
and a grateful Nation, owe a debt of
gratitude to Private First Class Alfred
‘‘Mac’’ Wilson and Staff Sergeant
Marvin ‘‘Rex’’ Young, and to their fam-
ilies and to their legacies.
I fully support the naming of the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs commu-
nity-based outpatient clinic in Odessa,
Texas, as the ‘‘Wilson and Young Medal
of Honor VA Clinic’’ so that we never
forget their sacrifices.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
vote ‘‘yes’’ on this bill and urge our
Senate colleagues to take up this bill
without delay, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 2334, a bill sponsored by Con-
gressman MICHAEL CONAWAY of Texas.
This bill would name the Department
of Veterans Affairs community-based
outpatient clinic in Odessa, Texas, the
‘‘Wilson and Young Medal of Honor VA
Clinic,’’ after two Texas veterans who
received the Medal of Honor for their
heroic actions in the Vietnam war.
Private First Class Alfred ‘‘Mac’’
Wilson was a marine killed in action
March 3, 1969, when he threw himself
on a grenade to save his platoon mate
during an enemy ambush.
Staff Sergeant Marvin ‘‘Rex’’ Young
was a soldier who was killed in action
on August 21, 1968, when he was fatally
wounded while rescuing several of his
fellow soldiers who had been pinned
down by enemy fire.
Both of these men received post-
humously the Medal of Honor, our
country’s highest tribute, for their ac-
tions.
Even these many years after their
deaths, their memories live on as ex-
amples of true courage, selflessness,
and love of country. I commend Con-
gressman CONAWAY for introducing this
bill in their honor.
This bill is supported by the entire
Texas delegation, in both the House
and the Senate, as well as by several
veterans’ service organizations
throughout Texas.
Mr. Speaker, this is something very
near and dear and personal to me. I am
a Vietnam-era veteran myself. I re-
member, all too often, seeing these
American heroes who never got to see
their families, their children, or their
grandchildren because of the sacrifice
that they gave for this country: their
life, the greatest sacrifice they could.
And we stand here in this great coun-
try, free, because of what these men
did. And I hope that people in Odessa,
Texas, take as much pride as I do. Ten-
nessee and Texas have a great connec-
tion, as the Speaker knows, and I take
great pride, in Tennessee, in having the
privilege today to be on this floor de-
bating this bill and bestowing this
honor on these two heroes.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I include
in the RECORD letters from The Amer-
ican Legion, Department of Texas;
from the DAV, Disabled American Vet-
erans, Department of Texas; and the
VFW, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, in
support of Mr. CONAWAY’s bill to name
the clinic in Texas after these gentle-
men.
THE AMERICAN LEGION,
DEPARTMENT OF TEXAS,
Austin, TX, May 30, 2019.
Chairman MARK TAKANO,
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
Washington, DC.
Ranking Member PHIL ROE,
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN TAKANO AND RANKING
MEMBER ROE: On the behalf of The American
Legion, Department of Texas, I am honored
to extend my support to the efforts of U.S.
Representative K. Michael Conaway and the
Members of Congress from Texas to rename
the Department of Veterans Affairs out-
patient clinic in Odessa, Texas to the ‘‘Wil-
son and Young Medal of Honor VA Clinic’’.
As Medal of Honor recipients raised in
Odessa, it is fitting that Alfred ‘‘Mac’’ Wil-
son and Marvin ‘‘Rex’’ Young be memorial-
ized by naming a facility that serves their
brothers and sisters in arms in their time of
need. It is a testament to their bravery and
self-sacrifice. May it also be a reminder for
us all to live up to their examples.
‘‘For God and Country’’,
LLOYD BUCKMASTER,
State Commander.
Attest:
WILLIAM WEST,
State Adjutant.
DAV,
DEPARTMENT OF TEXAS,
Lufkin, TX, April 24, 2019.
Chairman MARK TAKANO,
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
Washington, DC.
Ranking Member PHIL ROE,
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN TAKANO AND RANKING
MEMBER ROE: On the behalf of the Disabled
American Veterans, Department of Texas, I
am honored to extend my support to the ef-
forts of U.S. Representative K. Michael Con-
away and the Members of Congress from
Texas to rename the Department of Veterans
Affairs outpatient clinic in Odessa, Texas to
the ‘‘Wilson and Young Medal of Honor VA
Clinic’’.
As Medal of honor recipients raised in
Odessa, it is fitting that Allied ‘‘Mac’’ Wil-
son and Marvin ‘‘Rex’’ Young be memorial-
ized by naming a facility that serves their
brothers and sisters in arms in their time of
need. It is a testament to their bravery and
self-sacrifice. May it also be a reminder for
us all to live up to their examples.
Sincerely,
TERESA JOHNIKEN,
Adjutant/Treasurer.
VETERNS OF FOREIGN WARS,
Austin, TX, June 5, 2019.
Chairman MARK TAKANO,
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
Washington, DC.
Ranking Member PHIL ROE,
House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs,
Washington, DC.
DEAR CHAIRMAN TAKANO AND RANKING
MEMBER ROE: On the behalf of the Texas Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars, I am honored to ex-
tend my support to the efforts of U.S. Rep-
resentative K. Michael Conaway and the
Members of Congress from Texas to rename
the Department of Veterans Affairs Out-
patient Clinic in Odessa, Texas to the ‘‘Wil-
son and Young Medal of Honor VA Clinic’’.
As Medal of Honor recipients raised in
Odessa, it is fitting that Alfred ‘‘Mac’’ Wil-
son and Marvin ‘‘Rex’’ Young be memorial-
ized by naming a facility that serves their
brothers and sisters in arms in their time of
need. It is a testament to their bravery and
self-sacrifice. May it also be a reminder for
us all to live up to their examples.
Sincerely,
INGEBORG A. CONLEY,
State Commander.
Attest:
DAN WEST,
State Adjutant/Quartermaster.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I have no
further speakers and am prepared to
close, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, it is my privilege to yield 5
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CONAWAY), my good friend from
Texas’ 11th District, the former chair-
man of the Agriculture Committee and
now ranking member, who also serves
on the Intelligence Committee, to
honor these two great heroes.
Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Speaker, I want
to specifically thank Chairman TAKANO
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:48 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.032 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8134 October 15, 2019
and Ranking Member ROE for bringing
this bill to the floor and allowing this
much-deserved recognition of two
young heroes from Odessa, Texas.
Mr. Speaker, I include in the RECORD
the official citations from each of the
awards of the Medal of Honor to Alfred
‘‘Mac’’ Wilson and Rex Young.
WILSON, ALFRED M.
Rank: Private First Class Organization: U.S.
Marine Corps
Company: Company M, 3d Battalion Divi-
sion: 9th Marines, 3d Marine Division
Born: 13 January 1948, Olney, Ill. Departed:
Yes
Place/Date: Quang Tri Province, Republic of
Vietnam, 3 March 1969
CITATION
For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity
at the risk of his life above and beyond the
call of duty while serving as a rifleman with
Company M in action against hostile forces.
While returning from a reconnaissance-in-
force mission in the vicinity of Fire Support
Base Cunningham, the 1st Platoon of Com-
pany M came under intense automatic weap-
ons fire and a grenade attack from a well
concealed enemy force. As the center of the
column was pinned down, the leading squad
moved to outflank the enemy. Pfc. Wilson,
acting as squad leader of the rear squad,
skillfully maneuvered his men to form a base
of fire and act as a blocking force. In the en-
suing fire fight, both his machine gunner and
assistant machine gunner were seriously
wounded and unable to operate their weap-
ons. Realizing the urgent need to bring the
weapon into operation again, Pfc. Wilson,
followed by another marine and with com-
plete disregard for his safety, fearlessly
dashed across the fire-swept terrain to re-
cover the weapon. As they reached the ma-
chinegun, an enemy soldier stepped from be-
hind a tree and threw a grenade toward the
2 marines. Observing the grenade fall be-
tween himself and the other marine, Pfc.
Wilson, fully realizing the inevitable result
of his actions, shouted to his companion and
unhesitating threw himself on the grenade,
absorbing the full force of the explosion with
his own body. His heroic actions inspired his
platoon members to maximum effort as they
aggressively attacked and defeated the
enemy. Pfc. Wilson’s indomitable courage,
inspiring valor and selfless devotion to duty
upheld the highest traditions of the Marine
Corps and the U.S. Naval Service. He gal-
lantly gave his life for his country.
YOUNG, MARVIN R.
Rank: Staff Sergeant Organization: U.S.
Army
Company: Company C, 1st Battalion Divi-
sion: 5th Infantry, 25th Infantry Division
Born: 11 May 1947, Alpine, Tex. Departed: Yes
Place/Date: Near Ben Cui, Republic of Viet-
nam, 21 August 1968
CITATION
For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity
in action at the risk of his life above and be-
yond the call of duty. S/Sgt. Young distin-
guished himself at the cost of his life while
serving as a squad leader with Company C.
While conducting a reconnaissance mission
in the vicinity of Ben Cui, Company C was
suddenly engaged by an estimated regi-
mental-size force of the North Vietnamese
Army. During the initial volley of fire the
point element of the 1st Platoon was pinned
down, sustaining several casualties, and the
acting platoon leader was killed. S/Sgt.
Young unhesitatingly assumed command of
the platoon and began to organize and deploy
his men into a defensive position in order to
repel the attacking force. As a human wave
attack advanced on S/Sgt. Young’s platoon,
he moved from position to position, encour-
aging and directing fire on the hostile insur-
gents while exposing himself to the hail of
enemy bullets. After receiving orders to
withdraw to a better defensive position, he
remained behind to provide covering fire for
the withdrawal. Observing that a small ele-
ment of the point squad was unable to ex-
tract itself from its position, and completely
disregarding his personal safety, S/Sgt.
Young began moving toward their position,
firing as he maneuvered. When halfway to
their position he sustained a critical head in-
jury, yet he continued his mission and or-
dered the element to withdraw. Remaining
with the squad as it fought its way to the
rear, he was twice seriously wounded in the
arm and leg. Although his leg was badly
shattered, S/Sgt. Young refused assistance
that would have slowed the retreat of his
comrades, and he ordered them to continue
their withdrawal while he provided protec-
tive covering fire. With indomitable courage
and heroic self-sacrifice, he continued his
self-assigned mission until the enemy force
engulfed his position. By his gallantry at the
cost of his life are in the highest traditions
of the military service, S/Sgt. Young has re-
flected great credit upon himself, his unit,
and the U.S. Army.
Mr. CONAWAY. Mr. Speaker, both
our previous speakers have described
the last days that Mac and Rex spent
on this Earth.
I had the privilege of going to high
school with Rex. He was a year older
than I. Rex and I played on the football
team together. Rex was a really good
baseball player.
I did not have the privilege of know-
ing Mac. He went to our across-town
rival. He was also a wonderful young
man.
Mr. Speaker, I want to specifically
thank all of those men and women in
Odessa, Texas, who, for years now, have
attempted and worked really hard at
maintaining the memory of Mac and
Rex in our communities. They have
done great work, and, without their
support and efforts, I don’t know if we
would have gotten this done as well.
Odessa, Texas, at that point in time,
in the late sixties, was a town of about
80,000 or so folks. Medal of Honor re-
cipients are really rare, and to have
two of them come from one west Texas
town is a high honor.
Both these men embody the west
Texas values of selflessness, courage,
and devotion to one’s country, and
their gallant sacrifices serve as a som-
ber reminder to all of us of the price
that some have paid to secure our free-
doms.
Mr. Speaker, on Memorial Day every
year we honor all of our servicemen
and -women who have given that ulti-
mate sacrifice on the altar of freedom,
as we should.
When I give speeches and talk to
folks back home during that time
frame, I ask people to make it per-
sonal. We talk about them as a group,
and it loses some of the punch, some of
the impact, so I ask my folks back
home to find somebody specifically
who gave that sacrifice and made that
sacrifice and to think about them on
that day. For me, every year, it is Rex.
The VA clinic there in Odessa, Texas,
will now bear both their names, and all
of those untold numbers of current vets
and future vets who will walk through
those doors and receive the care that
they have earned from their service to
our Nation will see those two names
and will know that two of their own
were honored appropriately by having
that VA clinic named after them.
I want to thank the hospital in Odes-
sa, Texas, which actually owns the
building, for allowing us to do that,
and I thank the VA system itself for
working so hard to get this done. I am
looking forward to the ceremony that
we will conduct.
I also want to thank Senators CRUZ
and CORNYN in the Senate for intro-
ducing the companion legislation in
the Senate so that we can get that
done over there and then move to ap-
propriately honor two of America’s fin-
est, two young men who woke up one
morning, their last day on Earth, and
then went out and did something stun-
ningly heroic. I don’t know that they
necessarily knew that day they were
going to do it, but they did it, and they
have earned this medal and they have
earned this recognition and our deep,
lasting gratitude for their sacrifices.
b 1715
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Let me say how much I appreciate
this legislation from the gentleman
from Texas. Reading through the
medal citations, it was certainly very
moving. I found myself even finding my
voice very halting as I read through it
with my staff. I see that the gentleman
still, today, remembers his friend with
great memories. He was a great ball-
player.
It is always poignant to take note of
young servicemembers who give their
lives for our country, and we certainly
want to join together, on a bipartisan
basis, as a Nation, to express our grati-
tude.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join me in passing H.R. 2334, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I will associate myself with the re-
marks of the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. CONAWAY). I know he misses his
friend.
It is a true privilege to be here today
to be able to honor this clinic in Odes-
sa, Texas.
I encourage all Members to support
H.R. 2334, and I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
I urge all of my colleagues to join me
in passing H.R. 2334, honoring Staff
Sergeant Marvin ‘‘Rex’’ Young and Pri-
vate First Class Alfred ‘‘Mac’’ Wilson,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:49 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.034 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8135
October 15, 2019
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 2334.
The question was taken; and (two-
thirds being in the affirmative) the
rules were suspended and the bill was
passed.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
HOMELESS VETERAN FAMILIES
ACT
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I move to
suspend the rules and pass the bill
(H.R. 95) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure that children of
homeless veterans are included in the
calculation of the amounts of certain
per diem grants.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 95
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Homeless
Veteran Families Act’’.
SEC. 2. MODIFICATION OF CALCULATION OF
AMOUNTS OF PER DIEM GRANTS.
Section 2012(a)(2)(B) of title 38, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in clause (i), by inserting ‘‘or (iii)’’ after
‘‘clause (ii)’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(iii) With respect to a homeless veteran
who has care of a minor dependent while re-
ceiving services from the grant recipient or
eligible entity, the daily cost of care shall be
the sum of the daily cost of care determined
under subparagraph (A) plus, for each such
minor dependent, an amount that equals 50
percent of such daily cost of care.’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
California (Mr. TAKANO) and the gen-
tleman from Tennessee (Mr. DAVID P.
ROE) each will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
may have 5 legislative days in which to
revise and extend their remarks and to
insert extraneous material on H.R. 95.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from California?
There was no objection.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R.
95, the Homeless Veteran Families Act.
H.R. 95 was introduced by Represent-
ative JULIA BROWNLEY, chair of the
Subcommittee on Health and a tireless
advocate for women veterans and their
children.
This bill would ensure that children
of homeless veterans are included in
the calculation of per diem grants to
organizations supporting homeless vet-
erans and their families. By including
children in this calculation, homeless
veterans and their children will receive
much-needed housing and supportive
services, which will reduce the rate of
homelessness among the veteran popu-
lation.
Mr. Speaker, since 1994, VA’s home-
less grant and per diem program has
provided homeless veterans with com-
munity-based transitional housing and
supportive services. The grant per diem
program annually offers funding to
community agencies that provide sup-
portive services to homeless veterans.
It promotes the development and provi-
sion of supportive housing and sup-
portive services, with the goal of help-
ing homeless veterans achieve residen-
tial stability, increase their skill levels
and income, and obtain greater self-de-
termination.
However, many homeless veterans
with children are unable to obtain
transitional housing and support as-
sistance through the program because
providers only receive payments from
VA for the veteran, not their depend-
ent children. Many housing providers
have been unable to house homeless
veterans who are accompanied by their
dependent children without additional
financial support.
Mr. Speaker, current law limits VA’s
authority to reimburse the additional
costs associated with sheltering the de-
pendent children of homeless veterans,
which has resulted in many grant per
diem service providers not accepting
homeless veterans with dependent chil-
dren.
This has resulted in a lack of access
to supportive housing and services for
veterans with children, as these vet-
erans are forced to choose between re-
ceipt of housing assistance and sup-
portive services and caring for their
children. This is especially true for
many women veterans who have chil-
dren and who are also homeless.
This legislation would authorize VA
to pay a partial per diem to grant per
diem service providers supporting our
Nation’s homeless veterans with chil-
dren. For each child accompanying a
homeless veteran, the service provider
would receive per diem at a 50 percent
rate for each child.
This committee is committed to ad-
dressing and ending homelessness, and
this legislation is one step toward this
end.
Mr. Speaker, earlier this year, Eco-
nomic Opportunity Subcommittee
Chairman LEVIN and Ranking Member
BILIRAKIS held two field hearings in
San Diego, California, and Tampa,
Florida, to learn more about how VA
can better coordinate with local orga-
nizations to end veteran homelessness.
This bill is the first of many solutions,
some of which have been identified
from these bipartisan hearings of the
Economic Opportunity Subcommittee.
The full committee will continue to
work together to find bipartisan solu-
tions to end veteran homelessness.
H.R. 95 has 301 cosponsors, which dem-
onstrates this Chamber’s commitment
to ending veteran homelessness and to
working together to improve the lives
of the veterans we represent.
Mr. Speaker, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today in support
of H.R. 95, the Homeless Veteran Fami-
lies Act. This bill would amend the De-
partment of Veterans Affairs Homeless
Providers Grant and Per Diem Pro-
gram to provide payments to GPD pro-
viders for the services they provide to
the children of homeless veterans.
Mr. Speaker, while VA and other
partners have been very successful in
decreasing the number of homeless vet-
erans in the country by almost 50 per-
cent since 2010, we still have an unac-
ceptable number of veterans on the
streets every night.
The GPD program is a tool in VA’s
arsenal to help community organiza-
tions provide services to homeless vet-
erans by reimbursing them for pro-
viding temporary housing and sup-
portive services that promote health
and self-sufficiency among homeless
veterans.
However, under current rules, com-
munity partners are not authorized
funding for providing services and shel-
ter to the dependents of the homeless
veterans who they serve. This forces
these organizations to make a difficult
choice of turning away homeless vet-
erans with children or finding another
source of funding to provide services
for them.
H.R. 95 would address this issue by
amending current law to authorize
grant and per diem payments for the
children of homeless veterans at half
the amount paid for each homeless vet-
eran.
While I have some concerns about
using medical care dollars to provide
these services, as they may detract
from the already limited resources
available for providing services for
homeless veterans themselves, I am
not going to oppose this approach
today. I want what is best for our vet-
erans, and if this change helps commu-
nity partners provide the services they
need to homeless veteran families,
then it is worthy of our support.
I thank the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia, my friend, Congresswoman
JULIA BROWNLEY, for sponsoring this
bill, which has my full support, and I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from Cali-
fornia (Ms. BROWNLEY), my good friend,
the chairwoman of the Health Sub-
committee, and the author of this bill.
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, I thank the chairman for
yielding this afternoon, and I thank
the ranking member of the committee
for his support of a very, very impor-
tant bill for our veterans, the Homeless
Veteran Families Act.
As a member of the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee, I believe that it is abso-
lutely critical that veterans and their
families receive the housing support
they need simply to get back on their
feet.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:49 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.037 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8136 October 15, 2019
Since 1994, the VA’s Homeless Pro-
viders Grant and Per Diem Program
has provided homeless veterans with
community-based transitional housing
and supportive services. This program
funds community agencies that provide
such services to homeless veterans.
In fiscal year 2017 alone, the VA fund-
ed 600 community sites that provided
housing to more than 23,000 veterans
through the use of over 12,000 transi-
tional housing beds nationwide.
Unfortunately, many homeless vet-
erans with children are unable to ob-
tain transitional housing and the sup-
port assistance they need under the
homeless grant program because hous-
ing providers only receive payments
from the VA for the veteran but not for
any minor dependents with their fami-
lies.
Because housing a family requires
more resources and beds, many housing
providers have been unable to house
homeless families without additional
financial support. This problem has re-
sulted in the lack of access to very
needed supportive housing and services
for veterans with children because the
veteran is forced to choose between
getting their own housing assistance
and services or caring for their minor
dependent child or children.
The VA has previously stated that
approximately 8 percent of veterans
who entered grant per diem housing
programs, and who had a full assess-
ment completed within 30 days prior to
admission, had either full or partial
legal custody of their children. This
was estimated to be 2,500 children in
fiscal year 2017.
No veteran should be forced to choose
between housing and much-needed
services or caring for their children.
However, current law limits the VA’s
authority to reimburse housing pro-
viders for the additional costs associ-
ated with sheltering the dependent
children of our homeless veterans.
My bill, which we are voting on
today, would provide for a partial per
diem for each minor child who is re-
ceiving services through this program.
This partial per diem would be an
amount equal to 50 percent of the daily
cost of care. This would ensure that
veterans and their children are able to
obtain the housing and services needed
to help them achieve residential sta-
bility; give them the opportunity to in-
crease their skill level and income;
and, ultimately, obtain greater self-de-
termination and self-worth.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. TAKANO. I yield the gentle-
woman from California an additional 1
minute.
Ms. BROWNLEY of California. Mr.
Speaker, providing housing to our Na-
tion’s homeless veterans is an essential
first step and critical to everything in
a veteran’s life, including getting the
healthcare they have earned, taking
advantage of veteran education bene-
fits, getting a job, and having the qual-
ity of life they have earned and de-
served—and what our country has
promised.
Passage of this legislation will ben-
efit veterans of all eras and their minor
children who are struggling and suf-
fering with homelessness.
My bill has over 300 cosponsors,
which is indicative of the bipartisan
support for addressing this important
and time-sensitive issue. I urge my col-
leagues to support this bipartisan leg-
islation, and I thank the chairman for
bringing my bill to the floor.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield 5 minutes to the gen-
tlewoman from Puerto Rico (Miss
GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN). She was a member
of the Veterans’ Affairs Committee and
a very passionate supporter of our vet-
erans.
After the hurricanes in Puerto Rico,
she was kind enough to invite me. I
saw her passion. We went through the
VA hospital together, the outpatient
clinics. I don’t believe anyone in this
Congress has more care for our vet-
erans than her.
b 1730
Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico. Mr. Speaker, I thank my dear
friend for allowing me to speak and for
his visit. And actually, that was the
first time ever the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee had a hearing in Puerto
Rico in more than 100 years. So we got
two chairmen in Puerto Rico in the
last 2 years, and I am happy to say that
Mr. ROE and Mr. TAKANO were there
this year.
And actually I have got good news.
Finally, we got the money assigned for
the new clinic in Arecibo and the new
clinic in Ponce after that visit. So that
is real good news. And we just received
a VA deputy last week, and they are
talking about expanding the services of
the hospital, which is good.
Today I rise in full support of H.R. 95,
the Homeless Veteran Families Act in-
troduced by my colleague JULIA
BROWNLEY of California.
Homelessness is, unfortunately, one
of the challenges many of our veterans
face upon separating from the Armed
Forces. Consequently, the Department
of Veterans Affairs has made ending
homelessness part of their core mis-
sion.
Initiatives like the Homeless Pro-
viders Grant and Per Diem Program,
which funds community agencies that
provide services to homeless veterans,
facilitates tackling these problems
head-on.
H.R. 95 builds upon this program by
authorizing the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs to pay partial per diem
for children who are under the care of
a homeless veteran. We need to keep in
mind that homelessness can affect our
veterans at any point, impacting not
only their lives, but the lives of their
children.
Recent estimates indicate that there
are close to 82 homeless veterans in
Puerto Rico, and we need to take this
personally because they just can’t
move to another state. With us living
on an island, we have got to have our
community being served, and a pro-
gram like Homeless Providers Grant
and the Per Diem Program will help us
lower this number to zero and will
counter the inability of providers of
these services to turn down helping a
veteran because he or she has children
under their care.
And I think that is the most impor-
tant thing about this bill. It is not only
the veteran themselves that suffers, it
is the family that suffers with him or
with her, and that is the reason I am a
proud cosponsor of this bill.
I commend Congresswoman
BROWNLEY for her leadership on this
issue, and, of course, I urge my col-
leagues to vote in favor of this bill. I
think it is important to recognize that
we all need to take care of these kinds
of issues.
I thank Congressman ROE and Chair-
man TAKANO for visiting the island this
year. I think this is the first time ever
that Puerto Rico has received visits
from two chairmen, and that means
something for the more than 105,000
veterans registered on the island.
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Mr.
Speaker, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I think this is a great bill. Homeless-
ness is a huge problem in this country,
and keeping our families together is a
huge problem in this country. This, I
think, will be some of the best money
that we ever spend, if we can keep
these families together. If a veteran is
out there with their spouse and they
are trying the best they can, they need
these resources so they can keep that
family unit together.
This bill should go through the House
and the Senate unanimously. I think it
will, and with over 300 cosponsors, I
feel like it will.
I want to thank Congresswoman
BROWNLEY, who is a tireless supporter
of veterans on the Veterans’ Affairs
Committee. I thank her for bringing
this up, and I encourage all of my col-
leagues to support this bill, H.R. 95.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, I cer-
tainly also want to congratulate and
thank Congresswoman BROWNLEY, the
Chair of our Health Subcommittee, for
bringing this legislation forward. And I
also want to also express my gratitude
to Ranking Member ROE, former Chair-
man ROE. We both made a commitment
to the territory of Puerto Rico, and we
want the people of Puerto Rico to
know that on a bipartisan basis the
Veterans’ Affairs Committee cares
about the service and the benefits that
are owed to the veterans of Puerto
Rico.
So I urge all of my colleagues to pass
H.R. 95, which addresses a critical need
for veterans that have children and
who are in need of housing to prevent
them from being homeless. I yield back
the balance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I rise in
strong support of H.R. 95, the ‘‘Homeless Vet-
eran Families Act.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.039 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8137
October 15, 2019
H.R. 95 updates the Department of Vet-
erans Affairs per diem payment calculation for
entities furnishing services to homeless vet-
erans to include funding for a minor depend-
ent.
The rate for per diem payments is the daily
cost of care as estimated by the grant recipi-
ent or eligible entity.
This bill would expand the per diem pay-
ment amount for a homeless veteran who has
care of a minor dependent to the daily cost of
care, plus, for each minor dependent, an
amount that equals 50 percent of such daily
cost of care.
This bill is an intrinsic part of a much great-
er national movement to recognize the transi-
tional needs of all Veterans and their families
nationwide.
Our Veterans are America’s indispensable
asset; their dedication to the United States
Military and protecting the lives of the Amer-
ican people is to be commended.
Lack of access to childcare presents a
unique safety hazard to homeless veterans’
families, and puts a unique pressure on the
shelters and facilities in Houston.
Less than 3 percent of Veterans experi-
encing homelessness (2.9 percent) were in
families with children.
Veteran women experiencing homelessness
are more likely to be a part of a family with
children, compared to Veteran men.
Because of a lack of affordable health treat-
ment and job prospects, veterans represent
about 12 percent of America’s homeless popu-
lation, and approximately 50,000 veterans are
homeless each night.
This bill will allow homeless veterans with
children to receive enhanced child care serv-
ices.
When enacted, H.R. 95 will alleviate the fi-
nancial burdens homeless veterans experi-
ence with child care and assist them to transi-
tion into the workforce.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to join
me in supporting H.R. 95 to expand resources
for homeless veterans with children.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 95.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
Mr. TAKANO. Mr. Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL
EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO
SIGNIFICANT NARCOTICS TRAF-
FICKERS CENTERED IN COLOM-
BIA—MESSAGE FROM THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES (H. DOC. NO. 116–74)
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following message
from the President of the United
States; which was read and, together
with the accompanying papers, referred
to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
and ordered to be printed:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to sig-
nificant narcotics traffickers centered
in Colombia declared in Executive
Order 12978 of October 21, 1995, is to
continue in effect beyond October 21,
2019.
The circumstances that led to the
declaration on October 21, 1995, of a na-
tional emergency continue to exist.
The actions of significant narcotics
traffickers centered in Colombia con-
tinue to pose an unusual and extraor-
dinary threat to the national security,
foreign policy, and economy of the
United States and to cause an extreme
level of violence, corruption, and harm
in the United States and abroad. For
this reason, I have determined that it
is necessary to continue the national
emergency declared in Executive Order
12978 with respect to significant nar-
cotics traffickers centered in Colom-
bia.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, October 15, 2019.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until ap-
proximately 6:30 p.m. today.
Accordingly (at 5 o’clock and 37 min-
utes p.m.), the House stood in recess.
f
b 1830
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. TITUS) at 6 o’clock and 30
minutes p.m.
f
REPORT ON RESOLUTION PRO-
VIDING FOR CONSIDERATION OF
H.R. 1815, SEC DISCLOSURE EF-
FECTIVENESS TESTING ACT,
AND PROVIDING FOR CONSIDER-
ATION OF H.R. 3624, OUTSOURC-
ING ACCOUNTABILITY ACT OF
2019
Mr. DESAULNIER, from the Com-
mittee on Rules, submitted a privi-
leged report (Rept. No. 116–237) on the
resolution (H. Res. 629) providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 1815) to
require the Securities and Exchange
Commission, when developing rules and
regulations about disclosures to retail
investors, to conduct investor testing,
including a survey and interviews of re-
tail investors, and for other purposes,
and providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 3624) to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to require the dis-
closure of the total number of domestic
and foreign employees of certain public
companies, and for other purposes,
which was referred to the House Cal-
endar and ordered to be printed.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pro-
ceedings will resume on questions pre-
viously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Motions to suspend the rules and
pass:
H.R. 2385; and
H.R. 95.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, the remaining
electronic vote will be conducted as a
5-minute vote.
f
ESTABLISHING A GRANT PRO-
GRAM FOR CEMETERY RE-
SEARCH AND PRODUCING EDU-
CATIONAL MATERIALS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 2385) to permit the Secretary
of Veterans Affairs to establish a grant
program to conduct cemetery research
and produce educational materials for
the Veterans Legacy Program, as
amended, on which the yeas and nays
were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 409, nays 1,
not voting 22, as follows:
[Roll No. 556]
YEAS—409
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.017 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8138 October 15, 2019
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—1
Amash
NOT VOTING—22
Beatty
Bishop (NC)
Castro (TX)
Cummings
Gabbard
Gallego
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Higgins (LA)
Lawson (FL)
Marchant
McEachin
Meeks
Omar
Pingree
Roby
Rooney (FL)
Roybal-Allard
Ryan
Thompson (MS)
Trahan
b 1900
Messrs. STEUBE and CRIST changed
their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
PARLIAMENTARY INQUIRY
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, I
have a parliamentary inquiry.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman will state his parliamentary in-
quiry.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, only
three times in the history of our coun-
try has the House moved forward with
an impeachment process. Currently,
Madam Speaker, in all three of those
cases, the House has taken an actual
vote to start the process.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not stating a proper par-
liamentary inquiry.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, my
parliamentary inquiry is this: Has the
House been authorized to conduct an
impeachment inquiry into President
Trump?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman is not stating a proper par-
liamentary inquiry.
Mr. SCALISE. Madam Speaker, we
ought to know the answer to that ques-
tion.
f
HOMELESS VETERAN FAMILIES
ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 95) to amend title 38, United
States Code, to ensure that children of
homeless veterans are included in the
calculation of the amounts of certain
per diem grants, on which the yeas and
nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from California (Mr.
TAKANO) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 408, nays 0,
not voting 24, as follows:
[Roll No. 557]
YEAS—408
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Amash
Amodei
Armstrong
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Bass
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bilirakis
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Collins (GA)
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davids (KS)
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Estes
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grothman
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Joyce (PA)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Keller
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kelly (PA)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meng
Meuser
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.019 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8139
October 15, 2019
Newhouse
Norcross
Norman
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peters
Peterson
Phillips
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Ratcliffe
Reed
Reschenthaler
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Smucker
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Steil
Steube
Stevens
Stewart
Stivers
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Takano
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (PA)
Thornberry
Timmons
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—24
Beatty
Bishop (NC)
Castro (TX)
Cummings
Gabbard
Gallego
Gonzalez (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Higgins (LA)
Larsen (WA)
Lawson (FL)
Marchant
McEachin
Meeks
Pascrell
Pingree
Roby
Rooney (FL)
Roybal-Allard
Ryan
Schiff
Thompson (MS)
Trahan
b 1911
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
Stated for:
Mr. SCHIFF. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 557.
f
b 1915
MESOTHELIOMA AWARENESS
MONTH
(Mr. PAYNE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. PAYNE. Madam Speaker, I want
to take a moment to discuss mesothe-
lioma.
Mesothelioma is generally a cancer
of the lungs. Most cases come from ex-
posure to asbestos, a popular fire-
proofing material used in homes and
buildings in the mid-20th century. It is
a deadly disease. Ninety percent of pa-
tients die within 5 years.
My home State of New Jersey ranks
fifth nationally in mesothelioma
deaths.
Yet, it is one of the only cancers
without a patient registry. A registry
would allow researchers to study pa-
tients, look for common conditions,
and create new cures to help them live
longer lives.
Our bill, the Mary Jo Lawyer Spano
Mesothelioma Patient Registry Act,
would provide funding to do just that.
We need to pass this bill so we can
truly research this deadly disease and
provide more hope for these patients.
f
CONGRATULATING DR. PATRICK
E.T. GODBEY
(Mr. CARTER of Georgia asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute and to revise and
extend his remarks.)
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr.
Pat Godbey, who was sworn in as the
president of the American College of
Pathologists on September 18.
The college’s 36th president, Dr.
Godbey has been active with the orga-
nization for the last 25 years, serving
on numerous committees and councils.
His election is an extraordinary honor,
with the College of American Patholo-
gists being the world’s largest associa-
tion of board-certified pathologists.
As president, Dr. Godbey will be
tasked with continuing their commit-
ment to creating accountable, high-
quality, and cost-effective patient care.
I know that he is up to the task. He
has already served a 2-year term as
president and maintains an exceptional
track record as director of the South-
east Georgia Health System in the
First Congressional District of Geor-
gia.
Congratulations on your election, Dr.
Godbey. Keep up the good work.
f
HISPANIC HERITAGE MONTH
(Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL. Madam
Speaker, since St. Augustine, Florida,
was founded as the first permanent set-
tlement in 1565, the Hispanic and
Latino communities have laid the
foundations of the prosperous country
we are all proud to call home.
Last Friday, October 11, I had the
privilege to honor several south Flor-
ida leaders for their contributions.
Christina Campos is a Mexican-
American mother of two who was
raised in Homestead and now serves as
Homestead Senior High School’s com-
munity liaison.
Dr. Guilarte immigrated to the
United States from Cuba when he was
10. He is a respected scientist and edu-
cator who became the dean of the FIU
College of Public Health.
The Mexican-American Council’s
Homestead Mariachi Conservatory was
recognized as Florida’s premier mari-
achi music school for children.
Maria Nardi leads the Nation’s third-
largest accredited park system in the
country, providing welcoming environ-
ments for all families in Florida.
On this final day of National His-
panic Heritage Month, let’s remember
that for many Americans across all
parts of our country, Hispanic heritage
is celebrated as something that we live
every day.
f
RECOGNIZING FORSYTH COUNTRY
DAY SCHOOL FOR NATIONAL
ATHLETIC TRAINERS’ ASSOCIA-
TION SAFE SCHOOL SPORTS
AWARD
(Ms. FOXX of North Carolina asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Ms. FOXX of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I rise to recognize Forsyth
Country Day School in Lewisville,
North Carolina, on receiving the Na-
tional Athletic Trainers’ Association
Safe Schools Sports Award. This honor
is given to academic institutions that
demonstrate excellence in prioritizing
safe athletic programs that keep stu-
dents injury-free.
Students’ health and safety should
always come first. However, often in
our culture, health and safety take a
back seat when students face high pres-
sure to compete and perform. Such
risks are counterproductive to the per-
sonal growth that schools like Forsyth
Country Day School strive to foster
through their athletic programs.
I applaud Forsyth Country Day
School on its authentic dedication to
students’ development through ath-
letics. I commend its administrators,
faculty, and coaches for earning this
prestigious award.
f
SUPPORT THE NATIONAL WORLD
WAR II COMMEMORATIVE COIN
ACT
(Ms. KAPTUR asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend her re-
marks.)
Ms. KAPTUR. Madam Speaker, the
dedication of the World War II Memo-
rial in 2004 on our National Mall cul-
minated a 17-year effort in Congress to
construct the first national memorial
dedicated to the 16 million Americans
who served in the Armed Forces during
World War II and the more than 400,000
who gave their lives. It honors the 20th
century’s greatest accomplishment,
the victory of liberty over tyranny.
As the Representative who intro-
duced the original legislation to con-
struct the memorial, I rise tonight in
support of the National World War II
Commemorative Coin Act.
This bipartisan piece of legislation,
which I am honored to introduce along-
side my friend and colleague Rep-
resentative PETER KING from New
York, authorizes the U.S. Treasury to
mint coins in commemoration of the
National World War II Memorial in
Washington, D.C.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.024 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8140 October 15, 2019
The coin will serve as an important
emblem of the spirit, sacrifice, and
commitment of the brave Americans
who fought to defend our great Nation
and its democratic allies and to ad-
vance peace and freedom throughout
the world.
I ask all of my colleagues to look at
our bill, and I urge them to support
this legislation.
f
RECOGNIZING HISPANIC HERITAGE
MONTH
(Mr. SPANO asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SPANO. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of National His-
panic Heritage Month and to celebrate
the many contributions Hispanic
Americans have made to our Nation.
From the founding of St. Augustine
to the Battle of Yorktown to the fight
for school integration, Hispanic Ameri-
cans have served as vital cornerstones
in the construction of our Republic.
The State of Florida also has a rich
history of strong Hispanic influence. In
fact, Juan Ponce de Leon, who led the
first Spanish expedition to Florida,
went on to serve as Puerto Rico’s first
Governor.
To this day, our communities proud-
ly have a strong Hispanic representa-
tion, with 23 percent of my district
having a Hispanic or Latino heritage.
Hispanic organizations play vital
roles in our community. The Club
Hispano de Lakeland hosts the Lake-
land Hispanic Festival, where Hispanic
culture and history is embraced and
celebrated.
The Hispanic Professional Women’s
Association and the Hispanic Chamber
of Commerce of Tampa Bay also lend
rich leadership to our communities.
So today, and every day, I say thank
you to all Hispanics and especially
those of Florida 15. You have trans-
formed our language, our place names,
our diets, and our entire culture. We
are a better State and country because
of you.
f
CELEBRATING NATIONAL
MUSHROOM DAY
(Ms. HOULAHAN asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Speaker,
today, October 15, is a big day for the
people of Chester and Berks Counties,
National Mushroom Day.
Today, we honor the significant con-
tributions Pennsylvania makes to agri-
culture. Kennett Square, Pennsylvania,
has become known as the Mushroom
Capital of the World, and rightfully so,
as 60 percent of the mushrooms con-
sumed in America are grown right
there.
Our community is home to many
multigenerational family farms. These
farmers frequently collaborate, and
their work has resulted in meaningful
innovations in the mushroom industry.
The industry employs nearly 10,000
workers and brings nearly $3 billion to
Chester County—that is billion dollars.
That is why I have introduced legisla-
tion that formally recognizes this day
and honors the regions of Chester and
Berks County, Pennsylvania, for their
unparalleled contributions to the na-
tional mushroom industry.
To all Pennsylvanians and all mush-
room fans, happy National Mushroom
Day.
f
NEVER GIVE UP ON RETURN OF
CITGO SIX
(Mr. OLSON asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. OLSON. Madam Speaker, I want
to introduce a great friend to every
American. This is Sergio Cardenas,
with his mom, Maria Elena. This photo
was taken by John Mone.
Sergio’s heart is full of love. I spent
a lot of time with him and his family
this past Sunday. Sadly, my time with
Sergio will be more time than he
spends this year with the person he
loves the most in this world, his father,
Gustavo.
Gustavo has been held in a Ven-
ezuelan prison, without trial, for near-
ly 2 years. Gustavo is one of the Citgo
Six, six American Citgo employees ille-
gally thrown into jail by the dictator
Maduro.
Sergio’s heart needs an operation.
The surgery may take his life. Yet, he
delays this operation because he wants
to hug his father and tell him, ‘‘I love
you,’’ face to face.
Sergio gave me some words as we
parted Sunday from Houston. He told
me, ‘‘Please tell President Trump to
get my dad home.’’
Sergio, we just told the whole world
that we will never, ever give up.
f
SAVE THE CHILDREN
(Ms. JACKSON LEE asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
a week ago Sunday, the Commander in
Chief of this Nation made a call to the
head of the Government of Turkey. No
one knows the basis of that call, but we
do know that it was made without the
consultation of the national security
apparatus of the United States of
America and, to our knowledge, not
with any consultation of the Joint
Chiefs.
Within minutes, within a period of
time, a tweet directive was given to
take vital, important military per-
sonnel away from the Syrian-Turkish
border.
No one knows what promises may
have been made. We do know that if
any were made that this would be han-
dled with care, they were broken.
Right before our eyes, massive havoc.
What strikes me the most, as the
chair of the Congressional Children’s
Caucus, is the video that shows the
bloodletting of our children, children
in shock with limbs bloodied, mothers
fleeing.
We do not need a backdoor peace
treaty that is too late. We need a no-
fly zone, Madam Speaker.
We need real action, and we need the
Commander in Chief not to lead foreign
policy by tweets. I am begging them to
save the children.
f
STAND WITH PROTESTORS IN
HONG KONG
(Mr. LAMALFA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. LAMALFA. Madam Speaker,
while LeBron James, Steve Kerr, and
seemingly most of the NBA shamefully
refuse to stand up to Chinese
authoritarianism for fear of it affect-
ing their future business investments,
the free world is watching.
For months, the Chinese Government
has been badly mistreating those pro-
testing for a freer form of government
in Hong Kong. But those facts are in-
convenient for the National Basketball
Association.
Tear gas, rubber bullets, concentra-
tion camps for religious minorities,
these are just a few of the tactics em-
ployed on those who only seek freedom
from a police state under communist
rule.
That is why, tonight, Congress unani-
mously passed multiple bipartisan
measures to hold China accountable for
its brutality, including banning the ex-
port to China of crowd-control weap-
ons, and strongly condemning Chinese
interference in Hong Kong’s affairs.
The people of Hong Kong have a right
to protest for an open government
amidst the shackles of communism and
authoritarianism.
Despite what LeBron James says,
Congress is educated on this matter,
and we stand with the protestors in
Hong Kong. I wish more of the NBA
would wake up and show some back-
bone, too.
f
b 1930
HONORING LAURIE ZALESKI
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
Laurie Zaleski is the owner and found-
er of Funny Farm Animal Rescue and
Sanctuary in Hamilton Township in
south Jersey.
Currently, there are around 700 ani-
mals in Laurie’s care. Even with all
these animals to care for, Laurie still
works full time for the FAA as a graph-
ic designer and a pilot.
Laurie also has cowritten two books
and created a DVD about her farm and
takes a few of her animals with her to
local schools and to nursing homes to
read her books.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.050 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8141
October 15, 2019
Laurie’s farm, as well as her books
and her videos, provides educational
experiences for all ages. Laurie doesn’t
charge admission fees, as her farm sus-
tains itself with dedicated volunteers
and runs solely on donations, 100 per-
cent of which are given only to the ani-
mals.
I thank Laurie and all the volunteers
for the love of animals that Funny
Farm Annual Rescue fosters in our
community in south Jersey. Laurie is
truly a south Jersey star.
f
ACTION IS NEEDED TO HELP SEN-
IOR CITIZENS AFFORD
HEALTHCARE
(Mr. KIM asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I rise be-
cause Congress needs to take bold ac-
tion to help seniors afford healthcare.
I have talked with countless seniors
in Burlington and Ocean Counties who
see the costs of healthcare rise with no
relief in sight. That is why, today, I am
proud to introduce the Helping Seniors
Afford Health Care Act.
By expanding access to the Medicare
Savings Program, we can help millions
of seniors afford prescription drugs and
other critical care.
When our seniors can’t afford their
healthcare, they are forced to decide
between their own health and essen-
tials like rent and food. That is not a
choice that any senior should have to
make.
We have a chance in this Congress to
make an impact for the people we
serve. We owe it to our senior citizens
who have worked hard and contributed
so much to this country to help them
realize the American Dream of a
healthy, affordable retirement.
Madam Speaker, I hope you stand
with them and join me in supporting
this bill.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. KIM. Madam Speaker, I move
that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 7 o’clock and 32 minutes
p.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow,
Wednesday, October 16, 2019, at 10 a.m.
for morning-hour debate.
f
BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF PAYGO
LEGISLATION
Pursuant to the Statutory-Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 3289, the
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democ-
racy Act of 2019, as amended, would
have no significant effect on the def-
icit, and therefore, the budgetary ef-
fects of such bill are estimated as zero.
Pursuant to the Statutory-Pay-As-
You-Go Act of 2010 (PAYGO), Mr. YAR-
MUTH hereby submits, prior to the vote
on passage, for printing in the CON-
GRESSIONAL RECORD, that H.R. 4270, the
PROTECT Hong Kong Act, as amended,
would have no significant effect on the
deficit, and therefore, the budgetary ef-
fects of such bill are estimated as zero.
f
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2576. A letter from the Secretary, Com-
modity Futures Trading Commission, trans-
mitting the Commission’s final rule — Posi-
tion Limits and Position Accountability for
Security Futures Products (RIN: 3038-AE61)
received October 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Agriculture.
2577. A letter from the Administrator, Ag-
ricultural Marketing Service, Specialty
Crops Program, Department of Agriculture,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Tomatoes Grown in Florida; Redistricting
and Reapportionment of Producer Districts
[Doc. No.: AMS-SC-19-0011; SC19-966-2 FR] re-
ceived October 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Agriculture.
2578. A letter from the Administrator, Ag-
ricultural Marketing Service, Specialty
Crops Program, Department of Agriculture,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Almonds Grown in California; Amendments
to Marketing Order 981 [AMS-SC-18-0018;
SC18-981-3] received October 3, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Agriculture.
2579. A letter from the Administrator, Ag-
ricultural Marketing Service, Specialty
Crops Program, Promotion and Economics
Division, Department of Agriculture, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule —
Softwood Lumber Research, Promotion, Con-
sumer Education and Industry Information
Order; Change in Membership, Nominations,
Procedures, and Continuance Referenda Pe-
riod [Document Number: AMS-SC-19-0015] re-
ceived October 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Agriculture.
2580. A letter from the Administrator, Ag-
ricultural Marketing Service, Specialty
Crops Program, Promotion and Economics
Division, Department of Agriculture, trans-
mitting the Department’s final rule — Proc-
essed Raspberry Promotion, Research, and
Information Order; Termination [Document
Number: AMS-SC-19-0047] received October 3,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Agriculture.
2581. A letter from the Deputy Director, Di-
rectorate of Standards and Guidance, Occu-
pational Safety and Health Administration,
Department of Labor, transmitting the De-
partment’s final rule — Occupational Expo-
sure to Beryllium and Beryllium Compounds
in Construction and Shipyard Sectors [Dock-
et No.: OSHA-H005C-2006-0870] (RIN: 1218-
AD21) received October 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
2582. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Significant New Use Rules
on Certain Chemical Substances; Technical
Correction [EPA-HQ-OPPT-2017-0366; FRL-
9999-12] (RIN: 2070-AB27) received October 4,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2583. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Thiamethoxam; Pesticide
Tolerances for Emergency Exemptions [EPA-
HQ-OPP-2018-0779; FRL-9996-14] received Oc-
tober 4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2584. A letter from the Deputy Chief, Dis-
ability Rights Office, Consumer and Govern-
mental Affairs Bureau, Federal Communica-
tions Commission, transmitting the Com-
mission’s final rule — Telecommunications
Relay Services and Speech-to-Speech Serv-
ices for Individuals with Hearing and Speech
Disabilities [CG Docket No.: 03-123] received
October 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2585. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
NUREG revision — Consolidated Guidance
About Materials Licenses: Program-Specific
Guidance About Medical Use Licenses
[NUREG-1556, Volume 9, Revision 3] received
October 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2586. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
final state agreement — State of Vermont:
Discontinuance of Certain Commission Reg-
ulatory Authority Within the State; Notice
of Agreement Between the NRC and the
State of Vermont [NRC-2019-0114] received
October 3, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2587. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
withdrawal of regulatory guide — Applica-
bility of Existing Regulatory Guides to the
Design, Construction, and Operation of an
Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation
[NRC-2019-0157] received October 3, 2019, pur-
suant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-
121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee
on Energy and Commerce.
2588. A communication from the President
of the United States, transmitting an Execu-
tive Order Blocking Property and Sus-
pending Entry of Certain Persons Contrib-
uting to the Situation in Syria, pursuant to
50 U.S.C. 1703(b); Public Law 95-223 Sec.
204(b); (91 Stat. 1627) (H. Doc. No. 116—73); to
the Committee on Foreign Affairs and or-
dered to be printed.
2589. A letter from the Director, Office of
Congressional Affairs, Nuclear Regulatory
Commission, transmitting the Commission’s
final NUREG — Piping Systems and Compo-
nents — Inspections, Tests, Analyses, and
Acceptance Criteria [NUREG-0800, Chapter
14.3.3] received October 3, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2590. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; The Boeing Company Airplanes [Dock-
et No.: FAA-2019-0711; Product Identifier
2019-NM-167-AD; Amendment 39-19755; AD
2019-20-02] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received October
4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K15OC7.052 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8142 October 15, 2019
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2591. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Pratt & Whitney Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0771; Product Identi-
fier 2019-NE-27-AD; Amendment 39-19747; AD
2019-19-11] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received October
4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2592. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Embraer S.A. Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0325; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
038-AD; Amendment 39-19739; AD 2019-19-03]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2593. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Amendment of Class C
Airspace; Lafayette, LA [Docket No.: FAA-
2019-0676; Airspace Docket No.: 19-AWA-3]
(RIN: 2120-AA66) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2594. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; De Havilland Aircraft of Canada Lim-
ited (Type Certificate Previously Held by
Bombardier, Inc.) Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2018-0453; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
028-AD; Amendment 39-19732; AD 2019-18-05]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2595. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0486; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
061-AD; Amendment 39-19733; AD 2019-18-06]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2596. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0250; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
157-AD; Amendment 39-19734; AD 2019-18-07]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2597. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0402; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
008-AD; Amendment 39-19731; AD 2019-18-04]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2598. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Engine Alliance Turbofan Engines
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0692; Product Identi-
fier 2018-NE-19-AD; Amendment 39-19735; AD
2019-18-08] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received October
4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Pub-
lic Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2599. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0482; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
066-AD; Amendment 39-19743; AD 2019-19-07]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2600. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0318; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
015-AD; Amendment 39-19754; AD 2019-19-09]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2601. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0498; Product Identifier 2019-NM-
073-AD; Amendment 39-19742; AD 2019-19-06]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2602. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Airbus SAS Airplanes [Docket No.:
FAA-2019-0193; Product Identifier 2018-NM-
159-AD; Amendment 39-19711; AD 2019-16-08]
(RIN: 2120-AA64) received October 4, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Transportation and Infrastruc-
ture.
2603. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Saab AB, Saab Aeronautics (Formerly
Known as Saab AB, Saab Aerosystems) Air-
planes [Docket No.: FAA-2019-0521; Product
Identifier 2019-NM-047-AD; Amendment 39-
19740; AD 2019-19-04] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received
October 4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2604. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airworthiness Direc-
tives; Lockheed Martin Corporation/Lock-
heed Martin Aeronautics Company Airplanes
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0699; Product Identi-
fier 2019-NM-148-AD; Amendment 39-19736;
AD 2019-18-09] (RIN: 2120-AA64) received Oc-
tober 4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2605. A letter from the Management and
Program Analyst, FAA, Department of
Transportation, transmitting the Depart-
ment’s final rule — Airspace Designations;
Incorporation by Reference Amendments
[Docket No.: FAA-2019-0627; Amendment No.:
71-51] (RIN: 2120-AA66) received October 4,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure.
2606. A letter from the Division Director,
Division of Policy, Legislation, and Regula-
tion, Employment and Training Administra-
tion, Department of Labor, transmitting the
Department’s final rule — Federal-State Un-
employment Compensation Program; Estab-
lishing Appropriate Occupations for Drug
Testing of Unemployment Compensation Ap-
plicants Under the Middle Class Tax Relief
and Job Creation Act of 2012 (RIN: 1205-AB81)
received October 4, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES ON
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XIII, reports of
committees were delivered to the Clerk
for printing and reference to the proper
calendar, as follows:
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 3734. A bill to require the
Comptroller General of the United States to
report on access to credit for small business
concerns owned and controlled by covered in-
dividuals, to require the Administrator of
the Small Business Administration to report
on the veterans interagency task force, and
for other purposes (Rept. 116–233). Referred
to the Committee of the Whole House on the
state of the Union.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 3661. A bill to support entre-
preneurs serving in the National Guard and
Reserve, and for other purposes (Rept. 116–
234). Referred to the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 499. A bill to amend the Small
Business Act to clarify the treatment of cer-
tain surviving spouses under the definition
of small business concern owned and con-
trolled by service-disabled veterans (Rept.
116–235). Referred to the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union.
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ: Committee on Small
Business. H.R. 3537. A bill to amend the
Small Business Act to codify the Boots to
Business Program, and for other purposes
(Rept. 116–236). Referred to the Committee of
the Whole House on the state of the Union.
Mr. DESAULNIER: Committee on Rules.
House Resolution 629. Resolution providing
for consideration of the bill (H.R. 1815) to re-
quire the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, when developing rules and regulations
about disclosures to retail investors, to con-
duct investor testing, including a survey and
interviews of retail investors, and for other
purposes, and providing for consideration of
the bill (H.R. 3624) to amend the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 to require the disclo-
sure of the total number of domestic and for-
eign employees of certain public companies,
and for other purposes (Rept. 116–237). Re-
ferred to the House Calendar.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. KIM (for himself, Ms. BLUNT
ROCHESTER, and Mr. EVANS):
H.R. 4671. A bill to amend titles XVIII and
XIX of the Social Security Act to reduce
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L15OC7.000 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8143
October 15, 2019
cost-sharing, align income and resource eli-
gibility tests, simplify enrollment, and pro-
vide for other program improvements for
low-income Medicare beneficiaries; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in
addition to the Committee on Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. KHANNA (for himself, Ms.
ESHOO, Ms. HILL of California, Ms.
LEE of California, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. SCHIFF, Ms. SPEIER, and
Mrs. TORRES of California):
H.R. 4672. A bill to designate the facility of
the United States Postal Service located at
21701 Stevens Creek Boulevard in Cupertino,
California, as the ‘‘Petty Officer 2nd Class
(SEAL) Matthew G. Axelson Post Office
Building’’; to the Committee on Oversight
and Reform.
By Mr. HUFFMAN (for himself, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. LOWENTHAL, and
Ms. BARRAGÁN):
H.R. 4673. A bill to amend the Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act to direct the
Secretary to provide additional funds to
States to establish and make disbursements
from high cost funds; to the Committee on
Education and Labor.
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia (for himself,
Mrs. DAVIS of California, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. COURTNEY, Ms. FUDGE, Mr.
SABLAN, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
BONAMICI, Mr. TAKANO, Ms. ADAMS,
Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. NORCROSS, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Mr. MORELLE, Ms. WILD,
Mr. HARDER of California, Ms.
SCHRIER, Mrs. HAYES, Ms. SHALALA,
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan, Ms. OMAR,
Mr. TRONE, Mrs. LEE of Nevada, Mrs.
TRAHAN, and Mr. CASTRO of Texas):
H.R. 4674. A bill to amend and strengthen
the Higher Education Act of 1965 to lower the
cost of college for students and families, to
hold colleges accountable for students’ suc-
cess, and to give a new generation of stu-
dents the opportunity to graduate on-time
and transition to a successful career; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. GOMEZ (for himself, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. CÁRDENAS, and
Ms. BARRAGÁN):
H.R. 4675. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for enhanced
Medicare beneficiary information through
access to annual Medicare notifications in
multiple languages; to the Committee on
Ways and Means, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 4676. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the guar-
anteed issue of Medigap policies to all
Medigap-eligible Medicare beneficiaries and
Medicare Advantage enrollees, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. TAYLOR:
H.R. 4677. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to carry out a program to recog-
nize high schools and local educational agen-
cies for expanding high-quality dual credit
programs; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, and Ms. BARRAGÁN):
H.R. 4678. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to authorize a public edu-
cation campaign across all relevant pro-
grams of the Health Resources and Services
Administration to increase oral health lit-
eracy and awareness; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM (for himself, Mr.
MAST, Mr. ROONEY of Florida, and
Mr. HUFFMAN):
H.R. 4679. A bill to require the Comptroller
General of the United States to submit to
Congress a report examining efforts by the
Regional Fishery Management Councils, the
Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commis-
sion, and the National Marine Fisheries
Service to prepare and adapt United States
fishery management for the impacts of cli-
mate change, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. DOGGETT (for himself, Mrs.
DAVIS of California, Mrs. BEATTY, Mr.
BLUMENAUER, Ms. BROWNLEY of Cali-
fornia, Mr. CÁRDENAS, Mr. CART-
WRIGHT, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Ms. CLARKE of New York, Mr. COHEN,
Ms. DEAN, Ms. DEGETTE, Ms.
DELAURO, Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
ENGEL, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. FOSTER,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. GARAMENDI, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Mr. GREEN of Texas,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. HAALAND, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mrs. HAYES, Mr. HIGGINS of
New York, Mr. HIMES, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Ms.
KAPTUR, Mr. KILMER, Mr.
KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. LARSON of Con-
necticut, Ms. LEE of California, Mr.
LEVIN of Michigan, Mr. LEWIS, Mr.
SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. MEEKS, Ms.
MOORE, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. NADLER,
Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
PRICE of North Carolina, Mr. RASKIN,
Mr. RUPPERSBERGER, Mr. RYAN, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. SARBANES, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. SPEIER, Mr. SWALWELL of
California, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, Ms. TITUS, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, and Mr. KENNEDY):
H.R. 4680. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to simplify the financial
aid application process, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Ms. KAPTUR (for herself, Mr. KING
of New York, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mrs.
CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New York,
Mr. FOSTER, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr.
COSTA, Mrs. AXNE, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
SIRES, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, Ms. LEE of
California, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. COX of Cali-
fornia, Mrs. RODGERS of Washington,
Mr. LIPINSKI, and Mr. BALDERSON):
H.R. 4681. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in commemora-
tion of the National World War II Memorial
in Washington, DC, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 4682. A bill to provide for United
States participation in the Inter-Parliamen-
tary Union, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 4683. A bill to amend title 11, District
of Columbia Official Code, to provide that
grand and petit jurors serving in the Supe-
rior Court of the District of Columbia shall
receive fees and expenses at the same rates
paid to grand and petit jurors appearing in
the district courts of the United States; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Ms. OMAR (for herself, Ms. TLAIB,
Ms. MOORE, Mr. CARSON of Indiana,
Ms. NORTON, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, and
Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 4684. A bill to amend the Child Nutri-
tion Act of 1966 and the Richard B. Russell
National School Lunch Act to make break-
fasts and lunches free for all children, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Education and Labor, and in addition to the
Committees on Agriculture, and Science,
Space, and Technology, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. PASCRELL (for himself and
Mr. KING of New York):
H.R. 4685. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to classify certain auto-
matic fire sprinkler system retrofits as 15-
year property for purposes of depreciation;
to the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey (for him-
self and Mr. SUOZZI):
H.R. 4686. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to compel States to require il-
luminated signs and other measures on ride-
hailing vehicles, to prohibit the sale of such
signs, to require ride-hailing companies to
implement an electronic access system on
ride-hailing vehicles; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure, and in
addition to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr.
MCCAUL, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. COOPER,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. ROONEY of Florida, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
SIRES, and Mr. CROW):
H.J. Res. 77. A joint resolution opposing
the decision to end certain United States ef-
forts to prevent Turkish military operations
against Syrian Kurdish forces in Northeast
Syria; to the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. THOMPSON of California (for
himself, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. KIND, Mr.
JOYCE of Ohio, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN
of Puerto Rico, Mr. SOTO, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr.
VELA, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mr. PANETTA,
Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mrs.
DINGELL, Mr. COSTA, Mr. GARAMENDI,
Ms. ESHOO, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. RASKIN, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. PASCRELL, Mr. KHANNA, and Mr.
GRIJALVA):
H. Res. 628. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of the week beginning on
October 13, 2019, as National Wildlife Refuge
Week; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H. Res. 630. A resolution condemning and
censuring Adam Schiff, Representative of
California’s 28th Congressional District; to
the Committee on Ethics.
By Mr. BYRNE (for himself, Mr. BUDD,
Mr. GIBBS, Mr. KELLY of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. HICE of Georgia, Mr.
ROUZER, Mr. GOHMERT, Mr. HARRIS,
and Mr. GAETZ):
H. Res. 631. A resolution directing the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Government Re-
form, and the Committee on Financial Serv-
ices to begin investigations regarding cer-
tain business dealings of Robert Hunter
Biden during the period in which Joseph R.
Biden, Jr. served as Vice President of the
United States; whether those business deal-
ings resulted in improper conflicts of inter-
ests; and whether Robert Hunter Biden’s
work affected United States foreign policy or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L15OC7.100 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8144 October 15, 2019
a foreign government or foreign entity’s re-
sponse thereto; to the Committee on Rules.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 4671.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Mr. KHANNA:
H.R. 4672.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 7 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish post offices
and post roads.
By Mr. HUFFMAN:
H.R. 4673.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 1
By Mr. SCOTT of Virginia:
H.R. 4674.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States.
By Mr. GOMEZ:
H.R. 4675.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. SCHNEIDER:
H.R. 4676.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. TAYLOR:
H.R. 4677.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS:
H.R. 4678.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1.
All legislative powers herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 4679.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8. To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
Article 4, Section 3, Clause 2. The Congress
shall have Power to dispose of and make all
needful Rules and Regulations respecting the
Territory or other Property belonging to the
United States; and nothing in this Constitu-
tion shall be so construed as to Prejudice
any Claims of the United States, or of any
particular State. Johnson & Graham v. All
rights reserved.
By Mr. DOGGETT:
H.R. 4680.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Clause 1 of Section 8 of Article I of the
United States Constitution
By Ms. KAPTUR:
H.R. 4681.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8. ‘‘Congress shall have
power to . . . coin money’’.
By Ms. LEE of California:
H.R. 4682.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I of the
United States Constitution and its subse-
quent amendments, and further clarified and
interpreted by the Supreme Court of the
United States.
By Ms. NORTON:
H.R. 4688.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
clause 17 of section 8 of article I of the
Constitution.
By Ms. OMAR:
H.R. 4684.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article. 1. Section. 1.
By Mr. PASCRELL:
H.R. 4685.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to Article I, Section 8 of the
United States Constitution.
By Mr. SMITH of New Jersey:
H.R. 4686.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.J. Res. 77.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution.
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 93: Mr. KHANNA and Mr. EVANS.
H.R. 141: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 147: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 229: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 302: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 333: Mr. AMODEI.
H.R. 444: Mr. MOULTON.
H.R. 592: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 641: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 647: Mr. RICHMOND.
H.R. 674: Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas and Mr.
BERA.
H.R. 683: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 737: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. GRI-
JALVA, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Ilinois, and
Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 754: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 827: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 835: Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 865: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 873: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 886: Ms. BASS.
H.R. 891: Mr. ARRINGTON.
H.R. 919: Mr. CUNNINGHAM.
H.R. 943: Mrs. LESKO and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 1034: Mr. COLE, Mr. COMER, and Mr.
KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 1042: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 1055: Mr. GOTTHEIMER and Mr.
HUFFMAN.
H.R. 1094: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 1135: Mr. LAMALFA.
H.R. 1154: Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. KING of New York,
Mr. TONKO, Mr. AGUILAR, and Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 1155: Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H.R. 1163: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1164: Mr. CLINE and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 1166: Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1191: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 1220: Mr. FOSTER and Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia.
H.R. 1225: Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 1274: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 1325: Mrs. LESKO and Ms. GARCIA of
Texas.
H.R. 1329: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1337: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 1339: Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 1379: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York and Ms. BASS.
H.R. 1380: Ms. STEVENS and Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 1398: Mr. CALVERT and Mr. ABRAHAM.
H.R. 1417: Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.R. 1450: Mr. LANGEVIN.
H.R. 1507: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 1511: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 1554: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 1557: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 1597: Mr. DESAULNIER, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. HIMES, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York, Mr. SERRANO, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr. PA-
NETTA, Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. CRAIG, Mrs. LEE of
Nevada, Mr. MORELLE, and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 1643: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 1668: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1695: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York and Mrs. BEATTY.
H.R. 1749: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 1754: Mr. DELGADO, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
SARBANES, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, and Mr.
TIPTON.
H.R. 1767: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 1786: Mr. KILDEE.
H.R. 1805: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 1869: Mr. LATTA and Mr. HURD of
Texas.
H.R. 1873: Mr. EMMER, Ms. SPANBERGER,
Mr. LAMBORN, and Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 1880: Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 1903: Mr. LAMBORN and Mr. SENSEN-
BRENNER.
H.R. 1923: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1931: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 1942: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 1944: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 1953: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 1975: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 1982: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 2013: Mr. ROUDA.
H.R. 2102: Mr. VAN DREW.
H.R. 2128: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 2146: Mrs. BEATTY and Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 2147: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana, Mr.
ADERHOLT, Mr. PENCE, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
PALAZZO, Mr. RASKIN, Mr. SIRES, Mr. COL-
LINS, Mr. CROW, Mr. FOSTER, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
LUCAS, Mr. COMER, Mrs. ROBY, and Mr. TIP-
TON.
H.R. 2153: Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 2169: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 2191: Mr. NEGUSE.
H.R. 2208: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Mr.
NEGUSE, and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 2245: Ms. JUDY CHU of California and
Mr. PASCRELL.
H.R. 2256: Mr. NORCROSS, Ms. PINGREE, Ms.
MCCOLLUM, and Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 2262: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 2275: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 2314: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 2315: Mr. KILMER and Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 2414: Mr. KHANNA.
H.R. 2420: Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 2423: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois, Ms.
JAYAPAL, Ms. HILL of California, Mr. GOLD-
EN, Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. SCHWEIKERT, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Mr. STEUBE, and Mr. BIGGS.
H.R. 2426: Mr. ADERHOLT.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L15OC7.100 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8145
October 15, 2019
H.R. 2441: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Mr.
COURTNEY.
H.R. 2456: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 2468: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2482: Mr. BLUMENAUER.
H.R. 2494: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 2560: Mr. GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 2602: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 2629: Mr. VELA and Mr. BISHOP of
Georgia.
H.R. 2645: Ms. UNDERWOOD, Mr. MOULTON,
and Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 2651: Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2678: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 2682: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 2771: Mr. PENCE.
H.R. 2788: Mr. GRAVES of Missouri.
H.R. 2809: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 2812: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 2818: Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms. DEAN, and
Mr. LUJÁN.
H.R. 2819: Mr. KING of New York.
H.R. 2867: Mr. RICHMOND and Mr. SEAN PAT-
RICK MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 2881: Ms. HOULAHAN.
H.R. 2895: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 2897: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York and Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 2923: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2985: Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma,
Ms. DELBENE, Mr. BUCK, and Mr. HORSFORD.
H.R. 3080: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3086: Mr. HECK.
H.R. 3104: Ms. SLOTKIN and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 3125: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia.
H.R. 3133: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 3180: Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 3182: Mr. BERGMAN, Ms. KUSTER of
New Hampshire, Mrs. LESKO, and Mr. BROOKS
of Alabama.
H.R. 3195: Ms. ADAMS, Ms. DELAURO, Mr.
CUMMINGS, Ms. DAVIDS of Kansas, Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. BRENDAN F.
BOYLE of Pennsylvania, and Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ.
H.R. 3208: Mr. KILMER.
H.R. 3221: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 3243: Mr. NORMAN and Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 3248: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 3250: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 3350: Mrs. DINGELL, Mr. WATKINS, Mr.
KHANNA, Mr. SIRES, Ms. MOORE, Mr. POSEY,
Mrs. LESKO, and Mr. LATTA.
H.R. 3354: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 3398: Mr. SCHNEIDER, Mr. THOMPSON of
California, Mr. TONKO, Ms. NORTON, and Mr.
CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 3414: Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 3444: Ms. SCANLON.
H.R. 3453: Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. HILL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MOORE, Mr. CICILLINE, and Mr.
RASKIN.
H.R. 3463: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK and Mr. PHIL-
LIPS.
H.R. 3483: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 3495: Mrs. LAWRENCE and Mrs. BROOKS
of Indiana.
H.R. 3497: Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
HAGEDORN, and Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana.
H.R. 3503: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 3524: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 3565: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 3584: Ms. HOULAHAN, Mr. BUTTERFIELD,
and Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 3587: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 3598: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 3602: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 3647: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 3663: Ms. MOORE and Mr. LEWIS.
H.R. 3760: Mr. RASKIN, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, Mr. SIRES, Mr. DEFAZIO, and Ms.
SCANLON.
H.R. 3798: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 3809: Ms. DELBENE and Mr. DAVID
SCOTT of Georgia.
H.R. 3815: Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mr. BLU-
MENAUER, Mr. POCAN, and Ms. BROWNLEY of
California.
H.R. 3826: Mr. WALDEN and Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 3867: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3942: Mr. RESCHENTHALER and Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 3962: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 3964: Mrs. LESKO.
H.R. 3968: Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 3969: Mrs. DINGELL.
H.R. 3973: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. RASKIN, Mr.
SOTO, Ms. HAALAND, Ms. MENG, and Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida.
H.R. 4030: Mr. COLE.
H.R. 4035: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 4045: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York.
H.R. 4068: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 4075: Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia.
H.R. 4118: Mr. POCAN.
H.R. 4127: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4143: Mr. DEUTCH and Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 4144: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 4162: Mrs. AXNE, Mr. MEADOWS, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Mr. BISHOP of Georgia, and Mr.
DELGADO.
H.R. 4211: Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 4236: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4258: Mrs. MCBATH.
H.R. 4270: Mr. TAYLOR, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs.
TRAHAN, and Ms. SPANBERGER.
H.R. 4288: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 4297: Mr. DEFAZIO and Ms. CASTOR of
Florida.
H.R. 4298: Mr. RYAN.
H.R. 4308: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 4311: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 4339: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 4348: Mr. CROW, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
CONNOLLY, and Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania.
H.R. 4383: Mr. GOSAR.
H.R. 4399: Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania,
Mr. JORDAN, Mr. KING of Iowa, Mr. LONG, and
Mr. WESTERMAN.
H.R. 4405: Mr. MCGOVERN, Ms. NORTON, and
Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 4428: Mr. HARDER of California and Mr.
COHEN.
H.R. 4468: Mr. TIMMONS.
H.R. 4482: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico and Mr. SMITH of Nebraska.
H.R. 4487: Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. COSTA, Mr.
CALVERT, and Mr. PETERSON.
H.R. 4492: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 4497: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4516: Mr. COHEN.
H.R. 4525: Ms. MOORE.
H.R. 4583: Ms. JUDY CHU of California.
H.R. 4584: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 4588: Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 4595: Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 4615: Ms. CRAIG.
H.R. 4617: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. HIG-
GINS of New York, Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Il-
linois, Mr. MEEKS, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr. HAS-
TINGS, Mr. KILDEE, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. CASE,
Ms. SHALALA, Mr. ROUDA, Mr. LOWENTHAL,
Mr. KENNEDY, and Mr. COURTNEY.
H.R. 4639: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 4660: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4666: Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico and Mrs. MURPHY of Florida.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. VARGAS, Ms. STEVENS, and
Mr. JEFFRIES.
H.J. Res. 7: Mr. MOULTON.
H.J. Res. 35: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.J. Res. 76: Mr. KENNEDY.
H. Con. Res. 68: Mr. CURTIS, Mr. NORMAN,
Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr. PERRY, Mr.
PAPPAS, and Mr. ALLRED.
H. Res. 33: Mr. RUTHERFORD.
H. Res. 227: Ms. NORTON, Ms. MCCOLLUM,
Mr. MOULTON, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, and Mr. LAR-
SON of Connecticut.
H. Res. 231: Ms. SPEIER.
H. Res. 296: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H. Res. 325: Mr. ESPAILLAT.
H. Res. 399: Mr. TIPTON.
H. Res. 493: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H. Res. 499: Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H. Res. 538: Mrs. LAWRENCE and Mr. JOHN-
SON of Georgia.
H. Res. 543: Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. TAYLOR, and
Ms. SPANBERGER.
H. Res. 574: Mr. ENGEL, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mrs. LAWRENCE, and Mr.
KHANNA.
H. Res. 585: Mr. KENNEDY.
H. Res. 604: Mr. MCHENRY, Mr. WALBERG,
Mr. BRADY, Mr. YOHO, Mr. NEWHOUSE, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. DUNN, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, Mr. GRAVES of Missouri, Mr.
BILIRAKIS, Mr. BISHOP of Utah, Mr. KUSTOFF
of Tennessee, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. MULLIN,
Mr. LAMALFA, Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Ten-
nessee, Ms. FOXX of North Carolina, Mr.
COOK, Mr. KELLY of Mississippi, Mr. RICE of
South Carolina, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. LATTA, Mr. BAIRD, and Ms.
GRANGER.
H. Res. 606: Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. OCASIO-COR-
TEZ, and Ms. PRESSLEY.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:03 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC7.029 H15OCPT1
SSpencer
on
DSKBBXCHB2PROD
with
HOUSE
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S5775
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2019 No. 162
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the Honorable THOM
TILLIS, a Senator from the State of
North Carolina.
f
PRAYER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Today’s
opening prayer will be offered by Pas-
tor Andrew Brunson of Chapel Hill, NC.
The guest Chaplain offered the fol-
lowing prayer:
Before I pray, I want to thank the
Senate. I am standing here today be-
cause so many of you fought for me,
and I am deeply grateful, in a time of
many divides, to those who were uni-
fied in fighting for my release. Thank
you.
Let us pray.
Our Heavenly Father, may Your Holy
Name be honored. May Your Name be
held in high regard in this Senate.
We give thanks to You, for You are
good, and Your steadfast love endures
forever. You have watched over this
Nation through various times of peace,
prosperity, turmoil, and war. May we
continue to look to You and be a peo-
ple who seek Your face. Draw us near,
and may we draw near to You. Blessed
is the nation whose God is the Lord.
Reveal to us our sins, and forgive us.
Reveal to us also Your love, and enable
each of us to love You with all our
heart, soul, mind, and strength.
Today, I pray that You grant to the
Senators of the United States the spir-
it of wisdom, the fear of the Lord, and
the courage to act by the counsel of
the Lord in all matters great and
small. May they have Your perspective
on all things. May Your Kingdom come
and Your will be done here in our Na-
tion as it is in Heaven in and through
these Senators. Bless their families and
their health. Give them Your peace.
O God, fill this place with Your pres-
ence, and unite us as one nation under
Your leadership, indivisible, with lib-
erty and justice for all.
I pray in the Name of Jesus. Amen.
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The Presiding Officer led the Pledge
of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
APPOINTMENT OF ACTING
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will please read a communication
to the Senate from the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
The legislative clerk read the fol-
lowing letter:
U.S. SENATE,
PRESIDENT PRO TEMPORE,
Washington, DC, October 15, 2019.
To the Senate:
Under the provisions of rule I, paragraph 3,
of the Standing Rules of the Senate, I hereby
appoint the Honorable THOM TILLIS, a Sen-
ator from the State of North Carolina, to
perform the duties of the Chair.
CHUCK GRASSLEY,
President pro tempore.
Mr. TILLIS thereupon assumed the
Chair as Acting President pro tempore.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for 2 min-
utes as in morning business.
The ACTING PRESIDENT pro tem-
pore. Without objection, it is so or-
dered.
f
UNITED STATES NAVY’S 244TH
BIRTHDAY
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on
October 13, the U.S. Navy celebrated
its 244th birthday. The U.S. Navy was
founded by the Continental Congress in
1775 to disrupt British shipping and
naval power in the Revolutionary War.
At the time, the Navy was just a sim-
ple, ragtag band of converted merchant
ships. The U.S. Navy today is the most
powerful naval force anywhere in the
world. It provides the military with the
ability to project power to every corner
of the globe. America’s Navy works
tirelessly to protect the freedom of
navigation, of commerce, and travel
around the world.
f
TRIBUTE TO KEN QUINN
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, on
another point, for the last three dec-
ades, Des Moines has hosted something
every year this week called the World
Food Prize. As the World Food Prize
kicks off this week in Des Moines, I
pay tribute to an outstanding Iowan
and the president of that foundation.
In his Foreign Service career, Ken
Quinn was the Ambassador to Cam-
bodia, but earlier in that career, Ken
Quinn’s life of service took him from a
small town in Iowa to Southeast Asia
and back. Decades ago, he identified an
avenue to peace and prosperity. As a
young Foreign Service officer, he saw
that roads secured economic freedom
and food security for the impoverished
people of Southeast Asia.
For the last 20 years, Ambassador
Quinn—now not in the Foreign Serv-
ice—has cultivated the World Food
Prize into the Nobel Prize for Agri-
culture. Thanks to his stewardship of
the seeds first planted by the Nobel
Peace Prize laureate of 1970, Dr. Nor-
man Borlaug, the World Food Prize
will yield humanitarian goods for gen-
erations to come.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). The clerk will call the
roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak for a pe-
riod of 5 minutes as in morning busi-
ness.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.000 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5776 October 15, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
WELCOMING PASTOR ANDREW
BRUNSON
Mr. TILLIS. Madam President and
those who were watching during the
opening prayer, that was Pastor An-
drew Brunson from North Carolina.
This month marks a year since Pastor
Brunson was released from a Turkish
prison. Norine, his wife, is in the Gal-
lery as well. They were swept up in
what I considered to be an overreaction
by President Erdogan and the Turkish
regime in their imprisoning thousands
of people after the coup attempt in
Turkey. I actually found out about this
first as casework. Pastor Brunson was
from North Carolina. Then, slowly but
steadily, diplomacy wasn’t working,
and he found himself in a Turkish pris-
on—at one point in really what we
would consider to be despicable cir-
cumstances. He was in a prison cell
that was designed for maybe 8 or 10
people that had had more than 20 in it,
and none of them spoke the English
language.
Pastor Brunson was a missionary in
Turkey for almost 20 years. He had a
church in Izmir, and all they tried to
do for those who wanted to hear the
Word of God was to speak it. For that,
he was ultimately incarcerated and ac-
cused of being a part of the Turkish
coup attempt. It was about a year later
that they issued an indictment for him.
It was a 62-page indictment that read
like a horrible, fictional novel and had
some of the most absurd allegations
you could possibly imagine. Certainly,
they were things that wouldn’t keep
you in jail overnight in the United
States but were things that were po-
tentially going to have Pastor Brunson
convicted and spending 35 years in a
Turkish prison.
We got word back that after the in-
dictment was issued against Pastor
Brunson, he was afraid that the Amer-
ican people were going to believe it,
that we would simply move on, and
that he would be left there at the fate
of the Turkish judiciary. When I heard
that, the first thing I told my staff is
that I had to go to Turkey. I wanted to
go to the prison that Pastor Brunson
was in, and I had the opportunity to
meet Norine, his wife, the day before. I
went there, and across a table that was
about as wide as this desk, I told Pas-
tor Brunson that we were not going to
forget him and were not going to stop
until we got him released from prison.
In a series of efforts here, for which I
have to really compliment all of my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle,
more than 72 Senators signed on to a
letter that encouraged Pastor
Brunson’s release. More than 100 House
Members signed on to a similar letter.
We did everything we could diplomati-
cally to get Pastor Brunson released.
I decided I wanted to see how the
court case was going, so I went back to
Turkey a few months after I had first
met Pastor Brunson in the prison, and
I sat through 12 hours of so-called
Turkish justice. I saw this man stand
before a dais of three judges and a pros-
ecutor, where basically you were as-
sumed guilty until you proved inno-
cence. His defense attorney was as far
away from him as is that wall. That is
Turkish justice. That is not anything
we can imagine in this country, but
that is what this man was subjected to.
Over the course of several months
and in working with the President,
Secretary Pompeo, the Vice President,
and a number of other people, we were
able to get President Erdogan to recog-
nize that this was a political exercise,
that it was not an exercise in justice,
and that he needed to be released.
A year ago this month, he was re-
leased, and now he is opening the Sen-
ate in prayer. I thank Pastor Brunson
for his perseverance. He went through
things that most of us cannot imagine,
and Norine was his strongest advocate.
I see the Parliamentarian looking at
me as if I am not supposed to recognize
the fact that Norine Brunson is in the
Gallery, so I will not recognize that
fact because that would be a violation
of the rules.
They are a sight for sore eyes, and I
am so glad to have them back in this
country. I know they are going to con-
tinue their missionary work wherever
they can. I thank them for their lead-
ership and their deep faith.
Thank you for opening the Senate
today.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
IMPEACHMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
Congress is returning to Washington
for a work period that will be filled
with important to-do items, but we al-
ready know what will top the agenda in
the House of Representatives: House
Democrats are finally indulging in
their 3-year old impeachment obses-
sion, full steam ahead.
Many of us remember the Wash-
ington Post headline that was literally
published on Inauguration Day in 2017.
Here is what it said: ‘‘The campaign to
impeach President Trump has begun.’’
And, sure enough, House Democrats
have been at it ever since.
One prominent House Democrat
called this Presidency illegitimate be-
fore it had even begun. One of Speaker
PELOSI’s committee chairs whom she
has tasked with leading this process
promised years ago that she would find
a way to impeach the President.
Now that Speaker PELOSI has finally
crumbled and allowed her leftwing im-
peachment caucus to dictate the
House’s actions, I don’t think many of
us were expecting to witness a clinic in
terms of fairness or due process. But
even by their own partisan standards,
House Democrats have already found
new ways to lower the bar. This is
about the most consequential process
the House of Representatives could
possibly engage in: overruling Amer-
ican voters and nullifying an election.
Surely, any such process must be
conducted with the utmost fairness and
transparency. It must be held to the
most exact of standards. Yet House
Democrats have wasted no time throw-
ing fairness and precedent to the wind.
Already, they have denied their Repub-
lican counterparts certain minority
rights, like equal subpoena power,
which Republicans provided Democrats
in the Clinton impeachment.
Already, they have made clear that
President Trump’s counsel will not be
allowed to participate in hearings,
present evidence, and cross-examine
witnesses—all-important rights that
Republicans provided to President
Clinton.
Already, one House chairman has
been caught publicly mischaracterizing
his committee’s handling of the whis-
tleblower inquiry on which this whole
investigation hinges.
For all the public hyperventilating
over institutional norms that we have
heard from House Democrats in recent
years, it appears they have no inten-
tion of letting norms, precedents, or
basic due process stand in their way as
they seek to cancel out a Presidency.
In the meantime, in the Senate we
will keep our focus squarely on the
substantive work we need to complete
for the American people. In the coming
days, we will confirm another slate of
President Trump’s well-qualified nomi-
nees. For starters, later this afternoon,
we will advance the nomination of Bar-
bara Barrett, the President’s choice to
be Secretary of the Air Force.
Speaking of our Armed Forces, Con-
gress can waste no more time in get-
ting our appropriations process back
on track and delivering a funding that
our servicemembers need. Just 2
months ago, the President and the
Speaker of the House produced an
agreement to guide the appropriations
process. The White House and congres-
sional leaders set top-line funding tar-
gets for defense and nondefense and
agreed to forego poison pills. Last
month, unfortunately, our Democratic
colleagues went back on the deal. Rou-
tine funding negotiations were again
subject to poison pill threats, and ur-
gent resources for the operations of the
Pentagon were withheld for the sake of
politics.
We need to put these political games
aside. Democrats need to stop filibus-
tering a pay raise for our troops and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.002 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5777
October 15, 2019
the funding our commanders need. We
need to get our funding process back on
track for the entire Federal Govern-
ment.
House Democrats need to stop slow-
walking the USMCA, the landmark
trade agreement that stands to create
176,000 new American jobs. Mexico is
ready, Canada is ready, and a majority
in the Senate is ready. The entire con-
tinent is just waiting on Speaker
PELOSI to stop blocking this win for
the United States and to stop blocking
these new jobs. I don’t care how much
my Democratic colleagues in the House
may dislike the President. They
shouldn’t throw 176,000 new American
jobs on the scrap heap.
On all these fronts, I hope sincerely
that our Democratic colleagues will be
able to separate this vital business
from their animus toward the adminis-
tration and join Republicans in moving
forward with the work of the American
people.
f
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
on one final matter, I know I speak for
many of our colleagues on both sides of
the aisle in expressing my grave con-
cern at the events that have unfolded
in Syria in recent days.
Turkey is our NATO ally. Yes, it
hosts millions of Syrian refugees and
has a legitimate security concern
about the situation in Syria. But Tur-
key’s escalation of hostilities with the
Syrian Kurdish partners who have
helped the United States fight ter-
rorism is completely and totally unac-
ceptable. This violence needs to end.
Syrian Kurdish forces have stood
proudly alongside U.S. forces in the
fight against ISIS. Over years of joint
effort, their shared sacrifices have put
ISIS on its heels and rendered its phys-
ical caliphate essentially nonexistent.
But leaving the field now would mean
leaving the door wide open for a resur-
gence of this dangerous force and a new
iteration of the Islamic State; creating
a power vacuum begging for the med-
dling influence of Russia; leaving
northeastern Syria wide open for Iran
to extend its reach, unimpeded, all the
way from Tehran to the doorstep of our
friends in Israel; and destroying the le-
verage we currently have to compel
Bashar Assad to stop his slaughter of
the Syrian people and negotiate an end
to this terrible conflict and humani-
tarian catastrophe.
I want to make something clear: The
United States has taken the fight to
Syria and Afghanistan because that is
where our enemies are. That is why we
are there. Fighting terrorists, exer-
cising leadership in troubled regions,
and advancing U.S. interests around
the world does not make us an evil em-
pire or the world’s policeman. It makes
us a prudent and responsible world
power that stands up for our own secu-
rity and the freedom of others.
Alongside the 80 coalition partners
that U.S. forces have led in the
counter-ISIS coalition, that is what we
must continue to do. We must continue
to provide support to the local forces
that carry the lion’s share of the re-
sponsibility to defend their homelands.
This effort must continue to include
our allies and partners, even the imper-
fect ones that sometimes behave rashly
and dangerously, as both Saudi Arabia
and Turkey have recently.
When it looked like President Trump
would withdraw from Syria at the be-
ginning of the year, 70—70—Senators
joined in warning of the risks of pre-
cipitously withdrawing from Syria or
Afghanistan. The veto-proof majority
vote for my amendment to S. 1, the
Strengthening America’s Security in
the Middle East Act, demonstrated
strong and bipartisan appreciation of
our enduring security interests in that
region. The Senate spoke clearly and
said that we must ensure that we have
set the conditions for an enduring de-
feat of the terrorists before any with-
drawal.
Regrettably, many of the Democratic
Senators running for President, along
with my friend the Democratic leader,
parted with this bipartisan consensus
and voted against this amendment. So
I hope those aspiring Commanders in
Chief are asked to explain how they
reconcile their criticism of the admin-
istration today with their votes just a
few months ago. Maybe they will even
be asked on the debate stage this very
evening.
I am heartened to hear that Vice
President PENCE will soon lead a dele-
gation to begin immediate talks with
Turkey to end this violence.
I expect Turkish allies listen care-
fully to the anger from Washington,
welcome our Vice President, and take
steps to repair our important relation-
ship. It would be a tragedy for both of
our nations if Turkey’s escalation in
Syria imperils our common fight
against ISIS and emboldens traditional
adversaries like Iran and Russia. This
would be bad for U.S. interests, but it
would be terrible for Turkey.
I also look forward to discussing with
Members on both sides and with the ad-
ministration how the United States
can stand with our partners and pro-
vide strong, principled, and consistent
global leadership.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 2593
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I understand there is a bill at the desk
due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the second time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 2593) to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under the pro-
vision of rule XIV, I object to further
proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I suggest the ab-
sence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
over the past month, evidence has
emerged that the President of the
United States pressured a foreign lead-
er to investigate one of his leading po-
litical rivals. A whistleblower inside
the intelligence community first raised
alarms that the President applied pres-
sure on Ukrainian President Zelensky
that would benefit President Trump
politically. The President himself then
released a memorandum of his con-
versation with President Zelensky,
which demonstrably validated the
whistleblower’s concerns.
In the weeks that followed, the House
has received testimony from a number
of State Department officials who have
filled in additional pieces to this very
troubling puzzle. Rudy Giuliani’s ef-
forts to dig up dirt on the President’s
political rivals were well known within
the State Department and the National
Security Council. The Ambassador to
the EU, Gordon Sondland, was heavily
involved with Mr. Giuliani, and we con-
tinue to receive additional information
about Mr. Sondland’s participation. His
scheduled testimony in the coming
days will undoubtedly be relevant and
important.
Amidst all of this, the White House
has engaged in stonewalling and out-
right defiance of congressional prerog-
atives. The State Department in-
structed its officials not to comply
with congressional subpoenas, the
White House has refused to cooperate
with the House impeachment inquiry,
and the President has publicly and re-
peatedly sought to bully and intimi-
date the whistleblower.
As additional facts are unearthed, we
have a responsibility to consider them
with the best interest of our country in
mind. The whistleblower was doing a
courageous and patriotic act and must
be protected. He must be protected.
The Constitution made Congress a co-
equal branch of government. That role
must be respected. The matter at the
heart of the inquiry concerns the very
integrity of our democratic elections,
and it must be investigated thor-
oughly, completely, and in a non-
partisan manner.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.003 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5778 October 15, 2019
Our Founding Fathers feared foreign
interference in our elections and con-
sidered it one of the greatest threats
facing our fledgling Republic. Once
again, the wisdom of the Founding Fa-
thers shines through. If a foreign coun-
try can meddle in or affect the out-
come of our elections, Americans will
quickly lose faith in our democracy. If
Russia or China or Iran controls our
elections, what the heck do we vote
for? So the alleged offense by the Presi-
dent is clearly serious enough to war-
rant an investigation by Congress, and
that is exactly what the House of Rep-
resentatives is doing in its impeach-
ment inquiry, and it must continue
unimpeded.
We can do two things, and we must
do them. We can protect the Constitu-
tion and take action to help average
working families at the same time.
Here in the Senate, we can do both:
protect the Constitution and help aver-
age working families. It is not either-
or. It is not one or the other.
f
SENATE LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
from the very beginning, Democrats
have been committed to doing the peo-
ple’s business, but while the Demo-
cratic majority in the House of Rep-
resentatives has passed hundreds of
bills dealing with healthcare, infra-
structure, gun violence, climate
change, and much more, Leader
MCCONNELL has turned our Chamber
into a legislative graveyard. Not one of
these bills has received a vote in the
Senate: no vote to save protections for
people with preexisting conditions, al-
though the American people are plead-
ing with us to do it; no vote on bipar-
tisan background checks, although
more people die from gun violence
committed by people who shouldn’t
have guns; no vote on bipartisan elec-
tion security as Russia threatens us;
and no vote on the Violence Against
Women Act, when abuse of women con-
tinues.
Over the course of his Presidency,
President Trump has also failed to
offer proposals to address any of these
pressing issues. In many cases, his poli-
cies and his Executive actions have
made things worse.
As Congress comes back into session,
Senate Democrats will force our Re-
publican colleagues to vote during this
work period on three measures that are
important to millions of Americans.
These votes will occur under the proce-
dures of the Congressional Review Act.
The Congressional Review Act—I know
the public is not familiar with the ar-
cane parts of these things—is one of
the rare instances where the minority
can force a vote. We want to debate
these other issues. We want to debate
gun violence. We want to debate
healthcare. We want to debate infra-
structure. We want to debate pre-
existing conditions. We are not saying
our Republican friends are going to
think exactly as we do, but let’s have a
debate and vote. Leader MCCONNELL,
much to the discredit of this Chamber,
as well as his own, has said no, but here
the Congressional Review Act at least
allows us to review some of the over-
reaching actions of the executive
branch and get a vote on them.
Each of these CRA votes will present
our Republican colleagues with a
choice: whether to protect Americans
with preexisting conditions or not to
protect them, whether to protect mid-
dle-class Americans from a tax hike or
not to protect them, and whether to
fight climate change or to do nothing.
We will also demand that our Repub-
lican colleagues take up legislation to
protect hard-earned pensions for mil-
lions of American workers. Several of
my colleagues will come to the floor
this evening to do just that. Senators
MANCHIN, BROWN, STABENOW, PETERS,
SMITH, BALDWIN, and TESTER have been
real leaders on these pension issues.
Workers, who for decades put money
into their pensions and thought when
they retired they would at least have
some modicum on which to live de-
cently, will lose all that unless we act.
We hope our Republican colleagues
will listen to the debate and help us
move to deal with the millions of work-
ers struggling to preserve their pen-
sions.
As we continue to fulfill our solemn
constitutional duty to hold the Presi-
dent accountable, Democrats will not—
will not—stop putting pressure on
Leader MCCONNELL and our friends in
the majority to get the Senate back to
work for the American people. Demo-
crats will use every tool we have—
there are not that many—to stop Lead-
er MCCONNELL from making the Senate
a legislative graveyard when the Amer-
ican people need help and action in so
many ways.
f
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. SCHUMER. Madam President,
now on Turkey and Syria, a major
issue that deserves the Senate’s atten-
tion this week and that shows we can,
again, fulfill our constitutional obliga-
tions as well as help the American peo-
ple. One thing we are going to be talk-
ing about this week is President
Trump’s precipitous and dangerous de-
cision to withdraw from northern
Syria.
A few weeks ago, the President
abruptly announced that the United
States, which has long maintained a
presence in northern Syria to root out
ISIS terrorists, would stand aside, and
Turkey launched a military incursion
into the region. For years, a global co-
alition of the United States and our
partners and allies, particularly the
stout Kurds in Syria, have worked tire-
lessly and sacrificed much to defeat
ISIS. Now, in only a matter of days,
the President’s quick, unstudied, and
ill-advised Syria decision has jeopard-
ized all of that progress.
For years, American soldiers have
fought hard and some have given their
lives to vanquish ISIS. For years, our
great military and diplomatic leaders
have strategized about how to get rid
of ISIS, and in one fell quick and
unthought-out swoop, the President
has undone that. It is despicable. It is
dangerous.
The consequences have already prov-
en dire. Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian
dictator and war criminal, has
strengthened his position greatly, cut-
ting a deal with the Kurds and moving
his forces into the gap left by our with-
drawal.
Who else has benefited from Presi-
dent Trump’s ill-thought-out, precipi-
tous, and wrongheaded action? Iran,
his greatest enemy, one of our great
enemies in many ways. As you know, I
am no friend of the Iranian Govern-
ment.
Iran has benefited. Who else has ben-
efitted? President Putin. Russian
troops have now swept into the region,
according to reports. Russia envies the
oil in northern Syria that it might con-
trol.
When the President does some kind
of action, it makes everyone scratch
their heads, and if it benefits Putin,
one doesn’t know if he is doing it to ac-
tually help Putin or if he just doesn’t
get it. I tend to think it is often the
former, unfortunately.
Our Kurdish partners are paying the
ultimate cost of their betrayal, and
tens of thousands of civilians have been
displaced. Maybe most concerning of
all, reports say that more than 10,000
ISIS fighters currently held and guard-
ed by the Kurds could walk out of their
cells. By pulling out of northern Syria,
President Trump has encouraged noth-
ing short of an ISIS jailbreak.
I say this to my fellow Americans.
Some may say: We don’t want any
troops anywhere. Bring them all home.
We don’t care.
Well, I care. Most people care.
But some might say: I don’t care
what happens to the Kurds.
The one thing everyone should care
about, whatever their views on geo-
politics in the Middle East and in
Syria, is our own security. We have
spent a decade of treasure and often
lives rooting out ISIS. Why? Because
ISIS presents a danger to our home-
land. We, in New York, know, more
than anybody, how a small group from
far away could do huge damage and kill
thousands of innocent Americans here.
And now President Trump, through
this thoughtless action, is allowing
ISIS to gain new strength. What is
going on here? This is a threat to our
own national security here in our
homeland, and we must do everything
to stop it.
And who is the most angry at the
President? From what I am told, our
own military is. Our own military, who
have fought shoulder-to-shoulder
alongside the Kurds, watching the
Kurds risk and lose their lives to help
protect Americans—they weren’t even
consulted. The military wasn’t even
consulted. You heard what General
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.004 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5779
October 15, 2019
Mattis said. He may be the most re-
spected military leader we have, even
though he is in retirement. He said:
This makes it much more likely that
ISIS gains strength and can hurt us.
What the heck is going on here? This
transcends any ideological differences
we may have—whether we agree with
President Trump or disagree and
whether we think he is a good Presi-
dent or think he is an awful President.
This goes beyond that. What is going
on?
After Republicans spent years criti-
cizing our former President, President
Obama, for simply failing to recite the
phrase ‘‘radical Islamic terror,’’ then
our Republican friends should be apo-
plectic at what the President has done.
It is not simply reciting this phrase.
The President, through his actions,
whether it is inadvertent or not, has
made radical Islamic terror more real
and more dangerous.
In one fell swoop, President Trump
has deserted our partners, emboldened
three of our chief adversaries, provided
a lifeline to ISIS fighters who have
been taken off the battlefield, and put
American troops and America in
harm’s way. Truly, this is one of the
most thoughtless and dangerous policy
changes that President Trump could
have made. That it was made seem-
ingly on a whim—without consulting
our military commanders, without no-
tifying Congress, and, most egre-
giously, without thinking its con-
sequences through—makes it even
more alarming.
We have entered a dangerous mo-
ment, my friends. It is increasingly
clear to everyone that the President’s
erratic decision making has endan-
gered our national security and the se-
curity of our partners and allies around
the world. Strong sanctions, while good
and justified, will not be sufficient in
undoing that damage, nor will they
stop the consequences stemming from
the ISIS jailbreak.
So the first step, as Congress returns,
is for Democrats and Republicans to
join us in passing a resolution making
clear that both parties demand that
the President’s decision be reversed.
This is bipartisan, but our Repub-
lican colleagues have a special place
here because they will have far more
success in getting the President to re-
verse course and change his views.
There is a solemn obligation on every
one of the 53 Republican Members here.
They know it is dangerous. Are they
going to still be afraid to criticize
President Trump? They have not, so
far, but this resolution is the strongest
action we can take.
Ultimately, of course, the only per-
son able to immediately stop this trag-
edy from unfolding is the President
himself. The President made the deci-
sion alone. He alone is responsible for
its consequences. President Trump,
hopefully, importuned by Congress,
Democrats and Republicans in the
House and Senate, will use this mo-
ment—must use this moment—to step
up, admit his grave mistake, and cor-
rect course.
I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
EXECUTIVE SESSION
EXECUTIVE CALENDAR
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will pro-
ceed to executive session and resume
consideration of the following nomina-
tion, which the clerk will report.
The bill clerk read the nomination of
Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona,
to be Secretary of the Air Force.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
WHISTLEBLOWERS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Madam President,
we have heard a lot about whistle-
blowers in the past several weeks.
There has been an outpouring of con-
cern for whistleblowers ever since word
came out that there was a whistle-
blower complaint that implicates the
current administration.
A lot of those on the other side of the
aisle, expressing support for whistle-
blowers, to the best of my recollection,
haven’t expressed the same level of
concern for whistleblowers in the last
administration.
Well, welcome to the table. I hope
you stay at the table quite a while.
I have said for years that it is crit-
ical that we protect the whistleblower
process to incentivize the disclosure of
true waste, fraud, and abuse of the tax-
payer’s money. Those processes must
be carefully followed by all whistle-
blowers, and that process must be re-
spected by our government’s institu-
tions. Those legal processes are espe-
cially important for government em-
ployees who work in the intelligence
field. Whistleblowers who act in good
faith, who comply with the disclosure
process set out by law, and who report
their concerns through proper channels
deserve to be heard and deserve to be
protected.
I have also said that first-, second-,
and third-hand information doesn’t
make or break a whistleblower. If they
follow the procedure, that is really
most important. However, hearsay is a
factor to take into account when ana-
lyzing the strength of underlying alle-
gations. Clearly, first-hand knowledge
is much more powerful than second-
and third-hand knowledge. That is just
common sense.
It is common sense no matter what
the allegations are or who the subject
is, and there needs to be a consistent
approach in the way that Congress con-
ducts oversight. On April 8 of this year,
I spoke on this Senate floor about the
need for consistent oversight. I pointed
out clear double standards between
what the Democrats are doing to the
Trump administration and the blind
eye that they have used on any fact
pattern that might damage their polit-
ical narrative.
Let me remind the Democrats that I
threatened to subpoena the President’s
son and that my staff later deposed
that son. In fact, I investigated alleged
Russian collusion with the Trump cam-
paign and interviewed more than 10
people connected to the June 2016 fa-
mous Trump Tower meeting, many of
them Trump campaign officials. By the
way, I also welcomed Democrats’ par-
ticipation in those interviews. The
Democrats did participate. But, unfor-
tunately, the same equal access and
transparency doesn’t exist in the House
of Representatives these days as they
do oversight of what has gone on with
the famous telephone call to the
Ukrainian President.
I have routinely challenged the ad-
ministration’s policies and engaged in
robust oversight to hold this adminis-
tration accountable. My oversight and
investigation units have sent out al-
most 300 letters to the executive
branch since President Trump took his
oath of office. So I think I can declare
myself an equal-opportunity overseer
because I seek facts, irrespective of
party and no matter where they lead.
I don’t think many of the Democrats
today can say the same thing. These
folks today, who are suddenly so con-
cerned about congressional oversight,
are the same ones who had no interest
whatsoever in defending the institu-
tions of the legislative branch when
the Obama administration was in of-
fice.
Quite frankly, I find it all too con-
venient that the Democrats today have
used allegations of wrongdoing against
the President that actually apply much
more clearly to their own political
leaders. Let us begin down this road
with the now-debunked Russia collu-
sion investigation.
First, the Clinton campaign hired
Fusion GPS to do opposition research
against candidate Trump. Second, the
Democratic National Committee did
the very same thing. Third, Fusion
GPS hired Christopher Steele, a former
British intelligence officer, to compile
the famous Steele dossier.
Even James Comey, a former FBI Di-
rector, a man who leaked sensitive gov-
ernment records to spark a special
counsel investigation, called that
Steele dossier ‘‘salacious and
unverified.’’ That same Steele dossier
factored heavily in the FBI’s investiga-
tion against Trump.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.006 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5780 October 15, 2019
Fourth, Fusion GPS then—would you
believe it—used Russian Government
sources for information for that Steele
dossier.
Now, it is a fact, not merely an alle-
gation, that the Clinton campaign and
the Democratic Party used a foreign
intel officer and information from the
Russian Government to undermine the
Trump campaign and later the Trump
administration. And that is not Trump.
No, Trump didn’t do any of that. It was
the Democrats. The Democrats’ action
literally fit their own definition of col-
lusion. Maybe that is why the Demo-
crats have failed to seek documents
and information relating to how and
why the now-debunked FBI investiga-
tion into Russian collusion started, be-
cause the Democrats would be front
and center in that investigation.
Special Counsel Mueller’s investiga-
tion didn’t look at the Democrats’ role
in collusion, either. After 2 years, more
than 2,800 subpoenas, approximately
500 search warrants and witness inter-
views, and $30 million in taxpayers’
money, that report ignored what the
Clinton campaign and Democrats did. I
can see why President Trump would be
so frustrated at being incorrectly
painted as a Russian agent.
So what is next? Now that the collu-
sion narrative has been destroyed, the
Democrats have turned to Ukraine.
First, the news reports said Trump of-
fered a quid pro quo, and then Trump
released not only the call transcript
with the Ukrainian President but the
intelligence community complaint.
Those were extraordinary acts of trans-
parency, and with transparency comes
accountability. The call and complaint
showed no quid pro quo. The call
showed that Trump was concerned
about whether Ukraine had a role in
the debunked Russia collusion nar-
rative.
This is a reasonable concern, and it is
a concern that I share. Accordingly,
since I share that concern, on July 20,
2017, I wrote to the Justice Department
about reports of brazen efforts by the
Democratic National Committee and
Hillary Clinton’s campaign to use the
Government of Ukraine for the express
purpose of finding negative informa-
tion on then-Candidate Trump in order
to undermine the Trump campaign.
Ukrainian officials reportedly
‘‘helped Clinton’s allies research dam-
aging information on Trump and his
advisers.’’ Moreover, Nellie Ohr, the
wife of Justice Department official
Bruce Ohr, stated during a congres-
sional interview that Fusion GPS used
a Ukrainian politician as a source for
derogatory material against then-Can-
didate Trump. It is no wonder, then,
that President Trump is concerned
about Ukraine’s involvement in the de-
bunked Russian collusion narrative.
The phone call also showed that he
was concerned about then-Vice Presi-
dent Biden firing a prosecutor who was
investigating one of the largest natural
gas firms in the world. That firm hap-
pened to employ Biden’s son. Years
later, Biden bragged about getting the
prosecutor fired. This has been seen on
television a lot:
We’re not going to give you the billion dol-
lars. They said, you have no authority.
You’re not the president. The president
said—I said, call him. I said, I’m telling you,
you’re not getting the billion dollars. I said,
you’re not getting the billion. I’m going to
be leaving here in, I think it was about six
hours. I looked at them and said: I’m leaving
in six hours. If the prosecutor is not fired,
you’re not getting the money. Well—
Then he used a cuss word.
He got fired. And they put in place some-
one who was solid at the time.
The Democrats have argued that
Trump has tried to get the Government
of Ukraine to look into this matter to
benefit his political campaign. Yet it
doesn’t sound like there is much con-
cern from many on the other side of
the aisle about what Biden claimed to
have done.
There is also another call transcript
I would like to share. This one says the
following:
We put some more ideas down to resolve
the airport dispute we have with British Air-
ways, USAir, and American Airlines. Would
you take another look at that and see if we
can get it done?
Further quoting:
It’s sort of a big deal here. . . . In a polit-
ical season, it would be big over here to get
this open sore resolved. If you could have
somebody take a look at it.
Well, that was President Bill Clinton
asking for a political favor during the
2000 Presidential election between Al
Gore and George Bush. I don’t hear any
objection whatsoever from the Demo-
crats about the substance of that call.
Now the Democrats have also ac-
cused the President of obstructing Con-
gress. Here, too, I think they have se-
lective memory.
The Democrats in the Obama Justice
Department didn’t bat an eye when
Clinton’s associates deleted records
subject to congressional subpoena and
preservation orders. In March of 2015,
Secretary Clinton’s attorneys had a
conference call with Paul Combetta,
the man who helped manage Clinton’s
nongovernment server. After that call,
he deleted Clinton’s emails with
BleachBit, a software program de-
signed to prevent forensic recovery.
Combetta admitted he lied to the FBI
in his initial interviews and got immu-
nity from the FBI in exchange for
agreeing to tell the truth.
So the Obama administration gave
immunity to the person who deleted
Clinton’s emails after a call with her
attorneys. To this very day, the FBI
has yet to explain why they took that
course of action. During the course of
the FBI’s investigation, it recovered
thousands of work-related emails that
were not turned over to the State De-
partment by Secretary Clinton. The
FBI also recovered work-related emails
that Secretary Clinton and her associ-
ates apparently deleted. All of this is
very clear evidence of alienation of
Federal records, which happens to be a
Federal crime.
What also troubles me about one as-
pect of the Clinton investigation is
that the FBI agreed to limit the scope
of their review to her time as Sec-
retary of State. That eliminated poten-
tially highly relevant emails before
and after her tenure that could have
shed light on why she operated a non-
government server. It also eliminated
emails around the time of that con-
ference call that could have shown
what exactly was intended in deleting
those emails. That limitation of scope
defies reason.
Lastly, the FBI agreed to destroy
records and laptops of Clinton’s associ-
ates after reviewing them. That is an
astonishing agreement in light of the
fact that these records could have been
relevant to an ongoing congressional
inquiry that the FBI knew about.
So where were the Democrats when
all of that happened? Where was their
outrage at the potential obstruction of
justice and obstruction of congres-
sional oversight? Seems to me that if
the Democrats want to be consistent,
they will have to address what was
done and what was totally ignored in
the Clinton investigation. Russia. Clin-
ton. Ukraine. The Democrats have ig-
nored facts relating to these investiga-
tions that would destroy their political
narrative, but facts matter, and the
facts are not going to go away.
It is a shame that they have gone
down this road in such a blatant at-
tempt to remove a duly-elected Presi-
dent from power simply because they
can’t get over the 2016 election. Instead
of coming together to work for the
American people and to pass trade
deals and legislation that would lower
drug costs for seniors, the Democrats
choose to gin up false political con-
troversies while ignoring the involve-
ment of their own political leaders.
Get over yourselves. All of us will be
footnotes to footnotes in history. It is
the policies that we leave behind that
will matter for future generations, not
smear campaigns.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Ohio.
PENSIONS
Mr. BROWN. Madam President, I
thank Senators MANCHIN and STABE-
NOW for joining us today. Senators
BALDWIN and CASEY will come later to
shine a light on the more than 1 mil-
lion workers and retirees across this
country who are on the verge of facing
massive cuts to the pensions they have
earned.
I want to thank the workers and re-
tirees who are in Washington this
week. You will see teamsters, sheet
metal workers, mine workers, car-
penters, ironworkers, bakers and con-
fectioners—retirees, mostly—who have
earned this retirement but because of
an action in this body, simply haven’t
had that retirement promise fulfilled.
They are demanding that Congress
honor the dignity of their work and
honor the promise of those pensions.
The crisis affects thousands in my
State of Ohio and affects the massive
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.007 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5781
October 15, 2019
Central States pension plan, the United
Mine Workers pension plan, the Iron-
workers Local 17 pension plan, the
Southwest Ohio carpenters pension
plan, the bakers and confectioners pen-
sion plan, and others in every State in
this country. We are talking about our
entire multiemployer pension system.
If it collapses, it won’t be just the re-
tirees who will feel the pain. Current
workers will be stuck paying into pen-
sions they will never receive, and small
businesses will be left drowning in pen-
sion liability they cannot afford to
pay. It will have ripple effects through-
out our economy.
Let’s be clear. If we do nothing, this
could trigger a recession perhaps on
par with the housing crisis. And we
know what Wall Street greed did in the
housing crisis, and we know what could
happen here if Senator MCCONNELL
doesn’t move on this. We know who
gets hurt the most every single time.
Small businesses that have been in the
family for generations could face bank-
ruptcy. Workers will lose jobs as busi-
nesses are forced to close shop. These
businesses and employees did every-
thing right. They contributed to these
pensions, in many cases over decades.
Too often, people in this town don’t
understand the whole point of collec-
tive bargaining, don’t understand the
collective bargaining process. People
give up dollars today for the promise of
a secure retirement with good
healthcare and a pension. They give up
dollars today with a promise of having
a pension and healthcare. These work-
ers’ lives and livelihoods will be dev-
astated if Congress doesn’t do its job.
When I think about the responsi-
bility we have, I think about the words
of worker Larry Ward at a hearing at
the statehouse in Columbus last year.
He said:
I don’t understand how it is that Congress
would even consider asking us to take a cut
to my pension, or see it go away entirely,
when it had no problems sending billions to
the Wall Street crooks who caused this prob-
lem in the first place.
Don’t forget that what happened on
Wall Street had an impact on these
pensions.
He went on to say:
They used that to pay themselves bonuses.
We use our pensions to pay for medicine and
food and heat.
It is bad enough that Wall Street
squandered workers’ money; it is worse
that the government that is supposed
to look out for these folks ignores the
promise that was made to these work-
ers. The President—who essentially
stood by and did nothing—would say it
is disgraceful.
That is why these workers are fight-
ing back. We have kept this on the
agenda because of them, because they
refuse to give up. Workers rallied,
called, and wrote letters. We all have
seen the camo UMWA t-shirts. These
workers have rallied in the name of
Butch Lewis, a great Cincinnatian who
helped lead this fight and passed away
far too soon while fighting for his fel-
low workers. His wife, Rita, has contin-
ued this fight and has become a leader
and an inspiration to me and so many
others. She once told me that the
workers in this crisis feel like they are
invisible. They are not invisible to Sen-
ator MANCHIN, Senator STABENOW, or to
me. I know they are not invisible to
my colleague Senator PORTMAN, who
has put in months of work in good faith
on this issue on the committee and
continues this year. I know he is com-
mitted and I am committed, and my
colleagues on the floor today—again,
Senators MANCHIN, STABENOW, CASEY,
and BALDWIN will be joining us. We are
committed to these miners, teamsters,
these retirees and workers and small
businesses. We will not give up. We are
continuing to work on a bipartisan so-
lution.
It comes back to the dignity of work.
When work has dignity, we honor the
retirement security that people earned.
We respect collective bargaining. We
know collective bargaining created the
middle class. I urge my colleagues in
this body—colleagues with a good pen-
sion and good healthcare paid for by
taxpayers—I urge my colleagues in this
body to think about those retired
workers and the stress they are facing.
Join us. Let’s pass a solution that
honors their work and keeps our prom-
ise. If you love this country, you fight
for the people who make it work.
I yield to Senator MANCHIN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Madam President, I
want to thank my colleague from Ohio,
Senator BROWN, and also Senator STA-
BENOW, Senator CASEY, and all those
who feel as strongly as we do and have
constituents in our States who really
helped build this country and deserve
the respect we give them and also the
hard fight to make sure we do the right
thing for them.
We are here today to bring attention
to the issue of American workers’ pen-
sions. I thank you for allowing me to
speak to the ever-present issue that
our retired workers face, which is the
security of their pensions. My col-
leagues and I have come to the floor to
speak on behalf of some of America’s
hardest workers.
It has been 285 days since I intro-
duced the American Miners Act, which
would protect miners’ pensions from
becoming collateral during coal mine
bankruptcies. This is something that
should have been done. It has been on
Leader MCCONNELL’s desk for quite
some time. We could have taken care
of this a few years ago. We got the
healthcare part done, but they split it
apart, and we weren’t able to get the
pensions.
Miners rely on their hard-earned pen-
sions in retirement. They should be se-
cured even if the coal companies file
bankruptcy. We must act, and this can-
not happen without bipartisan support.
The coal miners, autoworkers, Team-
sters, steelworkers, and every other
worker that invest in their pension
funds deserve to have stability and se-
curity in their retirement. The multi-
employer pension system in the United
States is in crisis.
Approximately 130 multiemployer
pension plans, including the United
Mine Workers of America 1974 Pension
Fund, are expected to become insolvent
in the next few years. The miners’ pen-
sion fund alone, a critical plan that
covers 82,000 retired miners—25,000 of
those in West Virginia and 20,000 fully
vested current workers—is projected to
become insolvent by 2022. Remember
that date, 2022. But there is a catch to
that. We have one major coal company
in the United States on the fringe of
bankruptcy as I speak to you today. If
they fall into bankruptcy, this whole
pension plan for the miners goes into
turmoil. By September 2020—within a
year from now—the coal miners could
see drastic cuts to their benefits if we
don’t act. If the UMWA Pension Fund
becomes insolvent, there will be a
snowball effect for the central pen-
sions.
It has been said that the recession of
2007 and 2008 will be a blip on the radar
screen compared to what this will do to
our economy nationwide. The compa-
nies are going to walk away scot-free.
It is unacceptable that some of our
hardest workers have to beg for the
money that they put into the pension
fund over years and years of hard work.
Yet this is not only coal miners’ pen-
sions. It is bringing attention to all the
pension plans in America. Everyone de-
serves to have stability in their retire-
ment, especially those who have paid
into pension plans for decades. This
fight is for each and every one of them.
To be clear, a pension is not just given
to these employees. You don’t just go
to work and they say: We are going to
give you a pension. It is going to be fig-
ured into your pay, and it will be de-
ducted from your pay for you as the
employee to pay part and an employer
is supposed to match it. Someone is
putting in money, someone is taking
money from someone’s paycheck, and
they are hopefully putting it into a
safe place or safe investment.
How can it be that when they go
bankrupt they lose everything? Who
gets it? Who walks away with their
money? That is what we are talking
about. This funding is set aside from
the employee’s paycheck throughout
their career and matched by their em-
ployer. Workers invest in their pen-
sions. They take a cut in pay over time
to ensure that they have security in re-
tirement. Rather than taking money
home to their family, they say: This
will be fine. In 20 years from now, 25
years from now, 30 years from now, I
will have something I can rely on that
will basically provide stability for my
family. It is truly their money that we
are talking about.
The law of the land—the law of this
great country—allows companies to
not pay their former employees’ hard-
earned pensions when they go bank-
rupt. They don’t say: Okay, if you are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.009 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5782 October 15, 2019
going to declare bankruptcy, the first
thing you have to do is pay the em-
ployees. You must pay the people who
put their money in. Make sure they get
their money. That is all. And then we
can work out the rest.
But, no, we don’t do it that way.
Their CEOs receive bonuses. At the
bankruptcy hearing, they will get a
bonus. All the financial institutions
get taken care of first. There is noth-
ing left for the employee. The person’s
money is gone. Somebody else got it. It
just doesn’t make any sense at all. It is
not who we are as a great country. It
makes no sense, whatsoever, how the
laws evolved into that, unless there is
pure, unadulterated American greed
that allowed this to happen.
We have to reverse it. It is the law of
the land. Guess what? We are the law-
makers of the land. We are the ones
who can change this. This is permitted
because the courts and our bankruptcy
laws continue to allow the companies
to break their promises to the workers
and shed their obligations to pay the
hard-earned pension benefits. They are
able to reemerge from bankruptcy in
good financial shape. They are able to
shirk all their responsibilities and take
all of somebody else’s money and come
out of this OK. They are ready to do
business again.
I am sorry. The same old-same old is
not going to happen. Then the Federal
Government is left with the burden to
provide a percentage of the pensions
owed to these employees. This comes
because we have Federal guarantees.
That is about ready to go bankrupt,
too. We are going to break it because of
people not taking care of the people
who did the work. It comes straight
out of the pockets of everyday Ameri-
cans from their taxes instead of from
the companies who walk away without
managing their obligations to their
employees and families. That is why
my colleagues and I have come to-
gether today to bring to light these
issues that affects 10.6 million Ameri-
cans.
In West Virginia, every time a mine
closes, the miners get the rug pulled
out from under them. It has been hap-
pening far too long. Many lose their
jobs and livelihoods, and many others
lost their healthcare and pensions.
This year alone, 1,200 coal miners, their
widows, and family members could also
lose their healthcare coverage.
For those of you who think this is
just another Big Government program,
let me share a little history with you.
In 1946, due to the horrendous working
conditions our miners faced every day,
there was a nationwide strike coming
right out of World War II. It brought
our Nation’s economy to its knees.
President Truman knew this could not
continue. He dispatched the Secretary
of Interior Julius Krug to meet with
the president of the United Mine Work-
ers of America, John L. Lewis. They
ended that strike by signing the Krug-
Lewis agreement which created a re-
tirement fund and healthcare benefits
for our Nation’s coal miners and their
families that had the full backing of
the United States Government. What
we are saying is it was so important
that we continue to work and produce
the energy this country needed—basi-
cally, it wasn’t the government giving
them anything. They were saying that,
for every ton of coal that was sold, a
portion of that revenue from the coal
that was sold would have to go towards
the miners’ pension and the miners’ re-
tirement.
Over 70 years ago, President Harry
Truman recognized the importance of
coal that our miners produced for this
country and promised that the govern-
ment would guarantee our coal miners’
benefits in return of their services. He
was guaranteeing that money would be
there for them. In turn, our coal min-
ers propelled the American economy,
ushered in decades of economic growth,
started an energy boom that made the
U.S. a superpower, and helped our Na-
tion to victory in two world wars. This
agreement was a sacred promise be-
tween workers and our country, and it
captured the very best of America.
Unfortunately, over 70 years later,
we are still fighting to make good on
that promise. After securing
healthcare benefits for retired coal
miners, we proved that Congress can
work together and put partisan politics
aside. It is a philosophy that I have fol-
lowed throughout my life in public
service—in the West Virginia State
Legislature, as a former Governor of
the State of West Virginia, and now as
a Senator representing the State of
West Virginia.
I know that my fellow colleagues
here today are fighting for solutions
with me. I am asking all of our col-
leagues here in the Senate and in the
House to join us in this fight. To be
successful, we must address this in a
bipartisan way. It is not who we are to
be divided as we have been. It is not
who we are as a country to have this
toxic atmosphere that we come to. I
tell people that I go to work in a hos-
tile work environment every day. Peo-
ple don’t want to work together. They
are not expected to work together any-
more. It is the norm to fight.
That is not true where I come from.
We never got anything accomplished
by fighting in West Virginia. I hope
that, together, we can work out a solu-
tion to this terrible issue facing our
Nation and our workers so that they
can retire peacefully without a con-
stant worry of losing their hard-earned
pensions.
Let me tell you what the average
pension paid to a miner is when they
retire—and most of this goes to the
widows because the miners have passed
away. It is around $600 a month. They
worked 20 and 30 years in the mines.
This is not a windfall for anybody. It is
a sustenance that just absolutely keeps
them alive so that they can retire and
live peacefully. That is all they are
asking for.
I am proud to stand here today with
my fellow colleagues, and we are going
to fight to keep our commitment to
our citizens of our respective States in
this great country.
I am glad to yield to my dear friend
and my colleague from Michigan, Sen-
ator STABENOW.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. CAS-
SIDY). The Senator from Michigan.
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I
want to thank my colleague. I think he
stepped to the back. No one has been a
better champion for our miners and
their families than Senator JOE
MANCHIN. Every single day, he brings
to us the needs of our coal miners and
people who have literally fueled a gen-
eration beyond our economy. I want to
thank Senator MANCHIN for his leader-
ship, and also thank Senator BROWN for
his leadership as well. The two of them
together are leading our efforts.
I am proud to be joining with them
to focus on an issue that is hurting
working men and women across Michi-
gan and across the country. It is an
issue that, quite frankly, I can’t be-
lieve that, in the Senate, we are having
to actually talk about why people
should get the pension that they have
paid into their whole life. I can’t be-
lieve that we even have to have this as
an issue or the fact that we are having
to fight to get the attention of the ma-
jority leader and the majority in the
Senate who actually bring up legisla-
tion to help people get the pension
they have paid into their whole work-
ing life. This ought to be a given. We
used to think it was. It is wrong that it
is not today.
For generations, millions of working
people built better lives for themselves
and their families with jobs that pro-
vided more than just a paycheck. Folks
worked really hard, and in exchange
for a job well done, they could count on
basic benefits, including healthcare
and a secure retirement, coming
through a pension that they paid into
while they were working. These work-
ers didn’t just build their own families.
They literally built the middle class.
I can tell you, coming from Michi-
gan, that is exactly what happened.
They built our economy. They built
our American way of life, and they just
assumed that America would keep its
promises, that the companies would
keep their promises, that our laws
would be set up in a way that they
could trust would work, and that the
money they were putting into a pen-
sion and retirement security would be
there for themselves and their families.
I don’t think that is too much to ask.
Many of these coal miners, truck
drivers, construction workers, auto-
workers, and others gave up raises—as
my colleagues already talked about—in
exchange for retirement security. They
would negotiate, and they would say
that, rather than get that money in my
paycheck now, I want to put it into my
retirement so that I know it is there
for myself and my family going for-
ward.
They held up their end of the bar-
gain. Unfortunately, that bargain is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.013 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5783
October 15, 2019
now crumbling for too many. Imagine
what it would be like to have to cut
your family budget 50 percent or 60 per-
cent or even 70 percent and still get the
bills paid and keep food on the table.
I talked to a gentleman from Michi-
gan named John who lives in Monroe.
He doesn’t have to imagine that be-
cause he and his family are living that
every day. John is a retired diesel me-
chanic whose pension benefits were
slashed 72 percent. For any one of us,
imagine if our incomes were slashed 72
percent. That started for him in Janu-
ary 2018.
As you can only imagine, the past 2
years have been a tremendous hardship
for him and for his family. They have
been using their savings, as he said to
me, to pay the bills for the past 2
years. They have cut everything non-
essential and are now cutting even the
essentials from their budget. John and
Kathy, his wife, used to be able to help
out their children, including a son who
is disabled, but they no longer have the
means to do that, which is something
that is really devastating for them.
John said: ‘‘The mental strain and
anxiety we are enduring because of the
loss of a guaranteed income has be-
come increasingly difficult.’’
Kathy added that it is hard for people
to understand what it is like to live on
just one-quarter of the income that one
used to have.
Kathy and John aren’t alone. That is
why we are on the floor. That is why
we are asking—demanding—that action
be taken on their behalf. Between 1
million and 1.5 million American work-
ers and retirees are in pension plans
that are at serious risk of becoming in-
solvent within the next 20 years. As
well, by the end of this year, as Sen-
ator MANCHIN said, more than 1,200 coal
miners and their family members could
lose their healthcare coverage.
These hard-working Americans de-
serve better than this. Right now, they
are just waiting and waiting and wait-
ing for the U.S. Senate to act—for the
Senate majority leader and the Repub-
lican majority to decide it is important
to act on their behalf. It has now been
83 days since the House of Representa-
tives passed the Rehabilitation for
Multiemployer Pensions Act—83 days.
We have plenty of time to take this up
on the Senate floor. We have plenty of
time to take it up. There needs to be a
sense of urgency about doing it because
John and Kathy certainly feel that
sense of urgency as they are trying to
pay the bills and do what they can to
support their children. They feel that
every day.
This bill is the companion legislation
to what we have called the Butch
Lewis Act. Thanks to Senator BROWN
for introducing this important legisla-
tion, I am proud to be a cosponsor
along with many of my colleagues. It
has also been 285 days, as Senator
MANCHIN said, since Senators MANCHIN,
KAINE, WARNER, BROWN, JONES, and
CASEY introduced the American Miners
Act. So we have two bills in front of
us—one that has been held up now for
285 days and one that has been held up
for 83 days. We need to have action.
The American Miners Act secures re-
tired miners’ pensions and saves their
healthcare benefits. It is past time for
Senate Majority Leader MCCONNELL to
stop stalling and to take action on be-
half of the folks who did nothing more
than work their whole lives, created
the middle class of this country, and
believed their country and believed the
companies when they said, if they paid
into pensions, they would be there.
Hard-working American families have
been waiting way too long.
I have always believed that a pension
was a promise. It is just plain and sim-
ple. It is a promise, and it is a promise
that deserves to be kept. People like
John, who have worked hard to earn
their retirement benefits, shouldn’t
have to worry about paying their
power bills, putting food on their ta-
bles, or keeping their homes. They
should know that their pensions will be
there for them—the pensions they paid
into all the time they were working.
They have earned them over a lifetime
of work, and those pensions are prom-
ises that need to be kept.
I urge my Republican colleagues to
join us in helping to keep that promise
for John and for the hard-working
Americans like him. We could do this
very quickly this week if we would
come together and have a sense of ur-
gency about what is affecting folks
who have worked hard all of their lives,
who are now retired, and who just need
to know that those pensions are going
to be there for themselves and their
families.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from West Virginia.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 27
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, as if in
legislative session, I ask unanimous
consent that the Committee on Fi-
nance be discharged from the further
consideration of S. 27, the American
Miners Act of 2019; that the Senate pro-
ceed to its immediate consideration;
that the bill be considered read a third
time and passed; and that the motion
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
an objection?
The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, in re-
serving the right to object, let me give
a short explanation.
The issues facing miners’ pension
plans are of critical importance, but I
have to tell my colleagues that so are
the issues that face a large number of
multiemployer plans, and one of the
biggest that is of concern is the Cen-
tral States Pension Plan.
Since last year, the Committee on
Finance has been working on a bipar-
tisan basis to address the issues that
face the multiemployer system. We are
nearing the completion of a com-
prehensive proposal that will include
financial assistance to the critical and
declining multiemployer pension plans
and will provide long-term solvency to
these plans and to the longer term sol-
vency of the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation, or, as we know it around
here, the PBGC. That proposal will in-
clude financial relief for miners and
mining companies because the situa-
tion with the miners’ pensions should
be handled in the context of these
broader, multiemployer plan reforms.
The Senator from West Virginia is a
person with whom I work very often
and like personally, but I must object
to this and take the course of action of
dealing with this in a larger context
rather than just for miners’ pensions,
so I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from West Virginia.
Mr. MANCHIN. Mr. President, if I
could respond briefly to the Senator
from Iowa, the reason for my request,
as far as its being urgent, is that we
are on the cusp of having one major
coal company go bankrupt. As we
speak right now, it is out there trying
to restructure, but if it declares bank-
ruptcy, our timetable on our miners’
pensions moves from 2022 to 2020. If the
miners go down first, it will create a
whole tumbling effect with the others.
This one can keep us from going into
insolvency with the PBGC. All we are
trying to do is to prevent that from
happening because this is going to
move very quickly, unfortunately, if
this one large coal company goes bank-
rupt.
That is why I brought it to the floor
today, sir, with all due respect.
I hope the Senator and I will talk
some more about this and that he will
understand the gravity of what we are
dealing with because it is really con-
cerning to me right now.
I thank the Senator.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I
heard what my friend said. I still stick
by what I told him, which is that we
are working on a plan to deal with
multiemployers in many different situ-
ations of which the Senator’s is a very
important part.
Mr. MANCHIN. I respect that, sir.
I look forward to working with the
Senator.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wisconsin.
PENSIONS
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I rise
on behalf of nearly 25,000 workers and
retirees in Wisconsin who have paid
into the Central States Pension Fund.
It has been 31⁄2 years since the Treas-
ury Department denied an application
by the Central States Pension Fund to
slash pensions that had already been
earned by thousands of plan members.
In that time, retirees have organized at
home. They have called on their Mem-
bers of Congress. They have also come
to Washington countless times—all to
remind us of the promises they were
made when they earned their pensions
and to fight for a solution to this loom-
ing crisis.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.014 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5784 October 15, 2019
I have been proud to work side by
side with Wisconsin workers and retir-
ees and with Senator BROWN to intro-
duce the Butch Lewis Act. This legisla-
tion will put failing multiemployer
pension plans, including Central
States, back on solid ground, and it
does so without cutting the pensions
retirees have earned.
(The remarks of Ms. BALDWIN per-
taining to the introduction of S. 2598
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
Ms. BALDWIN. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
Mr. CASEY. Mr. President, I rise
today as well to talk about pensions, as
so many of my colleagues have been—
and not just talking about but acting
to advance legislation with regard to
pensions.
As we have heard today—and we will
keep saying this because it bears re-
peating—pensions are a promise. They
are a promise of a secure retirement.
When a worker enters into that prom-
ise with a company, when the Federal
Government is involved, we have to
make sure we keep the promise to
workers, just as we did a couple of
years ago, after a lot of hard work, to
make sure healthcare was there for
coal miners who were retired.
Pensions are an issue that both
Houses of Congress have a responsi-
bility to act on.
The House passed the Butch Lewis
Act 3 months ago, but like a lot of leg-
islation that has come from the House,
it is sitting in the Senate day after
day, week after week and in this case 3
months—3 months—since passage in
the House. It is time for the U.S. Sen-
ate to have a vote on the Butch Lewis
Act.
In Pennsylvania, and I know this is
true of several other States, we are
talking about coal miners, teamsters,
bakery and confectionary workers who,
through no fault of their own, are see-
ing their hard-earned pensions threat-
ened. Failure to act could result in dev-
astating economic consequences across
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
and across our Nation.
Just think about it this way, in
terms of Pennsylvania: One estimate
has it that over 60,000 pensions—
60,000—including 11,831 coal miners,
21,460 teamsters as part of that larger
number—could be at risk.
Despite the challenges ahead, the
good news is, we have bipartisan legis-
lation that I mentioned a moment ago,
the Butch Lewis Act, which passed the
House 3 months ago.
Senator BROWN of Ohio and others
have worked hard to make sure this ef-
fort on pensions is in front of the agen-
da in the Senate.
The Butch Lewis Act will create a
loan program for troubled pensions. It
is a commonsense solution that brings
the public sector and the private sector
together to address this looming crisis
for workers.
We must also pass legislation so we
can address the coal miners’ healthcare
and coal miners’ pension crises. Sen-
ator MANCHIN from West Virginia has
shown great leadership in this process
over many years.
We also owe thanks to the Members
of the U.S. Senate Democratic caucus.
Few, if any, have coal miners in their
States, but because of a concerted ef-
fort in the Democratic caucus, we have
made coal miners and their healthcare
and retirements and their pensions a
priority. Those Democratic Senators
stood with Senators like me from
States that have a large number of re-
tired coal miners because it is the right
thing to do. Those Democratic Sen-
ators know it is the right thing to do.
Some Republican Senators do as well.
It is the right thing to do because, as
I started with, pensions are a promise,
and we have to make sure we keep our
promise to those workers.
Thousands of Pennsylvania families
are counting on us, and many more
thousands of American families across
the board outside of Pennsylvania are
counting on us to keep our promise on
pensions and to make sure we continue
to fight until that promise is kept to
our workers and to their families.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. CASSIDY. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
MCSALLY). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on the nomi-
nation of Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Ari-
zona, to be Secretary of the Air Force.
Mitch McConnell, Martha McSally, Rick
Scott, John Thune, Mike Crapo, Lamar
Alexander, Johnny Isakson, John Cor-
nyn, Roy Blunt, Roger F. Wicker, John
Hoeven, Mike Rounds, Kevin Cramer,
Steve Daines, John Boozman, Cindy
Hyde-Smith, James E. Risch.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that the nomination of Barbara
McConnell Barrett, of Arizona, to be
Secretary of the Air Force, shall be
brought to a close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Tennessee (Mr. ALEXANDER).
Further, if present and voting, the
Senator from Tennessee (Mr. ALEX-
ANDER) would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Colorado (Mr. BENNET),
the Senator from New Jersey (Mr.
BOOKER), the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS), the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. KLOBUCHAR), the Sen-
ator from Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
NER), and the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), are necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 84,
nays 7, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 314 Ex.]
YEAS—84
Baldwin
Barrasso
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Brown
Burr
Cantwell
Capito
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Durbin
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Heinrich
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
Kennedy
King
Lankford
Leahy
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murkowski
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Perdue
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schatz
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—7
Blumenthal
Duckworth
Gillibrand
Markey
Merkley
Smith
Wyden
NOT VOTING—9
Alexander
Bennet
Booker
Coons
Harris
Hirono
Klobuchar
Sanders
Warren
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 84, and the nays are
7.
The motion is agreed to.
The majority leader.
ORDER OF PROCEDURE
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing rule XXII, the cloture mo-
tions for the Volk, Eskridge, Novak,
and Kovner nominations ripen at 11
a.m. on Wednesday, October 16; I fur-
ther ask that notwithstanding rule
XXII, that at 4:15 p.m. tomorrow, all
postcloture time on the Barrett, Volk,
Eskridge, Novak, and Kovner nomina-
tions be considered expired; finally, I
ask that if any of the nominations are
confirmed, the motions to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table and the President be immediately
notified of the Senate’s actions.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.016 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5785
October 15, 2019
LEGISLATIVE SESSION
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate proceed to legislative session and
be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO DAVE ADKISSON
Mr. MCDONNELL. Madam President,
it is my pleasure today to salute a
transformative leader in my home
State of Kentucky, Dave Adkisson. At
the end of October, Dave will retire as
the president and CEO of the Kentucky
Chamber of Commerce, ending nearly
15 years of representing our Common-
wealth’s employers and signature in-
dustries. His talent for advocacy and
consensus-building have benefited Ken-
tucky, and I would like to thank him
for his many achievements for our
State.
Dave began his career at his home-
town chamber of commerce in
Owensboro, KY. His creativity and suc-
cessful management won him a lot of
fans early on, and he was elected the
mayor of Owensboro at the age of 34.
Championing several development
projects and attracting new businesses
to the city, Dave was reelected to a
second term without opposition.
Leaving public service, Dave accept-
ed an offer to lead the Birmingham,
Alabama, Chamber. The career move
took Dave’s talents out of Kentucky,
but he wouldn’t be gone for long. He re-
turned home and began his current role
leading the statewide chamber. At the
helm of our Commonwealth’s largest
business association, Dave has grown
the organization and expanded its
reach. Now, it represents more than
3,800 businesses in Kentucky.
As the leader of the Kentucky Cham-
ber, Dave has made a positive and last-
ing impact on the public policies en-
acted both in Frankfort and in Wash-
ington. His organization helped lead
the charge to pass a right-to-work law
in Kentucky, giving workers more free-
dom over their paychecks and drawing
new investment into the Bluegrass
State. Dave was also a key ally in our
drive to pass comprehensive Federal
tax reform and cut burdensome regula-
tions. Kentucky’s strong economy is a
result, in part, of Dave’s leadership.
He has also been recognized nation-
ally among his peers for his important
work. In 2017, the Kentucky Chamber
was named the top chamber in the
country, and Dave has lent his exper-
tise to several national business asso-
ciations. To foster future innovators,
Dave cofounded Leadership Kentucky,
a highly selective program to equip
prominent Kentuckians with the skills
to excel. It is just one example in a
long list of contributions Dave has
made to improve our State’s bright fu-
ture.
As Dave leaves the Kentucky Cham-
ber, I am glad to know he will continue
leading various projects around the
Commonwealth. I am sure our commu-
nities will continue to benefit from his
talent and guiding hand. I am also re-
assured to know that, while Dave is
spending some well-deserved time with
his wife Bonnie and their family, the
Kentucky Chamber will be in the capa-
ble hands of its new president, Ashli
Watts. A seasoned advocacy veteran,
Ashli can build upon the years of suc-
cess and help the Kentucky Chamber
continue to be a strong voice for our
state’s job creators.
So, Mr. President, I would like to
thank Dave for his years of leadership
in Kentucky. As an elected official and
a public policy advocate he has created
a legacy of accomplishment that will
be enjoyed for years to come. It is a
privilege to pay tribute to my friend
today, and I ask my Senate colleagues
to join me in honoring Dave Adkisson
and wishing him a fulfilling retire-
ment.
f
NATIONAL HISPANIC HERITAGE
MONTH
Mr. CARDIN. Madam President, dur-
ing National Hispanic Heritage Month,
we are called to honor the contribu-
tions of a critical community—that of
Hispanic Americans. Now accounting
for 60 million individuals in the United
States, these men and women are an
essential pillar of our society. Al-
though this group has grown signifi-
cantly in recent decades, individuals of
Hispanic descent and culture have been
with our Nation since its very found-
ing.
Hispanic identity is a complex con-
cept, at least with respect to how many
in the United States traditionally un-
derstand race and ethnicity. The word
‘‘Hispanic’’ stems from ‘‘Hispanic,’’ the
Latin name for the ancient Roman
colonies on the Iberian Peninsula that
also serves as the origin for the modem
state of España, or Spain. It was there
that the Spanish or Castilian language,
culture, and people developed out of
the convergence of Phoenicians,
Greeks, Romans, Celts, Basques,
Visigoths and Arabs, in addition to
Christians, Muslims, and Jews.
The story does not end there. Along
the hallowed walls of the U.S. Capitol
Rotunda are two paintings by John
Vanderlyn depicting key historical
scenes. In 1492, the Spanish Catholic
Monarchs King Ferdinand and Queen
Isabella agreed to sponsor the journey
of Christopher Columbus in search of a
passage to the East Indies. Columbus
failed at this goal, but, as the Landing
of Columbus illustrates, he did land in
the island now named San Salvador in
the Bahamas. This voyage prompted
the Spanish exploration and coloniza-
tion of the Americas, including North
America, reaching as far as Mississippi
in 1541, as depicted by William Henry
Powell’s Discovery of the Mississippi
by De Soto, and even deep into the Pa-
cific Northwest.
Even then, however, we are still
missing other key elements of the
story. The Spanish were not alone.
They encountered vast empires, the Az-
tecs and the Incas, in addition to hun-
dreds of other peoples, from the
Mapuche in Argentina to the Maya in
Guatemala. Colonization was a bloody
process that uprooted and killed mil-
lions of indigenous people. Moreover,
the Spanish brought millions of Afri-
cans to the Americas as part of the At-
lantic slave trade. Men, women, and
children had to struggle in cruel and
terrible conditions as the property of
others. Nevertheless, it is undeniable
that the indigenous and African com-
munities have helped make the His-
panic community what it is today,
whether it’s in culture, art, music,
food, language, or even the genetic
makeup of the people themselves. Sig-
nificant portions of the Hispanic com-
munity can trace their descent to these
two groups—at least in part, if not en-
tirely.
The exploration and colonization
that would lead to the creation of the
Hispanic world in the Americas would,
in turn, set the stage for English to do
the same later, beginning with the first
permanent settlement in Jamestown,
VA, in 1607. Eventually, these English
colonies would sever themselves from
the British Empire and form the
United States of America. But Spanish
colonies would continue to influence
our Nation throughout our history.
Multiple territories, such as Florida,
Texas, California, and Puerto Rico, be-
came integral parts of our country.
Others, inspired by the principles of
the Enlightenment and the examples of
the American and French Revolutions,
became their own independent coun-
tries. They have since been our neigh-
bors in the Western Hemisphere and
some of our most critical partners in
trade, security, and championing the
virtues of democracy.
Congress established National His-
panic Heritage Month from September
15 to October 15 in recognition of the
pivotal contributions and legacy of this
community that traces its roots to
Spain, Mexico, Central America, South
America, the Caribbean, and further
beyond. Millions, such as the Hispanos
of New Mexico and the Tejanos of
Texas, are the descendants of settlers
who have been on these lands for cen-
turies. Starting in the twentieth cen-
tury, millions of individuals from
across the Hispanic world have come to
our Nation as immigrants. Since 2000,
the Hispanic population in Maryland
has more than doubled, now accounting
for half a million people, or nearly 10
percent of all Marylanders. Our State
is home to a diverse community of in-
dividuals with origins from across the
Hispanic world, with sizeable popu-
lations of Mexicans, Puerto Ricans,
Guatemalans, Salvadorans, and Peru-
vians.
Yet we must recognize that this com-
munity faces distinct challenges. Insta-
bility continues to hamper the abilities
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.021 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5786 October 15, 2019
of already fragile states in our hemi-
sphere, and dangerous conditions
abroad prompt many to leave every-
thing behind to pursue a safer exist-
ence. As the Hispanic-American popu-
lation has grown, racism, hatred, and
naked xenophobia have unfortunately
grown with it. Given these trying cir-
cumstances, we must recognize the ob-
ligations that arise from our shared
humanity to assist those in need and to
welcome and celebrate our differences.
Hispanic Americans have done so
much to support and make the United
States of America the exceptional na-
tion that it is today. They have made
groundbreaking discoveries and inno-
vations in science and technology.
They have shown us new ideas, art and
music, and cuisine. They have created
new products and jobs as entrepreneurs
and business owners, and they have led
our communities as dutiful elected rep-
resentatives of the people. They have
fought and are fighting today to pro-
tect our way of life and to promote our
interests and ideals abroad. During Na-
tional Hispanic Heritage Month, we
celebrate this community’s countless
contributions, but not necessarily as
something new. Hispanic Americans
have played an important role in the
American story since its very begin-
ning.
f
PARKINSON’S DISEASE
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Madam Presi-
dent, today I wish to discuss the im-
pact of Parkinson’s disease in the U.S.
and across the world.
While significant progress has been
made in managing certain symptoms
and identifying potential risk factors,
we still lack a clear understanding of
the underlying causes of Parkinson’s
disease. To that end, I continue to sup-
port the strongest funding possible for
biomedical research under the National
Institutes of Health and its Brain Re-
search through Advancing Innovative
Neurotechnologies—BRAIN—Initiative,
as well as the Parkinson’s Research
Program at the Department of Defense.
These investments are necessary to
sustain efforts by our Nation’s sci-
entists at the helm of innovative re-
search and discovery, with the hope
and resolve that we will one day find a
cure.
I would like to highlight a recent
study entitled ‘‘The Economic Burden
of Parkinson’s Disease,’’ which was
brought to my attention in a meeting
with constituents led by Dan Lewis, a
longtime advocate for Parkinson’s re-
search. Commissioned by the Michael
J. Fox Foundation for Parkinson’s Re-
search, this study places the annual
economic impact of Parkinson’s at $52
billion in 2017, nearly double the pre-
vious estimates. Approximately half of
that total reflects the medical costs of
Parkinson’s patients, primarily paid by
Medicare.
The other half reflects the real indi-
rect costs shouldered by patients with
Parkinson’s, their caregivers, and our
society. The effects of living with Par-
kinson’s disease permeate so many as-
pects of patients’ lives, from personal
finances to workforce participation to
caregiver time and effort. With a rising
aging population, the burden will only
grow from here; the number of people
with Parkinson’s disease is projected
to double by 2040.
By shedding light on the human and
societal impact of Parkinson’s, this
study illustrates the critical need for
sustained research toward better treat-
ments and a cure. I ask unanimous
consent that this study be printed in
the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD and encour-
age all Senators and staff to review it.
Thank you.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[From the Lewin Group, July 5, 2019]
ECONOMIC BURDEN AND FUTURE IMPACT OF
PARKINSON’S DISEASE
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a slowly pro-
gressive neurodegenerative disorder that af-
fects approximately one million Americans.
In addition to the debilitating symptoms of
PD itself, patients also experience a number
of comorbidities, such as anxiety, depression,
increased rates of infection, cardiac and gas-
trointestinal diseases, and injuries from
falls. As a result, individuals with PD have
higher medical needs, often miss work, retire
early, and require the assistance of a care-
giver. As such, the direct and indirect eco-
nomic burden of PD is likely to be signifi-
cant.
As part of its initiative to understand the
economic burden of PD, the Michael J. Fox
Foundation commissioned The Lewin Group
to estimate the economic impact of PD in
the U.S. in 2017. This study aims to provide
the most comprehensive assessment of the
total burden of PD to date, including filling
the knowledge gap in some of the less well-
understood cost components, such as future
earnings loss due to premature death, pro-
ductivity loss in both the labor market as
well as in social life, and caregiver burden.
STUDY HIGHLIGHTS
This study provides the most comprehen-
sive assessment of the economic burden of
PD in the U.S. in 2017. The estimated total
economic burden of PD in 2017 was $51.9 bil-
lion, including a direct medical cost of $25.4
billion and an additional $26.5 billion in indi-
rect and non-medical cost. These findings
show that the true impact of PD has been
previously underestimated in the literature
(see the Discussion section).
Another highlight of the study is the So-
cial and Financial Impact of Parkinson’s
Disease Survey (i.e. the PD Impact Survey).
This primary survey was specifically de-
signed and administered for this study to
deepen the understanding of the full spec-
trum of PD impact. The survey was able to
collect detailed data on a broad set of indi-
rect and non-medical costs of PD that were
previously unavailable, especially the im-
pact of PD on unpaid caregivers. This survey
was one of the largest surveys conducted so
far on relatively rare neurodegenerative dis-
eases and received almost 5,000 responses
from the PD community.
STUDY FINDINGS
PD prevalence estimated using nationally
representative surveys for younger and el-
derly U.S populations revealed a much high-
er prevalence than previous literature. Ex-
hibit ES–1 shows the estimated PD preva-
lence:
An estimated 1.04 million individuals in
the U.S. have PD in 2017.
PD is much more prevalent in the 65 popu-
lation than in the younger population. More
males than females have PD .
PD prevalence rate is more than double
among non-Hispanic White compared to
other groups, although this result is not
risk-adjusted and is subjected to small sam-
ple size limitations.
Vast majority (89%) of the persons with PD
are eligible for Medicare. Among the esti-
mated 919,000 individuals eligible for Medi-
care coverage, 82,000 (9%) are younger than
age 65.
PD is associated with significant amount
of excess medical cost: $25.4 billion in 2017,
higher than the previous U.S. based esti-
mates. Exhibit ES–2 shows the estimated di-
rect medical cost of PD.
The vast majority of the medical cost of
PD is borne by populations with Medicare
coverage (90%), 7% by those with private in-
surance, and 3% by those with other insur-
ance including Medicaid, other insurance, or
no insurance). Note: the five-year combined
MEPS data identified a total of 20 PWPs who
are in the Other group, the small sample size
prevented further breakdown.
On average, the excess medical cost of PD
is $24,439 above not having PD. Average per
person excess cost is $22,671 and $19,489 for
the privately insured and Other group of per-
sons with PD who are younger than 65 years
of age, respectively; and $24,811 for the Medi-
care beneficiary population with PD.
Hospital inpatient care, non-acute institu-
tional care (including SNF, nursing home,
hospice, etc.), and outpatient (including an-
cillary care) are the three largest cost cat-
egories.
The estimated total indirect and non-med-
ical cost of PD is $26.5 billion in 2017, with
near $20 billion to persons with PD and an-
other $6.6 billion to unpaid care partners. Ex-
hibit ES–3 shows the estimated indirect and
non-medical cost of PD:
Average indirect and non-medical cost per
PWP is $19,242 for PWP only and $25,558 for
PWP combined with caregiver burden.
Total indirect cost is $14.2 billion with the
combined PWP and caregiver absenteeism
cost being the largest share, followed by
presenteeism cost and premature death re-
lated earnings loss. The cost of absenteeism
and presenteeism for the care partners even
surpass those for the PWPs.
Total non-medical cost is $7.5 billion with
the paid non-medical daily care being the
largest share, followed by home modification
cost.
Disability income, although considered
transfer cost, is approximately $4.8 billion.
The full report can be found at https://
www.michaeljfox.org.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO DR. MICHAEL
CHERINGTON
∑ Mr. GARDNER. Madam President,
today I wish to honor and celebrate Dr.
Michael Cherington of Castle Rock,
CO. This fall, Dr. Cherington is reach-
ing the age of 85. He has lived a full life
and helped many others to do the
same.
Born in Pittsburgh, PA in 1934, Mi-
chael, who often went by the nickname
‘‘Mickey’’ showed initial greatness at
age 10 when his father arranged for him
to play against the American chess
champion, Arnold Denker. Arnold de-
feated all the adult opponents in the
room. Mickey’s game ended in a draw.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.011 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5787
October 15, 2019
After graduating from the University
of Pittsburgh, Mickey attended Pitt
Medical School, then moved to Colo-
rado Springs for a year of residency.
During that year, he received an im-
portant letter ‘‘Greetings, You’re being
drafted into the U.S. Army.’’ His ex-
tended stay in Colorado with the Army
would become the hook that kept him
happily in the State to this day, some
60 years later.
Dr. Cherington set up a private prac-
tice in neurology in Denver and was
made professor at the University of
Colorado Medical School. He served the
community very well in both of these
capacities, helping thousands of pa-
tients in Colorado. As an author of doz-
ens of articles and other research, he
became known internationally and
traveled around the world to meet with
neurologists as new medical discov-
eries were allowing people to be cured
of ailments that were once a fatal diag-
nosis.
His time in Colorado led him into an
unusual field of neurology, studying
survivors of lightning strikes. His work
in this field led to a new nickname,
‘‘Lightning Doctor’’, and he would go
on to publish many articles about
lightning injuries and how to avoid
them. His work led to the creation of
the Lightning Data Center, which
brought together experts across several
areas of expertise and disciplines. Soon
the Lightning Doctor was on local TV
and beyond, including ABC’s ‘‘20/20,’’
‘‘National Geographic,’’ and even ‘‘Un-
solved Mysteries.’’ Through Mickey’s
work, he was able to help people avoid
the doctor’s office, or worse, by edu-
cating them about lightning storms
and lightning safety.
Today, Dr. Cherington lives happily
with his wife Nancy Cherington and
spends time with family and close
friends. That chess player from Pitts-
burgh can still be seen around a chess
board—most likely on his iPad—or
spending time with his children or
their nine grandchildren.
Thank you, Dr. Cherington, for your
contributions in your work and for
those around you.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO DAVID BRINTON
∑ Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Madam Presi-
dent, I am pleased to commend David
Brinton for his contributions and dedi-
cated service as a member of my per-
sonal office staff.
A native of Tupelo, MS, David earned
multiple degrees from Mississippi
State University, including a bachelor
of business administration degree with
a major in business economics, a mas-
ter of public policy and administration,
and a master of arts in economics. Fol-
lowing that, David turned his attention
to studying law, graduating cum laude
with his juris doctor from Georgetown
University Law Center, while working
part time.
David’s contributions throughout his
tenure have been invaluable to the leg-
islative functions of my office, and his
insightful input will be missed. I, along
with the rest of my office, have bene-
fitted from David’s knowledge and ex-
perience. His personal qualities are im-
peccable. He is a hard working, cour-
teous, and intelligent young man, who
has a strong sense of responsibility,
good judgment, and a pleasant de-
meanor that makes him an easy person
to like.
Mississippi and our Nation have been
well-served by the diligence, dedica-
tion, and commitment to excellence
David provided on a daily basis. He has
put forth his best efforts to reflect
credit on me, my State, and the Sen-
ate, and has been successful in doing
so. I will miss David’s good counsel. He
has my appreciation and gratitude for
the notable job he has done in the Sen-
ate. I wish David, his wife Julia, and
their son Henry, all the best in their
future endeavors.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO SCOTT KAUFMAN
∑ Mr. PETERS. Madam President,
today I wish to recognize Mr. Scott
Kaufman’s term of service as chief ex-
ecutive officer of the Jewish Federa-
tion of Metropolitan Detroit, which in-
cludes the contributions he has made
to Metro Detroit and its Jewish com-
munities.
Founded in 1926, the Jewish Federa-
tion of Metropolitan Detroit has sup-
ported the Jewish population in the
greater Detroit area by addressing
their health, welfare, educational, cul-
tural, and spiritual needs, not only in
Southeast Michigan, but also in Israel
and throughout the world. Under Mr.
Kaufman’s stewardship, the federation
has expanded these efforts, which have
strengthened the Jewish community,
and Southeast Michigan, as a whole.
Mr. Kaufman has been with the fed-
eration since 2007, serving in a variety
of roles including director of strategic
initiatives and director of the federa-
tion’s yearlong effort to celebrate the
60th anniversary of Israel in 2008, as
well as leading multiple family mis-
sions to Israel.
Mr. Kaufman has also ensured the
longevity of the federation by encour-
aging its engagement of young Jewish
people. Mr. Kaufman’s leadership in
those efforts led to the development of
programs such as CommunityNEXT
and NEXTGen Detroit. These programs
have gone on to become models of en-
gagement for Jewish organizations
across the country. His initiatives have
focused on addressing crucial needs
within the community, such as JHelp,
where individuals in need can find re-
sources to aid them in areas such as
housing, disability services, and men-
tal health. These efforts have led to the
expansion of the federation’s scope and
mission, as well as the impact it con-
tinues to make in Metro Detroit.
The Jewish Federation of Metropoli-
tan Detroit is a dynamic organization
whose endeavors have been felt far and
wide in communities across metro De-
troit. Its rich history of service to the
Jewish community and all residents of
Southeast Michigan continue to en-
hance of vibrancy of Metro Detroit. As
the federation celebrates and reflects
on the end of Mr. Kaufman’s term as
CEO, I ask all my colleagues to join me
in congratulating him, as well as the
employees and volunteers of the fed-
eration, whose impact has and con-
tinues to improve the lives so many. I
wish the federation success in the
years ahead as it continues in its mis-
sion, and I am confident Mr. Kaufman’s
will continue to lead endeavors in
metro Detroit that strengthen the
community.∑
f
RECOGNIZING HANSON GARAGE
∑ Mr. RISCH. Madam President, today
I wish to highlight the hard work and
determination of a small business in
my home State of Idaho. The small
business that I am honoring today goes
above and beyond when it comes to em-
bodying the American entrepreneurial
spirit. As a member and former chair-
man of the Senate Committee on Small
Business and Entrepreneurship, it is
my pleasure to recognize Hanson Ga-
rage, Inc., as the Idaho Small Business
of the Month for October 2019.
Hanson Garage in Orofino was found-
ed in 1917 by Hans ‘‘Pete’’ Hanson and
began selling Dodge vehicles in 1919.
Pete’s son, Ket Hanson, later took over
the garage and passed it on to his sons
Keith and Larry when he retired in the
early 1980s. Keith and Larry grew up
sweeping floors and washing cars at the
garage, and upon graduating from the
University of Idaho, they became part-
ners in the family business. More than
100 years and three generations later,
Hanson Garage remains a smalltown,
family-owned business renowned for its
passion, friendliness, and dedication to
providing exceptional service.
The garage sells new and used Dodge,
Chrysler, Jeep, and Ram vehicles, Su-
zuki ATVs and motorcycles, and KTM
motorcycles. It also offers services
such as financial assistance, vehicle re-
pair, and a variety of parts for pur-
chase. Over the years, the business has
received several awards from Chrysler
and Suzuki for exceptional sales and
service, and the Hanson family at-
tributes the business’s success to their
consistent fair prices and superior cus-
tomer service.
Thirteen families in the Orofino area
are employed at Hanson Garage, com-
prising a significant share of the work-
force for a community of about 3,000
people. Keith and Larry Hanson are ac-
tive members of the Orofino Chamber
of Commerce and supporters of local
youth sporting events and of the
Orofino Lumber Jack Days and the
County Fair. I would like to extend a
well-deserved congratulations to Keith
and Larry Hanson and all of the em-
ployees of Hanson Garage for being se-
lected as the October 2019 Idaho Small
Business of the Month. You make our
great State proud, and I look forward
to watching your continued growth and
success.∑
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.014 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5788 October 15, 2019
TRIBUTE TO RUSS COWLEY
∑ Mr. ROMNEY. Madam President, I
wish to congratulate Mr. Russ Cowley,
a man of remarkable achievement and
character, on a career dedicated to
public service for the great State of
Utah. After three decades with the Six
County Association of Governments,
including 22 years of service as its ex-
ecutive director, Russ is passing the
torch of leadership. He leaves behind a
distinguished legacy and big boots to
fill.
The Six County Association of Gov-
ernments is instrumental in facili-
tating economic and community devel-
opment in Juab, Millard, Piute,
Sanpete, Sevier, and Wayne Counties.
Six County AOG brings local voices to
the table to oversee State and Federal
programs as well as a wide range of
services in an efficient and impactful
manner for rural Utah.
As executive director, Russ has dem-
onstrated an extraordinary ability to
bring together the right people and re-
sources to achieve results for the Six
County region. His commitment to fos-
tering development is evident in his
hiring of staff who are dedicated to ac-
cessing resources for local govern-
ments.
Russ has advocated on behalf of rural
Utahns by bringing together important
stakeholders and decisionmakers. He
pioneered an annual leadership sum-
mit, which focuses on rural Utah’s eco-
nomic growth, and the Natural Re-
source Summer Meeting, which high-
lights critical public lands and natural
resource issues for the region. Addi-
tionally, the congressional briefing
highlights specific pressing topics for
Members of Congress and their staffs,
and the Six County Legislative Day
connects local elected officials and
State legislators to set legislative
goals on these critical issues.
The legacy of Russ Cowley will shape
rural Utah for generations to come.
Our great State owes him a debt of
gratitude for three decades of selfless
public service. We wish the cowboy
from Venice the best in his next chap-
ter.
Thank you, Russ, for your service to
our State.∑
f
REMEMBERING FRANKLYN G.
VERLEY III
∑ Ms. ROSEN. Madam President, today
I would like to honor the life and leg-
acy of Franklyn G. Verley III, a radio
host and community leader who passed
away in Las Vegas, NV, in late Sep-
tember at the age of 59. Franklyn
Verley will be remembered as the host
of the ‘‘Like it is Radio’’ show on Las
Vegas’ Power 88.1 for the past 16 years,
where he made the most of his role to
highlight social, race, and economic
issues that impact the Las Vegas com-
munity every day.
Franklyn was born and raised in New
York, NY, where his parents immersed
him in Black culture and the value of
his roots and cultural history. While
living in New York, he was a lead sales
representative for the School and Col-
lege Department for the New York
Times. Once he relocated to Las Vegas
in the mid-2000s, Franklyn began his
radio career, joining the team at KCEP
Power 88.1, where he hosted the ‘‘Like
it is Radio Show.’’ As a host and execu-
tive producer, he brought on a wide
range of guests, such as Senator Harry
Reid, Armstrong Williams, and Angela
Bassett. His show covered topics that
ranged from political, judicial, and so-
cial issues that affected the Black com-
munity he advocated for on a daily
basis. He also became a recipient of
many awards, being inducted into the
Nevada Broadcasters Association Hall
of Fame in 2019 and receiving the Foun-
tain of Hope Community Activism
Award and the NAACP Legacy Builder
Award.
Franklyn will be dearly missed by
family members, friends, and the hun-
dreds of people whose lives he touched
every day through his advocacy and
knowledge. I extend our sincerest con-
dolences to Franklyn’s wife and the en-
tire extended community where he
made a positive impact. His legacy
lives on in each of us.∑
f
RECOGNIZING MOTHER KOMBUCHA
∑ Mr. RUBIO. Madam President, as
chairman of the Senate Committee on
Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
it is my privilege to recognize a unique
Florida small business for its valuable
contributions to the local economy and
its dedicated efforts towards sustain-
ability and dignified work. Today, it is
my distinct pleasure to name Mother
Kombucha of St. Petersburg, FL as the
Senate Small Business of the Week.
In 2014, Tonya Donati, a former occu-
pational therapist, became Florida’s
first licensed kombucha brewer after
noticing there were not many locally
sourced options. Tonya and her busi-
ness partner, Joshua Rumschlag, began
brewing kombucha, a beverage of fer-
mented, sweetened tea, in Tonya’s
small test kitchen to sell at local farm-
ers markets. Eventually, Tonya and
her husband, Victor Donati, secured a
Small Business Administration 7(a)
loan to move into a larger space, which
enabled them to manufacture
kombucha full time. Through hard
work and a strategic vision, Mother
Kombucha has grown from a 2-person
operation into a full-scale business
that now employs nearly 20 people and
packages around 7,500 bottles a day.
Over the last 5 years, Mother
Kombucha has opened more than 600
accounts across Florida, and their
products can be found in Publix, Whole
Foods, and Winn-Dixie. Though the
kombucha industry has expanded in re-
cent years, Mother Kombucha’s niche
position provides a competitive edge in
the expanding market.
Mother Kombucha sets itself apart in
this industry as a brand committed to
making a positive social and environ-
mental impact. As a woman-owned and
operated company, Tonya’s business is
an inspiration for other women entre-
preneurs. It has been certified by the
Women’s Business Enterprise National
Council, one of the leading advocates
for women business owners in the
United States. Several of Mother
Kombucha’s flavors are based on a sin-
gle-source green tea from a company
that helps to raise women out of pov-
erty in Bangladesh. Mother Kombucha
makes community involvement a pri-
ority. In addition to providing competi-
tive salaries to its employees, the com-
pany hosts an annual Mother’s Day
fundraiser to benefit women and chil-
dren affected by domestic violence.
Mother Kombucha has incorporated
solar panels into each of their facili-
ties, operates a robust recycling pro-
gram, and is working to achieve B-Corp
status. This certification is awarded to
companies who uphold the highest en-
vironmental and labor standards, while
also giving back to their respective
communities.
Tonya has worked hard to expand her
business throughout Florida, and her
efforts have not gone unnoticed. Nota-
bly, Mother Kombucha was honored by
GrowFlorida as one of Florida’s 50
Companies to Watch in 2019. Tonya’s
love of kombucha, her hard work, and
commitment to her community make
this business an integral part of Flor-
ida’s economic framework. This Na-
tional Women’s Small Business Month,
it is my honor to congratulate the en-
tire Mother Kombucha team for being
named Senate Small Business of the
Week. I look forward to watching their
continued growth and success.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO PERRY HAND
∑ Mr. SHELBY. Madam President,
today I wish to honor the retirement of
Perry Hand, an Alabama native, from
Volkert, Inc. Perry is a recognized
leader in the engineering field with
nearly 50 years of experience in the in-
dustry. He has provided decades of
service to improve the quality of life in
his community and across the State of
Alabama.
Mr. Perry Hand previously served as
senior vice president and chief mar-
keting officer at Volkert in Mobile,
AL. He was appointed president, chief
executive officer, and chairman of the
board in 2011. In 2018, Mr. Hand ap-
pointed a new president and CEO to the
company, and he retained the role of
chairman. Prior to his work with
Volkert, Perry served as Alabama’s
highway director, Alabama’s secretary
of state, and a two-term State senator.
He also founded Perry Hand & Associ-
ates, Inc.
Perry has earned many recognitions
throughout his career, among them are
his induction into the Alabama Con-
struction Hall of Fame, the Alabama
Engineering Hall of Fame, earning the
Chairman’s Award at Volkert, multiple
Auburn University awards, and many
more. He earned his bachelor’s degree
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.018 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5789
October 15, 2019
in civil engineering from Auburn Uni-
versity and holds an honorary doc-
torate from Lincoln Memorial Univer-
sity in Tennessee.
What is truly remarkable are Perry
Hand’s many accomplishments and
contributions to the State. I am proud
to take this time to recognize him for
his service at Volkert, which has great-
ly benefitted the people of Alabama.
His achievements and dedication to ad-
vancing the industry have not gone un-
noticed. I join Perry’s friends, family,
and colleagues in wishing him the best
of luck as he transitions into a new
chapter of his life, and I thank him for
his commitment to Alabama.∑
f
REMEMBERING WILLIAM V.
‘‘BILL’’ BIDWILL, SR.
∑ Ms. SINEMA. Madam President,
today I wish to honor the life and leg-
acy of William V. Bidwill, who passed
away in Phoenix, AZ, on October 2,
2019, at the age of 88. As the owner of
the National Football League’s Arizona
Cardinals, Mr. Bidwill loved his faith,
his family, and football. He will be
fondly remembered as a principled
leader and generous steward of his
community.
Bill began his career in football by
joining the family business as a ball
boy for the then-Chicago Cardinals.
After graduating from Georgetown
University, Bill returned to Chicago to
assist his father with day-to-day man-
agement of the Cardinals. Bill oversaw
the team’s move to St. Louis in 1960
and took on full ownership of the team
in 1972. In 1988, Bill moved the team to
Arizona, where it has found a home
among a dedicated and growing fan
base. In his time as owner of the Car-
dinals, Bill took unprecedented steps
to rearrange the team’s front office to
improve diversity across the organiza-
tion, setting an example for other NFL
franchises for years to come. Bill also
founded Cardinals Charities in 1990 to
support women, children, and minori-
ties across Arizona. Cardinals Charities
has donated more than $9.1 million to
support these groups and other causes
over the years.
Bill is survived by his 5 children, 10
grandchildren, and 1 great-grandchild.
He will be dearly missed by other fam-
ily members, friends, the Arizona Car-
dinals organization, and hundreds of
thousands of fans grateful for his work
to bring the National Football League
to Arizona. Please join me in honoring
his memory.∑
f
TRIBUTE TO COLONEL STEVEN D.
WEINTRAUB (RET.)
∑ Ms. SINEMA. Madam President,
today I wish to honor the career Col.
Steven D. Weintraub Retired, a vet-
eran, community leader, and member
of my Veterans Advisory Council. Colo-
nel Weintraub began his service in Au-
gust 1987 and continued to serve in the
U.S. Marine Corps in various Active-
Duty and Reserve roles until his retire-
ment in August of this year. He is
highly regarded by his fellow marines
as a devoted officer and proud Arizo-
nan, eager to accept the call of duty.
Colonel Weintraub’s career of more
than 30 years is distinguished by his
commitment to public service. Upon
completion of his basic training in Au-
gust 1987, then-Private First Class
Weintraub returned to Arizona State
University to complete his bachelor’s
degree in order to enter the Marine
Corps Platoon Leaders Course and re-
ceive a commission as a second lieuten-
ant. In April 1992, then-First Lieuten-
ant Weintraub deployed to Mogadishu
in support of various humanitarian aid
missions. In February 2003, while in the
Marine Corps Reserves, then-Major
Weintraub deployed to Kuwait, where
he was responsible for the implementa-
tion and operation of expeditionary
hose reel fuel systems during Operation
Iraqi Freedom. In November 2004, then
Major Weintraub selflessly volunteered
to mobilize to Active Duty in order to
return to Iraq. For his work as a com-
mand inspector general and G–4 with
the 1st Marine Expeditionary Brigade,
then-Major Weintraub was promoted to
lieutenant colonel in June 2005 and
eventually colonel in December 2011.
From the time of his promotion until
his retirement in August 2019, Colonel
Weintraub continued to serve in var-
ious esteemed logistical command
roles, strategizing the practical imple-
mentation of new technologies and en-
suring that Marine installations
around the world had what they needed
to get the job done.
For his courageous service, Colonel
Weintraub has received the Legion of
Merit, Meritorious Service Medal, the
Navy and Marine Corps Commendation
Medal, and various other campaign
medals, ribbons, and unit awards. Colo-
nel Weintraub continues to serve his
fellow soldiers as chief strategy officer
for the Veteran Tickets Foundation,
Vet Tix, a national nonprofit organiza-
tion that provides free event tickets to
veterans and servicemembers to help
them reduce stress, strengthen family
bonds, and stay engaged with local
communities and American life.
Please join me in honoring Colonel
Weintraub’s esteemed career and wish-
ing him a joyful retirement.∑
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF
KETTERING UNIVERSITY
∑ Ms. STABENOW. Madam President, I
rise today to pay special tribute to
Kettering University in Flint, which
this year is celebrating 100 years of
educating the people of Michigan and
advancing innovation.
Let’s think back to 1919. The Treaty
of Versailles was signed, bringing an
end to the Great War. The 18th Amend-
ment to the U.S. Constitution—also
known as Prohibition—was ratified by
Congress. In our State, the Michigan
State Highway Department took over
the State trunk line highway system
and first began putting up numbered
signs. And in Flint—the center of the
automotive world—a group of entre-
preneurs launched a school to train
homegrown talent for Michigan’s auto
industry.
A few things have changed since 1919.
We fought an even greater war, Prohi-
bition didn’t last, and Michigan has a
few more highways. Yet one thing re-
mains the same: Kettering University
is still training the next generation of
leaders, for the auto industry and be-
yond.
Louis Chevrolet, David Dunbar
Buick, Charles Stewart Mott, Alfred
Sloan, and Charles Kettering under-
stood that to succeed in manufac-
turing, it isn’t enough for students to
know what is in the books; instead,
these leaders built a school based on
the idea that knowledge must be both
learned and applied. This model is still
in use at Kettering University today.
Kettering’s curriculum doesn’t just ex-
pose its students to the very latest in
science, engineering, and business
knowledge; it also helps its students to
put that knowledge to work through
experiential and cooperative edu-
cational opportunities that turn learn-
ers into leaders.
Your record of success speaks for
itself. From being named first in the
country by the Wall Street Journal for
career preparation, fourth in the Na-
tion in producing alumni who hold pat-
ents, and first in the Midwest for re-
turn on investments; to the Kettering
University GM Mobility Research Cen-
ter, which is keeping Flint and Michi-
gan at the forefront of autonomous ve-
hicle research and development; to
counting among your alumni General
Motors CEO Mary T. Barra, former
chairman and CEO of Gibson Brands
Henry Juszkiewicz, inventor and busi-
nessman Dean Kamen, former CEO of
Merrill Lynch Stanley O’Neal, and Old
Navy CEO Sonia Syngal; to making a
real difference in the Flint community
through your $1 million Department of
Justice grant for neighborhood revital-
ization, your Employee Home Purchase
and Renovation Assistance Program,
the transformation of University Ave-
nue, and your support for Flint’s young
people through your Young Innovators
Fair, the Flint River Watershed Coali-
tion Green Summit, and FIRST Robot-
ics.
Charles Kettering once said this: ‘‘We
are not at the end of our progress but
at the beginning.’’ And I have no doubt
that our progress as a State and Nation
will continue to be led by Kettering’s
students, faculty, staff, and alumni.
Since 1919, Kettering University has
been preparing students for extraor-
dinary futures, and I can’t wait to see
what your future holds. Congratula-
tions to Kettering University on your
first 100 years.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE PRESIDENT
Messages from the President of the
United States were communicated to
the Senate by Ms. Roberts, one of his
secretaries.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:57 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.029 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5790 October 15, 2019
EXECUTIVE MESSAGES REFERRED
In executive session the Presiding Of-
ficer laid before the Senate messages
from the President of the United
States submitting sundry nominations
and withdrawals which were referred to
the appropriate committees.
(The messages received today are
printed at the end of the Senate pro-
ceedings.)
f
PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE
REPORT ON THE CONTINUATION
OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY
WITH RESPECT TO NARCOTICS
TRAFFICKERS CENTERED IN CO-
LOMBIA THAT WAS DECLARED
IN EXECUTIVE ORDER 12978 OF
OCTOBER 21, 1995—PM 31
The PRESIDING OFFICER laid be-
fore the Senate the following message
from the President of the United
States, together with an accompanying
report; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs:
To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emer-
gencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides
for the automatic termination of a na-
tional emergency unless, within 90
days before the anniversary date of its
declaration, the President publishes in
the Federal Register and transmits to
the Congress a notice stating that the
emergency is to continue in effect be-
yond the anniversary date. In accord-
ance with this provision, I have sent to
the Federal Register for publication the
enclosed notice stating that the na-
tional emergency with respect to sig-
nificant narcotics traffickers centered
in Colombia declared in Executive
Order 12978 of October 21, 1995, is to
continue in effect beyond October 21,
2019.
The circumstances that led to the
declaration on October 21, 1995, of a na-
tional emergency continue to exist.
The actions of significant narcotics
traffickers centered in Colombia con-
tinue to pose an unusual and extraor-
dinary threat to the national security,
foreign policy, and economy of the
United States and to cause an extreme
level of violence, corruption, and harm
in the United States and abroad. For
this reason, I have determined that it
is necessary to continue the national
emergency declared in Executive Order
12978 with respect to significant nar-
cotics traffickers centered in Colom-
bia.
DONALD J. TRUMP.
THE WHITE HOUSE, October 15, 2019.
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
RECEIVED DURING ADJOURNMENT
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on September 26,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bill:
H.R. 4378. An act making continuing appro-
priations for fiscal year 2020, and for other
purposes.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled bill was signed on September 26,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, by the Majority Leader (Mr.
MCCONNELL).
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on September 27,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the House had passed the fol-
lowing joint resolution:
S.J. Res. 54. A joint resolution relating to
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
ENROLLED JOINT RESOLUTION SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on September 27,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled joint resolution:
S.J. Res. 54. A joint resolution relating to
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled joint resolution was signed on
October 4, 2019, during the adjournment
of the Senate, by the Acting President
pro tempore (Mr. LEE).
ENROLLED BILLS SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on September 27,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker had signed the fol-
lowing enrolled bills:
S. 239. An act to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of
Christa McAuliffe.
H.R. 1590. An act to require an exercise re-
lated to terrorist and foreign fighter travel,
and for other purposes.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled bills were signed on September
27, 2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, by the Acting President pro
tempore (Mr. SCOTT of South Carolina).
f
MESSAGE FROM THE HOUSE
At 3:02 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bills, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 335. An act to require the Inter-Agen-
cy Task Force on Harmful Algal Blooms and
Hypoxia to develop a plan for reducing, miti-
gating, and controlling harmful algal blooms
and hypoxia in South Florida, and for other
purposes.
H.R. 2528. An act to direct the Director of
the Office of Science and Technology Policy
to carry out programs and activities to en-
sure that Federal science agencies and insti-
tutions of higher education receiving Fed-
eral research and development funding are
fully engaging their entire talent pool, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2589. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a homeland
intelligence doctrine for the Department of
Homeland Security, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3106. An act to require a joint domes-
tic and international terrorism report, au-
thorize research within the Department of
Homeland Security on current trends in do-
mestic terrorism, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3246. An act to require GAO review of
certain TSA screening protocols, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 3525. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to direct the Commis-
sioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion to establish uniform processes for med-
ical screening of individuals interdicted be-
tween ports of entry, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3526. An act to authorize certain
counter terrorist networks activities of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 3675. An act to require a review of De-
partment of Homeland Security trusted trav-
eler programs, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3691. An act to require the TSA to de-
velop a plan to ensure that TSA material
disseminated in major airports can be better
understood by more people accessing such
airports, and for other purposes.
H.R. 3694. An act to require the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to imple-
ment training for frontline Administration
personnel regarding the screening of preg-
nant women and families with young chil-
dren at passenger screening checkpoints, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 3710. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to provide for the reme-
diation of cybersecurity vulnerabilities, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 3722. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to authorize a Joint
Task Force to enhance integration of the De-
partment of Homeland Security’s border se-
curity operations to detect, interdict, dis-
rupt, and prevent narcotics, such as fentanyl
and other synthetic opioids, from entering
the United States, and for other purposes.
f
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 335. An act to require the Inter-Agen-
cy Task Force on Harmful Algal Blooms and
Hypoxia to develop a plan for reducing, miti-
gating, and controlling harmful algal blooms
and hypoxia in South Florida, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 2528. An act to direct the Director of
the Office of Science and Technology Policy
to carry out programs and activities to en-
sure that Federal science agencies and insti-
tutions of higher education receiving Fed-
eral research and development funding are
fully engaging their entire talent pool, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
H.R. 2589. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to establish a homeland
intelligence doctrine for the Department of
Homeland Security, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 3106. To require a joint domestic and
international terrorism report, authorize re-
search within the Department of Homeland
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.021 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5791
October 15, 2019
Security on current trends in domestic ter-
rorism, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
H.R. 3246. An act to require GAO review of
certain TSA screening protocols, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 3525. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to direct the Commis-
sioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protec-
tion to establish uniform processes for med-
ical screening of individuals interdicted be-
tween ports of entry, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
H.R. 3526. An act to authorize certain
counter terrorist networks activities of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Home-
land Security and Governmental Affairs.
H.R. 3675. An act to require a review of De-
partment of Homeland Security trusted trav-
eler programs, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs.
H.R. 3691. An act to require the TSA to de-
velop a plan to ensure that TSA material
disseminated in major airports can be better
understood by more people accessing such
airports, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
H.R. 3694. An act to require the Transpor-
tation Security Administration to imple-
ment training for frontline Administration
personnel regarding the screening of preg-
nant women and families with young chil-
dren at passenger screening checkpoints, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 3710. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to provide for the reme-
diation of cybersecurity vulnerabilities, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
H.R. 3722. An act to amend the Homeland
Security Act of 2002 to authorize a Joint
Task Force to enhance integration of the De-
partment of Homeland Security’s border se-
curity operations to detect, interdict, dis-
rupt, and prevent narcotics, such as fentanyl
and other synthetic opioids, from entering
the United States, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 2593. A bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to provide for automatic con-
tinuing resolutions.
f
ENROLLED BILL SIGNED
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the Sec-
retary of the Senate, on September 27,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, received a message from the
House of Representatives announcing
that the Speaker pro tempore (Mr.
BROWN) had signed the following en-
rolled bill:
H.R. 4285. An act to amend title 38, United
States Code, to extend and modify certain
authorities and requirements relating to the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and for
other purposes.
Under the authority of the order of
the Senate of January 3, 2019, the en-
rolled bill was signed on September 30,
2019, during the adjournment of the
Senate, by the Vice President.
f
ENROLLED BILL AND JOINT
RESOLUTION PRESENTED
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on September 27, 2019, she had pre-
sented to the President of the United
States the following enrolled bill:
S. 239. An act to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in recognition of
Christa McAuliffe.
The Secretary of the Senate reported
that on October 4, 2019, she had pre-
sented to the President of the United
States the following enrolled joint res-
olution:
S.J. Res. 54. A joint resolution relating to
a national emergency declared by the Presi-
dent on February 15, 2019.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2677. A communication from the Board
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Farm
Credit Administration, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the 2018 annual report on the
Farm Credit System; to the Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2678. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Chlorantraniliprole; Pesticide Toler-
ances’’ (FRL No. 9999–54) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 4, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2679. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Clothianidin; Pesticide Tolerance for
Emergency Exemptions’’ (FRL No. 9996–15)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 4, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2680. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Cyromazine; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9999–57) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 4, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–2681. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Indaziflam; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 9999–70) received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 4, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–2682. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Thiamethoxam; Pesticide Tolerances
for Emergency Exemption’’ (FRL No. 9996–14)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 4, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2683. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Sodium Lauryl Sulfate; Exemption
from the Requirement of a Tolerance’’ (FRL
No. 9999–81) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 25,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2684. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Furilazole; Pesticide Tolerances’’
(FRL No. 10000–23) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 25,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2685. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Amendments to the Regulations Gov-
erning Meats, Prepared Meats, and Meat
Products (Grading, Certification, and Stand-
ards)’’ ((7 CFR Part 54) (Docket No. AMS–
LP–16–0080)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 25,
2019; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
EC–2686. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Review Group, Com-
modity Credit Corporation, Department of
Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Agricultural
Disaster Indemnity Programs’’ (RIN0560–
AI52) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 25, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–2687. A communication from the Chief
of the Planning and Regulatory Affairs
Branch, Food and Nutrition Service, Depart-
ment of Agriculture, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Delayed
Implementation of Grains Ounce Equivalents
in the Child and Adult Care Food Program’’
(RIN0584–AE65) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 30, 2019; to the
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and
Forestry.
EC–2688. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Issuances Staff, Food Safety and
Inspection Service, Department of Agri-
culture, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Modernization of
Swine Slaughter Inspection’’ (RIN0583–AD62)
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 1, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2689. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Position Limits
and Position Accountability for Security Fu-
tures Products’’ (RIN3038–AE61) received
during adjournment of the Senate in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 1, 2019; to the Committee on Agriculture,
Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2690. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Processed Raspberry Promotion, Re-
search, and Information Order; Termi-
nation’’ ((7 CFR Part 1208) (Docket No. AMS–
SC–19–0047)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 3, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.023 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5792 October 15, 2019
EC–2691. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Softwood Lumber Research, Pro-
motion, Consumer Education and Industry
Information Order; Change in Membership,
Nominations, Procedures, and Continuance
Referenda Period’’ ((7 CFR Part 1217) (Dock-
et No. AMS–SC–19–0015)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2692. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Almonds Grown in California;
Amendments to Marketing Order 981’’ ((7
CFR Part 981) (Docket Nos. AMS–SC–18–0018
and AMS–SC–18–981–3)) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 3, 2019; to
the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition,
and Forestry.
EC–2693. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Tomatoes Grown in Florida; Redis-
tricting and Reapportionment of Producer
Districts’’ ((7 CFR Part 966) (Docket Nos.
AMS–SC–19–0011 and AMS–SC–19–966–2FR))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 3, 2019; to the Committee on Agri-
culture, Nutrition, and Forestry.
EC–2694. A communication from the Ad-
ministrator, Agricultural Marketing Serv-
ice, Department of Agriculture, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Voluntary Grading of Meats, Pre-
pared Meats, Meat Products, Shell Eggs,
Poultry Products, and Rabbit Products’’ ((7
CFR Parts 54, 56, and 70) (Docket No. AMS–
LP–18–0095)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 3, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and For-
estry.
EC–2695. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General for Administration
and Chief Financial Officer, Department of
Justice, transmitting, pursuant to law, a re-
port relative to violations of the
Antideficiency Act; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
EC–2696. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Defense, transmitting a report on
the approved retirement of Lieutenant Gen-
eral VeraLinn Jamieson, United States Air
Force, and her advancement to the grade of
lieutenant general on the retired list; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–2697. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a notice of additional time required to
implement a small business strategy for the
Department of Defense; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
EC–2698. A communication from the Under
Secretary of Defense (Acquisition and
Sustainment), transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report entitled ‘‘Failure of Contrac-
tors to Meet Goals under Negotiated Com-
prehensive Small Business Subcontracting
Plans’’; to the Committee on Armed Serv-
ices.
EC–2699. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary of Defense (Acquisition),
transmitting, pursuant to law, a notice of
additional time required to complete a re-
port on the amount of Department of De-
fense purchases from foreign entities in fis-
cal year 2019; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–2700. A communication from the Alter-
nate Federal Register Liaison Officer, Office
of the Secretary, Department of Defense,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a rule entitled ‘‘Defense Information Sys-
tems Agency Privacy Program’’ (RIN0790–
AK62) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Armed Services.
EC–2701. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the
issuance of an Executive Order declaring a
national emergency due to the situation in
and in relation to Syria, and in particular
the recent actions by the Government of
Turkey to conduct a military offensive into
northeast Syria; to the Committee on Bank-
ing, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2702. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to the
situation in or in relation to the Democratic
Republic of the Congo that was declared in
Executive Order 13413 of October 27, 2006; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–2703. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report relative to the export to the
People’s Republic of China of items not det-
rimental to the U.S. space launch industry;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–2704. A communication from the Sec-
retary of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, a report relative to the export to the
People’s Republic of China of items not det-
rimental to the U.S. space launch industry;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–2705. A communication from the Assist-
ant Attorney General, Office of Legislative
Affairs, Department of Justice, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, a report on the De-
partment’s activities during calendar year
2018 relative to the Equal Credit Opportunity
Act; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2706. A communication from the Direc-
tor, Bureau of Consumer Financial Protec-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, a cor-
rection to the report entitled ‘‘2018 Fair
Lending Report of the Bureau of Consumer
Financial Protection’’; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2707. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to sig-
nificant foreign narcotics traffickers cen-
tered in Colombia that was declared in Exec-
utive Order 12978 of October 21, 1995; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
EC–2708. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel, General Law, Ethics,
and Regulation, Department of the Treasury,
transmitting, pursuant to law, a report rel-
ative to a vacancy in the position of Assist-
ant Secretary, Investment Security, Depart-
ment of Treasury received during adjourn-
ment of the Senate in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 27, 2019; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–2709. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Exchange-Traded
Funds’’ (RIN3235–AJ60) received during ad-
journment of the Senate in the Office of the
President of the Senate on September 30,
2019; to the Committee on Banking, Housing,
and Urban Affairs.
EC–2710. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Solicitations of In-
terest Prior to a Registered Public Offering’’
(RIN3235–AM23) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–2711. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Recordkeeping and
Reporting Requirements for Security-Based
Swap Dealers, Major Security-Based Swap
Participants, and Broker-Dealers’’ (RIN3235–
AL45) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2712. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Recordkeeping and
Reporting Requirements for Security-Based
Swap Dealers, Major Security-Based Swap
Participants, and Broker-Dealers’’ (RIN3235–
AL45) received during adjournment of the
Senate in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 1, 2019; to the Committee
on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–2713. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the des-
ignation as emergency requirements all
funding so designated by the Congress in the
section 116 of division A of the Continuing
Appropriations Act, 2020, and Health Extend-
ers Act of 2019, pursuant to section 251 (b) (2)
(A) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency
Deficit Control Act of 1985, for the account
referenced in section 116; to the Committee
on the Budget.
EC–2714. A communication from the Presi-
dent of the United States, transmitting, pur-
suant to law, a report relative to the des-
ignation for Overseas Contingency Oper-
ations/Global War on Terrorism all funding
(including the rescission of funds) so des-
ignated by the Congress, pursuant to section
251 (b) (2) (A) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985, for
the enclosed list of accounts; to the Com-
mittee on the Budget.
EC–2715. A communication from the Assist-
ant Secretary, Office of Electricity, Depart-
ment of Energy, transmitting, pursuant to
law, a report relative to economic dispatch
and technological change; to the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–2716. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Arkansas; Re-
gional Haze Five-Year Progress Report State
Implementation Plan’’ (FRL No. 9999–11–Re-
gion 6) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 25, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2717. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Air Plan Approval; Rhode Island;
Prevention of Significant Deterioration;
PM10, PM2.5 and NOx’’ (FRL No. 10000–18–Re-
gion 1) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 25, 2019; to the
Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2718. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval and Promulgation of Air
Quality Implementation Plans; State of
Utah; Revisions to the Utah Division of Ad-
ministrative Rules, R307–300 Series; Area
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:07 Jan 07, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\S15OC9.REC S15OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5793
October 15, 2019
Source Rule for Attainment of Fine Particu-
late Matter Standards’’ (FRL No. 10000–04–
Region 8) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 25, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2719. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Approval of Air Quality Implementa-
tion Plans; California; South Coast Air
Basin; 1-Hour and 8-Hour Ozone Nonattain-
ment Area Requirements’’ (FRL No. 9999–49–
Region 9) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on September 25, 2019; to
the Committee on Environment and Public
Works.
EC–2720. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Designation of Areas for Air Quality
Planning Purposes; California; Coachella
Valley 8-Hour Ozone Nonattainment Area;
Reclassification to Extreme; Correction’’
(FRL No. 10000–01–Region 9) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Sep-
tember 25, 2019; to the Committee on Envi-
ronment and Public Works.
EC–2721. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Determination of Attainment by the
Attainment Date; 2006 24-Hour Fine Particu-
late Matter National Ambient Air Quality
Standard; Pinal County, Arizona’’ (FRL No.
10000–53–Region 9) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on September 25,
2019; to the Committee on Environment and
Public Works.
EC–2722. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Maine: Final Approval of State Un-
derground Storage Tank Program Revisions,
Codification, and Incorporation by Ref-
erence’’ (FRL No. 10000–57–Region 1) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
EC–2723. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Maine: Final Approval of State Un-
derground Storage Tank Program Revisions,
Codification, and Incorporation by Ref-
erence’’ (FRL No. 10000–57–Region 1) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on September 25, 2019; to the Committee on
Environment and Public Works.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Mr. JOHNSON, from the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs, with an amendment:
S. 2169. A bill to amend section 3116 of title
5, United States Code, to clarify the applica-
bility of the appointment limitations for stu-
dents appointed under the expedited hiring
authority for post-secondary students (Rept.
No. 116–129).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. HASSAN (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 2595. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to extend and update the
new energy efficient home credit; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself, Mr.
BRAUN, and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 2596. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking
Water Act to authorize certain community
water systems to enter into partnerships to
improve the water systems, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and Mr.
SCHATZ):
S. 2597. A bill to require the National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration to
make certain operational models available
to the public, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
By Ms. BALDWIN:
S. 2598. A bill to require the payment of
user fees by qualified professional asset man-
agers seeking an individual exemption from
certain requirements; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. TESTER (for himself and Mr.
GRASSLEY):
S. 2599. A bill to amend the Department of
Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to
provide assistance to manage farmer and
rancher stress and for the mental health of
individuals in rural areas, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Agriculture, Nu-
trition, and Forestry.
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 2600. A bill to promote minimum State
requirements for the prevention and treat-
ment of concussions caused by participation
in school sports, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions.
By Mr. JONES:
S. 2601. A bill to reauthorize the Helen Kel-
ler National Center for Youths and Adults
Who Are Deaf-Blind; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ (for himself and
Mr. YOUNG):
S.J. Res. 57. A joint resolution opposing
the decision to end certain United States ef-
forts to prevent Turkish military operations
against Syrian Kurdish forces in Northeast
Syria; to the Committee on Foreign Rela-
tions.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 203
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. HEINRICH) and the Senator from
Ohio (Mr. BROWN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 203, a bill to amend the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to per-
manently extend the railroad track
maintenance credit, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 208
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
208, a bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to permit certain retired
members of the uniformed services who
have a service-connected disability to
receive both disability compensation
from the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs for their disability and either re-
tired pay by reason of their years of
military service or Combat-Related
Special Compensation, and for other
purposes.
S. 227
At the request of Ms. MURKOWSKI, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 227, a bill to direct the Attor-
ney General to review, revise, and de-
velop law enforcement and justice pro-
tocols appropriate to address missing
and murdered Indians, and for other
purposes.
S. 286
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 286, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for the
coverage of marriage and family thera-
pist services and mental health coun-
selor services under part B of the Medi-
care program, and for other purposes.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
ROMNEY) and the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Ms. HARRIS) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 430, a bill to extend the
Secure Rural Schools and Community
Self-Determination Act of 2000.
S. 433
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 433, a bill to amend title XVIII
of the Social Security Act to improve
home health payment reforms under
the Medicare program.
S. 460
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 460, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to extend the
exclusion for employer-provided edu-
cation assistance to employer pay-
ments of student loans.
S. 466
At the request of Mr. WARNER, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
466, a bill to provide that certain guid-
ance related to waivers for State inno-
vation under the Patient Protection
and Affordable Care Act shall have no
force or effect.
S. 560
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
names of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) and the Senator
from Louisiana (Mr. CASSIDY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 560, a bill to
amend the Public Health Service Act,
the Employee Retirement Income Se-
curity Act of 1974, and the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to require that
group and individual health insurance
coverage and group health plans pro-
vide coverage for treatment of a con-
genital anomaly or birth defect.
S. 596
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
596, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:09 Jan 07, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\S15OC9.REC S15OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5794 October 15, 2019
Social Security Act to provide for di-
rect payment to physician assistants
under the Medicare program for certain
services furnished by such physician
assistants.
S. 762
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
names of the Senator from Colorado
(Mr. GARDNER) and the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. ROSEN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 762, a bill to provide for
funding from the Airport and Airway
Trust Fund for all Federal Aviation
Administration activities in the event
of a Government shutdown, and for
other purposes.
S. 785
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 785, a bill to improve mental health
care provided by the Department of
Veterans Affairs, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 789
At the request of Mrs. MURRAY, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
KAINE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
789, a bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to improve the finan-
cial aid process for homeless and foster
care youth.
S. 839
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
839, a bill to extend Federal Pell Grant
eligibility of certain short-term pro-
grams.
S. 849
At the request of Mr. CRAMER, the
names of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 849, a bill to provide
for the inclusion on the Vietnam Vet-
erans Memorial Wall of the names of
the lost crew members of the U.S.S.
Frank E. Evans killed on June 3, 1969.
S. 877
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, her
name was added as a cosponsor of S.
877, a bill to prohibit the sale of shark
fins, and for other purposes.
At the request of Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
her name was added as a cosponsor of
S. 877, supra.
S. 880
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. CARDIN) and the Senator from
Ohio (Mr. BROWN) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 880, a bill to provide out-
reach and reporting on comprehensive
Alzheimer’s disease care planning serv-
ices furnished under the Medicare pro-
gram.
S. 921
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 921, a bill to prohibit the
use of chlorpyrifos on food, to prohibit
the registration of pesticides con-
taining chlorpyrifos, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 970
At the request of Mr. TESTER, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
970, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to provide for the partici-
pation of physical therapists in the Na-
tional Health Service Corps Loan Re-
payment Program, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 976
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 976, a bill to amend the
Higher Education Act of 1965 and the
Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Se-
curity Policy and Campus Crime Sta-
tistics Act to combat campus sexual
assault, and for other purposes.
S. 1037
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1037, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to modernize pro-
visions relating to rural health clinics
under Medicare.
S. 1081
At the request of Mr. MANCHIN, the
name of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1081, a bill to amend title 54,
United States Code, to provide perma-
nent, dedicated funding for the Land
and Water Conservation Fund, and for
other purposes.
S. 1088
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1088, a bill to amend the
Immigration and Nationality Act to re-
quire the President to set a minimum
annual goal for the number of refugees
to be admitted, and for other purposes.
S. 1122
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1122, a bill to amend the Public Health
Service Act to revise and extend
projects relating to children and to
provide access to school-based com-
prehensive mental health programs.
S. 1163
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) and the Senator
from California (Mrs. FEINSTEIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1163, a bill to
amend the Internal Revenue Code of
1986 to provide for an exclusion for as-
sistance provided to participants in
certain veterinary student loan repay-
ment or forgiveness programs.
S. 1223
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1223, a bill to amend title
XVIII of the Social Security Act to
provide for the non-application of
Medicare competitive acquisition rates
to complex rehabilitative wheelchairs
and accessories.
S. 1273
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from Iowa (Mr.
GRASSLEY) and the Senator from Indi-
ana (Mr. BRAUN) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 1273, a bill to amend title 17,
United States Code, to establish an al-
ternative dispute resolution program
for copyright small claims, and for
other purposes.
S. 1279
At the request of Mr. JONES, the
names of the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) and the Senator from New
Jersey (Mr. BOOKER) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1279, a bill to reauthorize
mandatory funding programs for his-
torically Black colleges and univer-
sities and other minority-serving insti-
tutions.
S. 1298
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Iowa (Ms. ERNST) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1298, a bill to amend the
Financial Stability Act of 2010 to in-
clude the State insurance commis-
sioner as a voting member of the Fi-
nancial Stability Oversight Council,
and for other purposes.
S. 1300
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY), the Senator from Colo-
rado (Mr. BENNET), the Senator from
Texas (Mr. CRUZ), the Senator from In-
diana (Mr. YOUNG) and the Senator
from Idaho (Mr. RISCH) were added as
cosponsors of S. 1300, a bill to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
a coin in commemoration of the open-
ing of the National Law Enforcement
Museum in the District of Columbia,
and for other purposes.
S. 1381
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1381, a bill to modify the presump-
tion of service connection for veterans
who were exposed to herbicide agents
while serving in the Armed Forces in
Thailand during the Vietnam era, and
for other purposes.
S. 1392
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1392, a bill to direct the Comptroller
General of the United States to con-
duct an assessment of the responsibil-
ities, workload, and vacancy rates of
suicide prevention coordinators of the
Department of Veterans Affairs, and
for other purposes.
S. 1418
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1418, a bill to establish the
Strength in Diversity Program, and for
other purposes.
S. 1438
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.042 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5795
October 15, 2019
1438, a bill to amend title 39, United
States Code, to extend the authority of
the United States Postal Service to
issue a semipostal to raise funds for
breast cancer research.
S. 1564
At the request of Mr. TILLIS, the
names of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) and the Senator from
Missouri (Mr. BLUNT) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1564, a bill to require the
Securities and Exchange Commission
and certain Federal agencies to carry
out a study relating to accounting
standards, and for other purposes.
S. 1590
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) and the Senator from Nevada
(Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 1590, a bill to amend the
State Department Basic Authorities
Act of 1956 to authorize rewards for
thwarting wildlife trafficking linked to
transnational organized crime, and for
other purposes.
S. 1652
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. LANKFORD) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 1652, a bill to amend the Inter-
nal Revenue Code of 1986 to provide for
a refundable adoption tax credit.
S. 1657
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
names of the Senator from West Vir-
ginia (Mrs. CAPITO) and the Senator
from Connecticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL)
were added as cosponsors of S. 1657, a
bill to provide assistance to combat the
escalating burden of Lyme disease and
other tick and vector-borne diseases
and disorders.
S. 1728
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1728, a bill to require the United
States Postal Service to sell the Alz-
heimer’s semipostal stamp for 6 addi-
tional years.
S. 1750
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
her name was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1750, a bill to establish the Clean
School Bus Grant Program, and for
other purposes.
S. 1754
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1754, a bill to provide
Medicaid assistance to individuals and
families affected by a disaster or emer-
gency, and for other purposes.
S. 1755
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1755, a bill to ensure that
older adults and individuals with dis-
abilities are prepared for disasters, and
for other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN), the Senator from
Maine (Ms. COLLINS), the Senator from
New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Sen-
ator from Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON), the
Senator from Connecticut (Mr. MUR-
PHY), the Senator from Arkansas (Mr.
BOOZMAN) and the Senator from New
Hampshire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1757, a bill to award
a Congressional Gold Medal, collec-
tively, to the United States Army
Rangers Veterans of World War II in
recognition of their extraordinary serv-
ice during World War II.
S. 1764
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
the name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1764, a bill to amend the
Communications Act of 1934 to require
the Federal Communications Commis-
sion to ensure just and reasonable
charges for telephone and advanced
communications services in the correc-
tional and detention facilities.
S. 1791
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1791, a bill to prohibit discrimina-
tion on the basis of religion, sex (in-
cluding sexual orientation and gender
identity), and marital status in the ad-
ministration and provision of child
welfare services, to improve safety,
well-being, and permanency for les-
bian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and
queer or questioning foster youth, and
for other purposes.
S. 1794
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1794, a bill to amend title 31,
United States Code, to permit the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to determine
the metal composition of certain coins,
and for other purposes.
S. 1812
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1812, a bill to authorize
the Administrator of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency to conduct
research on wildfire smoke, and for
other purposes.
S. 1813
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1813, a bill to amend the
Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and
Emergency Assistance Act to provide
wildfire smoke mitigation assistance
to States and units of local govern-
ment, and for other purposes.
S. 1814
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1814, a bill to authorize
the President to declare a smoke emer-
gency, and for other purposes.
S. 1822
At the request of Mr. WICKER, the
names of the Senator from Hawaii (Ms.
HIRONO), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN), the Senator
from Delaware (Mr. COONS) and the
Senator from Iowa (Ms. ERNST) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1822, a bill to
require the Federal Communications
Commission to issue rules relating to
the collection of data with respect to
the availability of broadband services,
and for other purposes.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Oklahoma
(Mr. INHOFE) and the Senator from Ne-
vada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1838, a bill to amend
the Hong Kong Policy Act of 1992, and
for other purposes.
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Texas (Mr.
CRUZ) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1838, supra.
S. 1840
At the request of Mrs. FISCHER, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. BLUNT) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1840, a bill to establish certain re-
quirements for the small refineries ex-
emption of the renewable fuels provi-
sions under the Clean Air Act, and for
other purposes.
S. 1903
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from California
(Mrs. FEINSTEIN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1903, a bill to establish an
interagency One Health Program, and
for other purposes.
S. 1906
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. SINEMA) were added
as cosponsors of S. 1906, a bill to re-
quire the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
to provide financial assistance to eligi-
ble entities to provide and coordinate
the provision of suicide prevention
services for veterans at risk of suicide
and veteran families through the award
of grants to such entities, and for other
purposes.
S. 1918
At the request of Mr. BOOZMAN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1918, a bill to amend the
Richard B. Russell National School
Lunch Act to require alternative op-
tions for summer food service program
delivery.
S. 1953
At the request of Mr. GARDNER, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1953, a bill to amend the
Commodity Exchange Act to extend
the jurisdiction of the Commodity Fu-
tures Trading Commission to include
the setting of reference prices for alu-
minum premiums, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 1954
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.045 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5796 October 15, 2019
Kansas (Mr. MORAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1954, a bill to require the
Secretary of the Treasury to mint com-
memorative coins in recognition of the
75th anniversary of the integration of
baseball.
S. 1982
At the request of Mr. SULLIVAN, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1982, a bill to improve efforts to combat
marine debris, and for other purposes.
S. 1983
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Mrs. SHAHEEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1983, a bill to authorize
the Attorney General to make grants
to, and enter into cooperative agree-
ments with, States and units of local
government to develop, implement, or
expand 1 or more programs to provide
medication-assisted treatment to indi-
viduals who have opioid use disorder
and are incarcerated within the juris-
dictions of the States or units of local
government.
S. 2001
At the request of Ms. STABENOW, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2001, a bill to award a Congres-
sional Gold Medal to Willie O’Ree, in
recognition of his extraordinary con-
tributions and commitment to hockey,
inclusion, and recreational oppor-
tunity.
S. 2032
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from Alaska (Ms.
MURKOWSKI) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2032, a bill to expand research on
the cannabidiol and marihuana.
S. 2042
At the request of Mr. SCHUMER, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER) and the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2042, a bill to require
the Secretary of the Treasury to mint
coins in commemoration of the Na-
tional Purple Heart Hall of Honor.
S. 2043
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 2043, a bill to provide
incentives for hate crime reporting,
provide grants for State-run hate crime
hotlines, and establish alternative sen-
tencing for individuals convicted under
the Matthew Shephard and James
Byrd, Jr. Hate Crimes Prevention Act.
S. 2154
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2154, a bill to direct the Secretary
of Defense to carry out a program to
enhance the preparation of students in
the Junior Reserve Officers’ Training
Corps for careers in computer science
and cybersecurity, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 2160
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Nevada (Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 2160, a bill to re-
quire carbon monoxide alarms in cer-
tain federally assisted housing, and for
other purposes.
S. 2203
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from Wisconsin
(Ms. BALDWIN), the Senator from Ha-
waii (Ms. HIRONO) and the Senator from
Minnesota (Ms. SMITH) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2203, a bill to extend
the transfer of Electronic Travel Au-
thorization System fees from the Trav-
el Promotion Fund to the Corporation
for Travel Promotion (Brand USA)
through fiscal year 2027, and for other
purposes.
S. 2262
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2262, a bill to provide for phased-
in payment of Social Security Dis-
ability Insurance payments during the
waiting period for individuals with a
terminal illness.
S. 2321
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
name of the Senator from Missouri
(Mr. HAWLEY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2321, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to mint a coin
in commemoration of the 100th anni-
versary of the establishment of Negro
Leagues baseball.
S. 2417
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
names of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mr. WICKER), the Senator from Mis-
souri (Mr. HAWLEY), the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) and the
Senator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI)
were added as cosponsors of S. 2417, a
bill to provide for payment of proceeds
from savings bonds to a State with
title to such bonds pursuant to the
judgment of a court.
S. 2455
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Alabama
(Mr. JONES) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2455, a bill to establish a program
to accurately document vehicles that
were significant in the history of the
United States, and for other purposes.
S. 2461
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
names of the Senator from Illinois (Mr.
DURBIN), the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS), the Senator from Hawaii
(Ms. HIRONO), the Senator from Wash-
ington (Mrs. MURRAY) and the Senator
from Massachusetts (Ms. WARREN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 2461, a bill to
designate a portion of the Arctic Na-
tional Wildlife Refuge as wilderness.
S. 2465
At the request of Mr. COTTON, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 2465, a bill to enact as law cer-
tain regulations relating to the taking
of double-crested cormorants.
S. 2477
At the request of Mrs. GILLIBRAND,
the name of the Senator from New
York (Mr. SCHUMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2477, a bill to establish a
National Commission on Fibrotic Dis-
eases.
S. 2480
At the request of Mr. WYDEN, the
name of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
ROMNEY) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2480, a bill to amend title 31, United
States Code, to reauthorize the pay-
ment in lieu of taxes program through
fiscal year 2029.
S. 2487
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
name of the Senator from Indiana (Mr.
BRAUN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2487, a bill to improve the effectiveness
and efficiency and reduce the cost of
the supply chain and inventory man-
agement of the Department of Defense
by consolidating unnecessary and
unneeded storage centers.
S. 2490
At the request of Ms. MCSALLY, the
name of the Senator from Louisiana
(Mr. CASSIDY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2490, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to make perma-
nent certain changes made by Public
Law 115–97 to the child tax credit.
S. 2493
At the request of Ms. DUCKWORTH,
her name was added as a cosponsor of
S. 2493, a bill to establish the Malign
Foreign Influence Response Center in
the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence, and for other purposes.
S. 2587
At the request of Mr. CORNYN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2587, a bill to amend subpart 2 of part
B of title IV of the Social Security Act
to extend State court funding for child
welfare, and for other purposes.
S. 2590
At the request of Mr. BRAUN, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER), the Senator from
Iowa (Mr. GRASSLEY) and the Senator
from Florida (Mr. RUBIO) were added as
cosponsors of S. 2590, a bill to protect
the dignity of fetal remains, and for
other purposes.
S.J. RES. 14
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
name of the Senator from South Caro-
lina (Mr. SCOTT) was added as a cospon-
sor of S.J. Res. 14, a joint resolution
proposing an amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States to re-
quire that the Supreme Court of the
United States be composed of not more
than 9 justices.
S. RES. 98
At the request of Mrs. BLACKBURN,
the name of the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a
cosponsor of S. Res. 98, a resolution es-
tablishing the Congressional Gold Star
Family Fellowship Program for the
placement in offices of Senators of
children, spouses, and siblings of mem-
bers of the Armed Forces who are hos-
tile casualties or who have died from a
training-related injury.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.047 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5797
October 15, 2019
S. RES. 260
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 260, a resolution recognizing the
importance of sustained United States
leadership to accelerating global
progress against maternal and child
malnutrition and supporting the com-
mitment of the United States Agency
for International Development to glob-
al nutrition through the Multi-Sec-
toral Nutrition Strategy.
S. RES. 308
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Mr. MARKEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 308, a resolution call-
ing on the Government of the Russian
Federation to provide evidence or to
release United States citizen Paul
Whelan.
S. RES. 318
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
names of the Senator from Indiana
(Mr. YOUNG), the Senator from Con-
necticut (Mr. BLUMENTHAL) and the
Senator from Maine (Ms. COLLINS) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 318, a
resolution to support the Global Fund
to fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Ma-
laria, and the Sixth Replenishment.
S. RES. 338
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
names of the Senator from Maryland
(Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from North Dakota (Mr. CRAMER) were
added as cosponsors of S. Res. 338, a
resolution designating the week of Sep-
tember 23 through September 27, 2019,
as ‘‘Malnutrition Awareness Week’’.
S. RES. 342
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. Res. 342, a resolution expressing
the need for immediate climate action
in response to the report of the United
Nations Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change entitled ‘‘Special Re-
port on the Ocean and Cryosphere in a
Changing Climate’’.
S. RES. 343
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 343, a resolution congratulating
the people of the Czech Republic and
the people of the Slovak Republic on
the 30th anniversary of the Velvet Rev-
olution, the 26th anniversary of the
formation of the Czech Republic and
the Slovak Republic, and the 101st an-
niversary of the declaration of inde-
pendence of Czechoslovakia.
S. RES. 344
At the request of Mrs. SHAHEEN, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 344, a resolution expressing sup-
port for a credible, inclusive, and
transparent presidential election in Af-
ghanistan on September 28, 2019.
S. RES. 348
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 348, a resolution pro-
claiming the week of September 23
through September 27, 2019, as ‘‘Na-
tional Clean Energy Week’’.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. THUNE (for himself and
Mr. SHATZ):
S. 2597. A bill to require the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion to make certain operational mod-
els available to the public, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2597
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Learning
Excellence and Good Examples from New De-
velopers Act of 2019’’ or the ‘‘LEGEND Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) ADMINISTRATION.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
tration’’ means the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration.
(2) ADMINISTRATOR.—The term ‘‘Adminis-
trator’’ means the Under Secretary of Com-
merce for Oceans and Atmosphere and Ad-
ministrator of the National Oceanic and At-
mospheric Administration.
(3) MODEL.—The term ‘‘model’’ means any
numerical model of the Earth’s system or its
components produced by scientists employed
by the Administration.
(4) OPERATIONAL MODEL.—The term ‘‘oper-
ational model’’ means any model that has an
output used by the Administration for oper-
ational or public service functions.
(5) OPEN SOURCE CODE.—The term ‘‘open
source code’’ means computer code or pro-
gramming language that is available for pub-
lic use or modification.
SEC. 3. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this Act are—
(1) to support innovation in modeling by
allowing interested stakeholders to have
easy and complete access to the models used
by the Administration; and
(2) to use vetted innovations arising from
access provided under paragraph (1) to im-
prove modeling by the Administration.
SEC. 4. REQUIREMENT TO MAKE CERTAIN OPER-
ATIONAL MODELS AVAILABLE TO
THE PUBLIC.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Administrator shall
make available to the public the following:
(1) Current and future operational models
developed by the Administration, in the form
of open source code for a period consistent
with applicable records retention require-
ments.
(2) All Government-owned data, subject to
redistribution rights, associated with such
models and used in operational forecasting
by the Administration, including—
(A) relevant metadata;
(B) data used for current operational fore-
casts; and
(C) a description of intended model out-
puts.
(b) DISCRETION TO MAKE EXPERIMENTAL OR
DEVELOPMENT MODELS AVAILABLE.—The Ad-
ministrator may make experimental or de-
velopmental models associated with develop-
ment projects funded by the Administration
available to the public as open source code.
(c) PLATFORM.—In carrying out subsections
(a) and (b), the Administrator may use gov-
ernment servers, contracts or agreements
with a private vendor, or any other platform
consistent with the purpose of this Act.
(d) TECHNICAL CORRECTION.—Section 102(b)
of the Weather Research Forecasting and In-
novation Act of 2017 (15 U.S.C. 8512(b)) is
amended by redesignating the second para-
graph (4) (as added by section 4(a) of the Na-
tional Integrated Drought Information Sys-
tem Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Public Law
115–423)) as paragraph (5).
(e) PHASED IMPLEMENTATION.—
(1) IMMEDIATE EFFECT FOR CERTAIN MOD-
ELS.—For operational models that, as of the
date of the enactment of this Act, meet the
requirements described in paragraph
(5)(E)(ii) of section 102(b) of the Weather Re-
search Forecasting and Innovation Act of
2017 (15 U.S.C. 8512(b)), as redesignated by
subsection (d), the Administrator shall im-
plement the requirements of subsection (a)
as soon as practicable after such date of en-
actment.
(2) NEW MODELS.—For operational models
that meet the requirements described in
paragraph (1) and are created or substan-
tially updated after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act, the Administrator shall
implement the requirements of subsection
(a) not later than 1 year after such date of
enactment.
SEC. 5. REQUIREMENT TO REVIEW MODELS AND
LEVERAGE INNOVATIONS.
The Administrator shall—
(1) consistent with the mission of the
Earth Prediction Innovation Center, periodi-
cally review innovations and improvements
made by persons outside the Administration
to the operational models made available to
the public under section 4 in order to im-
prove the accuracy and timeliness of fore-
casts of the Administration; and
(2) if the Administrator identifies an inno-
vation for such a model the Administrator
considers suitable, develop and implement a
plan to use the innovation to improve the
model.
SEC. 6. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year
after the date of the enactment of this Act,
the Administrator shall submit to the appro-
priate congressional committees a report on
the implementation of this Act that includes
a description of—
(1) how operational models have been made
publicly available as required by section 4(a);
(2) the process of the Administration under
section 5—
(A) for engaging with interested stake-
holders to learn what innovations those
stakeholders have found;
(B) for reviewing those innovations; and
(C) for operationalizing innovations the
Administrator considers suitable.
(b) APPROPRIATE CONGRESSIONAL COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘appropriate congressional committees’’
means—
(1) the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation and the Committee on
Appropriations of the Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Science, Space, and
Technology and the Committee on Appro-
priations of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 7. PROTECTION OF NATIONAL SECURITY IN-
TERESTS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of this Act, the Adminis-
trator may withhold models or data used in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.049 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5798 October 15, 2019
operational weather forecasting if the Ad-
ministrator determines doing so to be nec-
essary to protect the national security inter-
ests of the United States.
(b) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
this Act shall be construed to supersede any
other provision of law governing the protec-
tion of the national security interests of the
United States.
SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
There are authorized to be appropriated to
the Administration for each of fiscal years
2021 through 2026 such sums may be nec-
essary to carry out this Act.
By Ms. BALDWIN:
S. 2598. A bill to require the payment
of user fees by qualified professional
asset managers seeking an individual
exemption from certain requirements;
to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
Ms. BALDWIN. Mr. President, I in-
troduce my legislation today to help
shore up the government’s insurance
plan for these pensions. The Pension
Stability Act would add funding to the
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corpora-
tion’s multiemployer program by im-
posing a fee on financial firms that are
convicted of financial crimes.
This weekend, I was in Endeavor, WI.
I was meeting there with retirees who
meet once a month at the fire station
in order to update one another on the
progress here in Washington. In the
months since the House passed the
Butch Lewis Act, there hasn’t been
much progress to speak of. The Senate
hasn’t taken up the bill, and no other
proposals have been presented. All the
while, retirees and workers in the Cen-
tral States Pension Fund continue to
doubt their retirement security.
If Washington does not act, workers
and retirees face massive cuts to the
pensions they have earned over decades
of hard work. I have come to the floor
many times over these past 31⁄2 years to
remind this body about the retirees
who stand to lose 50 percent—some
more than 50 percent—of their pensions
if Washington fails to act. Since then,
nothing has been done, so I am here to,
once again, remind my colleagues that
this is about a promise that must be
kept.
This is about a promise made to Bob
Brockway, who stands to lose more
than half of his monthly pension. Bob
retired in 1999. He has made the trip to
Washington to be a part of the solution
even though Margie, his wife, would
rather he stayed at home. He also orga-
nizes the meetings that are held every
month in Endeavor.
This is about a promise made to
Thomas from Hartland, WI. Thomas is
a 72-year-old retired semitruck driver
and an Army veteran.
He is also a cancer patient, and his
wife has significant medical bills.
Thomas wrote to me this summer. He
said:
I’ve put many, much-needed home repairs
on hold since this whole mess started. We
have had no vacations or any other extrava-
gances since I retired. We did nothing wrong.
We paid into Central States and somehow
the government dropped the ball.
This is about a promise made to Don-
ald and his wife Janet in Beaver Dam,
WI. Donald wrote to me to tell me the
following:
After 25 years working at a company where
I earned a pension as part of a wage and ben-
efit package, I retired. I retired four years
ago because my body wouldn’t let me per-
form tasks in the factory that could more
easily be performed in my younger years. My
pension and Social Security allow me to pay
for heat, electricity, food and maintenance
on my home. A 50 percent reduction in my
monthly pension payment would mean we
could no longer afford visiting our children
or grandchildren, buying Christmas and
birthday gifts, or seeing an occasional
movie. And without this pension, I doubt we
could afford the most basic of household ex-
penditures.
This is about a promise made to
Mary in Greenfield, WI. Mary wrote to
tell me the following:
My story is simple. In November 2014, my
husband passed away. In December, I learned
the bad news about my pension. Worrying all
this time has taken its toll. What will I be
able to afford? I will probably have to move.
I need a new car, but that’s on hold. The list
goes on. I am turning 70 in a few days and I
never thought at this age I would have to
worry about how I will survive.
If Washington does not act, we will
be breaking a promise made to 1.5 mil-
lion retirees nationwide. Pension prom-
ises must be kept. So once again I will
say: Washington needs to act, and we
need to do it now.
By Mr. DURBIN:
S. 2600. A bill to promote minimum
State requirements for the prevention
and treatment of concussions caused
by participation in school sports, and
for other purposes; to the Committee
on Health, Education, Labor, and Pen-
sions.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 2600
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Protecting
Student Athletes from Concussions Act of
2019’’.
SEC. 2. MINIMUM STATE REQUIREMENTS.
(a) MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.—Each State
that receives funds under the Elementary
and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) and does not meet the re-
quirements described in this section, as of
the date of enactment of this Act, shall, not
later than the last day of the fifth full fiscal
year after the date of enactment of this Act
(referred to in this Act as the ‘‘compliance
deadline’’), enact legislation or issue regula-
tions establishing the following minimum
requirements:
(1) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY CONCUSSION
SAFETY AND MANAGEMENT PLAN.—Each local
educational agency in the State, in consulta-
tion with members of the community in
which such agency is located, shall develop
and implement a standard plan for concus-
sion safety and management that—
(A) educates students, parents, and school
personnel about concussions, through activi-
ties such as—
(i) training school personnel, including
coaches, teachers, athletic trainers, related
services personnel, and school nurses, on
concussion safety and management, includ-
ing training on the prevention, recognition,
and academic consequences of concussions
and response to concussions; and
(ii) using, maintaining, and disseminating
to students and parents—
(I) release forms and other appropriate
forms for reporting and record keeping;
(II) treatment plans; and
(III) prevention and post-injury observa-
tion and monitoring fact sheets about con-
cussion;
(B) encourages supports, where feasible, for
a student recovering from a concussion (re-
gardless of whether or not the concussion oc-
curred during school-sponsored activities,
during school hours, on school property, or
during an athletic activity), such as—
(i) guiding the student in resuming partici-
pation in athletic activity and academic ac-
tivities with the help of a multi-disciplinary
concussion management team, which may
include—
(I) a health care professional, the parents
of such student, a school nurse, relevant re-
lated services personnel, and other relevant
school personnel; and
(II) an individual who is assigned by a pub-
lic school to oversee and manage the recov-
ery of such student; and
(ii) providing appropriate academic accom-
modations aimed at progressively reintro-
ducing cognitive demands on the student;
and
(C) encourages the use of best practices de-
signed to ensure, with respect to concus-
sions, the uniformity of safety standards,
treatment, and management, such as—
(i) disseminating information on concus-
sion safety and management to the public;
and
(ii) applying uniform best practice stand-
ards for concussion safety and management
to all students enrolled in public schools.
(2) POSTING OF INFORMATION ON CONCUS-
SIONS.—Each public elementary school and
each public secondary school shall post on
school grounds, in a manner that is visible to
students and school personnel, and make
publicly available on the school website, in-
formation on concussions that—
(A) is based on peer-reviewed scientific evi-
dence (such as information made available
by the Centers for Disease Control and Pre-
vention);
(B) shall include information on—
(i) the risks posed by sustaining a concus-
sion;
(ii) the actions a student should take in re-
sponse to sustaining a concussion, including
the notification of school personnel; and
(iii) the signs and symptoms of a concus-
sion; and
(C) may include information on—
(i) the definition of a concussion;
(ii) the means available to the student to
reduce the incidence or recurrence of a con-
cussion; and
(iii) the effects of a concussion on aca-
demic learning and performance.
(3) RESPONSE TO CONCUSSION.—If an indi-
vidual designated from among school per-
sonnel for purposes of this Act, one of whom
must be in attendance at every school-spon-
sored activity, suspects that a student has
sustained a concussion (regardless of wheth-
er or not the concussion occurred during
school-sponsored activities, during school
hours, on school property, or during an ath-
letic activity)—
(A) the student shall be—
(i) immediately removed from participa-
tion in a school-sponsored athletic activity;
and
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.040 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5799
October 15, 2019
(ii) prohibited from returning to partici-
pate in a school-sponsored athletic activity
on the day that student is removed from
such participation; and
(B) the designated individual shall report
to the parent or guardian of such student—
(i) any information that the designated
school employee is aware of regarding the
date, time, and type of the injury suffered by
such student (regardless of where, when, or
how a concussion may have occurred); and
(ii) any actions taken to treat such stu-
dent.
(4) RETURN TO ATHLETICS.—If a student has
sustained a concussion (regardless of wheth-
er or not the concussion occurred during
school-sponsored activities, during school
hours, on school property, or during an ath-
letic activity), before such student resumes
participation in school-sponsored athletic
activities, the school shall receive a written
release from a health care professional,
that—
(A) states that the student is capable of re-
suming participation in such activities; and
(B) may require the student to follow a
plan designed to aid the student in recov-
ering and resuming participation in such ac-
tivities in a manner that—
(i) is coordinated, as appropriate, with pe-
riods of cognitive and physical rest while
symptoms of a concussion persist; and
(ii) reintroduces cognitive and physical de-
mands on such student on a progressive basis
only as such increases in exertion do not
cause the reemergence or worsening of symp-
toms of a concussion.
(b) NONCOMPLIANCE.—
(1) FIRST YEAR.—If a State described in
subsection (a) fails to comply with sub-
section (a) by the compliance deadline, the
Secretary of Education shall reduce by 5 per-
cent the amount of funds the State receives
under the Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) for
the first fiscal year following the compliance
deadline.
(2) SUCCEEDING YEARS.—If the State fails to
so comply by the last day of any fiscal year
following the compliance deadline, the Sec-
retary of Education shall reduce by 10 per-
cent the amount of funds the State receives
under that Act for the following fiscal year.
(3) NOTIFICATION OF NONCOMPLIANCE.—Prior
to reducing any funds that a State receives
under the Elementary and Secondary Edu-
cation Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.) in
accordance with this subsection, the Sec-
retary of Education shall provide a written
notification of the intended reduction of
funds to the State and to the appropriate
committees of Congress.
SEC. 3. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this Act shall be construed to
affect civil or criminal liability under Fed-
eral or State law.
SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.
In this Act:
(1) CONCUSSION.—The term ‘‘concussion’’
means a type of mild traumatic brain injury
that—
(A) is caused by a blow, jolt, or motion to
the head or body that causes the brain to
move rapidly in the skull;
(B) disrupts normal brain functioning and
alters the mental state of the individual,
causing the individual to experience—
(i) any period of observed or self-reported—
(I) transient confusion, disorientation, or
impaired consciousness;
(II) dysfunction of memory around the
time of injury; or
(III) loss of consciousness lasting less than
30 minutes; or
(ii) any 1 of 4 types of symptoms, includ-
ing—
(I) physical symptoms, such as headache,
fatigue, or dizziness;
(II) cognitive symptoms, such as memory
disturbance or slowed thinking;
(III) emotional symptoms, such as irrita-
bility or sadness; or
(IV) difficulty sleeping; and
(C) can occur—
(i) with or without the loss of conscious-
ness; and
(ii) during participation in any organized
sport or recreational activity.
(2) HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL.—The term
‘‘health care professional’’—
(A) means an individual who has been
trained in diagnosis and management of con-
cussion in a pediatric population; and
(B) is registered, licensed, certified, or oth-
erwise statutorily recognized by the State to
provide such diagnosis and management.
(3) LOCAL EDUCATIONAL AGENCY; STATE.—
The terms ‘‘local educational agency’’ and
‘‘State’’ have the meanings given such terms
in section 8101 of the Elementary and Sec-
ondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
(4) RELATED SERVICES PERSONNEL.—The
term ‘‘related services personnel’’ means in-
dividuals who provide related services, as de-
fined under section 602 of the Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C.
1401).
(5) SCHOOL-SPONSORED ATHLETIC ACTIVITY.—
The term ‘‘school-sponsored athletic activ-
ity’’ means—
(A) any physical education class or pro-
gram of a school;
(B) any athletic activity authorized during
the school day on school grounds that is not
an instructional activity;
(C) any extra-curricular sports team, club,
or league organized by a school on or off
school grounds; and
(D) any recess activity.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have a request for one committee to
meet during today’s session of the Sen-
ate. It has the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committee is author-
ized to meet during today’s session of
the Senate:
SELECT COMMITTEE ON INTELLIGENCE
The Select Committee on Intel-
ligence is authorized to meet during
the session of the Senate on Tuesday,
October 15, 2019, at 3:30 p.m., to conduct
a closed hearing.
f
NOTICE: REGISTRATION OF MASS
MAILINGS
The filing date for the 2019 third
quarter Mass Mailing report is Friday,
October 25, 2019. An electronic option is
available on Webster that will allow
forms to be submitted via a fillable
PDF document. If your office did no
mass mailings during this period,
please submit a form that states
‘‘none.’’
Mass mailing registrations or nega-
tive reports can be submitted elec-
tronically at http://webster.senate.gov/
secretary/masslmailinglform.htm or
delivered to the Senate Office of Public
Records, 232 Hart Building, Wash-
ington, D.C. 20510–7116.
The Senate Office of Public Records
is open from 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. (9:00
a.m. to 5:00 p.m. when the Senate is not
in session). For further information,
please contact the Senate Office of
Public Records at (202) 224–0322.
f
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF THE WEEK OF
SEPTEMBER 22 THROUGH SEP-
TEMBER 28, 2019, AS RAIL SAFE-
TY WEEK
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation be discharged from fur-
ther consideration and the Senate now
proceed to S. Res. 322.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the resolution by
title.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A resolution (S. Res. 322) expressing sup-
port for the designation of the week of Sep-
tember 22 through September 28, 2019, as Rail
Safety Week in the United States, and sup-
porting the goals and ideals of Rail Safety
Week to reduce rail-related accidents, fatali-
ties, and injuries.
There being no objection, the com-
mittee was discharged, and the Senate
proceeded to consider the resolution.
Mr. MCCONNELL. I ask unanimous
consent that the resolution be agreed
to, the preamble be agreed to, and the
motions to reconsider be considered
made and laid upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The resolution was agreed to.
The preamble was agreed to.
(The resolution, with its preamble, is
printed in the RECORD of September 23,
2019, under ‘‘Submitted Resolutions.’’)
f
ORDERS FOR WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 16, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
I ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 9:30 a.m., Wednesday, Oc-
tober 16; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Barrett nomination, under
the previous order; finally, that the
Senate recess from 12:30 to 2:15 p.m. to
allow for the caucus meetings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER FOR ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Madam President,
if there is no further business to come
before the Senate, I ask unanimous
consent that it stand adjourned under
the previous order, following the re-
marks of Senator BLACKBURN.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The Senator from Tennessee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.050 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5800 October 15, 2019
2020 COUNTRY MUSIC HALL OF
FAME INDUCTEES
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Madam Presi-
dent, in Nashville, we have a saying: It
all begins with a song. That is the
truth, but that is not where the story
ends. It is where it begins.
Every record that makes it out into
the world is backed by a team of hard-
working and creative individuals whose
job is to bring the music to the masses:
the songwriters, who find a way to ex-
press feelings that we mere mortals
could never hope to put down on paper;
the studio musicians, whose refined
techniques satisfy even the most sen-
sitive microphones; the producers,
whose vision and intuition can turn a
song into a hit cut; and the label heads,
whose job it is to take a chance on new
artists in hopes of discovering the next
country music superstar.
Each year the music industry’s mov-
ers and shakers come together to de-
cide who among them is worthy of a
place in the industry’s most sought-
after circle: the Country Music Hall of
Fame.
The Country Music Association in-
ducted their first Hall of Fame class in
1961. Since then, the CMA has wel-
comed some of the most well-known
and beloved members of Nashville’s en-
tertainment community into the Hall’s
ranks. This year’s inductees have made
their mark on both sides of the studio
glass.
Kix Brooks and Ronnie Dunn—we
know them as Brooks & Dunn—started
out as solo singer-songwriters, but
rocketed to stardom as a duo.
Their first album produced four No. 1
singles and sold almost 3 million cop-
ies, all in the pre-smartphone, pre-
streaming era. Since then, Kix and
Ronnie’s over 40 top 10 hits, 20 No. 1
singles, and 12 platinum-plus albums
have earned them the distinction of
being one of the most successful coun-
try duos of all time. They have done it
all while writing their own songs, de-
signing their own shows, and sup-
porting the art of up-and-coming per-
formers.
This dedication to the future of coun-
try is why Brooks & Dunn will be in-
ducted into the Hall of Fame in the
‘‘Modern Era Artist’’ category.
Ray Stevens—when we think about
country music, many times, we are
thinking about steel guitars and bro-
ken hearts, but this year’s second Hall
of Fame inductee really just wants to
make you smile.
Ray Stevens is one of the most suc-
cessful comedy recording artists of all
time, but he made his mark in Nash-
ville as a songwriter, studio musician,
producer, and gospel singer, in addition
to being a star comic and country en-
tertainer.
If you look at his catalog, there real-
ly is something for everyone. His work
spoke to fans in need of a laugh or
sometimes spiritual guidance or a song
to sing along to after a hard day’s
work.
Ray’s wonderful sense of humor, open
heart, and commitment to entertain-
ment as an art form made him a Music
City standout and the perfect choice to
earn the distinction of ‘‘Veterans Era
Artist’’ in the Country Music Hall of
Fame.
Jerry Bradley—this year’s third and
final inductee—may not have invented
country music, but no one on Music
Row would deny the impact his work
has had on the success of generations
of country stars. Jerry Bradley began
his career in music as Nashville was on
the brink of transformation. He under-
stood that fans and artists alike were
looking to explore a new sound, and he
gave them exactly what they were
looking for. He gave them the Nash-
ville sound. He signed bands no other
label would take a chance on, he mixed
records no other producer could match,
and he embraced the importance of the
crossover artist as the ambassador of
this new Nashville sound. His tendency
to ignore conventional wisdom more
than paid off. He achieved commercial
success and earned the attention of
Nashville’s tastemakers before becom-
ing one of them himself. This year, the
Country Music Association will induct
Jerry into the Hall of Fame as a non-
performer but also as one of the most
influential people in the history of the
entertainment industry.
Today, I encourage all of my col-
leagues to take a moment to think
about their favorite song—whether it is
a country song, a pop song, a classic
rock hit, it is the soundtrack of our
lives—and to remember how it made
them feel the very first time they
heard it and how many times they have
enjoyed singing it when a memory pops
into their heads. This year’s Country
Music Hall of Fame inductees—Kix
Brooks, Ronnie Dunn, Ray Stevens,
and Jerry Bradley—are responsible for
making millions of people feel that
exact same way about their very own
favorite song. The body of work these
men represent is more than just a se-
ries of accomplishments; it is a gift to
all of us who enjoy the music they have
made.
I yield the floor.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 9:30 A.M.
TOMORROW
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate stands
adjourned until 9:30 a.m. tomorrow.
Thereupon, the Senate, at 6:18 p.m.,
adjourned until Wednesday, October 16,
2019, at 9:30 a.m.
f
NOMINATIONS
Executive nominations received by
the Senate:
SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION
CORPORATION
BRUCE POLIQUIN, OF MAINE, TO BE A DIRECTOR OF
THE SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORPORATION
FOR A TERM EXPIRING DECEMBER 31, 2021, VICE SHARON
Y. BOWEN, TERM EXPIRED.
EXPORT–IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES
PETER J. CONIGLIO, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE INSPECTOR
GENERAL, EXPORT–IMPORT BANK, VICE OSVALDO LUIS
GRATACOS MUNET, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
JOHN BOBBITT, OF TEXAS, TO BE AN ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT, VICE
SUZANNE ISRAEL TUFTS, RESIGNED.
BRIAN D. MONTGOMERY, OF TEXAS, TO BE DEPUTY
SECRETARY OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT,
VICE PAMELA HUGHES PATENAUDE, RESIGNED.
FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION
JAMES P. DANLY, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION FOR
THE REMAINDER OF THE TERM EXPIRING JUNE 30, 2023,
VICE KEVIN J. MCINTYRE.
DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR
KATHARINE MACGREGOR, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
DEPUTY SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR, VICE DAVID
BERHARDT, RESIGNED.
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
SEAN O’DONNELL, OF MARYLAND, TO BE INSPECTOR
GENERAL, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, VICE
ARTHUR ALLEN ELKINS, JR., RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
KIPP KRANBUHL, OF OHIO, TO BE AN ASSISTANT SEC-
RETARY OF THE TREASURY, VICE MATTHEW S. RUTHER-
FORD, RESIGNED.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE
WILLIAM ELLISON GRAYSON, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC
OF ESTONIA.
JOHN HENNESSEY–NILAND, OF ILLINOIS, A CAREER
MEMBER OF THE SENIOR FOREIGN SERVICE, CLASS OF
COUNSELOR, TO BE AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND
PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
TO THE REPUBLIC OF PALAU.
LEORA ROSENBERG LEVY, OF CONNECTICUT, TO BE AM-
BASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC OF
CHILE.
BARBERA HALE THORNHILL, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE
AMBASSADOR EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE REPUBLIC
OF SINGAPORE.
DONALD WRIGHT, OF VIRGINIA, A CAREER MEMBER OF
THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE SERVICE, TO BE AMBASSADOR
EXTRAORDINARY AND PLENIPOTENTIARY OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC
OF TANZANIA.
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
PETER GAYNOR, OF RHODE ISLAND, TO BE ADMINIS-
TRATOR OF THE FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, VICE
BROCK LONG, RESIGNED.
EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
PAUL J. RAY, OF TENNESSEE, TO BE ADMINISTRATOR
OF THE OFFICE OF INFORMATION AND REGULATORY AF-
FAIRS, OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET, VICE
NEOMI RAO, RESIGNED.
THE JUDICIARY
PATRICK J. BUMATAY, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT, VICE
CARLOS T. BEA, RETIRING.
SYLVIA CARRENO–COLL, OF PUERTO RICO, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF
PUERTO RICO, VICE JAY A. GARCIA–GREGORY, RETIRED.
JOHN M. GALLAGHER, OF PENNSYLVANIA, TO BE
UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE EASTERN
DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA, VICE JOEL H. SLOMSKY,
RETIRED.
BARBARA BAILEY JONGBLOED, OF CONNECTICUT, TO
BE UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT
OF CONNECTICUT, VICE ALVIN W. THOMPSON, RETIRED.
BARBARA LAGOA, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED STATES
CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT, VICE
STANLEY MARCUS, RETIRING.
ROBERT J. LUCK, OF FLORIDA, TO BE UNITED STATES
CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE ELEVENTH CIRCUIT, VICE GER-
ALD B. TJOFLAT, RETIRING.
SHERRI A. LYDON, OF SOUTH CAROLINA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH
CAROLINA, VICE A. MARVIN QUATTLEBAUM, JR., ELE-
VATED.
SCOTT H. RASH, OF ARIZONA, TO BE UNITED STATES
DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE DISTRICT OF ARIZONA, VICE
CINDY K. JORGENSON, RETIRED.
LAWRENCE VANDYKE, OF NEVADA, TO BE UNITED
STATES CIRCUIT JUDGE FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT, VICE
JAY S. BYBEE, RETIRING.
CORY T. WILSON, OF MISSISSIPPI, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
OF MISSISSIPPI, VICE LOUIS GUIROLA, JR., RETIRED.
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD OF
THE UNITED STATES OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT IN
THE RESERVE OF THE ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 12203 AND 12211:
To be brigadier general
COL. KARL KONZELMAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\G15OC6.022 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5801
October 15, 2019
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. RANDY A. GEORGE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
MAJ. GEN. EDWIN J. DEEDRICK, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be lieutenant general
LT. GEN. JAMES E. RAINEY
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY TO THE GRADE INDICATED
WHILE ASSIGNED TO A POSITION OF IMPORTANCE AND
RESPONSIBILITY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 601:
To be admiral
VICE ADM. CHARLES A. RICHARD
IN THE COAST GUARD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD RESERVE TO THE
GRADE INDICATED UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION
12203(A):
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPT. MIRIAM L. LAFFERTY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD TO THE GRADE IN-
DICATED UNDER TITLE 14 U.S.C., SECTION 2121(E):
To be rear admiral (lower half)
CAPTAIN CHRISTOPHER A. BARTZ
CAPTAIN SCOTT W. CLENDENIN
CAPTAIN MARK J. FEDOR
CAPTAIN SHANNON N. GILREATH
CAPTAIN JONATHAN P. HICKEY
CAPTAIN GREGORY T. PRESTIDGE
CAPTAIN MELISSA L. RIVERA
IN THE AIR FORCE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
STEVEN D. GRESSWELL
JACOB M. SHEPHERD
BASEL M. TOUBAN
TESSA L. WINTERTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
JASON M. ZHAO
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
SAMUEL H. BRIDGES
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be colonel
TIMOTHY J. CURRY
RYAN J. GARLOW
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES AIR
FORCE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
BRIAN P. BERLAKOVICH
SCOTT J. RUMISEK
IN THE ARMY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SPECIALIST CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S. C.,
SECTIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be colonel
BRIAN E. BURK
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY NURSE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
RHIANNA K. RIGGS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY MEDICAL CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S. C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
FATIMA H. KHAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY AS A CHAPLAIN UNDER TITLE 10, U.S. C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
DEMETRIUS E. WALTON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL’S CORPS UNDER TITLE 10,
U.S.C., SECTIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be colonel
GREGORY B. BATDORFF
CHRISTIAN E. BEESE
JOSHUA F. BERRY
TOBY N. CURTO
MICHAEL C. FRIESS
SEAN G. GYSEN
NJERI S. HANES
TIFFANY M. KOTZURCHAPMAN
HOWARD T. MATTHEWS, JR.
MARVIN J. MCBURROWS
KATHERINE K. STICH
ERIC W. WIDMAR
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JOSEPH A. BURTON
MAURICE D. MILLICAN
RONALD C. VICARS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
ERIC L. RAHMAN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
GUADALUPE RESENDEZ, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
MEDICAL SERVICE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SEC-
TIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be lieutenant colonel
KATRINA A. PARLOW
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL’S CORPS UNDER TITLE 10,
U.S.C., SECTIONS 624 AND 7064:
To be lieutenant colonel
LESLIE E. AKINS
ADRIAN T. ALLISON
NATHANIEL H. BABB
TRICIA L. BIRDSELL
SANDRA N. BRANOM
JAY S. BURNS
SARA L. CARLSON
CINNAMON J. CHIELENS
GILBERT J. COMLEY
MELISSA D. DASGUPTASMITH
JOHN G. DOYLE
CHRISTOFER T. FRANCA
JEFFREY A. GILBERG
ELISABETH L. GILMAN
JULIE A. GLASCOTT
STEPHEN M. HERNANDEZ
JONATHAN D. HOAG
THOMAS S. HONG
STEWART HYDERKHAN
DURWARD JOHNSON
JOSHUA W. JOHNSON
CHRISTOPHER M. KESSINGER
SAMUEL K. KIM
MICHAEL KORTE
SHAUN B. LISTER
MARK W. MALCOLM
DALE C. MCFEATTERS
PATRICK M. MCGRATH
JENNIFER A. MCKEEL
DUSTIN P. J. MURPHY
ALAN J. NEF
WILLIAM A. OBRINGER
GREGORY T. OMALLEY
BENJAMIN M. OWENSFILICE
THEODORE B. REITER
EMILY M. ROMAN
JOSHUA J. SMITH
ANGELA D. SWILLEY
VIRGINIA H. TINSLEY
CHRISTOPHER C. WAITE
RYAN T. WARDLE
MELVIN L. WILLIAMS
D014846
D014484
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
MATTHEW W. CASPARI
JOSEPH R. DISTASO
KYSON M. JOHNSON
GREGORY A. MARCHAND
ROBERT W. RIDEOUT, JR.
SHERRY L. STENERSON
WILLIAM M. STEPHENS
GLEN E. TEMPLETON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
KENNETH J. BISKNER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
NAYARI N. CAMERON
JUAN F. CARLETON
NICOLE L. CLARK
DEREK G. JOHNSON
RENINA C. MILLER–GRANT
BRIAN M. MORAN
JUAN A. VILLATORO
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY NURSE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
DELENO M. HARPER, JR.
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JAMES M. MCCANDLESS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JENS K. PEDERSON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be major
MICHAEL W. TORRE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR REGULAR AP-
POINTMENT IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED
STATES ARMY AS A CHAPLAIN UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C.,
SECTIONS 531 AND 7064:
To be major
AUSTIN C. VANN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
GRECO E. CARRERAS
PAUL E. GEBHARDT
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE RESERVE OF THE
ARMY UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be colonel
JAMES H. FEASTER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
AS PERMANENT PROFESSOR AT THE UNITED STATES
MILITARY ACADEMY IN THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER
TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 7433(B) AND 7436(A):
To be colonel
CHRISTA M. CHEWAR
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
ERIK A. ERNEST
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
JOSHUA D. HELSEL
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
SCOTT T. MCCARTNEY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
BRODERICK L. GARDNER
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
NURSE CORPS UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTIONS 624 AND
7064:
To be major
KARA S. KRULEWICZ
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
TATCHIE O. MANSO
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.003 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S5802 October 15, 2019
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
EDUARDO OLVERA
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
FRANCISCO RINCON
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
WALLACE W. ROLLINS
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be major
TAYLOR S. SCHENCK
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES ARMY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be lieutenant colonel
WILLIAM D. SWENSON
IN THE NAVY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
TO THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 624:
To be captain
PAUL S. RUBEN
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE UNITED STATES NAVY
RESERVE UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 12203:
To be captain
JOSEPH L. COFFEY
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
NICHOLAS W. DIGEORGE
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICER FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE GRADE INDICATED IN THE REGULAR NAVY
UNDER TITLE 10, U.S.C., SECTION 531:
To be lieutenant commander
COLIN R. YOUNG
IN THE COAST GUARD
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD TO THE GRADE IN-
DICATED UNDER TITLE 14 U.S.C., SECTION 2121(E):
To be captain
ERIN N. ADLER
BRADFORD E. APITZ
WILLIAM L. ARRITT
MATTHEW J. BAER
JONATHAN BATES
KRISTI L. BERNSTEIN
MARC BRANDT
VERONICA A. BRECHT
JASON A. BRENNELL
RANDALL E. BROWN
JONATHAN A. CARTER
MICHAEL A. CILENTI
DANIEL H. COST
CHRISTOPHER F. COUTU
THOMAS D. CRANE
PATRICK A. CULVER
THOMAS C. DARCY
CARMEN S. DEGEORGE
KELLY K. DENNING
JOSE E. DIAZ
KEITH M. DONOHUE
ERIC D. DREY
DAVID M. DUBAY
JEFFREY T. ELDRIDGE
JOHN A. ELY
BRIAN C. ERICKSON
SEAN C. FAHEY
JOSHUA W. FANT
AMY E. FLORENTINO
BENJAMIN M. GOLIGHTLY
JEFFREY R. GRAHAM
JASON B. GUNNING
MATTHEW W. HAMMOND
SEAN P. HANNIGAN
JOHN HENRY
EDWARD J. HERNAEZ
WESLEY H. HESTER
TEDD B. HUTLEY
MICHAEL S. JACKSON
ANDREW S. JOCA
ERIC J. JONES
WARREN D. JUDGE
DANIEL P. KEANE
BRAD W. KELLY
DIRK L. KRAUSE
BRIAN C. KRAUTLER
MARK I. KUPERMAN
MICHAEL R. LACHOWICZ
TAYLOR Q. LAM
LEANNE M. LUSK
BENJAMIN J. MAULE
LEON MCCLAIN, JR
EUGENE D. MCGUINNESS
ZEITA MERCHANT
JOSEPH E. MEUSE
JOSHUA P. MILLER
MATTHEW J. MOORLAG
STEPHANIE A. MORRISON
MAURICE D. MURPHY
BRYAN C. PAPE
JOSE PEREZ
SHANNON M. PITTS
ROBERT H. POTTER, JR
SCOTT B. POWERS
CLINTON J. PRINDLE
ARTHUR L. RAY
RYAN S. RHODES
LUIS J. RODRIGUEZ
RICHARD M. SCOTT
MICHAEL R. SINCLAIR
JENNIFER A. STOCKWELL
JOHN M. STONE
TODD C. TROUP
DANIEL R. URSINO
DANIEL R. WARREN
CHARLES E. WEBB
MOLLY A. WIKE
ERIN E. WILLIAMS
WILLIAM C. WOITYRA
CHRISTOPHER G. WOLFE
MARC A. ZLOMEK
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS OF THE COAST
GUARD PERMANENT COMMISSIONED TEACHING STAFF
FOR APPOINTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES COAST
GUARD TO THE GRADE INDICATED UNDER TITLE 14
U.S.C., SECTIONS 1944 AND 2126:
To be captain
JOSEPH D. BROWN
THOMAS W. DENUCCI
MICHAEL J. PLUMLEY
KELLY C. SEALS
To be commander
MARIETT C. OGG
THE FOLLOWING NAMED OFFICERS FOR APPOINTMENT
IN THE UNITED STATES COAST GUARD TO THE GRADE IN-
DICATED UNDER TITLE 14 U.S.C., SECTION 2121(E):
To be commander
RYAN G. ANGELO
STEVEN B. ARNWINE
BRIAN D. BACHTEL
ARMELL V. BALMACEDA
CHRISTIAN J. BARGER
ALEXANDER S. BARKER
TIMOTHY J. BERNADT
MICAH W. BONNER
KURT F. BRANDSTAETTER
ADAM T. CERNOVICH
BRIAN M. CHAPMAN
ALEXANDRA K. CHERRY
LEAH M. COLE
JUDSON A. COLEMAN
JAMES O. CONNER
NEAL A. CORBIN II
BROOKS C. CRAWFORD
BEN W. CROWELL
CHRISTOPHER K. CUMBERLAND
LEO T. DANAHER
KELLY A. DEUTERMANN
RYAN P. DEVLIN
TODD R. DEVRIES
JESSE M. DIAZ
ADAM J. DISQUE
MICHAEL J. DOUGHERTY
TIFFANY A. DUFFY
BROCK S. ECKEL
STEVEN R. ELLIOTT
KRISTOPHER R. ENSLEY
MICHAEL G. FAULKNER
JOEL S. FERGUSON
ARI D. FITZWATER
CHRISTOPHER A. FLOYD
LAUREN U. FULLAM
ANGEL M GALINANES
GAVIN V. GARCIA
JUSTIN H. GORDON
ANNA A. GRAFCHIKOVA
JOSEPH F. GRAHAM
DOUGLAS D. GRAUL II
SIMON C. GREENE
ANDREW T. GREENWOOD
JEREMY M. GREENWOOD
BENEDICT S. GULLO III
MATTHEW A. GULLY
KRISTEN A. HAHN
PETER K. HAHN
ANDREW T. HAWTHORNE
CORYDON F. HEARD
JAMES L. HELLER
ROBERTO R. HERRERA
DANA E. HIATT
SCOTT M. HIGBEE
GREGORY E. HIGGINS
MICHAEL A. HJERSTEDT
MATTHEW M. HOBBIE
KENNETH E. HOGUE
GORDON A. HOOD
JUSTIN C. HUNT
THOMAS J. HUNTLEY
WILLIAM J. JACOBS
BEAU J. JAMES
JEFFREY G. JANARO
JEANITA A. JEFFERSON
ROXANNE B. JENSEN
LEE H. JONES II
RYAN P. KELLEY
KALEN M. KENNY
JEREMY A. KIME
JAMIE L. KOPPI
HEIDI L. KOSKI
AARON J. KOWALCZK
FRANK R. KULESA
MARK E. LABERT
JILLIAN M. LAMB
MARC J. LANORE
BRIAN S. LIED
TONYA M. LIM
ASHLEY F. LOVEJOY
RHIANNA N. MACON
JODY J. MAISANO
MARY E. MARTIN
THOMAS P. MARTIN
ROGER M. MASSON
CHARLES R. MATHIS
MARC R. MCDONNELL
MICHAEL S. MCGRAIL
GREGORY A. MCLAMB
CHRISTIAN T. MEDICK
JEANINE M. MENZE
GARRETT R. MEYER
MICHAEL J. MEYER
JAMES R. MILLER, JR
LAURA S. MILLER
PAUL J. MILLER
JODI J. MIN
DANIEL P. MOCHEN
JOSEPH W. MORGANS
ELLEN M. MOTOI
SEAN M. MURRAY
STEVEN MYERS
JUSTIN P. NADOLNY
MICHAEL J. NORDHAUSEN
ESTEVAN OLIVERA
CORRINA OTT
JAMES H. PAFFORD
ERIC C. PARE
MICHAEL A. PATTERSON
KRYSTYN E. PECORA
PIERO A. PECORA
SEAN M. PETERSON
WALTER S. PIERCE
DAVID C. PIZZURRO
CHRISTIAN T. POLYAK
JONATHAN H. POTTERTON
DAWN N. PREBULA
MATTHEW J. PRESS
THOMAS E. PRZYBYLA
NICHOLAS O. RAMIREZ
LISA M. RODMAN
JOHNA N. ROSSETTI
BEN P. RUSSELL
KELLY A. SAWYER
DANA E. SCHULMAN
MAEGAN R. SCHWARTZ
BROOK I. SERBU
COURTNEY A. SERGENT
BONNIE M. SHANER
LISA M. SHARKEY
JOHN M. SINGLETARY
MATTHEW B. SMITH
BAXTER B. SMOAK
MATTHEW M. SPOLARICH
LAURA M. SPRINGER
JANNA M. STATON
KELLEY L. STEVENS
DONALD S. STIKER
JUSTIN W. STROCK
CHRISTINA D. SULLIVAN
DANIEL B. SWEIGART
BRYAN J. SWINTEK
MARIO B. TEIXEIRA
MAILE I. TESLER
PAUL D. TESSITORE
BRYAN D. TILEY
TIMOTHY S. TILGHMAN
KELLY J. TONGOL
JUSTIN O. VANDENHEUVEL
JEREMY A. WEISS
EUSTACIA Y. WEIST
KYLE A. WEIST
JENNIFER L. WESCOTT
BRIAN R. WHISLER
DUSTIN R. WILLIAMS
JOSHUA D. WINE
WARREN N. WRIGHT
KISMET R. WUNDER
ADAM K. YOUNG
JEFFREY S. ZAMARIN
f
WITHDRAWALS
Executive Message transmitted by
the President to the Senate on October
15, 2019 withdrawing from further Sen-
ate consideration the following nomi-
nations:
KIMBERLY BREIER, OF VIRGINIA, TO BE A MEMBER OF
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE INTER–AMERICAN
FOUNDATION FOR A TERM EXPIRING SEPTEMBER 20, 2020,
VICE ADOLFO A. FRANCO, TERM EXPIRED, WHICH WAS
SENT TO THE SENATE ON JANUARY 16, 2019.
PATRICK J. BUMATAY, OF CALIFORNIA, TO BE UNITED
STATES DISTRICT JUDGE FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.006 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S5803
October 15, 2019
OF CALIFORNIA, VICE MARILYN L. HUFF, RETIRED,
WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SENATE ON FEBRUARY 6, 2019.
PETER M. VITO, OF NEW YORK, TO BE UNITED STATES
MARSHAL FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK
FOR THE TERM OF FOUR YEARS, VICE CHARLES F. SA-
LINA, TERM EXPIRED, WHICH WAS SENT TO THE SENATE
ON MAY 13, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:12 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 9801 E:\CR\FM\A15OC6.001 S15OCPT1
snicholson
on
DSK30NT082PROD
with
SENATE
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1281
October 15, 2019
TRIBUTE FOR RITA AND STEVEN
JEROME
HON. MAX ROSE
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to ask all of my colleagues to join
me in honoring two of my constituents—sib-
lings Rita and Steven Jerome. Their family
represents the best that Staten Island has to
offer, and now they are continuing their fam-
ily’s legacy of service, not just their fellow
Staten Islanders, but the entire country.
On Staten Island, a passion for public serv-
ice is part of our DNA, and the Jerome family
is the perfect example of that. Rita and Ste-
ven’s father serves as a NYPD lieutenant and
their uncle is a pastor. Their paternal grand-
father acted as a judge in the New York State
Compensation Board and ‘‘in 1978 single-
handedly apprehended a man threatening to
blow up his courtroom in the World Trade
Center.’’ Now, Rita and Steven are choosing
to follow in those family footsteps by joining
the United States Air Force Academy
(USAFA) and the U.S. Merchant Marine Acad-
emies (USMMA), respectively.
Rita isn’t just any Air Force Academy cadet,
she’s making history as part of an increasing
percentage of women serving in the Air Force.
According to the USAFA Admissions Office,
Rita, who is majoring in astronautical engi-
neering, is among the 28.2 percent of women
in the Class of 2023. She is also the first
alumna from her high school along with the
first Staten Island women to be admitted to
the USAFA.
Her brother, Steven, recently completed a
rigorous regime of academic, military, and
physical training at the U.S. Merchant Marine
Academy after his graduation from Monsignor
Farrell High School. Steven, who is earning a
four-year degree in maritime logistics and se-
curity, will be completing almost three years of
classes along with spending a year at sea
away from his family.
As Rita and Steven embark on their new ca-
reers in service, I know that their entire family
will be right there with them.
So, Madam Speaker, today I ask my col-
leagues in the House to join me in com-
mending Rita, Steven, and the entire Jerome
family for the sacrifices they have made, and
will continue to make for our nation.
f
MODESTO JUNIOR COLLEGE HIS-
PANIC EDUCATION CONFERENCE
HON. JOSH HARDER
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam Speaker,
Modesto Junior College (MJC)’s thirty-sixth
annual Hispanic Education Conference wel-
comes students from across the Central Val-
ley. This conference celebrates the achieve-
ments of Latinx education while exploring the
amazing opportunities available to students in
the Central Valley. This conference is a time
for current students to explore their edu-
cational and career paths, and for prospective
students to see the best of what Modesto Jun-
ior College has to offer.
A tradition started in 1984 by Dean Juan Al-
varez and the Modesto Hispanic Leadership
Council lives on today as the largest youth
conference in the Central Valley. It serves our
Central Valley community and promotes en-
richment and success in higher education. Its
workshops and lectures have inspired many
generations of high school students, and are
sure to inspire another generation to come.
With a student body that’s 52 percent His-
panic, Modesto Junior College is one of Cali-
fornia’s premier Hispanic-Serving Institutions,
and no event better celebrates this impressive
status than the Hispanic Education Con-
ference.
I am proud to have taught at MJC, and I am
proud to dedicate this record to an event that
recognizes the opportunity and possibility of-
fered by higher education, the dedication and
creativity of its students and faculty, and
Latinx achievement in the Central Valley. I’m
also proud to recognize the Legacy Award re-
cipient, whose contributions to making this
event a reality and a success have been im-
measurable. I’m happy to be part of this tradi-
tion that’s more than three decades old, and
I know I can look forward to more successful
conferences in the years to come.
f
HONORING THE 95TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF SMITH CHAPEL AME
CHURCH
HON. RASHIDA TLAIB
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Ms. TLAIB. Madam Speaker, I rise today in
tribute to Smith Chapel AME Church, a house
of worship located in Inkster, Michigan, on the
occasion of its ninety-fifth anniversary service.
Smith Chapel AME Church held its first
service on October 5, 1924 when a small, but
passionate group of people gathered together
to worship. Drawn together under the shared
value of creating a caring community, the con-
gregation quickly grew in size and influence.
Though the church has witnessed many
changes over the years, the congregation con-
tinues to gather regularly to nourish the spirit,
mind, and body and give back to the sur-
rounding community. In recent years, Smith
Chapel has expanded its food pantry program
to include a community garden, which is tend-
ed by church members, as well as its Summer
Youth Café program that offers recreational
and character development programs for
young people. Whether gathering in prayer,
celebrating love in marriage, or marking the
passing of a dear friend and loved one from
this life, we all draw great strength from shar-
ing with one another through faith. The history
of Smith Chapel AME provides a wonderful
example of how much this faith and unselfish-
ness mean to our entire community.
Please join me in recognizing Smith Chapel
AME on this milestone as we wish them well
in the years to come.
f
IN MEMORY OF DR. CORNELIUS W.
GRANT
HON. SANFORD D. BISHOP, JR.
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of Georgia. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor a strategic thinker, a great
motivational speaker, an excellent entre-
preneur, a man of God, a friend of long-
standing, and my fraternity brother, Dr.
Cornelius W. Grant. Sadly, Dr. Grant passed
away on Saturday, September 28, 2019, at
Phoebe Putney Memorial Hospital in Albany,
Georgia. His homegoing service was held on
Wednesday, October 2, 2019, at Mount Zion
Baptist Church in Albany, Georgia. His pass-
ing leaves a tremendous void in the lives of
his family, friends, and the countless students
he mentored as the Vice President of Student
Affairs at Albany State College (now Univer-
sity) and those he touched in his many other
endeavors.
Dr. Cornelius ‘‘C.W.’’ Grant, also affection-
ately known as ‘‘Dean Grant’’, was born on
February 10, 1931, to the union of the late
Reverend Everett Grant and Mrs. Elberta
Clark Grant. He was a product of the public-
school system in Jacksonville, Florida, grad-
uating from Stanton High School. The next
step of his life’s journey took him to Florida
Agricultural and Mechanical University
(FAMU). He took a brief respite from FAMU to
serve our country in the United States Army.
After a successful tour of duty, he returned to
FAMU and earned his Juris Doctorate Degree.
He began his career at Albany State College
in 1966 as the Vice President for Student Af-
fairs where he retired in 1996 after an incred-
ible 30-year career.
Because of the solid spiritual foundation that
was instilled in him at an early age by his par-
ents, he enjoyed a strong relationship with
God. He was an active member of Mount Zion
Baptist Church in Albany, Georgia for many
years, serving under the leadership of Dr. E.
James Grant and Dr. Daniel B. Simmons. In
later years, he continued his walk with the
Lord at Second Mount Zion Baptist Church in
Albany under the leadership of Dr. Theodus
Drake. God indeed ordered the steps of his
life.
He was highly sought-after as a public
speaker, lecturer, and consultant. Dr. Grant
gave many speeches all across the country.
He always left a mark and very often ended
his speeches with his legendary phrase, ‘‘If it
is to be, it is up to me!’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K15OC8.001 E15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1282 October 15, 2019
Dr. Grant was armed with a servant’s heart
and gave of himself in selfless service to
many local, state, and national organizations
to include: The National Association of Stu-
dent Affairs Professionals (NASAP); the Amer-
ican Association of Law Librarians; the Benev-
olent Elks; the Pinochle Club; Sigma Pi Phi
Fraternity (Delta Delta Chapter); The Boys and
Girls Clubs of Albany; Albany Civil Rights In-
stitute; the American Red Cross; The Dough-
erty County School Board; and Kappa Alpha
Psi Fraternity, Inc. Dr. Grant was a leader and
not a follower. He served as President of the
Albany Civil Rights Institute Board of Direc-
tors, Chairman of the Dougherty School Board
and also served as President of NASAP. Dr.
Grant was also a trailblazer and a history
maker. As a life member of Kappa Alpha Psi,
Fraternity, Inc., he holds the distinction of
being one of only six members of the fraternity
bestowed with both the Elder Watson Diggs
Award and the Laurel Wreath, the highest
awards given by the fraternity. He also served
as the 16th Southeastern Province Polemarch.
Dr. Grant was a man who exuded con-
fidence. He was indeed an original. He made
those with whom he came in contact believe
that they could accomplish any task. Dr.
Grant’s life was truly lived in the words of
George Bernard Shaw when he said, ‘‘Some
people see things as they are and they say
why, I dream things that never were, and I say
why not?’’ Dr. Grant lived his life with a ‘‘Why
Not?’’ philosophy.
Of course, none of this would have been
possible without the love and support of his
family, his late wife, Dr. Velma Fudge Grant,
who was a long time professor of English and
Language Arts; his two daughters, Cheryl
Lawson and Joi Grady; his grandchildren; god-
sons; and companion, Judge Denise Marshall.
On a personal note, Dr. Grant was my
friend and my fraternity brother in both Kappa
Alpha Psi and Sigma Pi Phi. He was always
encouraging and supportive of my career in
Congress and I will indeed miss his candid
and cogent advice and counsel.
Madam Speaker, my wife Vivian and I,
along with the more than 730,000 people of
the Second Congressional District, and the
countless others who were touched by this
great man, would like to extend our deepest
sympathies to the Grant family. We are proud
to have known a man who dedicated his life
to the uplift of others. To God be the Glory for
the life and legacy of Dr. Cornelius W. Grant.
f
REMEMBERING ENRIQUE
FERNÁNDEZ TOLEDO
HON. NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Ms. VELÁZQUEZ. Madam Speaker, I rise to
pay tribute to Enrique Fernández Toledo, who
sadly passed in late September. Those of us
in the Puerto Rican community—on both the
mainland and the Island—will remember
Enrique as a tireless champion for the Puerto
Rican people. He was also a loving husband,
a father and, to me, personally, a dear friend.
Enrique began working in Congress in 1993
as a staffer for my former colleague, Rep. Luis
Gutiérrez. During Enrique’s two decades work-
ing for Congress, he fought for fairness and
greater economic security for Puerto Rico’s
most vulnerable. His unwavering commitment
to justice and thoughtful insight earned him
the senior position of deputy chief of staff.
Over the decades, I came to rely on Enrique’s
vision and wisdom on a range of issues and
he provided invaluable guidance and perspec-
tive to many Members of Congress in all Puer-
to Rico-related discussions on Capitol Hill.
Following Enrique’s service on Capitol Hill,
he continued amplifying the voice of millions of
Puerto Ricans. In 2018, Enrique joined the
Center for American Progress (CAP) as the di-
rector of relief and economic development pol-
icy for Puerto Rico. There, he was critical to
Puerto Rico’s ability to access relief and as-
sistance after Hurricane Maria and recover
from years of economic malaise.
At this time, I ask my colleagues to join me
in honoring the life of Enrique Fernández To-
ledo. May he always be remembered for his
kindness, indefatigable spirit and the millions
of lives he positively affected in Puerto Rico,
Chicago and elsewhere. I pray his wife,
Mayra; three children, Enrique Jr., Carlos, and
Mayrita; and all who knew and loved him,
draw strength and peace from his manifold
contributions.
f
HONORING THE MEMORY OF
GENERAL GEORGE A. BUSKIRK
HON. ANDRÉ CARSON
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. CARSON of Indiana. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in commemoration and remem-
brance of General George A. Buskirk, former
Adjutant of the Indiana National Guard, who
passed away on October 8, 2019.
Born in 1949 in Indianapolis to George and
Mary (Carriger) Buskirk, General Buskirk com-
mitted his life to serving his fellow Hoosiers
and defending the country he loved. His long
record of public service is testament to his
dedication to our country.
General Buskirk received his business de-
gree from Butler University, as well as a law
degree from Indiana University. He enlisted in
the Indiana National Guard in January 1978,
where he was appointed as First Lieutenant.
Throughout a distinguished military career that
spanned four decades, General Buskirk
served in a variety of roles, including Defense
Counsel, Staff Judge Advocate, Brigade Judge
Advocate, Assistant Adjutant General and Ad-
jutant General. Outside of his military career,
General Buskirk had an esteemed legal career
which included his admittance as a member of
the bar of the Supreme Court of Indiana as
well as his tenure as the President of the Indi-
anapolis Bar Association.
He will also be remembered for his devoted
service to our community. General Buskirk
served as National Treasurer for the American
Legion for more than two decades, President
of the Indiana War Memorial Commission, and
he was on the Indiana State Armory Board. In
addition, he served as Chairman of the Board
of Saint Mary of the Woods College in Terra
Haute, Indiana and he was a member of the
Ivy Tech Foundation Board of Trustees. In
2016, he was appointed to the Indianapolis
Board of Public Health and Safety by Mayor
Joseph Hogsett.
I am also particularly honored that General
Buskirk served on my Service Academy Com-
mittee, where for many years he helped me
nominate bright young students in our commu-
nity to the U.S. Armed Forces’ storied institu-
tions of higher learning.
General Buskirk lived an honorable life of
service to our community and our country, and
he will be greatly missed. I send my deepest
condolences to his loved ones.
f
THE MAN WHO SAVED MANKIND
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, South Carolina is fortunate to have
Mark Powell as a columnist for the Lexington
County Chronicle to highlight unique facts of
history. On October 10th, he recognized ‘‘The
man who saved mankind’’.
An elderly Russian man was quietly laid to
rest outside Moscow last spring. No crowd
mourned him. No news articles reported his
passing. Yet, if you’re age 36 or older, you are
alive to read this because of him. And you’ve
never even heard his name.
This is what happened the night Stanislav
Petrov saved the world.
It all started in the late 1970s. The United
States and the Soviet Union faced off in the
Cold War. President Jimmy Carter’s foreign
policy vacillated between sometimes talking
tough, sometimes going out of its way to ac-
commodate the Soviets. Moscow smelled
weakness.
So the Soviets deployed their new SS–20
nuclear missiles. The North Atlantic Treaty Or-
ganization (NATO) upped the ante by an-
nouncing it would deploy its powerful Pershing
II missiles in Western Europe by 1983 in re-
sponse.
Suddenly, it felt like we were living in Arma-
geddon’s shadow. If you are of a certain age,
you’ll remember massive anti-nuclear war ral-
lies in the northeast U.S. and Europe, some
attracting hundreds of thousands of protestors.
A TV movie about a post-nuclear attack called
The Day After got huge ratings. Rock music
songs that played on nuclear fears such as
The Final Countdown, It’s A Mistake, and 99
Red Balloons were big hits. People were on
edge.
Which brings us to September 1983. Early
that month, the USSR shot down an unarmed
Korean Air Lines jetliner over Soviet airspace,
killing all 239 people onboard—including an
American congressman from Georgia. East-
West relations were indeed tense.
At that precise moment Stanislav Petrov un-
knowingly entered the world stage.
A 44 year-old Air Force lieutenant colonel
and father of two, he served in the Soviet’s
prestigious Air Defense Forces. He was part
of the elite team that monitored the Russians’
satellites which, in turn, kept an eye out for
nuclear missile launches by the U.S. via a
spiffy new state-of-the-art computerized sys-
tem.
Petrov worked the overnight shift. Early on
the morning of September 26, the unthinkable
happened. ‘‘The siren howled,’’ he recalled in
a 2013 interview. ‘‘I just sat there for a few
seconds, staring at the big, backlit, red screen
with the word ‘launch’ on it.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15OC8.001 E15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1283
October 15, 2019
But something wasn’t right. The system
showed five missiles heading for the Soviet
Union. Petrov’s training had indicated that if a
nuclear strike came, dozens of warheads
would rain down on Russia, not just five.
What was going on? Time wasn’t on
Petrov’s side. Every minute he spent trying to
figure it out was a minute weapons might be
speeding toward his sleeping homeland.
And nobody in the entire Soviet Union was
aware of it—except Stanislov Petrov. His
standing order was to immediately notify the
Kremlin’s big brass in such an emergency. His
gut instinct told him to wait. As he was making
up his mind, the word ‘‘launch’’ flashed in his
face.
In the end, he didn’t notify his superiors as
protocol required. Had he done so, they likely
would have ordered a massive retaliatory
strike on the United States, very probably end-
ing life as we know it. Instead, he waited.
‘‘Twenty-three minutes later I realized that
nothing had happened,’’ he said. ‘‘If there had
been a real strike, then I would already know
about it. It was such a relief.’’
It was the closest the world had come to an
actual nuclear conflict since the 1962 Cuban
Missile Crisis.
It turned out Petrov’s instinct was right. The
computer system had malfunctioned. At first
his superiors were pleased with his coolness
amid the ultimate crisis. But the Soviets were
world-class bureaucrats, and he was later rep-
rimanded for not filling out the required paper-
work while the crisis was underway. ‘‘I had a
phone in one hand and the intercom in the
other, and I don’t have a third hand {for filling
out forms),’’ he said.
Petrov eventually left the military to work for
the very research institute that designed the
faulty monitoring system. He suffered a mental
breakdown due to the emotional trauma he
had experienced, recovered, and eventually
retired to tend to his wife during her final battle
with cancer.
He was living alone when he died quietly at
age 77 last May 19, such an obscure figure
that news of his passing wasn’t learned until
just a few weeks ago.
‘‘They were lucky it was me on shift that
night,’’ Stanislav Petrov once said. That’s put-
ting it mildly.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA JUROR PAY PAR-
ITY ACT
HON. ELEANOR HOLMES NORTON
OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Ms. NORTON. Madam Speaker, today, I in-
troduce the District of Columbia Juror Pay
Parity Act to require that DC Superior Court
jurors receive the same pay as federal jurors.
Currently, Superior Court jurors are paid
$40 per day, and, under the Home Rule Act,
only the DC courts and Congress have the au-
thority to increase Superior Court juror pay.
My bill would require that Superior Court jurors
receive the same pay as federal jurors.
In the fiscal year 2018 omnibus appropria-
tions bill, Congress increased federal juror pay
to $50 per day, the first increase to federal
juror pay in 28 years. My bill would give Supe-
rior Court jurors the same pay.
Under the National Capital Revitalization
and Self-Government Improvement Act of
1997 (Pub. L. 105–33), Congress took respon-
sibility for paying for the DC courts and other
state-like functions provide by DC. The DC
courts, however, have always been under the
control of Congress, even when they were
funded by the District. The Home Rule Act
prohibits the District government from enacting
any law relating to Title 11 of the DC Code.
Title 11 provides that the Board of Judges of
the Superior Court sets juror pay, but that the
pay may not exceed the pay of federal jurors.
Therefore, this bill, or action by the DC courts,
is necessary to increase Superior Court juror
pay.
I urge my colleagues to support this bill.
f
RECOGNIZING FLOYD LOFTON’S
100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. ERIC A. ‘‘RICK’’ CRAWFORD
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in recognition of Mr. Floyd Lofton’s serv-
ice to our country during World War II and in
celebration of his upcoming 100th Birthday.
Mr. Lofton was born in West Point, Mis-
sissippi on February 22, 1920. He joined the
Army on December 5th, 1942 in Little Rock,
AR. He was trained as a truck driver and
qualified as a sharpshooter in riflery training.
During the war he was deployed to the Pa-
cific Theater of operations and served in New
Guinea. He spent 2 years, 2 months, and 13
days in theater on foreign soil. As a result of
his service, Mr. Lofton was awarded the WWII
Victory Ribbon, Good Conduct Medal, and the
Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with Bronze
Service Star.
Floyd Lofton is a true American Hero from
the greatest generation. I invite Congress to
join me in thanking Mr. Lofton for his service
to this nation and the free world and in wish-
ing him a happy 100th birthday.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF JASBIR
‘‘GUDDI’’ KAUR SIDHU
HON. JIM COSTA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. COSTA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate Mrs. Jasbir ‘‘Guddi’’ Sidhu who trag-
ically passed away on Sunday, October 6,
2019. Guddi will be remembered for her dedi-
cated service to the Sikh community of Fres-
no, California.
Guddi lived an admirable life and made
countless contributions to the city of Fresno.
For 25 years, she had a weekly television
show and was a founding member of KBIF
900, a local radio station. Her weekend pro-
gram featured interviews with community
members, cultural figures and well-known
international songs. Her station was aired not
only in Fresno, but also in India and streamed
by thousands on social media.
Guddi was a well-known and well-respected
leader in the Punjabi Sikh community. She
was a member of numerous local groups and
worked hard to preserve the Punjabi culture
and Sikh religion for children and families in
the community. Guddi was a member of the
Sikh Women’s Organization for 15 years and
was Vice President Sikh Institute of Fresno.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the life and service of Jasbir
‘‘Guddi’’ Sidhu. She was a respected member
in the community and had a passion for the
people of the Central Valley.
f
HONORING THE LIFE & LEGACY
OF MELVIN CURTIS WHITLOCK, JR.
HON. BENNIE G. THOMPSON
OF MISSISSIPPI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the life of Mr.
Melvin Curtis Whitlock, Jr.
Melvin Curtis Whitlock, Jr. was born on Sat-
urday, June 8, 1957. He was the first born of
Melvin Curtis Whitlock, Sr. and Mary Lean
Johnson-Whitlock, or ‘‘Mary Lean’’ as she is
most affectionately called. As engaged mem-
bers of their community, Melvin Sr. and Mary
Lean’s high-spirited union was further har-
monized by the joy and laughter Melvin would
bring.
As he grew, Melvin became openly pas-
sionate and outgoing through his love of music
and baseball. He became a member of the
band and joined the baseball team during his
trajectory at Jim Hill High School. Melvin had
a love for motorcycles, percussion, The Temp-
tations, Good Times, and Sanford & Son.
Following high school, Melvin attended
Jackson State University. Upon leaving JSU,
he married his high school sweetheart and
started a family. From their union came three
beautiful children which Melvin would tell ev-
eryone were his three greatest accomplish-
ments.
Melvin received certification in masonry from
Hinds Community College and spent time
working with his father, Melvin Sr.
He was known for the phrase, ‘‘Y’all think
y’all deserve everything on a silver platter’’,
which encouraged his children and others to
appreciate the value of earning whatever they
wanted in life.
He was an outstanding, faithful member at
his spiritual home, Triumph the Church and
Kingdom of God in Christ until his passing on
September 24, 2019.
Melvin is survived by his father: Melvin
‘‘M.C.’’ Whitlock, Sr., mother: Mary Lean
Whitlock, daughter: Niki Whitlock, grandsons:
Tyler Nelson and Lance Jones, great grand-
daughters: BellaKay Jones and Emerson
Jones, son: Brian M. Whitlock, son: Gerren K.
Whitlock, Sr., grandchildren: Gerren Whitlock,
II and Cayla Whitlock, brothers: James
Whitlock and Marvin Whitlock, sisters: Sandra
Moses, Joyce Whitlock, Debbie Whitlock, and
a host of nieces, nephews and cousins.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the life and legacy of Melvin
Whitlock, Jr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15OC8.004 E15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1284 October 15, 2019
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DANNY K. DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I was unable to cast votes on the fol-
lowing legislative measures. If I were present
for roll call votes, I would have voted ‘‘aye’’ for
the following vote: Roll Call 540, September
20, 2019: On Passage of H.R. 1423, Forced
Arbitration Injustice Repeal Act.
In addition, I would have voted ‘‘no’’ on the
following vote: Roll Call 539, September 20,
2019: On Agreeing to the Amendment by Jor-
dan of Ohio Part B Amendment No. 1.
f
OSCE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEMBLY
IN MARRAKECH
HON. JOE WILSON
OF SOUTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina. Madam
Speaker, two weeks ago, I participated as
Ranking Member with Co-Chairman Congress-
man ALCEE HASTINGS and Co-Chairman Sen-
ator ROGER WICKER of the Joint Commission
on Security and Cooperation in Europe (The
Helsinki Commission) to attend the OSCE
Parliamentary Assembly in Marrakech, Mo-
rocco, with fellow Congressmen EMANUEL
CLEAVER and ANDY HARRIS.
We were warmly welcomed to North Africa
by President Mohamed Ennaceur of Tunisia in
Tunis. We saw firsthand the vibrant democ-
racy conducting parliamentary and presidential
elections. America is ably represented by Am-
bassador David Blome and Deputy Chief of
Mission Gregory LoGerfo. A wreath was
placed at the North Africa American Cemetery
where over 6,500 Americans are memorialized
for liberating North Africa from Nazi occupa-
tion, escorted by Superintendent Ryan Blum.
In Jerusalem our dedicated U.S. Ambas-
sador to Israel, David Friedman presented an
update on the U.S.-Israeli alliance. Prime Min-
ister Benjamin Netanyahu enthusiastically re-
viewed the ever-evolving political situation. We
were inspired with an audience with the Patri-
arch of Jerusalem Theophilos III. Director
Ze’ev Orenstein gave an impressive tour of
the archeological discoveries of The City of
David Ancient Jerusalem.
Chief of Staff Alex Johnson provided well-
researched briefing materials for the Assembly
in Marrakech. Morocco is a valued Non-NATO
Ally of America with a surging economy for the
people led by King Mohammed VI.
With parliamentarians from 57 nations it was
refreshing that opportunities were available for
full participation with members respectful of
time constraints led by Assembly President
Gigi Tsereteli of Georgia with Secretary Gen-
eral Roberto Montella of Italy.
Co-Chairmen HASTINGS and WICKER hosted
a special meeting with nine parliamentarians
of different political parties from Ukraine who
were appreciative of America’s support of their
independence. I was grateful to meet dynamic
delegates from Andorra, Bulgaria, Kyrgyzstan,
San Marino, Serbia, and Tajikistan.
I was fortunate to meet with Speaker of the
National Assembly of Burkina Fasa Alassane
Bala Sakande who is President of the African
Parliamentary Union and Speaker Moustapha
Cisse Lo of the Economic Community of West
African States (ECOWAS) of Senegal.
In conclusion, God Bless our Troops, and
we will never forget September 11th and the
Global War on Terrorism, with the leadership
of President Donald Trump.
f
CELEBRATING THE 90TH BIRTH-
DAY OF MARIE EDITH MUSTILLO
HON. BRIAN HIGGINS
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam Speak-
er, today I rise to honor Marie Edith Mustillo,
a woman of strength, honor and good humor,
on her 90th Birthday.
Born on October 5, 1929 to John and Rose
Perrello, Sicilian immigrants whose American
dream was realized as they settled in Buffalo.
The third of five children, Marie and her sib-
lings grew up on Myrtle Avenue in Buffalo.
She attended Public School 6 Grammar
School and went on to the Girls Vocational
High School. Cultural stigmas posed no threat
to Marie Perrello as she studied business and
took a position at Allstate Trucking where she
wrote up manifests for the drivers. While em-
ployed there, it was not uncommon for a man
to tell her that because she was a woman,
she was in the wrong job. Marie proved it was
those men who were wrong.
She then took her professional skills to W.H.
Edgar and Son, a sugar company at the Clin-
ton Market where she worked as a secretary.
Marie moved from the market to a doctor’s of-
fice as she became a trusted podiatry assist-
ant for almost thirty years at the office of Dr.
Herbert Shulefand.
As if out of a movie script, this lively, lovely
young woman met the love of her life, Louis
Mustillo, Sr., on New Year’s Eve in 1950.
Three years later they married. Always close
to her family, married life would not change
that as the happy couple lived upstairs from
her parents before moving to Mineral Spring
Road in 1956 because her grandmother lived
on Hayden, the next street over. The Mustillo’s
finally planted their roots on Edgewood Ave-
nue, in a home where Marie still lives today.
At their new South Buffalo home, Marie and
Louis, who would become known as Buffalo’s
most respected professional bartender, raised
three beautiful children together: Concetta (Mi-
chael Myers), Louis Jr. (Tricia Brown), and
Lisa (Mark Vary). Their children’s careers in
health care, the entertainment industry and so-
cial work continue to make a positive impact
in the lives of others.
The Mustillo home, like others on Edgewood
Avenue, became a gathering place for the
families, children and many friends who found
an open door, a warm welcome, an invite for
dinner and when needed, a look that meant
someone would be sent home for misbe-
having. A few years ago, there was even a
widely attended Edgewood Avenue reunion
where neighbors of all generations, present
and past, spent the evening reminiscing about
the block parties, life-long friendships, shared
celebrations and heartache that made Edge-
wood a very special place to raise a family.
And, Marie and Louis resided in the heart of
that street and personified the values of fam-
ily, faith, friendship, hard work, giving back to
one’s community, pursuing your dreams, loy-
alty and love of country that they instilled in
their children and grandchildren, Michael, Lisa
and Concetta Marie. In true Marie Mustillo
style, she soldiered on after the loss of her be-
loved husband in 1998 even comforting a
neighbor getting married that day. Now the un-
disputed matriarch of the Mustillo clan, she is
held in high regard by those who know her
and love her and those she loves so well.
Her passion for gardening reflects her love
of nature, the pride she takes in doing her
own planting and then seeing her work come
to life as she curates one of the most glorious
presentations in the neighborhood. Its inclu-
sion in the South Buffalo Garden Walk makes
her home a true destination for residents and
visitors alike. You are truly blessed, as I am,
to be the recipient of one her aprons as one
of Marie’s favorite pastimes is sewing. Her
handmade aprons have made appearances on
national television programs including Mike
and Molly, which starred her son Louis Jr. and
are permanent fixtures in the wardrobe depart-
ment at Warner Brothers Studios. These
aprons have been gifted to New York State
Governor Cuomo as well as several Parisian
cafes.
A longtime, active parishioner at St. Thomas
Aquinas (STA) Church, it is appropriate that
the color representing 90 years is purple, the
same color highlighting so many STA banners
over the years. Purple represents wisdom, dig-
nity, independence and creativity; all innate
qualities found in the fiber and fabric of Marie
Mustillo.
Madam Speaker, I thank you for this time to
acknowledge Marie Edith Perrello Mustillo who
for 90 years has graced the lives of her family
she loves and the friends she cherishes as
she built relationships that have lasted a life-
time. We send congratulations and best wish-
es for continued health and happiness as this
beloved wife, devoted mother, caring grand-
parent, generous friend, honorary Edgewood
Eagle and South Buffalo Legend will be cele-
brated at Chef’s Restaurant on the date of her
birth, October 5.
f
TRIBUTE TO EMILIO NICOLAS
HON. JOAQUIN CASTRO
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. CASTRO of Texas. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in honor of Emilio Nicolas who
passed away on October 12, 2019. Mr. Nico-
las hails from my hometown of San Antonio,
Texas. For decades he led the way in pro-
viding a voice for Mexican Americans through
Spanish-language television. He is survived by
his wife Irma, one sister, three children, five
grandchildren, and seven great grandchildren.
He will be greatly missed.
Emilio Nicolas was born on October 27,
1930 to Mr. and Mrs. Constantino Nicolas in
Frontera, Coahuila, Mexico. In 1948, he
moved to San Antonio to study chemistry and
mathematics at St. Mary’s University; grad-
uating in 1951. Later, he received a master’s
degree from Trinity University in 1952.
In 1955, Emilio Nicolas came to work at
KCOR–AM & TV in San Antonio where he
produced live programming and television.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:27 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15OC8.009 E15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1285
October 15, 2019
Nicolas and investors later purchased KCOR,
renaming it KWEX; precursor to Univision. The
fourth Television Network, Univision became a
major media company catering to Spanish
speaking audiences across Texas and the
United States.
Emilio Nicolas was known for his commit-
ment to community and family. His work has
given a voice to so many Hispanic Americans
on a massive, global scale. But he also never
forgot the community that made him, and in
turn, we can never forget him.
Madam Speaker, we have lost a pioneer
whose story and work inspired so many in our
community. He’s remembered in our words, in
our heritage, and most importantly, in all the
stories of Hispanic Americans raising their
voices because of the road he paved.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. ERIC A. ‘‘RICK’’ CRAWFORD
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, I was
absent September 18 through 20, 2019 due to
a knee injury that inhibited travel to Wash-
ington, D.C. Had I been present, I would have
voted: ‘‘yes’’ for H.R. 4378, Making continuing
appropriations for fiscal year 2020, and for
other purposes, and ‘‘no’’ for H.R. 1423,
Forced Arbitration Injustice.
I was absent September 24 through 27,
2019 due to a knee injury that inhibited travel
to Washington, D.C. Had I been present, I
would have voted: ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 2203, Home-
land Security Improvement Act; ‘‘no’’ on Dem-
ocrat Motion to Table the Question of the
Privileges of the House, stating: That the
House of Representatives disapproves of the
actions of the Speaker of the House, Mrs.
PELOSI of California, to initiate an impeach-
ment inquiry against the duly elected Presi-
dent of the United States, Donald J. Trump;
‘‘yes’’ on H. Res. 576, Expressing the sense
of the House of Representatives with respect
to the whistleblower complaint of August 12,
2019, made to the Inspector General of the In-
telligence Community; ‘‘no’’ on H.R. 3525,
U.S. Border Patrol Medical Screening Stand-
ards Act; ‘‘no’’ on S.J. Res. 54, Relating to a
national emergency declared by the President
on February 15, 2019; and ‘‘no’’ on Democrat
Motion to Table the Question of the Privileges
of the House, stating: That the House of Rep-
resentatives disapproves of the actions of the
Speaker of the House, Mrs. PELOSI of Cali-
fornia, to initiate an impeachment inquiry
against the duly elected President of the
United States, Donald J. Trump.
f
RECOGNIZING AMERICA’S
BREWERS
HON. MIKE KELLY
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to celebrate our country’s
brewers.
This week, some of America’s 7,000 beer
brewers and importers are in our nation’s cap-
ital as part of the Beer Institute’s beer jobs
showcase. They are meeting with lawmakers
to discuss how they’re creating more than 2.1
million good-paying jobs and generating $328
billion in economic activity.
One beer job contributes to 31 more in a
wide range of industries, including farming,
manufacturing, trucking and restaurants.
Every congressional district is home to a
brewery. My home state of Pennsylvania has
a rich history with brewing that dates all the
way back to the 1600s. Currently, we have
more than 500 breweries that employ 77,000
people.
That’s why I’m proud to have co-authored
the Craft Beverage Modernization and Tax
Reform Act with my friend and colleague Con-
gressman RON KIND of Wisconsin. Today,
H.R. 1175 has 288 cosponsors.
Our bipartisan bill would provide permanent
federal excise tax relief to America’s brewers
and beer importers, ensuring they have the re-
sources to reinvest in their businesses, hire
new employees and continue to innovate. The
federal excise tax cut was enacted in 2017,
but it is set to expire at the end of the year.
By extending this tax relief, brewers can con-
tinue to invest, produce and create America’s
favorite beers.
Brewers across our nation exemplify the
American dream and our country’s spirit of en-
trepreneurship. As Americans, let’s raise a
glass to our beer-making heritage.
f
RECOGNIZING VIERA SUNTREE
LITTLE LEAGUE’S ACCOMPLISH-
MENTS
HON. BILL POSEY
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Mr. POSEY. Madam Speaker, today I rise to
recognize two exceptional and accomplished
baseball teams from Florida’s eighth congres-
sional district for their recent championship
wins. The Viera Suntree Little League sent
both their Juniors and Majors All-Stars base-
ball teams to compete in the state champion-
ships, bringing home two stunning victories.
Not only did both teams win state champion-
ships, but the Juniors team went on to play in
the Little League World Series where only 16
teams in the entire country are selected to
compete. There the Juniors team placed sec-
ond in the U.S. bracket and fourth in the
World, finishing with a 15 and 2 overall record.
The magnitude of both teams’ accomplish-
ments cannot be understated. Their dedication
to excellence in the sport of baseball is evi-
dent in this achievement.
I would like to also mention that this is not
the first time that Viera Suntree All-Stars
teams have competed for championships.
They received their first Majors division state
championship in 2010. These teams consist-
ently compete at high levels and voluntarily
dedicate themselves to countless hours of
practice and playing games.
I am incredibly grateful to have such out-
standing young men and their coaches rep-
resent our district on the national stage. I
would like to extend a special congratulations
to Manager Jason Allen, Coaches John
Glendinning and Dustin Keith, and players
Aaron Brand, Luke Campbell, Lucas
Glendinning, Apollos Horrell, Luc Iten, Dylan
Jordan, Logan Keith, Luke McDonough, Cam-
eron Ruston, Cameron Simpkins, Cole Smith,
Blake Strode, Brycen Weeks, and Camden
Wicker of the Juniors team.
I would also like to congratulate Manager
Russell Cheatham, Coaches Raul Leoni, Clint
Marshall, and players Izzy Birru, Robbie Ca-
ruso, Micah Cheatham, Brennan Confreda,
Finnegan Goldiner, Dominic Leoni, Evan
Lipski, Austin Marshall, Colton Marshall,
Deaglan McBride, Mikey Minarik, Jonah Pea-
cock, and Brandon Reiter of the Majors team.
I ask my colleagues in the U.S. House of
Representatives to join me in recognizing the
accomplishments of both the Juniors and Ma-
jors All-Star teams and I look forward to see-
ing what they can achieve next year.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:47 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A15OC8.012 E15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
REMARKS
D1101
Tuesday, October 15, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
See Résumé of Congressional Activity.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S5775–S5802
Measures Introduced: Seven bills and one resolu-
tion were introduced, as follows: S. 2595–2601, and
S.J. Res. 57. Page S5793
Measures Reported:
S. 2169, to amend section 3116 of title 5, United
States Code, to clarify the applicability of the ap-
pointment limitations for students appointed under
the expedited hiring authority for post-secondary
students, with an amendment. (S. Rept. No.
116–129) Page S5793
Measures Passed:
Rail Safety Week: Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation was discharged from fur-
ther consideration of S. Res. 322, expressing support
for the designation of the week of September 22
through September 28, 2019, as Rail Safety Week
in the United States, and supporting the goals and
ideals of Rail Safety Week to reduce rail-related acci-
dents, fatalities, and injuries, and the resolution was
then agreed to. Page S5799
Message from the President: Senate received the
following message from the President of the United
States:
Transmitting, pursuant to law, a report on the
continuation of the national emergency with respect
to narcotics traffickers centered in Colombia that was
declared in Executive Order 12978 of October 21,
1995; which was referred to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. (PM–31)
Page S5790
Barrett Nomination—Agreement: Senate resumed
consideration of the nomination of Barbara McCon-
nell Barrett, of Arizona, to be Secretary of the Air
Force, Department of Defense. Pages S5779–84
During consideration of this nomination today,
Senate also took the following action:
By 84 yeas to 7 nays (Vote No. 314), Senate
agreed to the motion to close further debate on the
nomination. Page S5784
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding Rule XXII, the cloture
motions on the nominations of Frank William Volk,
to be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of West Virginia, Charles R. Eskridge III,
to be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of Texas, David John Novak, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Vir-
ginia, and Rachel P. Kovner, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of New York
ripen at 11 a.m. on Wednesday, October 16, 2019;
and that notwithstanding Rule XXII, all post-clo-
ture time on the Barrett, Volk, Eskridge, Novak,
and Kovner nominations be considered expired at
4:15 p.m. on Wednesday, October 16, 2019.
Page S5784
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the Barrett nomi-
nation, post-cloture, at approximately 9:30 a.m., on
Wednesday, October 16, 2019. Page S5799
Nominations Received: Senate received the fol-
lowing nominations:
Bruce Poliquin, of Maine, to be a Director of the
Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term
expiring December 31, 2021.
Peter J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to be Inspector
General, Export-Import Bank.
John Bobbitt, of Texas, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development.
Brian D. Montgomery, of Texas, to be Deputy
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
James P. Danly, of Tennessee, to be a Member of
the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the
remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2023.
Katharine MacGregor, of Pennsylvania, to be Dep-
uty Secretary of the Interior.
Sean O’Donnell, of Maryland, to be Inspector
General, Environmental Protection Agency.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1102 October 15, 2019
Kipp Kranbuhl, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Sec-
retary of the Treasury.
William Ellison Grayson, of California, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Estonia.
John Hennessey-Niland, of Illinois, to be Ambas-
sador to the Republic of Palau.
Leora Rosenberg Levy, of Connecticut, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Chile.
Barbera Hale Thornhill, of California, to be Am-
bassador to the Republic of Singapore.
Donald Wright, of Virginia, to be Ambassador to
the United Republic of Tanzania.
Peter Gaynor, of Rhode Island, to be Adminis-
trator of the Federal Emergency Management Agen-
cy, Department of Homeland Security.
Paul J. Ray, of Tennessee, to be Administrator of
the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Of-
fice of Management and Budget.
Patrick J. Bumatay, of California, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Sylvia Carreno-Coll, of Puerto Rico, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico.
John M. Gallagher, of Pennsylvania, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania.
Barbara Bailey Jongbloed, of Connecticut, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Con-
necticut.
Barbara Lagoa, of Florida, to be United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.
Robert J. Luck, of Florida, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit.
Sherri A. Lydon, of South Carolina, to be United
States District Judge for the District of South Caro-
lina.
Scott H. Rash, of Arizona, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Arizona.
Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, to be United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit.
Cory T. Wilson, of Mississippi, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
Mississippi.
4 Army nominations in the rank of general.
8 Coast Guard nominations in the rank of admi-
ral.
1 Navy nomination in the rank of admiral.
Routine lists in the Air Force, Army, Coast
Guard, and Navy. Pages S5800–02
Nominations Withdrawn: Senate received notifica-
tion of withdrawal of the following nominations:
Kimberly Breier, of Virginia, to be a Member of
the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foun-
dation for a term expiring September 20, 2020,
which was sent to the Senate on January 16, 2019.
Patrick J. Bumatay, of California, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of
California, which was sent to the Senate on February
6, 2019.
Peter M. Vito, of New York, to be United States
Marshal for the Western District of New York for
the term of four years, which was sent to the Senate
on May 13, 2019. Pages S5802–03
Messages from the House: Page S5790
Measures Referred: Pages S5790–91
Measures Placed on the Calendar:
Pages S5777, S5791
Enrolled Bills Presented: Page S5791
Executive Communications: Pages S5791–93
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S5793–97
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S5797–99
Additional Statements: Pages S5786–89
Authorities for Committees to Meet: Page S5799
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—314) Page S5784
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 6:18 p.m., until 9:30 a.m. on Wednes-
day, October 16, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see
the remarks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record
on page S5799.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
INTELLIGENCE
Select Committee on Intelligence: Committee held closed
hearings on intelligence matters, receiving testimony
from officials of the intelligence community.
Committee recessed subject to the call.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1103
October 15, 2019
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 16 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4671–4686 and 4 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 77 and H. Res. 628, 630–631 were introduced.
Pages H8142–44
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8144–45
Reports Filed: Reports were filed today as follows:
H.R. 3734, to require the Comptroller General of
the United States to report on access to credit for
small business concerns owned and controlled by
covered individuals, to require the Administrator of
the Small Business Administration to report on the
veterans interagency task force, and for other pur-
poses (H. Rept. 116–233);
H.R. 3661, to support entrepreneurs serving in
the National Guard and Reserve, and for other pur-
poses (H. Rept. 116–234);
H.R. 499, to amend the Small Business Act to
clarify the treatment of certain surviving spouses
under the definition of small business concern owned
and controlled by service-disabled veterans (H. Rept.
116–235);
H.R. 3537, to amend the Small Business Act to
codify the Boots to Business Program, and for other
purposes (H. Rept. 116–236); and
H. Res. 629, providing for consideration of the
bill (H.R. 1815) To require the Securities and Ex-
change Commission, when developing rules and reg-
ulations about disclosures to retail investors, to con-
duct investor testing, including a survey and inter-
views of retail investors, and for other purposes, and
providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 3624)
to amend the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to re-
quire the disclosure of the total number of domestic
and foreign employees of certain public companies,
and for other purposes (H. Rept. 116–237).
Page H8142
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Schneider to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H8115
Recess: The House recessed at 2:07 p.m. and recon-
vened at 3:31 p.m. Page H8116
Suspensions: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measures:
Recognizing Hong Kong’s bilateral relationship
with the United States, condemning the inter-
ference of the People’s Republic of China in Hong
Kong’s affairs, and supporting the people of Hong
Kong’s right to protest: H. Res. 543, amended, rec-
ognizing Hong Kong’s bilateral relationship with
the United States, condemning the interference of
the People’s Republic of China in Hong Kong’s af-
fairs, and supporting the people of Hong Kong’s
right to protest; Pages H8116–19
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘Recog-
nizing Hong Kong’s bilateral relationship with the
United States, condemning the People’s Republic of
China for violating their obligations to the people of
Hong Kong, and supporting the people of Hong
Kong’s right to freedom of assembly and peaceful
protest.’’; Page H8119
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democracy Act
of 2019: H.R. 3289, amended, to amend the Hong
Kong Policy Act of 1992; Pages H8119–24
Placing Restrictions on Teargas Exports and
Crowd Control Technology to Hong Kong Act: H.R.
4270, amended, to prohibit commercial exports of
certain nonlethal crowd control items and defense ar-
ticles and services to the Hong Kong Disciplined
Services; Pages H8124–27
Agreed to amend the title so as to read: ‘‘To pro-
hibit commercial exports of certain nonlethal crowd
control items and defense articles and services to the
Hong Kong Police, and for other purposes.’’;
Page H8127
Commending the Government of Canada for
upholding the rule of law and expressing concern
over actions by the Government of the People’s Re-
public of China in response to a request from the
United States Government to the Government of
Canada for the extradition of a Huawei Tech-
nologies Co., Ltd., executive: H. Res. 521, com-
mending the Government of Canada for upholding
the rule of law and expressing concern over actions
by the Government of the People’s Republic of
China in response to a request from the United
States Government to the Government of Canada for
the extradition of a Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.,
executive; Pages H8128–29
Permitting the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
establish a grant program to conduct cemetery re-
search and produce educational materials for the
Veterans Legacy Program: H.R. 2385, to permit
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to establish a grant
program to conduct cemetery research and produce
educational materials for the Veterans Legacy Pro-
gram, by a 2/3 yea-and-nay vote of 409 yeas to 1
nay, Roll No. 556; Pages H8129–30, H8137–38
VA Website Accessibility Act of 2019: H.R.
1199, to direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to
conduct a study regarding the accessibility of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1104 October 15, 2019
websites of the Department of Veterans Affairs to in-
dividuals with disabilities; Pages H8130–32
Designating the Department of Veterans Affairs
community-based outpatient clinic in Odessa,
Texas, as the ‘‘Wilson and Young Medal of Honor
VA Clinic’’: H.R. 2334, to designate the Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs community-based out-
patient clinic in Odessa, Texas, as the ‘‘Wilson and
Young Medal of Honor VA Clinic’’; and
Pages H8132–35
Homeless Veteran Families Act: H.R. 95, to
amend title 38, United States Code, to ensure that
children of homeless veterans are included in the cal-
culation of the amounts of certain per diem grants,
by a 2/3 yea-and-nay vote of 408 yeas with none
voting ‘‘nay’’, Roll No. 557. Pages H8135–37, H8138–39
Recess: The House recessed at 5:37 p.m. and recon-
vened at 6:30 p.m. Page H8137
Presidential Message: Read a message from the
President wherein he notified Congress of the con-
tinuation of the national emergency declared in Ex-
ecutive Order 12978 of October 21, 1995 with re-
spect to significant narcotics traffickers centered in
Colombia, is to continue in effect beyond October
21, 2019—referred to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs and ordered to be printed (H. Doc. 116–74).
Page H8137
Quorum Calls—Votes: Two yea-and-nay votes de-
veloped during the proceedings of today and appear
on pages H8137–38 and H8138–39. There were no
quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 2 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:32 p.m.
Committee Meetings
SEC DISCLOSURE EFFECTIVENESS TESTING
ACT; OUTSOURCING ACCOUNTABILITY
ACT OF 2019
Committee on Rules: Full Committee held a hearing on
H.R. 1815, the ‘‘SEC Disclosure Effectiveness Test-
ing Act’’; and H.R. 3624, the ‘‘Outsourcing Ac-
countability Act of 2019’’. The Committee granted,
by record vote of 6–4, a rule providing for consider-
ation of H.R. 1815, the ‘‘SEC Disclosure Effective-
ness Testing Act’’, and H.R. 3624, the ‘‘Outsourcing
Accountability Act of 2019’’. The rule provides for
consideration of H.R. 1815, the ‘‘SEC Disclosure Ef-
fectiveness Testing Act’’, under a structured rule.
The rule provides one hour of general debate on the
bill equally divided and controlled by the chair and
ranking minority member of the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services. The rule waives all points of order
against consideration of the bill. The rule provides
that an amendment in the nature of a substitute
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print
116–34, modified by the amendment printed in part
A of the Rules Committee report, shall be consid-
ered as adopted and the bill, as amended, shall be
considered as read. The rule waives all points of
order against provisions in the bill, as amended. The
rule makes in order only those further amendments
printed in part B of the Rules Committee report.
Each such amendment may be offered only in the
order printed in the report, may be offered only by
a Member designated in the report, shall be consid-
ered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified
in the report equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
part B of the report. The rule provides one motion
to recommit with or without instructions. The rule
provides for consideration of H.R. 3624, the ‘‘Out-
sourcing Accountability Act of 2019’’, under a struc-
tured rule. The rule provides one hour of general de-
bate on the bill equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority member of the Com-
mittee on Financial Services. The rule waives all
points of order against consideration of the bill. The
rule makes in order as original text for the purpose
of amendment the amendment in the nature of a
substitute recommended by the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services now printed in the bill and provides
that it shall be considered as read. The rule waives
all points of order against that amendment in the
nature of a substitute. The rule makes in order only
those further amendments printed in part C the
Rules Committee report accompanying the resolu-
tion. Each such amendment may be offered only in
the order printed in the report, may be offered only
by a Member designated in the report, shall be con-
sidered as read, shall be debatable for the time speci-
fied in the report equally divided and controlled by
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject
to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand
for division of the question. The rule waives all
points of order against the amendments printed in
Part C of the report. The rule provides one motion
to recommit with or without instructions. Testimony
was heard from Chairman Waters and Representative
McHenry.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 16:28 Jan 08, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\D15OC9.REC D15OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1105
October 15, 2019
NEW PUBLIC LAWS
(For last listing of Public Laws, see DAILY DIGEST, p. D977)
H.R. 831, to direct the Secretary of Transpor-
tation to request nominations for and make deter-
minations regarding roads to be designated under
the national scenic byways program. Signed on Sep-
tember 22, 2019. (Public Law 116–57)
H.R. 1200, to increase, effective as of December
1, 2019, the rates of compensation for veterans with
service-connected disabilities and the rates of de-
pendency and indemnity compensation for the sur-
vivors of certain disabled veterans. Signed on Sep-
tember 26, 2019. (Public Law 116–58)
H.R. 4378, making continuing appropriations for
fiscal year 2020. Signed on September 27, 2019.
(Public Law 116–59)
H.R. 1058, to amend the Public Health Service
Act to enhance activities of the National Institutes
of Health with respect to research on autism spec-
trum disorder and enhance programs relating to au-
tism. Signed on September 30, 2019. (Public Law
116–60)
H.R. 4285, to amend title 38, United States
Code, to extend and modify certain authorities and
requirements relating to the Department of Veterans
Affairs. Signed on September 30, 2019. (Public Law
116–61)
S. 163, to prevent catastrophic failure or shut-
down of remote diesel power engines due to emis-
sion control devices. Signed on October 4, 2019.
(Public Law 116–62)
S. 1689, to permit States to transfer certain funds
from the clean water revolving fund of a State to the
drinking water revolving fund of the State in certain
circumstances. Signed on October 4, 2019. (Public
Law 116–63)
H.R. 1590, to require an exercise related to ter-
rorist and foreign fighter travel. Signed on October
9, 2019. (Public Law 116–64)
S. 239, to require the Secretary of the Treasury to
mint coins in recognition of Christa McAuliffe.
Signed on October 9, 2019. (Public Law 116–65)
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 16, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: to
hold hearings to examine feeding America, focusing on
making sustainable offshore aquaculture a reality, 10
a.m., SH–216.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: to hold hear-
ings to examine the impacts of diseases on wildlife con-
servation and management, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: to hold hearings to exam-
ine United States-Iran policy, 10 a.m., SD–419.
Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine the
nominations of Carmen G. Cantor, of Puerto Rico, to be
Ambassador to the Federated States of Micronesia, Mi-
chael George DeSombre, of Illinois, to be Ambassador to
the Kingdom of Thailand, Sung Y. Kim, of California,
to be Ambassador to the Republic of Indonesia, Morse H.
Tan, of Illinois, to be Ambassador at Large for Global
Criminal Justice, and Kelley Eckels Currie, of Georgia, to
be Ambassador at Large for Global Women’s Issues, all
of the Department of State, and other pending nomina-
tions; to be immediately followed by a Subcommittee on
East Asia, the Pacific, and International Cybersecurity
Policy hearing to examine the Asia Reassurance Initiative
Act in action, focusing on implementation and the Indo-
Pacific strategy, 2 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Indian Affairs: to hold an oversight hear-
ing to examine lending opportunities, focusing on home-
ownership in Indian country, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Barbara Lagoa, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, Robert J. Luck,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Cir-
cuit, Sylvia Carreno-Coll, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, John M. Gallagher,
to be United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, and Sherri A. Lydon, to be United States
District Judge for the District of South Carolina, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
Special Committee on Aging: to hold hearings to examine
fall prevention, focusing on national, state, and local solu-
tions to better support seniors, 9:30 a.m., SD–562.
House
Committee on Appropriations, Subcommittee on Com-
merce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies, hearing en-
titled ‘‘NASA’s Proposal to Advance the Next Moon
Landing by Four Years’’, 9:45 a.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development,
Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies,
hearing entitled ‘‘Food and Nutrition Service: Policy and
Program Overview’’, 10 a.m., 2362–A Rayburn.
Subcommittee on the Departments of Labor, Health
and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies,
hearing entitled ‘‘E-cigarettes: An Emerging Threat to
Public Health’’, 10 a.m., 2358–C Rayburn.
Committee on Armed Services, Subcommittee on Intel-
ligence and Emerging Threats and Capabilities; and Sub-
committee on Readiness, joint hearing entitled ‘‘Resil-
iency of Military Installations to Emerging Threats’’, 2
p.m., 2118 Rayburn.
Committee on the Budget, Full Committee, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Strengthening Our Fiscal Toolkit: Policy Options to
Improve Economic Resiliency’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Human Services, hearing entitled ‘‘Ex-
amining the USDA’s Proposed Cuts to Free School
Meals’’, 2 p.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on
Communications and Technology; and Subcommittee on
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1106 October 15, 2019
Consumer Protection and Commerce, joint hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Fostering a Healthier Internet to Protect Con-
sumers’’, 10 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled ‘‘Legislation
to Reverse the Youth Tobacco Epidemic’’, 10:30 a.m.,
2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Who is Standing Up for Consumers? A Semi-
Annual Review of the Consumer Financial Protection Bu-
reau’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
Subcommittee on Housing, Community Development,
and Insurance; and Subcommittee on National Security,
International Development and Monetary Policy, hearing
entitled ‘‘Protecting America: The Reauthorization of the
Terrorism Risk Insurance Program’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, Subcommittee on the Mid-
dle East, North Africa, and International Terrorism, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Syria Study Group: Recommendations for
U.S. Policy’’, 2 p.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on Homeland Security, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘Public-Private Initiatives to Secure the Supply
Chain’’, 10 a.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, Full Committee,
markup on H.R. 4617, the ‘‘Stopping Harmful Inter-
ference in Elections for a Lasting Democracy Act’’, 2
p.m., 1310 Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, Full Committee, markup on
H.R. 3942, the ‘‘Preventing Online Sales of E-Cigarettes
to Children Act’’; H.R. 886, the ‘‘Veteran Treatment
Court Coordination Act of 2019’’; H.R. 835, the
‘‘Rodchenkov Anti-Doping Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4258, the
‘‘Reauthorizing Security for Supreme Court Justices Act
of 2019’’; H.R. 3713, to amend title 28, United States
Code, provide an additional place for holding court for
the Western District of Washington, and for other pur-
poses; and H.R. 1123, the ‘‘Divisional Realignment for
the Eastern District of Arkansas Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m.,
2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, Subcommittee for Indig-
enous Peoples of the United States, hearing on H.R.
3160, the ‘‘Blackwater Trading Post Land Transfer Act’’;
and S. 46, the ‘‘Klamath Tribe Judgment Fund Repeal
Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Small Business, Full Committee, hearing
entitled ‘‘SBA Management Review: SBA IG Report on
the Most Serious Management and Performance Chal-
lenges Facing the SBA’’, 11:30 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Sub-
committee on Highways and Transit, hearing entitled
‘‘Examining the Future of Transportation Network Com-
panies: Challenges and Opportunities’’, 10 a.m., 2167
Rayburn.
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs, Full Committee, markup
on H.R. 4625, the ‘‘Protect the GI Bill Act’’; H.R. 3749,
the ‘‘Legal Services for Homeless Veterans Act’’; H.R.
4613, the ‘‘VA Reporting Transparency Act’’; H.R. 4477,
the ‘‘Reducing High Risk to Veterans and Veterans Serv-
ices Act’’; H.R. 4162, the ‘‘GI Bill Planning Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 561, the ‘‘Protecting Business Opportu-
nities for Veterans Act of 2019’’, 10 a.m., HVC–210.
Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, hearing
entitled ‘‘Broken Promises: Assessing VA’s Systems for
Protecting Veterans from Clinical Harm’’, 2 p.m.,
HVC–210.
Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The House Calendar and
Schedule: Evaluating Practices and Challenges’’, 10 a.m.,
H–313 Capitol.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: to hold hearings to examine
measuring economic inequality in the United States, 2:15
p.m., 2020, Rayburn Building.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of October 16 through October 18, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Wednesday, Senate will continue consideration
of the nomination of Barbara McConnell Barrett, of
Arizona, to be Secretary of the Air Force, Depart-
ment of Defense, post-cloture.
At 11 a.m., Senate will vote on the motions to in-
voke cloture on the nominations of Frank William
Volk, to be United States District Judge for the
Southern District of West Virginia, Charles R.
Eskridge III, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Texas, David John Novak,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Virginia, and Rachel P. Kovner, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of New York.
At 4:15 p.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of
the nomination of Barbara McConnell Barrett, and,
if cloture is invoked, on confirmation of the nomina-
tions of Frank William Volk, Charles R. Eskridge
III, David John Novak, and Rachel P. Kovner.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry: October
17, to hold hearings to examine implementing the 2018
Farm Bill, 10 a.m., SR–328A.
Committee on Appropriations: October 17, Subcommittee
on Financial Services and General Government, to hold
an oversight hearing to examine the Federal Communica-
tions Commission, focusing on the spectrum auctions
program, 10 a.m., SD–138.
Committee on Armed Services: October 17, to hold closed
hearings to examine the situation in Syria and the wider
region, 9:30 a.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Octo-
ber 17, to hold hearings to examine the Consumer Finan-
cial Protection Bureau’s semi-annual report to Congress,
10 a.m., SD–538.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1107
October 15, 2019
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Octo-
ber 16, to hold hearings to examine feeding America, fo-
cusing on making sustainable offshore aquaculture a re-
ality, 10 a.m., SH–216.
October 17, Subcommittee on Security, to hold hear-
ings to examine improving security at America’s airports,
focusing on stakeholder perspectives, 10:30 a.m.,
SD–562.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: October 17,
to hold hearings to examine the status of the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve and related energy security issues,
10:30 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: October 16,
to hold hearings to examine the impacts of diseases on
wildlife conservation and management, 10 a.m., SD–406.
October 17, Subcommittee on Clean Air and Nuclear
Safety, to hold hearings to examine reducing emissions
while driving economic growth, focusing on industry-led
initiatives, 10 a.m., SD–406.
Committee on Foreign Relations: October 16, to hold hear-
ings to examine United States-Iran policy, 10 a.m.,
SD–419.
October 16, Full Committee, to hold hearings to ex-
amine the nominations of Carmen G. Cantor, of Puerto
Rico, to be Ambassador to the Federated States of Micro-
nesia, Michael George DeSombre, of Illinois, to be Am-
bassador to the Kingdom of Thailand, Sung Y. Kim, of
California, to be Ambassador to the Republic of Indo-
nesia, Morse H. Tan, of Illinois, to be Ambassador at
Large for Global Criminal Justice, and Kelley Eckels
Currie, of Georgia, to be Ambassador at Large for Global
Women’s Issues, all of the Department of State, and other
pending nominations; to be immediately followed by a
Subcommittee on East Asia, the Pacific, and International
Cybersecurity Policy hearing to examine the Asia Reas-
surance Initiative Act in action, focusing on implementa-
tion and the Indo-Pacific strategy, 2 p.m., SD–419.
Committee on Indian Affairs: October 16, to hold an
oversight hearing to examine lending opportunities, fo-
cusing on homeownership in Indian country, 2:30 p.m.,
SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: October 16, to hold hearings
to examine to examine the nominations of Barbara Lagoa,
to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Cir-
cuit, Robert J. Luck, to be United States Circuit Judge
for the Eleventh Circuit, Sylvia Carreno-Coll, to be
United States District Judge for the District of Puerto
Rico, John M. Gallagher, to be United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and Sherri
A. Lydon, to be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of South Carolina, 10 a.m., SD–226.
October 17, Full Committee, business meeting to con-
sider S. 2132, to promote security and provide justice for
United States victims of international terrorism, S. 2511,
to amend title 40, United States Code, to provide the
Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States and
Supreme Court Police with the authority to protect the
Chief Justice of the United States, any Associate Justice
of the Supreme Court, and other individuals in any loca-
tion, and the nominations of Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of
Mississippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Fifth Circuit, David B. Barlow, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the District of Utah, John Fitzgerald
Kness, to be United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Illinois, R. Austin Huffaker, Jr., to be
United States District Judge for the Middle District of
Alabama, Lee Philip Rudofsky, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Arkansas, Justin
Reed Walker, to be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Kentucky, Eleni Maria Roumel, of
Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of
Federal Claims, Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Oregon, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Steven
J. Menashi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sec-
ond Circuit, William Joseph Nardini, of Connecticut, to
be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit,
Jodi W. Dishman, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Oklahoma, Karen Spencer
Marston, to be United States District Judge for the East-
ern District of Pennsylvania, Richard Earnest Myers II, to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of North Carolina, Sarah E. Pitlyk, to be United States
District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri,
Anuraag Singhal, to be United States District Judge for
the Southern District of Florida, Daniel Mack Traynor, to
be United States District Judge for the District of North
Dakota, and David M. DeVillers, to be United States At-
torney for the Southern District of Ohio, Department of
Justice, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Special Committee on Aging: October 16, to hold hearings
to examine fall prevention, focusing on national, state,
and local solutions to better support seniors, 9:30 a.m.,
SD–562.
House
Committee on Agriculture, October 17, Subcommittee on
Biotechnology, Horticulture, and Research, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘To Review Implementation of USDA Farm Bill Re-
search Programs’’, 10 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, October 17, Subcommittee
on Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies, hearing
entitled ‘‘Oversight Hearing: Chronic Wasting Disease’’,
10 a.m., 2008 Rayburn.
October 17, Subcommittee on the Departments of
Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development,
and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight Hear-
ing: The Department of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment’s Community Development Block Grant-Disaster
Recovery Program’’, 2 p.m., 2358–A Rayburn.
Committee on Education and Labor, October 17, Full
Committee, markup on H.R. 3, the ‘‘Lower Drug Costs
Now Act of 2019’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Financial Services, October 17, Sub-
committee on Investor Protection, Entrepreneurship, and
Capital Markets, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Corporate
Priorities: The Impact of Stock Buybacks on Workers,
Communities, and Investors’’, 10 a.m., 2128 Rayburn.
October 17, Subcommittee on Diversity and Inclusion,
hearing entitled ‘‘Promoting Inclusion: Examining the
Need for Diversity Practices for America’s Changing
Workforce’’, 2 p.m., 2128 Rayburn.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1108 October 15, 2019
October 18, Task Force on Artificial Intelligence, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘AI and the Evolution of Cloud Computing:
Evaluation How Financial Data is Stored, Protected, and
Maintained by Cloud Providers’’, 9:30 a.m., 2128 Ray-
burn.
Committee on Homeland Security, October 17, Sub-
committee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and
Recovery, hearing entitled ‘‘Defending the Homeland
from Bioterrorism: Are We Prepared?’’, 10 a.m., 310
Cannon.
October 17, Subcommittee on Oversight, Management,
and Accountability, hearing entitled ‘‘The Public’s Right
to Know: FOIA at the Department of Homeland Secu-
rity’’, 2 p.m., 310 Cannon.
Committee on House Administration, October 17, Sub-
committee on Elections, hearing entitled ‘‘Voting Rights
and Election Administration in America’’, 10 a.m., 1310
Longworth.
Committee on the Judiciary, October 17, Subcommittee
on the Constitution, Civil Rights, and Civil Liberties,
hearing entitled ‘‘Legislative Proposals to Strengthen the
Voting Rights Act’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
October 17, Subcommittee on Crime, Terrorism, and
Homeland Security, hearing entitled ‘‘Oversight Hearing
on the Federal Bureau of Prisons and Implementation of
the First Step Act’’, 2 p.m., 2141 Rayburn.
October 18, Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial,
and Administrative Law, hearing entitled ‘‘Online Plat-
forms and Market Power, Part 3: The Role of Data and
Privacy in Competition’’, 9 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, October 17, Sub-
committee on National Parks, Forests, and Public Lands,
hearing on H.R. 2420, the ‘‘National Museum of the
American Latino Act’’, 10 a.m., 1334 Longworth.
October 17, Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Re-
sources, hearing entitled ‘‘The Case for Climate Opti-
mism: Realistic Pathways to Achieving Net Zero Emis-
sions’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
October 17, Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and
Wildlife, hearing on H.R. 2795, the ‘‘Wildlife Corridors
Conservation Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 3742, the ‘‘Recov-
ering America’s Wildlife Act of 2019’’, 2 p.m., 1324
Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, October 17, Sub-
committee on Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, hearing
entitled ‘‘The Administration’s Decision to Deport Criti-
cally Ill Children and Their Families’’, 10 a.m., 2154
Rayburn.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, October 17,
Full Committee, markup on H.R. 4091, the ‘‘ARPA–E
Reauthorization Act of 2019’’; H.R. 2051, the ‘‘Sustain-
able Chemistry Research and Development Act of 2019’’;
and H.R. 1709, the ‘‘Science Integrity Act’’, 10 a.m.,
2318 Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, October 17, Subcommittee
on Economic Growth, Tax, and Capital Access, hearing
entitled ‘‘Can Opportunity Zones Address Concerns in
the Small Business Economy?’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, October
17, Subcommittee on Coast Guard and Maritime Trans-
portation, hearing entitled ‘‘China’s Maritime Silk Road
Initiative: Implications for the Global Maritime Supply
Chain’’, 2 p.m., 2167 Rayburn.
Committee on Ways and Means, October 17, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Investing in The U.S. Health
System by Lowering Drug Prices, Reducing Out-Of-
Pocket Costs, and Improving Medicare Benefits’’, 10
a.m., 1100 Longworth.
Select Committee on the Climate Crisis, October 17, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Solving the Climate Crisis:
Cleaner, Stronger Buildings’’, 9 a.m., 2020 Rayburn.
Joint Meetings
Joint Economic Committee: October 16, to hold hearings
to examine measuring economic inequality in the United
States, 2:15 p.m., 2020, Rayburn Building.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1109
October 15, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 128 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
219 reports have been filed in the House.
Résumé of Congressional Activity
FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3 through September 30, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 140 143 . .
Time in session ................................... 727hrs. 24′ 585 hrs, 34′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 5,765 8,083 . .
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 1,231 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 16 45 61
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . .
Bills in conference ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 361 448 809
Senate bills .................................. 69 20 . .
House bills .................................. 45 293 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... 24 5 . .
House joint resolutions ............... 4 7 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 11 4 . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... 8 10 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 200 109 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... *202 210 412
Senate bills .................................. 143 . . . .
House bills .................................. 17 167 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . 1 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... 3 . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 39 40 . .
Special reports ..................................... 18 8 . .
Conference reports ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 168 54 . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 3,033 5,325 8,358
Bills ............................................. 2,594 4,571 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 56 76 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 26 68 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 357 610 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 313 243 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 311 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... 1 1 . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3 through September 30, 2019
Civilian nominees, totaling 458, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 266
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 176
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 16
Other Civilian nominees, totaling 1,004, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 987
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 16
Withdrawn .................................................................................... 1
Air Force nominees, totaling 5,816, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 5,653
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 163
Army nominees, totaling 6,444, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 6,409
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 35
Navy nominees, totaling 4,609, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 2,989
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1,620
Marine Corps nominees, totaling 1,430, disposed of as follows:
Confirmed ...................................................................................... 1,425
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 5
Summary
Total nominees carried over from the First Session ............................... 0
Total nominees received this Session ..................................................... 19,761
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 17,729
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 2,015
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 17
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1110 October 15, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
9:30 a.m., Wednesday, October 16
Senate Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of the nomination of Barbara McConnell Barrett, of
Arizona, to be Secretary of the Air Force, Department of
Defense, post-cloture.
At 11 a.m., Senate will vote on the motions to invoke
cloture on the nominations of Frank William Volk, to be
United States District Judge for the Southern District of
West Virginia, Charles R. Eskridge III, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas,
David John Novak, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of Virginia, and Rachel P. Kovner,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of New York.
At 4:15 p.m., Senate will vote on confirmation of the
nomination of Barbara McConnell Barrett, and, if cloture
is invoked, on confirmation of the nominations of Frank
William Volk, Charles R. Eskridge III, David John
Novak, and Rachel P. Kovner.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
10 a.m., Wednesday, October 16
House Chamber
Program for Wednesday: Consideration of measures
under suspension of the Rules.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bishop, Sanford D., Jr., Ga., E1281
Carson, André, Ind., E1282
Castro, Joaquin, Tex., E1284
Costa, Jim, Calif., E1283
Crawford, Eric A. ‘‘Rick’’, Ark., E1283, E1285
Davis, Danny K., Ill., E1284
Harder, Josh, Calif., E1281
Higgins, Brian, N.Y., E1284
Kelly, Mike, Pa., E1285
Norton, Eleanor Holmes, The District of Columbia,
E1283
Posey, Bill, Fla., E1285
Rose, Max, N.Y., E1281
Thompson, Bennie G., Miss., E1283
Tlaib, Rashida, Mich., E1281
Velázquez, Nydia M., N.Y., E1282
Wilson, Joe, S.C., E1282, E1284
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:33 Oct 16, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D15OC9.REC D15OCPT1
dlhill
on
DSKBBY8HB2PROD
with
DIGEST
