Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H8391
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019 No. 168
House of Representatives
The House met at 10 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. RUSH).
f
DESIGNATION OF SPEAKER PRO
TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
October 23, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable BOBBY L.
RUSH to act as Speaker pro tempore on this
day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
MORNING-HOUR DEBATE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the order of the House of Janu-
ary 3, 2019, the Chair will now recog-
nize Members from lists submitted by
the majority and minority leaders for
morning-hour debate.
The Chair will alternate recognition
between the parties. All time shall be
equally allocated between the parties,
and in no event shall debate continue
beyond 11:50 a.m. Each Member, other
than the majority and minority leaders
and the minority whip, shall be limited
to 5 minutes.
f
NFL SHOULD END RACIST EXPLOI-
TATION OF NATIVE AMERICANS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Minnesota (Ms. MCCOLLUM) for 5 min-
utes.
Ms. MCCOLLUM. Mr. Speaker, the
National Football League is cele-
brating its 100th anniversary, and its
popularity and economic success is in-
disputable. Millions of fans watched
the NFL last year, and the league’s 32
teams split more than $16 billion in
revenue.
One team, the Washington franchise,
exploits a racist slur and a racist mas-
cot that insults and demeans Native
Americans to help generate profits for
the NFL owners.
In the 21st century, we should rightly
condemn the use of racial slurs that
disparage African Americans, Latinos,
Asians, or anyone. And there is no
doubt about it. The term ‘‘redskin,’’ in
fact, was used in conjunction with
scalp hunting in the 19th century.
In 1863, in Winona, Minnesota, my
home State, a newspaper, the Winona
Daily Republican, printed an an-
nouncement: ‘‘The State reward for
dead Indians has been increased to $200
for every redskin sent to purgatory.
This sum is more than the dead bodies
of all the Indians east of the Red River
are worth.’’
A news story published in the Atch-
ison Daily Champion in Atchison, Kan-
sas, on October 9, 1985, told the stories
of settlers’ ‘‘hunt for redskins, with a
view of obtaining their scalps.’’
No doubt about it, this is a negative
word. This is a slur. So it is remark-
able that the NFL commissioners and
owners continue to sanction the racist
and shameful use of the term ‘‘red-
skin’’ to describe Native Americans
and then profit from it.
There are millions of Native Ameri-
cans in this country whose ancestors
endured forced removal from their
lands, suppression of their culture, and
state-sponsored campaigns of ethnic
cleansing.
The NFL racist mascot mocks this
painful history.
Tomorrow night, the Washington
team and its racist mascot will be in
Minnesota, the home of 11 proud sov-
ereign Tribal nations. I will be joining
Tribal leaders, elected officials, and
other Minnesotans gathering outside
the stadium. We will be speaking out
against racism and exploitation. We
will stand proudly with our Native
American brothers and sisters. With
one voice, we will be calling on the
NFL to end its racist exploitation of
Native Americans and to do one thing:
Change the mascot.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF THOMAS
H. TRACY, JR.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. RODNEY DAVIS) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Speaker, I rise today to honor my
friend, Tom Tracy, Jr., an active and
beloved community member who
passed away unexpectedly last month
at the age of 47.
Tom grew up in Ivesdale, Illinois.
After graduating from Bement High
School, he went on to attend Southern
Illinois University at Carbondale and
earned his MBA from Eastern Illinois
University.
He spent over two decades working in
the banking industry before accepting
the role of president and CEO of Farm
Credit Illinois in 2015. In this position,
he led an organization of 220 full-time
employees and a multibillion-dollar
loan portfolio for its farm owners.
Those who worked closely with him
described Tom as an extraordinary ex-
ecutive with a kind and charitable
heart.
Outside of work, Tom showed he grew
up in Bement and learned how to actu-
ally get involved in his community to
make it better. Tom gave generously
to Parkland College. He gave gener-
ously to local charities, and he served
on the board for Kirby Medical Center’s
Kirby Foundation in Monticello. Tom
lived his entire life in humble service
to his friends, to his neighbors, and to
his family.
He was a kind young man. Tom’s life
was full of promise. He is truly going
to be missed.
Shannon and I are deeply saddened
by his passing, and our prayers are
with all those who knew Tom, all those
who worked with Tom, but especially
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:40 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.000 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8392 October 23, 2019
his wife, Erin, and his children, Alex
and Maggie.
Rest in peace, my friend.
f
HONORING THE HONORABLE LOU
FREY, JR.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentlewoman from
Florida (Mrs. MURPHY) for 5 minutes.
Mrs. MURPHY of Florida. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to honor former Con-
gressman Lou Frey, who represented
the Orlando area in this Chamber for a
decade, from 1969 to 1979.
He passed away recently but leaves
behind an enduring legacy. Congress-
man Frey was many things, but above
all, he was a loving husband, a wonder-
ful father and grandfather, and an ex-
traordinary public servant who cared
deeply about central Florida and about
this country.
He was a man with strongly held
views, but also one willing to make
principled compromises in the interest
of bipartisan progress. His accomplish-
ments before, during, and after his ten-
ure in Congress are too long to list, but
their impact can be summarized like
this: Because of him, Orlando is a bet-
ter city; Florida is a better State; and
America is a better Nation.
As the chair of Future Forum, a
group dedicated to empowering young
people, I regard Lou Frey as a role
model. One of his most passionate
causes was helping younger Americans
learn about this country, about how
our government works, and about how
choosing a career in public service can
bring you a sense of inner joy and en-
able you to improve the lives of others.
Lou, working with former Senator
Bob Graham, was instrumental in get-
ting Florida to pass legislation requir-
ing all students in the State to com-
plete civics education. When I saw how
young Floridians responded in the
wake of the Pulse and Parkland shoot-
ings, turning those tragedies into a res-
olute call for government action, I
thought of and silently thanked Lou
Frey.
Rest in peace, Congressman.
PROTECT AMERICA FROM FOREIGN
INTERFERENCE IN ELECTIONS
Mrs. MURPHY of Florida. I rise in
strong support of the SHIELD Act. I
helped introduce this legislation, and
the House will consider it on the floor
later today.
This bill will protect our country
from foreign interference in our elec-
tions. Russia’s assault on our democ-
racy in 2016 exposed gaps in our Na-
tion’s defenses.
It used to be that the primary threat
from adversary nations was their po-
tential use of traditional weapons of
war. But our society is rapidly chang-
ing and so is the nature of conflict.
Today, our enemies are far more like-
ly to use computer malware than
cruise missiles to do us harm, and they
don’t think twice about exploiting
loopholes in our laws in order to influ-
ence our elections.
That is why passing the SHIELD Act
is so critical to maintaining the foun-
dation of our democracy, our system of
free and fair elections.
We know Russia and possibly other
foreign powers will likely use similar
tactics in 2020. And why wouldn’t they?
Russia has suffered almost no con-
sequences for their actions in 2016.
While Russia assisted a Republican
on that occasion, it could aid a Demo-
crat in the future. That is because Mos-
cow’s loyalty is to itself, not to any
U.S. political party. My colleagues on
the other side of the aisle should never
forget that fact.
To defend our democracy, we need to
act now to protect our elections. We
need to pass the SHIELD Act.
I commend Chairwoman LOFGREN for
her leadership in drafting this critical
piece of legislation, and I urge all of
my colleagues to support it.
f
WORDS OF PRESIDENT ZELENSKY
HAVE BEEN IGNORED
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. MEUSER) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. MEUSER. Mr. Speaker, an over-
looked factor of these relentless inves-
tigations and this impeachment in-
quiry is the way in which the words of
Ukrainian President Zelensky have
been largely ignored.
Zelensky said, without condition,
that he felt no pressure from President
Trump related to corruption investiga-
tions in Ukraine. President Zelensky’s
words have been largely ignored be-
cause they do not fit the narrative
pushed by the Democratic leadership of
this House.
Just think, had President Zelensky
wanted to severely damage our Presi-
dent, he could have lied and stated he
did feel pressure. Doesn’t that scenario
give you chills? Had a foreign leader
simply altered and fabricated one pub-
licly stated phrase, the entire Demo-
cratic Caucus of this House would be
calling for our President’s head, re-
peating it over and over.
That is the reality of this sickening
and dangerous presumption of guilt
that some Members of this body are
choosing to push.
Our President deserves nothing less
than the due process and presumption
of innocence afforded to all Americans
by our Constitution. Anything less is
an affront to the Republic our Found-
ers created and to all the electorate,
Democratic and Republican.
f
RECOGNIZING ARMENIAN GENO-
CIDE AND TURKISH INVASION
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
California (Mr. COSTA) for 5 minutes.
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
as a concerned American, concerned
because our country stands at a cross-
roads in foreign policy and history, I
might add.
In recent days, we have seen this ad-
ministration cynically abandon our
Kurdish allies in northeast Syria and
open the door to a Turkish invasion.
These decisions were made without
consulting our allies, our distinguished
diplomats, and regional experts like
Ambassador Jeffrey.
Much damage has been done. Yester-
day, President Putin and President
Erdogan signed an agreement, I be-
lieve, that harms American interests in
that part of the world.
Hundreds of people have been killed.
Tens of thousands have been displaced.
Dangerous ISIS prisoners, who have
been killing and wounding Americans,
are now on the loose, threatening in-
creased international terrorist actions
in Europe and the United States. This
is a real threat.
Turkey’s actions have shown it to be
a dangerous actor on the international
stage, but it is not the first time. We
must immediately impose sanctions to
show our commitment to a stable
international order and the rule of law,
and Turkey must understand that.
Clearly, the international reputation
of the United States has, I think, been
deeply damaged.
As chairman of the Transatlantic
Legislators’ Dialogue, I know. Our Eu-
ropean partners ask me all the time:
Are we together? Do we share the same
values of the rule of law, of democratic
freedoms?
The United States should never, ever
end up standing alone. The past few
days also reminds us of another injus-
tice that must be rectified.
In 1915, the Ottoman Empire em-
barked upon systematic deportation of
1.5 million Armenians. These innocent
men, women, and children became the
first genocide in the 20th century. Yet,
as I stand here this morning, the brutal
atrocity has still not received the offi-
cial recognition by our government
that it deserves.
b 1015
Turkey outrageously continues to ig-
nore the voices of the survivors and the
descendants around the world. Many of
these survivors settled in my district
in the San Joaquin Valley where they
have lived and where they have raised
their children in the blessings of lib-
erty, and they made it in the American
way.
But this is not justice. The road to
justice begins with full recognition of
the Armenian people’s suffering. Both
Turkey and the United States, imme-
diately, should recognize that the Ar-
menian genocide occurred, as the Euro-
pean Union has done.
I am proud to support H. Res. 296
which, over the objections of Ankara,
would establish permanent U.S. rec-
ognition and ongoing American re-
membrance of the Armenian genocide.
That is the right thing to do.
I call upon my colleagues who have
yet to publicly endorse this bipartisan
resolution to join me, with over 110 co-
sponsors, in calling for a long-overdue
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:40 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.002 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8393
October 23, 2019
passage by the United States House of
Representatives.
Mr. Speaker, the horrors of the Ar-
menian genocide can never ever be un-
done. Words alone cannot comfort
those who suffered nor dry the tears of
another mother or grandmother who
has lost her children or grandchildren.
By acknowledging the suffering of the
victims through the official recogni-
tion of the Armenian genocide, we can
at least ensure that future generations
will never ever forget this atrocity to
mankind.
ELECTION INTERFERENCE
Mr. COSTA. Mr. Speaker, I rise today
to talk about the growing serious
threat to our democracy and the inter-
ference in elections of foreign adver-
saries. Yes, these things are all related.
With the 2020 elections fast approach-
ing, now is the time to take action by
supporting the SHIELD Act. The
SHIELD Act puts four commonsense
bipartisan reforms to improve our de-
fenses against anyone meddling in our
elections. No one should do that, and
every American should take issue. It
closes loopholes, strengthens reporting
requirements, restricts exchange of in-
formation between campaigns, and lim-
its any involvement with foreign
agents.
As public officials, we raise our hand
to protect and defend the Constitution
of the United States. We must rise to
this occasion to do just that. That is
what we should do as Members of the
House of Representatives. Our con-
stituents expect it from us to ensure
that every vote is counted and that no
one—no foreign source—can meddle in
American elections, ever, as took place
in 2016.
Mr. Speaker, I urge my colleagues to
join with Congresswoman ZOE LOFGREN
and others who have worked very hard
on this important legislation to pass
the SHIELD Act this week. It is the
right thing to do.
f
TELEMEDICINE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. THOMPSON) for 5
minutes.
Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to discuss the
importance of telemedicine.
Recently, I had the pleasure of par-
ticipating in a roundtable discussion at
Saint Francis University in Cambria
County, Pennsylvania. Representatives
from the university, Better Care Amer-
ica, University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center, and Highmark, among others,
gathered to share their expertise on
telemedicine and its impact on rural
health.
Telemedicine is an incredibly impor-
tant tool for millions of Americans,
but particularly for those who live in
rural communities. With telemedicine,
we can increase access to care for those
who live far away from a doctor’s office
or hospital.
Of course, this benefit extends be-
yond rural communities. Telemedicine
is crucial in ensuring older Americans
and those with limited mobility are
able to access quality medical care by
eliminating roadblocks like finding
transportation to a doctor’s appoint-
ment. By increasing convenience and
flexibility for patients, it encourages
individuals to take a more proactive
approach in managing their health.
Telemedicine can also have a positive
impact on the health and well-being of
our veterans. Their sacrifice and will-
ingness to dedicate their lives to serve
our country is a debt that we can never
truly repay. The least we can do, how-
ever, is to ensure that they have access
to quality healthcare. This includes
mental health.
Many of our men and women in uni-
form are suffering privately with post-
traumatic stress, depression, anxiety,
brain injuries, and more. The Depart-
ment of Veterans Affairs estimates
that roughly 20 veterans commit sui-
cide a day. We must do our part to pre-
vent tragedies like this from hap-
pening.
That is why I introduced H.R. 2123,
the Veterans E-Health and Telemedi-
cine Support Act—or the VETS Act, as
we call it—in 2017, alongside Congress-
woman JULIA BROWNLEY. This bipar-
tisan legislation reduces barriers for
veterans seeking healthcare by remov-
ing burdensome location requirements,
increasing access to care regardless of
where the healthcare professional or
the patient is located.
Prior to the VETS Act’s enactment,
VA doctors could only provide tele-
health services across State lines if
both the veteran and the doctor were
located in Federal facilities. Undoing
this restriction was successful under
the VETS Act’s adoption, and it is just
one way that we can improve access to
telehealth for millions of veterans na-
tionwide.
Prior to the VETS Act, we were able
to do that successfully a number of
years ago with the STEP Act, the Serv-
icemembers’ Telemedicine and E-
Health Portability Act, and it did the
same thing for 1.1 million American he-
roes who are members of our Active-
Duty military, Reserve, and Guard.
The act lifted those same bureaucratic
barriers to expand better access
through telemedicine.
Through innovation and bipartisan
support, we can continue to strengthen
telemedicine care for all Americans.
f
PASSING USMCA
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Nebraska (Mr. SMITH) for 5 minutes.
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to urge my colleagues
to reconsider the unilateral push for-
ward with impeachment. We have im-
portant and timely bipartisan issues to
work on, such as passing USMCA.
Canada and Mexico represent 34 per-
cent of all U.S. exports—by far, our
most important trading partners.
The North American Free Trade
Agreement that we know as NAFTA
was written more than 25 years ago,
and the world has changed dramati-
cally since its enactment. President
Trump has made the modernization of
trade between our three countries a top
priority and has allowed us the chance
to make some much-needed updates.
USMCA upgrades and modernizes
NAFTA. It will boost our economy, and
it is a win for farmers, producers, and,
definitely, consumers.
We have an opportunity to take ac-
tion on trade, but the work must come
first. It is our constitutional duty to
start this process in the House. Delay-
ing the enactment of USMCA hurts
American jobs, border security, and ag-
riculture, as well as innovation. We
cannot afford to let this opportunity
pass.
Mr. Speaker, let’s begin the work in
the Ways and Means Committee, and
let’s get this done. It is time to pass
USMCA.
f
REMEMBERING ASSISTANT CHIEF
CHRISTIAN JOHNSON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Washington (Mr. NEWHOUSE) for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, today
I rise to honor the life and service of
Assistant Fire Chief Christian Johnson
of Okanogan County Fire District 3.
Chief Johnson recently passed away
due to injuries he sustained while
fighting the Spring Coulee fire in north
central Washington last September.
Mr. Speaker, Chief Johnson is an
American hero. He served our country
honorably, retiring from the Army
after 22 years before joining the fire de-
partment nearly 20 years ago to serve
his local community. His wife, Pam,
described him as selfless, kind, and al-
ways ready to help someone in need. He
was well-known and well-loved in
Okanogan County, which is clear from
the community’s outpouring of support
in recent weeks.
I encourage all in north central
Washington to pay their respects at
Chief Johnson’s memorial this Thurs-
day, October 24, at 1 p.m. at the
Okanogan County Fairgrounds.
My deepest condolences go out to
Pam and the Johnson family. The peo-
ple of central Washington are eternally
grateful for his selfless service to pro-
tect our communities.
Chief Johnson, may you rest in
peace.
A RENEWED VISION FOR JOB CORPS CIVILIAN
CONSERVATION CENTERS
Mr. NEWHOUSE. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to applaud and thank the U.S.
Department of Agriculture and the
U.S. Forest Service for their recent an-
nouncement renewing their commit-
ment and vision to the Job Corps Civil-
ian Conservation Center program.
Operated by the USDA and the For-
est Service, Job Corps Civilian Con-
servation Centers, or CCCs, serve rural
communities across the country by
training the next generation of Amer-
ica’s workforce to carry out a unique
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:40 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.005 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8394 October 23, 2019
and particularly important mission:
conserving our Federal lands, miti-
gating fire threats, and suppressing ac-
tive wildfires.
My central Washington district is
home to two of these centers: Columbia
Basin in Moses Lake and Fort Simcoe
in White Swan. At these centers, stu-
dents learn hands-on skills that they
utilize to expand public access to Fed-
eral lands, improve campsites in na-
tional forests throughout Washington
State, and serve as impactful stewards
of our environment.
I have strongly supported and de-
fended Job Corps Civilian Conservation
Centers because I have witnessed first-
hand how these programs act as cata-
lysts for the young people I represent,
giving them a chance to give back to
their community while learning life-
changing skills.
I was sincerely grateful to Secretary
Perdue for committing to work with
me and my colleagues in Congress to
help improve CCC programs across the
country instead of transferring oper-
ations to the Department of Labor ear-
lier this year. Now, with this recent
announcement, Secretary Perdue has
followed through on his word.
Under the Secretary’s direction, For-
est Service Chief Vicki Christiansen
announced a recommitment to Job
Corps CCC students by realigning the
mission of these centers with the For-
est Service’s own motto, which is ‘‘Car-
ing for the Land and Serving People.’’
The U.S. Forest Service is uniquely
qualified to administer Civilian Con-
servation Centers, which play a critical
role throughout the United States and
go above and beyond traditional Job
Corps programs. Under this new vision,
these specialized Job Corps programs
will better prepare both urban and
rural youth to become the next genera-
tion of responsible land managers.
The Forest Service has committed to
revamp the CCC’s curriculum to meet
the needs of Forest Service regions
across the United States. Focusing on
regional performance targets will allow
the agency to increase student learning
opportunities while making much-
needed improvements to forest condi-
tions. By strengthening the alumni
network and supporting a pipeline be-
tween CCCs and the Forest Service,
these centers can focus on jobs in for-
estry, firefighting, and conservation,
which are all critical careers through-
out the rural West.
In the words of Chief Christiansen:
‘‘Our Job Corps faculty and students
embody the Forest Service values of
service, interdependence, conservation,
diversity, and safety.’’
As I have seen firsthand, these stu-
dents and our public lands deserve this
investment.
So, Mr. Speaker, I thank Secretary
Sonny Perdue and Chief Vicki
Christiansen for their commitment to
rural America, our national lands, and
the students of the Civilian Conserva-
tion Centers.
RECOGNIZING POLICE OFFICERS
FROM MIDDLETOWN, PENNSYL-
VANIA, FOR THEIR SERVICE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. FITZPATRICK) for 5
minutes.
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to recognize four police offi-
cers from Middletown Township, Bucks
County, Pennsylvania. Officers Ryan
Morrison, Christopher Viscardi, Glenn
McPherson, and Robert Compton were
recognized for their service during
three separate cases this year.
On April 5, Officers McPherson and
Viscardi were in Doylestown, Pennsyl-
vania, to attend a court hearing. As
they sat in their vehicle, they noticed
a man threatening to jump from the
top of the Bucks County Justice Center
parking garage. Both officers quickly
jumped into action, and Officer
McPherson calmed the man down while
Officer Viscardi contacted local law en-
forcement for assistance.
On June 16, Officer Compton was able
to track down and detain the suspect
following two gas station robberies by
the same suspect.
On July 2, Officer Morrison noticed a
car tailgating him and flashing high
beams, which initiated a traffic stop.
During that stop, Officer Morrison
found the driver was intoxicated and
the passenger had several warrants and
was in possession of a firearm and nar-
cotics.
Mr. Speaker, because of the actions
of these brave officers and their col-
leagues, Pennsylvania’s First District
is a safer place. We thank these heroes
for their service.
b 1030
IN RECOGNITION OF MASON CHANDLER ALLEN
Mr. FITZPATRICK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise today to honor the life of Mason
Chandler Allen. A fellow native of
Levittown, Pennsylvania, Mason was
an intelligent and thoughtful 11-year-
old boy when he was diagnosed with
osteosarcoma, the most common form
of bone cancer, in late 2015.
Through months of exhaustive chem-
otherapy, physical therapy, and several
surgeries, Mason was never without a
smile or his amazing sense of humor.
He even got to hang out with his foot-
ball idol, Philadelphia Eagles’ star
Darren Sproles, at an Eagles practice,
and later, on the sideline of an Eagles
game.
A year after homeschooling, Mason
came back to school with the aid of
crutches, and was excited to join clubs,
launch the school’s newspaper, and was
soon able to leave the crutches behind.
Following a holiday season surrounded
by his family, the cancer returned in
January of 2017. And on March 11,
Mason lost his battle with cancer.
Soon after, Mason’s family and
friends founded the Mason Chandler
Allen Memorial Foundation to increase
awareness and funding to fight pedi-
atric cancer. On September 28, the
foundation held its third annual Steps
Towards the Cure Walk in my home-
town of Levittown. This walk benefits
pediatric cancer research funding and
supports quality of life projects for
children and teens who are fighting
cancer.
Mr. Speaker, as long as organizations
like this exist, we can continue the
fight to end childhood cancer forever.
f
IN HONOR OF FRANK TROUTMAN,
JR.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair recognizes the gentleman from
Georgia (Mr. CARTER) for 5 minutes.
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to honor Mr. Frank
Troutman, Jr., who passed away on Au-
gust 10 at the age of 84.
A great citizen of the State of Geor-
gia, Mr. Troutman was passionate with
every endeavor he undertook.
In academics, he graduated from the
University of Georgia, earning Phi
Beta Kappa membership, attended the
university’s law school, and remained a
lifelong voracious reader and lover of
history. He was one of the biggest
Georgia Bulldog fans in the State,
making the trip to Pasadena in 1943 to
see the Dawgs play UCLA in the Rose
Bowl.
Mr. Troutman served for 15 years as
president of his family’s Castleberry’s
food business, introducing modern
techniques to the company, and mak-
ing it into the business that it is today.
And he was the first Republican elected
to the Richmond County Commission,
being largely responsible for intro-
ducing the Republican Party in the
State of Georgia.
It would be hard to find anyone in
Georgia more passionate about our
State than Mr. Troutman, and I am
thankful to have called him a fellow
Georgian. His family and friends will
be in our thoughts and prayers during
this difficult time.
IN REMEMBRANCE OF JUDGE TOM EDENFIELD
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Judge Tom Edenfield, who passed away
on Tuesday, October 15, at the age of
80.
Born and raised in Savannah, Geor-
gia, Judge Edenfield made our commu-
nity a better place to live during his
numerous posts in the judicial system.
Only a few examples of his positions
include his work as a special assistant
to the district attorney, creating his
own law firm, and presiding as a mu-
nicipal court judge. Constantly using
his position to help others as a munic-
ipal court judge, he would often sus-
pend sentences in return for individ-
uals attending a house of worship. He
additionally assisted with the county’s
drug court in order to help people re-
claim their lives from substance abuse
problems and avoid incarceration.
Judge Edenfield’s colleagues remem-
ber him as always having a smile on
his face and a bad joke, along with
being a mentor to all members of the
bar. He will be missed throughout our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:40 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.006 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8395
October 23, 2019
community, and I will keep his family
and friends in my thoughts and prayers
during this most difficult time.
IN REMEMBRANCE OF HARRIET KONTER
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to remember the life of
Ms. Harriet Konter, who passed away
on Sunday, October 13 at the age of 94.
Ms. Konter was truly a pioneering
woman in Georgia real estate. Working
in the industry for over 50 years, she
became the first female president of
the Georgia Association of Realtors in
1987, as well as the first female member
of the Georgia Realtors Hall of Fame.
She founded scholarships for female
realtors to attend the National Wom-
en’s Leadership Conference and re-
mained heavily involved in real estate
well into her nineties. Her colleagues
remember her as someone who blazed a
trail for many women in real estate
and beyond.
Yet, Ms. Konter’s passion to better
our community reached everyone. She
served as the director of the Savannah
Jewish Educational Alliance, trustee
for the Armstrong Atlantic State Uni-
versity Foundation, owned two local
supermarkets, and more.
Ms. Konter will be missed throughout
Savannah. Her family and friends will
be in my thoughts and prayers during
this most difficult time.
IN RECOGNITION OF PIERCE COUNTY HIGH
SCHOOL
Mr. CARTER of Georgia. Mr. Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize Pierce
County High School for being recog-
nized by the Department of Education
as a Blue Ribbon School for 2019.
This prestigious award recognized ap-
proximately 350 schools across the
country for their commitment to aca-
demic excellence and closing the
achievement gaps among diverse
groups of students.
To commemorate the award, Pierce
County High School will receive a flag
that is a symbol of excellence in teach-
ing and learning. The school has been
providing a high-quality education to
its students for a number of years, and
this is not the first time the school has
been recognized.
In 2018, Pierce County’s principal,
Ms. Dara Bennett, was named the Prin-
cipal of the Year in the State of Geor-
gia. Additionally, the National Federa-
tion of State High School Associations
named their athletic department the
third best in the Nation.
To teachers, students, and staff alike
at Pierce County High School, con-
gratulations on your awards and keep
up the good work.
f
RECESS
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 12(a) of rule I, the Chair
declares the House in recess until noon
today.
Accordingly (at 10 o’clock and 35
minutes a.m.), the House stood in re-
cess.
b 1200
AFTER RECESS
The recess having expired, the House
was called to order by the Speaker pro
tempore (Ms. JACKSON LEE) at noon.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
Loving and gracious God, we give
You thanks for giving us another day.
Help us this day to draw closer to
You, so that with Your spirit, and
aware of Your presence among us, we
may all face the tasks of this day.
Bless the Members of the people’s
House. Help them to think clearly,
speak confidently, and act coura-
geously in the belief that all noble
service is based upon patience, truth,
and love.
May these decisive days through
which we are living make them gen-
uine enough to maintain their integ-
rity, great enough to be humble, and
good enough to keep their faith, always
regarding public office as a sacred
trust. Give them the wisdom and the
courage to fail not their fellow citi-
zens, nor You.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House her approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Will the
gentlewoman from Massachusetts (Mrs.
TRAHAN) come forward and lead the
House in the Pledge of Allegiance.
Mrs. TRAHAN led the Pledge of Alle-
giance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will entertain up to 15 requests
for 1-minute speeches on each side of
the aisle.
f
REMEMBERING ELIJAH CUMMINGS
(Ms. KELLY of Illinois asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Ms. KELLY of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to remember our
dear colleague, Congressman Elijah
Cummings.
Throughout his life, he was a pas-
sionate and committed leader but also
someone who would stop to show com-
passion and kindness to constituents,
staff, and Members alike.
His life was defined, in his words, by
‘‘pain, passion, and purpose.’’ At just 11
years old, he and his friends began
working to integrate a segregated
swimming pool in South Baltimore.
He would go on to achieve many of
the highest accolades in education,
earning 12 honorary doctorate degrees.
Before serving in the Halls of Con-
gress, he served the people of Maryland
for 14 years in the general assembly,
including breaking the color barrier
with his election to speaker pro tem-
pore, the second highest ranking office
in the Maryland House of Delegates.
He would come to Congress in 1996.
All of his contributions and service to
this Nation could never be summed up
in a few seconds, but it stands on its
own. When the history books are writ-
ten, I know his name and legacy will be
proudly enshrined within its pages.
His passing is a great loss to his fam-
ily and friends, the city of Baltimore,
this institution, and our Nation.
I hope you are dancing with the an-
gels. May you rest in peace, my friend.
f
CELEBRATING PARAMEDIC ROGER
SWOR
(Mr. STAUBER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. STAUBER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to celebrate Roger Swor, a
paramedic from my district who has
dedicated his life to providing excep-
tional emergency medical care.
Roger is now the longest-serving
street paramedic in Minnesota and was
recently honored by the National Reg-
istry of Emergency Medical Techni-
cians for achieving 40 years of National
EMS Certification. This is a distinc-
tion held by very few EMS profes-
sionals.
Roger has answered tens of thousands
of 911 calls in his career. He has done
everything from holding dying crash
victims in his arms to delivering ba-
bies. As described by his nephew,
Adam, who served many shifts along-
side his uncle, ‘‘Roger is universally re-
garded as the paramedic you want to
see when you are in trouble.’’
On behalf of Minnesota’s Eighth Con-
gressional District, I congratulate
Roger on his recent achievement and
thank him for his professional service.
Paramedic Roger Swor, you are the
best of the best.
f
IMPLEMENT ELECTRONIC SYS-
TEMS TO KEEP OUR ROADS
SAFE
(Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend her remarks.)
Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
Madam Speaker, I rise today in support
of the SAFE DRIVERS Act introduced
by my colleague, Representative SETH
MOULTON.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:40 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.008 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8396 October 23, 2019
In June of this year, seven members
of Jarheads Motorcycle Club were trag-
ically killed in my district when they
were hit by a truck that crossed over
into the wrong lane on Route 2 in Ran-
dolph, New Hampshire.
The Massachusetts driver responsible
for this accident should not have had
an active driver’s license and should
not have been behind the wheel that
day. Despite his criminal history, the
driver still had a license because of a
loophole where State DMVs often do
not process out-of-State infractions.
The SAFE DRIVERS Act would help
States implement electronic systems
to ensure that dangerous drivers are
kept off our roads. By incentivizing
States to modernize their databases,
we can keep our roads safe and prevent
further tragedies.
f
CONGRATULATING STAFF SER-
GEANT DAKOTA BOWEN, NCO OF
2019
(Mr. WILSON of South Carolina
asked and was given permission to ad-
dress the House for 1 minute and to re-
vise and extend his remarks.)
Mr. WILSON of South Carolina.
Madam Speaker, congratulations to
Staff Sergeant Dakota Bowen, who
serves with Charlie Company, 3rd Bat-
talion, 39th Infantry Regiment, at Fort
Jackson, South Carolina. He is the
Army’s 2019 Noncommissioned Officer
of the Year.
The NCO of the Year is the Army’s
top soldier, with competition annually
on a variety of tasks testing their
knowledge, skills, and abilities. Staff
Sergeant Bowen emerged as the top
NCO of the competition to win soldier
of the year as this year’s top NCO.
General Joseph Martin, the Army
Vice Chief of Staff, calls NCOs the
heart and soul of the Army. ‘‘When the
Army desperately needs leadership, we
turn to you, and you have never failed
us,’’ he said in a keynote speech at the
awards ceremony.
As a 30-year Army veteran myself
with three sons who have served in the
Army, I know firsthand that this anal-
ysis is correct.
South Carolina is grateful for Staff
Sergeant Dakota Bowen and his com-
mitment to American families, pro-
moting the truth that freedom is not
free.
In conclusion, God bless our troops,
and we will never forget September the
11th, or the anniversary today of the
Beirut bombing, murdering 241 service-
members, in the global war on ter-
rorism.
f
HONORING THE LIFE OF FRANK
‘‘TOWKAR’’ APPICE
(Mr. ROSE of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to honor the life
of Frank ‘‘TowKar’’ Appice, a veteran
of the U.S. Navy, avid motorcyclist,
and active member of our community.
He passed away in 2017, but he is not
forgotten. I am so proud that we re-
cently named a street after him on
Staten Island.
Frank was the founder and chairman
of the board of Rolling Thunder, Chap-
ter 2 New York, as well as an integral
part of creating two chapters in Brook-
lyn.
Frank always wanted to use
motorcycling to give back to our com-
munity, particularly our veterans.
Every year, he oversaw the Disabled
American Veterans support run for
Chapter 2 New York, raising over
$75,000 for disabled veterans.
It is a fitting honor that his wife and
children have formed a scholarship
fund in his honor. This fund will con-
tinue Frank’s passion for supporting
veterans, ensuring that children of vet-
erans or students who volunteer with
veterans organizations can afford an
education.
This scholarship ensures that we will
always remember and learn from
Frank and his legacy of service.
Frank, we will continue to honor you
and your work.
God Bless Frank, and God bless the
United States of America.
f
CONDEMNING UNFAIR
IMPEACHMENT PROCEEDINGS
(Mr. COMER asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. COMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to strongly condemn the unfair,
closed-door, hyperpartisan, impeach-
ment inquiry process being conducted
by House Democrats.
Nothing, not even the cold, hard
facts, will stop the partisan politics of
my colleagues on the left from nul-
lifying the 2016 election.
One of Speaker PELOSI’s committee
chairs who she chose to lead this proc-
ess promised years ago that she would
find a way to impeach the President.
This has been the plan from the begin-
ning.
Certain minority rights have been de-
nied to Republicans during this proc-
ess, like equal subpoena power, a right
that Republicans provided Democrats
during the Clinton impeachment.
Chairman SCHIFF started this trend
of dishonesty by promoting false alle-
gations related to the President and
Russia. Now, he has publicly
mischaracterized his committee’s han-
dling of the whistleblower inquiry and
deceived the American people about his
relationship with the whistleblower.
Democrats still refuse to hold a full
House vote on their impeachment in-
quiry, yet they continue this baseless
impeachment inquiry of President
Trump instead of tackling the issues
most important to our citizens.
I urge the American people to take a
hard look at the lack of transparency
and accountability surrounding this
unfounded impeachment inquiry.
HONORING GEORGE RAMIREZ FOR
HIS CONTRIBUTIONS TO
BROWNSVILLE, TEXAS
(Mr. VELA asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. VELA. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor Mr. George Ramirez for
his extraordinary contribution to the
culture and arts in Brownsville, Texas.
Mr. Ramirez was the longtime presi-
dent of the Brownsville Society for the
Performing Arts and founder of the
Brownsville Latin Jazz Festival. He
has been invaluable in bringing quality
cultural entertainment to my commu-
nity. Under Mr. Ramirez’ leadership,
the Brownsville Society for the Per-
forming Arts has produced hundreds of
shows, concerts, and cultural pro-
grams.
He dedicated his life to making the
arts accessible to the people of the Rio
Grande Valley.
In June 2017, Mr. Ramirez established
his own low-powered radio station,
which enabled him to bring music to
everyone.
Mr. Ramirez helped create a number
of cultural events, including the
Brownsville Guitar Ensemble Festival
and Competition, the Brownsville
International Flamenco Festival, and
the Ancient Cultures Festival.
He also spearheaded the efforts to
bring Handel’s ‘‘Messiah’’ concerts to
Brownsville, Mozart’s ‘‘Requiem in D
Minor,’’ Bach’s ‘‘Mass in B Minor,’’ and
the annual children’s ‘‘Hansel and
Gretel’’ opera production.
A group of students in the University
of Texas opera program had never seen
an opera, so he coordinated and funded
a trip to take them to the Houston
Grand Opera. He was very active in
helping students gain exposure to the
arts, offering several music scholar-
ships.
Mr. Ramirez’ latest accomplishment
was playing a vital role in the opening
of the Brownsville Performing Arts
Academy, a place that will carry on
the tradition of Mr. Ramirez’ work.
f
STOP POLITICAL GAMES AND GET
BACK TO WORK
(Mr. GUEST asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. GUEST. Madam Speaker, the im-
peachment of a President is a serious
process that will have lasting effects
on our Republic. It requires a trans-
parent and trustworthy Congress to
conduct a proper investigation because
of the attempts to undo the will of the
American people.
As a former prosecutor, I know that
holding hearings behind closed doors is
not transparent. Withholding informa-
tion from the American people does not
promote trust. Misconstruing the facts
to the American public is not proper.
These actions alone point to an ille-
gitimate process that will continue to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:40 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.011 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8397
October 23, 2019
divide our Nation for the sake of par-
tisan politics.
I ask, is the political gamesmanship
worth letting our infrastructure con-
tinue to crumble? Is it worth ignoring
the opioid crisis in our country? Is it
worth undermining our democracy to
attack a duly elected President?
We have real problems in this coun-
try that the American people elected
us to solve, and we cannot ignore these
problems while we focus on this im-
proper and partisan political process.
Madam Speaker, I encourage my col-
leagues across the aisle to stop the po-
litical games so that we can get back
to work on the issues that are impor-
tant to the American people.
f
b 1215
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES
(Mr. SCHRADER asked and was
given permission to address the House
for 1 minute.)
Mr. SCHRADER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today in support of H.R. 3, the
Lower Drug Costs Now Act of 2019.
It is high time that our struggling
seniors are given the right to negotiate
drug costs just like we have in com-
mercial plans, the Veterans Adminis-
tration, the Department of Defense,
and Medicaid.
Seniors should not be subject to arti-
ficially high copays and out-of-pocket
expenses because of an out-of-date law
that prohibits Medicare from negoti-
ating prices with pharmaceutical com-
panies. Price negotiation is a free mar-
ket principle that our country em-
braces in almost every other aspect of
life. Why should our seniors not have
the same right?
H.R. 3 also limits Medicare part D
out-of-pocket expenses to $2,000 a year.
This aligns closely with how the pri-
vate market works and a Senate com-
panion bill.
Making sure seniors can afford their
medicines keeps them out of the expen-
sive hospital system and saves patients
and taxpayers, alike, lots of money.
Finally, there is an effort in the bill
to limit the inflationary impact on
drug costs that have been on the mar-
ket for a long time and improve price
transparency so we can actually shed
some light on what is going on.
This is long overdue. It is time for bi-
partisan and bicameral action on one
of the most pressing issues of our day
for seniors and all Americans.
f
FIND AGREEMENT ON USMCA
(Mrs. AXNE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. AXNE. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to urge my colleagues to con-
tinue to work with U.S. Trade Rep-
resentative Robert Lighthizer to find
agreement on the USMCA soon.
I visit each of the 16 counties in my
district every month, and whether it is
touring manufacturers, visiting with
farmers, or stopping into small busi-
nesses, everywhere I go the message is
loud and clear: Uncertainty is hurting
our bottom line.
Agriculture is the backbone of Iowa’s
economy. One out of every $5 is pro-
duced from Iowa agriculture in our
State. Supporting farmers is neither a
partisan nor a political issue; it is sim-
ply the right thing to do.
Between devastating weather events,
ongoing trade wars, and the EPA’s un-
precedented abuse of biofuel waivers,
our farmers have been put through
enough. They are asking for our help.
As elected Representatives, we owe
them the right answer. We must an-
swer their call and get this deal done
right and without unnecessary delay.
Madam Speaker, I thank my col-
leagues for the work they have done,
and I urge them to expedite negotia-
tions and finalize this agreement soon
to make sure that we can make lives
whole for the people suffering in the
State of Iowa and across this country.
f
MINOR LEAGUE BASEBALL
(Mrs. TRAHAN asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mrs. TRAHAN. Madam Speaker, I
rise today on behalf of millions of
Americans to call ‘‘foul’’ on Major
League Baseball.
This week, Major League Baseball is
discussing a proposal to cut the num-
ber of minor league franchises by 25
percent. The Lowell Spinners, a Red
Sox affiliate, is among the 42 teams
being forced out.
This plan is a betrayal of the fans
and players as well as stadium vendors
and employees around the Nation. It is
an affront to the people of Lowell who
swung for the fences in building
LeLacheur Park, one of the Nation’s
best minor league parks.
As the World Series gets underway,
remember that the minor league sys-
tem produces the talent we see on the
baseball diamond. MLB’s plan is way
off base and will hurt so many commu-
nities across the country that rely on
minor league teams’ presence.
Let’s call it a balk and get back to
rooting for the home team.
f
THE NEW NORMAL: BLACKOUTS
(Mr. HARDER of California asked
and was given permission to address
the House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HARDER of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise in frustration for my
constituents in California’s Central
Valley. Folks across my community
are reeling from blackouts caused by
greed, corruption, and mismanagement
at our State’s largest utility, PG&E.
I am not the only one who is fed up.
More than 1,000 people in my district
had their power cut by PG&E, some for
days.
Now the company is saying more
blackouts could be coming this week
and that it could be the new normal for
the next decade. I refuse to accept
that.
Regular people can’t choose to not
pay their bills, and PG&E shouldn’t be
able to abuse that fact by refusing to
invest in their grid. These blackouts
are happening because rich executives
decided to give themselves millions of
dollars in bonuses instead of investing
in their crumbling infrastructure.
Hundreds of thousands of people lost
power because of these executives’
greed. PG&E even proposed handing
out another $16 million in additional
bonuses this year. It took a judge to
stop their plan. Meanwhile, their shut-
offs are estimated to cost our families
more than $2 billion.
f
MEDICARE LOW-INCOME
LEGISLATION
(Mr. DELGADO asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Speaker, I
rise today on behalf of seniors in up-
state New York.
This August, I joined a forum with
AARP in New Paltz on the need to ad-
dress the skyrocketing cost of prescrip-
tion drugs in our communities. I heard
harrowing stories from seniors, many
of whom are on fixed income, who have
seen the medication they rely on triple
in price.
The system is working against our
seniors. Right now, qualified covered
retirement accounts are included in de-
termining income and eligibility under
the Medicare part D low-income sub-
sidy program, and this means seniors
must choose between saving for retire-
ment and lifesaving medication.
Saving for retirement shouldn’t jeop-
ardize how low-income subsidies for
Medicare part D beneficiaries are dis-
tributed. That is why I joined my col-
leagues in introducing H.R. 4655, the
Enhancing Retirement Security for
Medicare Beneficiaries Act of 2019, to
remove retirement accounts from that
determination and lower out-of-pocket
costs for our seniors.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to support H.R. 4655.
f
ELECTION REFORM
(Mr. HIGGINS of New York asked and
was given permission to address the
House for 1 minute.)
Mr. HIGGINS of New York. Madam
Speaker, this Saturday, October 26,
early voting begins in New York State
for the first time, expanding the win-
dow for voters to select their govern-
ment representatives.
This country has long upheld its pro-
tection of free and fair elections, keep-
ing the power and decisionmaking
where it should be: with, and only with,
the American people.
Foreign interference in our elections
is real, and its existence is threatening
the legitimacy of our elections, na-
tional security, and the democracy this
Nation was founded on.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.013 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8398 October 23, 2019
Today the House will vote on the
SHIELD Act, adding further trans-
parency in campaigns, stiffer penalties
for voter deception, and further restric-
tions against foreign interference, in-
cluding making campaigns mandatory
reporters if there is any offer of foreign
assistance in those campaigns.
Madam Speaker, I urge others to join
me in voting to protect the vote of the
American people.
f
PRESCRIPTION DRUG PRICES
(Mr. RUIZ asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. RUIZ. Madam Speaker, I rise
today because seniors in my district
are walking out of the pharmacy with-
out their medications after they look
at the out-of-pocket price and say to
themselves, ‘‘I can’t afford this.’’ They
are not taking the medications they
need, which jeopardizes their lives, and
this is unacceptable.
It is their health—their very lives—
that are on the line. That is why, when
we are talking about prescription
drugs, we must focus on lowering the
out-of-pocket costs for seniors.
That is why I support H.R. 3, the
Lower Drug Costs Now Act, because it
requires Medicare to negotiate drug
prices so that my constituents can get
a fair and affordable price for their
medication. It also caps the annual
out-of-pocket costs for those seniors
who require many medications or ex-
pensive medication.
No one should have to choose be-
tween buying groceries to eat or get-
ting medications they need, and H.R. 3
will lower costs so seniors don’t have
to make that decision.
f
BRIDGETON VFW
(Mr. VAN DREW asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. VAN DREW. Madam Speaker,
today I want to show my appreciation
for the Veterans of Foreign Wars Post
of Bridgeton in south Jersey. This com-
munity provides a space for veterans to
come together and connect with oth-
ers, and these are other folks who un-
derstand the hardships and the rewards
of serving our Nation.
The Veterans of Foreign Wars meet
monthly to share their experiences and
bond with one another in Bridgeton.
They also organize special services for
holidays, like Memorial Day and Vet-
erans Day, so the members can com-
memorate these days together.
In addition, the VFW reaches out to
the greater Bridgeton community by
hosting barbecues, community dinners,
and other festivals to connect with
their neighbors and sometimes raise
funds for important charitable causes.
I would like to thank the brave vet-
erans of the Bridgeton VFW. Their
service to our Nation is tremendous. I
am overjoyed that this community has
given them a safe place to remember
their service together.
Madam Speaker, they are our best;
they are our shining stars; and they are
our heroes.
May God bless them.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, October 23, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
The Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on Oc-
tober 23, 2019, at 9:21 a.m.:
That the Senate passed S. 1590.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
CHERYL L. JOHNSON.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 4617, STOPPING HARM-
FUL INTERFERENCE IN ELEC-
TIONS FOR A LASTING DEMOC-
RACY ACT
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, by
direction of the Committee on Rules, I
call up House Resolution 650 and ask
for its immediate consideration.
The Clerk read the resolution, as fol-
lows:
H. RES. 650
Resolved, That at any time after adoption
of this resolution the Speaker may, pursuant
to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the
House resolved into the Committee of the
Whole House on the state of the Union for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 4617) to amend
the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 to
clarify the obligation to report acts of for-
eign election influence and require imple-
mentation of compliance and reporting sys-
tems by Federal campaigns to detect and re-
port such acts, and for other purposes. The
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed
with. All points of order against consider-
ation of the bill are waived. General debate
shall be confined to the bill and shall not ex-
ceed one hour equally divided and controlled
by the chair and ranking minority member
of the Committee on House Administration.
After general debate the bill shall be consid-
ered for amendment under the five-minute
rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature
of a substitute recommended by the Com-
mittee on House Administration now printed
in the bill, it shall be in order to consider as
an original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the five-minute rule an amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute consisting
of the text of Rules Committee Print 116-35
modified by the amendment printed in part
A of the report of the Committee on Rules
accompanying this resolution. That amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute shall be
considered as read. All points of order
against that amendment in the nature of a
substitute are waived. No amendment to
that amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be in order except those printed
in part B of the report of the Committee on
Rules. Each such amendment may be offered
only in the order printed in the report, may
be offered only by a Member designated in
the report, shall be considered as read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in the re-
port equally divided and controlled by the
proponent and an opponent, shall not be sub-
ject to amendment, and shall not be subject
to a demand for division of the question in
the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
All points of order against such amendments
are waived. At the conclusion of consider-
ation of the bill for amendment the Com-
mittee shall rise and report the bill to the
House with such amendments as may have
been adopted. Any Member may demand a
separate vote in the House on any amend-
ment adopted in the Committee of the Whole
to the bill or to the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute made in order as original
text. The previous question shall be consid-
ered as ordered on the bill and amendments
thereto to final passage without intervening
motion except one motion to recommit with
or without instructions.
b 1230
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from Florida is recognized for 1
hour.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, for
the purpose of debate only, I yield the
customary 30 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma (Mr. COLE), my
friend, pending which I yield myself
such time as I may consume. During
consideration of this resolution, all
time yielded is for the purpose of de-
bate only.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers be given 5 legislative days to re-
vise and extend their remarks.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Florida?
There was no objection.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, on
Tuesday, the Rules Committee met and
reported a rule, House Resolution 650,
providing for consideration of H.R.
4617, the Stopping Harmful Inter-
ference in Elections for a Lasting De-
mocracy, better known as the SHIELD
Act, under a structured rule.
The rule provides 1 hour of debate,
equally divided and controlled by the
Chair and ranking member of the Com-
mittee on House Administration. The
rule also executes a manager’s amend-
ment from Chairwoman LOFGREN,
makes in order 14 amendments, and
provides one motion to recommit on
the bill.
Madam Speaker, it is going to be in-
teresting to watch my Republican
friends twist pretzel-like today to con-
vince themselves that voting against a
bill that will protect the sanctity of
our electoral process from foreign in-
terference is the right thing to do for
the American people.
Through today’s rule, the Democrats
bring to the floor a bill that states that
those campaigns that are offered as-
sistance from foreign actors should be
required to report such attempts at as-
sistance.
Sadly, I predict that my Republican
friends will vote against such protec-
tions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.015 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8399
October 23, 2019
We, as Democrats, say that foreign
governments should not be allowed to
buy political advertisements in a clear
and ongoing attempt to spread con-
spiracy theories and sow discord among
the American electorate.
I predict that for reasons
undecipherable, the Republicans will
still vote against today’s bill.
In fact, let us pause here for a mo-
ment. The use of social media plat-
forms by maligned actors to undermine
our democracy is not only historical,
but is happening today, as we speak.
An article that appeared in yesterday’s
Washington Post outlines how Russia’s
intelligence apparatus through the
Internet Research Agency continues to
use Facebook and Facebook’s photo-
sharing app, Instagram, to sow discord
among the American people.
With alarming precision, they target
our vulnerabilities, our fears, our baser
instincts in hopes of tearing asunder
the fabric of our democracy.
As it turns out, past is indeed pro-
logue, and unless we want Facebook
and others to be left to play an ongoing
game of whack-a-mole against Russian,
and now apparently Iranian, and poten-
tially other intelligence agencies, we
in Congress need to provide the needed
support that any platform can fully
meet the threat posed by these nefar-
ious actors.
Madam Speaker, on this side of the
aisle, we say that we should strengthen
the ban against foreign nationals and
foreign governments spending money
in our elections, and we have put pen
to paper in today’s bill to ensure that
we do, indeed, strengthen such a ban.
Again, I predict that many, if not all,
of my colleagues across the aisle will
vote against today’s bill, and, there-
fore, against the notion that foreign
governments ought not to be spending
money in our elections.
Today’s bill is a direct rebuke of the
Trump campaign’s sharing of nonpublic
polling information with Russian intel-
ligence in the hopes that this informa-
tion would make it to Moscow in order
to help with their beyond well-docu-
mented campaign to interfere with the
2016 Presidential election.
Simply put, this bill treats the be-
havior engaged in by the Trump cam-
paign as an illegal solicitation of sup-
port. Why? Because that is what it was.
Again, I say to the American people,
watch today’s vote. I once again pre-
dict that you will see Republicans vote
against making such behavior illegal,
and that is sad.
Finally—and this one is personal—to-
day’s bill incorporates language that
will punish those who seek to intimi-
date, misinform, or maliciously mis-
direct those who simply wish to exer-
cise that great American pastime: cast-
ing a ballot.
Attempts to dissuade voters from
going to the polls, whether through vi-
olence or other means, have been part
of this country’s history for far too
long.
We now know that in addition to
homegrown efforts to keep voters away
from the polls on election day, the Rus-
sians also engaged in voter suppression
tactics, including the malicious dis-
semination of misinformation in a bra-
zen attempt to sow confusion in the
electorate in 2016. I might add, that
three Florida counties had their elec-
tions offices compromised by Russian
hackers.
A vote for today’s rule is a vote to
bring forth a bill that will work to put
an end to these dastardly deeds. Unfor-
tunately, for reasons unfathomable,
Republicans will stand brick-wall-like
against such reform.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I rise to
exercise the time that the gentleman
from Florida (Mr. HASTINGS), my good
friend, has extended to me.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from Florida, my very good
friend, the distinguished vice-chairman
of the Rules Committee, for yielding
me the customary 30 minutes, and I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I would be the first
to admit that there are some good
things in this bill. But to say also to
my good friend, at the end of the day it
is a very easy no. And that is sad.
Frankly, we could have had an oppor-
tunity to work together in a bipartisan
fashion and actually produce a product
that would be effective and one in
which every Member of this Chamber
could vote for. But my friends have
chosen not to do that.
Madam Speaker, we are here on an-
other attempt by the majority to push
deeply partisan measures to change
America’s electoral system in response
to the 2016 Presidential election.
Earlier this year, the majority
pushed through H.R. 1, which they gave
the misnomer of the, ‘‘For the People
Act.’’ The reality was that H.R. 1 was
completely misnamed. It was not ‘‘for
the people,’’ it was for the Democratic
majority, by the Democratic majority
in hopes of maintaining the Demo-
cratic majority for many years to
come.
Similarly today, we are considering
H.R. 4617, yet another misnamed and
misguided bill aimed at changing
America’s election laws. The majority
has called H.R. 4617 the SHIELD Act.
Unfortunately, this bill shields us from
exactly nothing. It expands the power
of the Federal Government, limits free-
dom of speech, and reduces the ability
of the American people to participate
in their own elections, all while failing
to protect our democracy from foreign
interference.
Before I talk about the problems
with the SHIELD Act, I think we
should be clear: Republicans stand
ready and willing to work with Demo-
crats on bipartisan solutions to reform
our election system and protect it from
foreign influence.
My good friend from Illinois, Rank-
ing Member RODNEY DAVIS, has pro-
posed such a bill that would do exactly
that. H.R. 4736, the Honest Elections
Act updates existing election laws in a
fair way. It strengthens the Foreign
Agents Registration Act to combat
election interference, modernizes on-
line political ad disclosure, increases
monitoring of spending by foreign na-
tionals in our elections, and bans the
practice of ballot harvesting.
These are the kinds of bipartisan so-
lutions Republicans and Democrats
should be able to come together on.
But instead, the majority is once again
proposing a partisan bill that fails to
put forward real solutions to these
problems.
Let’s take a look at just a few of
those provisions in H.R. 4617:
First, H.R. 4617 imposes draconian
limitations on online political adver-
tising that will only make it harder for
Americans to participate in our elec-
tions. It applies a model of regulation
designed for TV ads to online ads,
which are two very different media.
And it requires the same four-second
disclosures for online ads as they cur-
rently require for TV ads, even though
online ads are generally significantly
shorter.
H.R. 4617 also attempts to add limita-
tions on the ability of foreign nationals
to buy online ads for electioneering
communications. But I note this will
likely have very little effect. The pri-
mary means by which Russia interfered
in the 2016 election was through tradi-
tional social media posts and troll
farms, which this bill will not impact.
What is worse, the bill also expands
the definition of the term ‘‘election-
eering communication’’ to include,
‘‘issues of national importance.’’ This
term is going to become so overinclu-
sive that it will become meaningless. If
a company wants to take out an adver-
tisement talking about the need for
jobs in their community, they may be
shocked to learn that they have actu-
ally purchased an electioneering com-
munication and are now subject to new
rules of political advertisement.
This kind of overinclusive, ill-defined
regulation will do nothing to protect
our democracy, and will, instead, just
simply make it harder for Americans
to exercise their right to freedom of
speech.
What is worse, the bill expands the
power of the United States Attorney
General—hardly a nonpartisan figure—
by allowing that political official to
interfere in State elections, by any
means necessary. This unprecedented
intervention ability would mean that
the Congress is once again expanding
the power of Washington at the ex-
pense of the States.
Madam Speaker, a bill this flawed
should never have come before the
Rules Committee and should not be
coming to the floor. Republicans are
ready and willing to work with Demo-
crats on bipartisan solutions to pre-
vent foreign interference and secure
our elections, but instead, the majority
is putting forward a deeply partisan
product that will not secure our elec-
tions and will only make it harder for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.018 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8400 October 23, 2019
Americans to participate in their own
democracy.
And, frankly, they are putting for-
ward a product that I think they have
every confidence the Senate will not
take up, and the President, I would
predict, would almost certainly not
sign.
We can and should do better than
that. I look forward to when my friends
decide they want to do better than that
to actually working with them.
Madam Speaker, I urge opposition to
the rule, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I
reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS), distinguished
ranking member of the Committee on
House Administration, and my good
friend.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I appreciate the op-
portunity to come to this great institu-
tion to talk about this piece of legisla-
tion. I thank the ranking member and
also my colleague from Florida (Mr.
HASTINGS) for a great spirited debate
last night in the Rules Committee, but
I still, today, have to rise in opposition
to the rule for consideration of H.R.
4617.
Last night at the Rules Committee
meeting, there was bipartisan con-
sensus that this bill has not gone
through regular order. We did not have
the opportunity to hold a single hear-
ing addressing foreign political propa-
ganda in the Committee on House Ad-
ministration.
We are focusing on paid political ad-
vertisements, when the Senate Intel’s
bipartisan report stated that ‘‘paid ad-
vertisements were not key’’ to Russia’s
activity. Out of the $1.4 billion spent
on political advertisements in the 2016
election cycle on digital advertising,
the Russians spent $100,000 of that over
2 years on paid political Facebook ads.
This is relevant information. This
should have been considered and dis-
cussed in a committee hearing before
sidestepping process and rushing a bill
to the floor that does not address key
issues.
None of us had a chance to ask
Facebook: ‘‘Why did you take a pay-
ment from Russia?’’
‘‘Was it in rubles?’’
‘‘Was it in dollars?’’
‘‘Why in the world did you take
$100,000 from Russia and put overtly po-
litical ads online?’’
At some point, companies that par-
ticipate in the political process, we
need to have them in front of us to ask
them why; ask them how. But we
didn’t get a chance to do that because
the Committee on House Administra-
tion had zero hearings before rushing
this bill to the floor.
We have a process here in the House
for a reason, Madam Speaker. The
process is set up to make sure what
gets to the floor will address the prob-
lem at hand and will not harm the
rights of the American people. Instead,
the language in this bill is so broad
that it does little to stop foreign polit-
ical propaganda and, instead, creates a
chilling effect on America’s free
speech.
If the House had held hearings on
this legislation, then we could have ap-
propriately tailored language to ad-
dress the real problem of foreign inter-
ference without affecting free speech.
In 2016, the Russians tampered in our
elections and engaged in stunning mis-
information campaigns in an effort to
undermine our elections.
b 1245
Much of what the Russians did was
already illegal. If we want to stop this
from happening in the future, then we
should be strengthening existing laws
and making sure law enforcement has
the resources it needs to track down
foreign nationals that are breaking the
law by spreading propaganda.
Instead, this bill provides zero re-
sources to help law enforcement en-
force existing laws and, rather, imposes
new regulations that will harm Ameri-
cans’ right to free speech.
The sweeping language in this bill
will very likely silence the voices of
honest American organizations and
nonpolitical companies that wish to
speak out on ‘‘issues of national impor-
tance.’’
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
the gentleman an additional 30 sec-
onds.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
SHIELD’s burdensome regulations will
make it more difficult for Americans
to be heard. Isn’t that the goal of the
Russians, to shut down our free and
open society and silence the voices of
Americans?
Madam Speaker, we should support
our law enforcement to do their jobs,
not make up new regulations that chill
free speech.
This bill is a misinformation stunt to
the American people. It sends a mes-
sage to America that something is
being done to stop what happened in
2016 when, in reality, it fails to address
the actual threat. It is a Trojan horse
from the majority.
Do we actually want to stop foreign
interference, or do my colleagues sim-
ply want talking points?
Madam Speaker, you have a bill be-
fore you that will not stop meddling. I
urge a ‘‘no’’ vote.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I
would ask my friend Mr. DAVIS if he
would stand by just a minute. I have a
query of him.
Last night in the Rules Committee,
our colleague ED PERLMUTTER offered
the gentleman an opportunity to come
today to ask Mr. Zuckerberg the ques-
tions that he put here. Is the gen-
tleman availing himself of that oppor-
tunity?
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Will
the gentleman yield?
Mr. HASTINGS. I yield to the gen-
tleman from Illinois.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I thank the gen-
tleman from Florida for reminding ev-
erybody here that I was offered a
chance by my good friend ED PERL-
MUTTER, a Democrat from Colorado, to
actually ask Facebook, ask Mark
Zuckerberg, a question of why they
took that payment.
The answer, Mr. HASTINGS, is yes. I
went over to the Financial Services
Committee. I specifically spoke with
Mr. PERLMUTTER in the committee
hearing room, where he told me that
Chairwoman WATERS would allow
Members who were not on the com-
mittee, like me, to ask questions, but I
probably have to come back in about 5
hours.
I am hoping to do that. I am hoping
to go back there later this afternoon
and ask that question.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, in
light of the process questions that the
gentleman asked about hearings, I am
proud of our Democratic majority’s
record when it comes to regular order.
At the beginning of this Congress, we
instituted a rule to require hearings
and markups for bills that come
through the Rules Committee, and we
have followed that rule.
In fact, the House Administration
Committee, the primary committee of
jurisdiction for this bill, held three
hearings to develop the SHIELD Act.
Those three hearings took place on
February 14, May 8, and May 21, and
they are clearly listed in the House Ad-
ministration Committee’s report.
Mr. Speaker, with that in mind, I in-
clude in the RECORD the House Admin-
istration Committee’s report.
HEARINGS
For the purposes of section 103(i) of H. Res.
6 of the 116th Congress the following hear-
ings were used to develop or consider H.R.
2722:
(1) On Wednesday, May 8, 2019 the Com-
mittee held a hearing titled ‘‘Election Secu-
rity.’’ The following witnesses testified: Mr.
Larry Norden, Brennan Center for Justice;
Ms. Marian Schneider, Verified Voting; Mr.
Joseph Lorenzo Hall, Center for Democracy
and Technology; The Honorable Jocelyn Ben-
son, Secretary of State, State of Michigan;
and The Honorable John Merrill, Secretary
of State, State of Alabama.
(2) On Tuesday, May 21, 2019, the Com-
mittee held a hearing titled ‘‘Oversight of
the Election Assistance Commission.’’ The
following witnesses testified: The Honorable
Christy McCormick, Commissioner and
Chairwoman, Election Assistance Commis-
sion, accompanied by The Honorable Ben-
jamin Hovland, Commissioner and Vice
Chair, Election Assistance Commission; The
Honorable Don Palmer, Commissioner, Elec-
tion Assistance Commission; and The Honor-
able Thomas Hicks, Commissioner, Election
Assistance Commission.
(3) On Thursday, February 14, 2019, the
Committee held a hearing titled ‘‘For the
People: Our American Democracy.’’ The fol-
lowing witnesses testified: Mr. Chiraag
Bains, Director of Legal Strategies, Demos;
Ms. Wendy Weiser, Director, Democracy Pro-
gram, Brennan Center for Justice at NYU
School of Law; Mr. Fred Wertheimer, Presi-
dent, Democracy 21; The Honorable Kim
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.019 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8401
October 23, 2019
Wyman, Secretary of State, State of Wash-
ington; Mr. Alejandro Rangel-Lopez, Senior
at Dodge City High School, Dodge City Kan-
sas, and plaintiff in LULAC & Rangel-Lopez
v. Cox; Mr. Peter Earle, Wisconsin Civil
Rights Trial Lawyer; Mr. Brandon A. Jessup,
Data Science and Information Systems Pro-
fessional; Executive Director, Michigan For-
ward; and David Keating, President, Insti-
tute for Free Speech.
COMMITTEE CONSIDERATION
On Wednesday, October 16, 2019, the Com-
mittee met in open session and ordered the
bill H.R. 4617 favorably reported with an
amendment to the House, by a roll call vote
of 6 to 1, a quorum being present. During
consideration of the bill an amendment
(Amendment No. 5) was offered by Mr. Davis
of Illinois and was agreed to by voice vote:
An amendment (No. 5) offered by Mr. Davis
of Illinois to amend section 201(b) of the
amendment in the nature of a substitute to
insert ‘‘labor organization’’ after ‘‘a corpora-
tion’’ and after ‘‘the corporation’’ each place
that it appears.
Mr. HASTINGS. In addition to those
three hearings, the House Administra-
tion Committee held eight other elec-
tion-related hearings this year.
I also want to point out that while it
isn’t the primary committee of juris-
diction for this bill, the Judiciary
Committee held two hearings on elec-
tion security.
The House Administration Com-
mittee also held a markup on H.R. 4617.
Several amendments were offered, in-
cluding an amendment by the gen-
tleman who just spoke, my friend,
Ranking Member DAVIS, that was
adopted by the committee.
This is how the process is supposed to
work, Mr. Speaker, and I am hopeful
that that will help clarify some aspects
of what was brought up about process.
Mr. Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE), my good friend.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Speaker, I
thank the gentleman for his leadership.
I thank the House Administration
Committee, both the chairman and
ranking member. I thank the gen-
tleman from Oklahoma for managing
this rule.
I want to emphasize, particularly to
the gentleman from Florida, for his
recitation of the number of hearings
that were held, but I want to empha-
size that time is of the essence.
Right now, in many of our jurisdic-
tions, there are local elections going
on. In just a couple of weeks or more,
many will begin to engage in either
primaries or the signing up of can-
didates for the 2020 election. We have
taken an oath to protect and serve and
to uphold the Constitution of the
United States.
Everyone knows what happened in
2016. Everywhere you go, local officials
and State officials are asking us, the
Federal Government: What are you
doing to protect the sanctity of the
2020 election?
There is no doubt that, in volume 1,
there is clarity of the number of Rus-
sian operatives contacting and inter-
acting with the Trump campaign in
2016. There is no conflict or disagree-
ment with the bias of those that par-
ticipated, Russian operatives, in this
campaign, Russian bots.
Time is of the essence. One of the
most important elements of this bill
that I applaud is the inclusion of my
language in H.R. 2353, Duty to Refuse
and Report Foreign Interference in
American Elections.
I don’t think one American would
disagree, not respecting any party af-
filiation, that if an operative from an-
other country came to you to give you
information, it is your responsibility
to report it to the FBI under the Fed-
eral election laws, which was my bill,
Duty to Refuse and Report Foreign In-
terference.
We don’t disagree in that. I hope we
don’t disagree that it is inappropriate
to seek foreign assistance for a cam-
paign, because one of the things of the
Founding Fathers that I think is very
clear in the Constitution and is very
clear in the papers that surround it—
the Federalist Papers and the com-
ments of Benjamin Franklin when the
audience was waiting, wondering
whether we had a monarchy or a repub-
lic, and he said a republic, if we can
keep it—that is that this Constitution
and this process of elections was sup-
posed to be unfettered, one vote, one
person.
That is why we have had to perfect it
with the Voting Rights Act that we are
trying to reauthorize, certain aspects
of it. That is why we have written laws
to protect voters and election laws
wherein we protect voters—one vote,
one person.
So, I support the underlying bill,
H.R. 4617, Stopping Harmful Inter-
ference in Elections for a Lasting De-
mocracy.
Remember, Benjamin Franklin said
it is a republic, if we can keep it.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong support of
the Rule for H.R. 4617, the ‘‘Stopping Harmful
Interference in Elections for A Lasting Democ-
racy Act,’’ or SHIELD Act and the underlying
legislation.
I support this legislation introduced by my
colleague, the Chairwoman of the Committee
on House Administration, the gentlelady from
California, Chairwoman LOFGREN, because it:
1. Creates a duty to report illicit offers of
campaign assistance from foreign govern-
ments and their agents;
2. Helps prevent foreign interference in fu-
ture elections by improving transparency of
online political advertisements;
3. Closes loopholes that allow foreign na-
tionals and foreign governments to spend in
U.S. elections;
4. Restricts exchange of campaign informa-
tion between candidates and foreign govern-
ments and their agents; and
5. Prohibits deceptive practices about voting
procedures.
Madam Speaker, earlier this year FBI Direc-
tor Christopher Wray testified before the Con-
gress that foreign interference in on our de-
mocracy is ‘‘a 365-day-a-year threat.’’
This is outrageous; American elections are
to be decided by Americans.
That is why I am particularly pleased that
H.R. 4617 incorporates the key provisions of
H.R. 2353, the ‘‘Duty To Refuse And Report
Foreign Interference In Elections Act’’ that I in-
troduced in April of this year.
Madam Speaker, our friends across the
aisle voted against Republicans voted against
H.R. 1, the ‘‘For The People Act of 2019,’’
which, inter alia, would secure our elections,
and then against H.R. 2722, the ‘‘Securing
America’s Federal Elections Act’’ or SAFE Act,
which closes dangerous gaps in our voting se-
curity into the 21st Century.
Today our Republican colleagues have an-
other chance to demonstrate that they take
seriously their oath to defend the Constitution
against all enemies, foreign or domestic.
Madam Speaker, on January 6, 2017, rep-
resentatives of the Intelligence Community ad-
vised the President-Elect that the Russian
Federation conducted a sophisticated cam-
paign to subvert our democracy with the goal
of electing Donald Trump and defeating Hillary
Clinton.
The Report issued by Special Counsel Rob-
ert Mueller on March 22, 2019 revealed that
the Russians effectuated their goals by selec-
tively disseminating stolen emails, with the
end of maximizing the adverse impact this
would have on Secretary Clinton’s electoral
prospects.
The Mueller Report further indicated that
Russia’s misinformation efforts also included
the proliferation of fake online profiles on so-
cial media platforms, with the goal of echoing
and amplifying politically divisive messages,
so as to sow discord within the electorate and
suppress the vote for Secretary Clinton.
As the Mueller Report lays bare, the Trump
Campaign knew what Russia was doing and
welcomed that assistance, did nothing to dis-
courage it, did not report it, denied its exist-
ence and knowingly and happily accepted the
benefits of the hostile foreign interference.
While some may tolerate this as awful but
lawful conduct, none of the bill’s sponsors or
supporters do because it is deeply corrosive of
our democracy.
In April of this year I introduced H.R. 2353,
the ‘‘Duty to Refuse and Report Foreign Inter-
ference in American Elections Act of 2019,’’ to
impose an affirmative duty to refuse any offer
of election campaign assistance from any
agent or entity acting on behalf or in the inter-
est of a foreign government and to report to
the Federal Bureau of Investigation any such
offer of assistance from an agent or entity act-
ing on behalf or in the interest of a foreign
government.
This duty to refuse and report applies to
candidates and any person working for, or vol-
unteering with, a candidate for election to fed-
eral office.
The legislation also requires the Federal
Election Commission to require that a can-
didate for election to federal office must certify
quarterly that he or she is compliance with the
above requirements on penalty of not more
than 5 years in prison and a fine of not more
than $250,000.
Madam Speaker, the threat to our country is
real, as documented in detail in the report
issued by Special Counsel Mueller, confirmed
by the unanimous assessment of our nation’s
Intelligence Community, and affirmed most re-
cently by FBI Director Wray who testified in
Congress that foreign interference in on our
democracy is ‘‘a 365-day-a-year threat.’’
It is past time to write into the books of law
the sensible and self-protective principle that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.010 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8402 October 23, 2019
American elections are to be decided only by
American citizens, and not influenced by for-
eign adversaries.
I encourage all members to join me in vot-
ing to keep Americans in control of our elec-
toral process and elections by voting to pass
H.R. 4716, the SHIELD Act.
Mr. COLE. Mr. Speaker, I yield my-
self such time as I may consume.
Just quickly, to respond to a couple
of points my friends made, first, let’s
remember, in 2016, President Obama
was the President of the United States
when a lot of the activity that my
friends are concerned about took place.
In 2018, when President Trump was
President, we don’t have accusations of
foreign interference. As a matter of
fact, it was a pretty good election cycle
for my friends, and I congratulate
them on that.
So, I suspect this administration has
done a better job than the last admin-
istration in dealing with these issues.
But I agree there are some things we
can and should work on to improve our
system, and we have offered—Mr.
DAVIS chief among them—a variety of
areas where we can cooperate and
where we, frankly, agree.
In the areas where we can’t agree,
let’s set them aside and have our dis-
agreements. But where we can, let’s
put things together that we all agree
on and at least get those things passed.
That would be my recommended
choice.
Madam Speaker, if we defeat the pre-
vious question, I will offer an amend-
ment to the rule to immediately sus-
pend the House’s impeachment inquiry
until the National Defense Authoriza-
tion Act for Fiscal Year 2020 and the
Defense Appropriations Act for fiscal
year 2020 are law.
Madam Speaker, Congress has failed
to meet the deadline for one of our
most crucial responsibilities, to pass
the authorization act and the appro-
priations bill for our national defense
prior to the start of the fiscal year. We
did not succeed in getting either of
these bills into law by September 30,
and now the Department of Defense is
operating under a continuing resolu-
tion, which in no way adequately sup-
ports and funds our military.
Instead of pushing forward, the
House is distracted by an unprece-
dented and unauthorized impeachment
inquiry, which is remarkable mostly
for the complete lack of transparency
the majority has adopted. Republicans
have been repeatedly denied their rea-
sonable requests to attend depositions
with witnesses and even to review tran-
scripts and other documents. Moreover,
the House is proceeding in this inquiry
without ever taking a vote to authorize
it or establish the parameters and en-
sure due process.
At a time when threats are con-
tinuing to emerge around the world,
and our constituents want us to tackle
important issues impacting their ev-
eryday lives, the House can ill afford
the distraction this inquiry is causing.
Consequently, my amendment will
require us to suspend the impeachment
inquiry until such time as both the
NDAA and the Defense Appropriations
Act for fiscal year 2020 have been en-
acted.
Madam Speaker, I ask unanimous
consent to insert the text of my
amendment in the RECORD, along with
extraneous material, immediately
prior to the vote on the previous ques-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
JACKSON LEE). Is there objection to the
request of the gentleman from Okla-
homa?
There was no objection.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentleman from Texas
(Mr. THORNBERRY), my good friend, the
distinguished ranking member of the
House Armed Services Committee.
Mr. THORNBERRY. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman for yielding and
join him in opposing the previous ques-
tion so that Congress can meet its
most fundamental responsibilities
under the Constitution.
Article I, Section 8 says that it is
Congress’ responsibility to ‘‘raise and
support,’’ ‘‘provide and maintain’’ for
the military forces of the United
States.
Congress is failing in that responsi-
bility. Not only have we missed the Oc-
tober 1 deadline, but we are currently
operating under a stopgap funding
measure that prevents our military
from adapting to a volatile world, and
even that expires in less than a month.
In this debate today, we have heard a
lot about Russian attempts to interfere
in our elections. Well, who is on the
front lines of protecting the country in
cyberspace as well as the other do-
mains? It is the American military. It
is the Cyber Command that is funded
for less than a month.
It seems to me that we ought to start
with the first responsibility of pro-
viding for our military, which is on the
front lines of defending us, yes, in
cyberspace as well as all the other do-
mains of warfare.
While this House and Washington in
general are consumed by secret im-
peachment proceedings, adversaries are
looking to take advantage of this
Washington dysfunction.
Who gets caught in the middle of all
this political squabbling? It is our
troops, the very men and women who
volunteer to risk their lives to protect
us. They are the ones who suffer the
most.
There are dozens of programs in
every military service that cannot
begin under the current stopgap fund-
ing measure. There are dozens of pro-
grams in every service where we need
to do more of something, but we can’t
do more under the current continuing
resolution.
There are many programs we need to
hire good people to work on. You can’t
do that under the current stopgap
funding measure.
Instead, what we get is political
squabbling.
Now, I know there will be people who
say: Well, the House has passed these
bills. It is the Senate’s fault. It is
Trump’s fault. It is somebody else’s
fault.
We have enough of that squabbling,
finger-pointing, and blame. What we
need are results. Results will require
the leadership of this House to focus on
getting first things done first, and that
means we need to get these essential
defense bills signed into law. To get
them signed into law, they have to be
done in a bipartisan way.
Madam Speaker, I am absolutely
convinced that, given the chaos and
volatility of this world, the United
States is going to be tested severely in
the weeks to come. The best thing this
Congress can do is put aside the polit-
ical squabbling and focus on support
for those people who are defending us,
the American military.
b 1300
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker,
through you, I would advise my friend
that I have no further speakers, and I
am prepared to close if he is.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield 3
minutes to the gentlewoman from
Texas (Ms. GRANGER), the distinguished
ranking Republican Member of the
Committee on Appropriations, my good
friend.
Ms. GRANGER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentleman from Oklahoma
for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ and defeat the
previous question.
The House should focus on our con-
stitutional responsibility to fund the
government and provide for our na-
tional defense.
Current government funding runs out
in 29 days. But instead of finalizing the
National Defense Authorization Act or
Defense appropriations bill, we are de-
bating partisan messaging bills and
distracted by an impeachment process
that lacks any semblance of trans-
parency.
Last year, Republicans made defense
their highest priority. The Defense ap-
propriations bill was law before the end
of the fiscal year, and the NDAA was
signed in August. This year, the NDAA
has been in conference for more than a
month, and the House last acted on De-
fense appropriations in June.
China and Russia aren’t slowing
down their defense buildup. Why should
we handicap our own military and
allow our enemies to take advantage of
our distraction? This is dangerous and
shortsighted.
Our highest priority must be keeping
the government functioning and the
Defense Department fully funded. This
House must focus on providing for our
national defense and work with our
colleagues in the Senate and the White
House.
In order to achieve this goal, I urge a
‘‘no’’ vote on the previous question, a
‘‘no’’ vote on the rule, and a ‘‘no’’ vote
on the underlying measure.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.011 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8403
October 23, 2019
Madam Speaker, very briefly, the
last three speakers, including my good
friend from Oklahoma, have mentioned
the ongoing impeachment inquiry here
in the House of Representatives, and
they speak of it as being a lack of
transparency. It is almost as if the Re-
publicans are not in the hearings that
are going on in this inquiry.
In my understanding, although I am
not a member of either of the commit-
tees of jurisdiction, I have spoken with
and have heard publicly the person who
is the responsible person for ongoing
matters at this time say that the other
side is there. Their lawyers are asking
questions. Members, if they choose, are
asking questions.
So I don’t understand what they are
talking about about a lack of trans-
parency, particularly when the pre-
vious impeachments that were done
were done by special prosecutors. This
is a solemn process.
And while I agree with my colleagues
about the National Defense Authoriza-
tion measure, the simple fact of the
matter is that we also have a constitu-
tional responsibility to ensure that the
executive branch of this government
functions in an appropriate manner
and does not do as they are doing: fail-
ing to respond to the oversight respon-
sibilities of the Article I House of Rep-
resentatives.
I rather suspect that that is just talk
when they say that there is no trans-
parency. I suggest to them to stick
around. They are going to see some
transparency real soon.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
I want to begin by thanking my very
good friend from Florida for what we
always get, which is always a thought-
ful debate, always professional, always
civil. And even when we disagree, I al-
ways enjoy the exchange, so I thank
my friend for that.
I will disagree vehemently, though,
that the process in terms of impeach-
ment that we are going through right
now is remotely transparent. The
American people can’t get in there.
And, frankly, I can tell you, Members,
under the rules of the Intelligence
Committee, all of us, as long as it is
not classified, are supposed to be able
to get transcripts. We haven’t been
able to get those things. So we will
watch as this unfolds.
But my friends would have been far
better to do what has been done in pre-
vious impeachments; that is, to hold a
formal vote, to set up a process.
I do remind my friend, when we went
through this during the Clinton years,
the President, President Clinton, had
the right to have counsel there, the
right to cross-examine witnesses, the
right to subpoena witnesses. Our
friends who were then in the minority
had the right to subpoena witnesses.
None of that exists now. There is no
process. It is very one-sided, very
opaque, very obscure, and extremely
partisan.
But back to the legislation at hand.
The tragedy here is that we could
work together on a variety of things
that we both agree would make good
law. My good friend, the ranking—ex-
cuse me—the chairwoman on the House
Administration Committee, Ms. LOF-
GREN, mentioned that last night.
There are actually elements in this
bill which, I agree with my friend, are
things we could work on together.
There are other things that, whether
we are right or wrong, my friend knows
we will disagree with and we will not
accept and, frankly, the United States
Senate will not accept and the Presi-
dent will not accept.
So it is a classic legislative dilemma:
What do you want to do? Do you want
to make a point or do you want to
make law?
If you want to make law, you get to
the things that you agree on and that
can pass the other Chamber and be
signed by the President. So far in this
area of election security, I think my
friends have been more interested in
making a point than actually in mak-
ing law.
So I urge opposition to the rule on
H.R. 4617 because it is deeply flawed
and a partisan bill that will not solve
the underlying problems. It will not
prevent foreign interference in our
elections. It will only make it harder
for Americans to participate in their
own democracy.
It applies inappropriate regulatory
schemes to online advertisement. It ap-
plies overly inclusive definitions that
could make almost any advertisement
a political advertisement and expands
the power of the Attorney General at
the expense of the States.
My friends seemed, over and over, to
want to federalize State elections. We
don’t want to do that. That is a big
mistake. One of the best securities we
have is that we have multiple jurisdic-
tions, and the people close to the peo-
ple make the laws under which our
elections occur.
We can work together in a bipartisan
manner and find real solutions to real
problems, and I hope and I believe some
day we will, Madam Speaker. But in
the interim, I urge the House to reject
both this rule and this bill so that we
can actually advance, together, on
something that can pass and become
law.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote ‘‘no’’ on the previous
question, ‘‘no’’ on the rule, and ‘‘no’’
on the underlying legislation.
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I do agree with my
good friend from Oklahoma that our
exchanges are civil; and although we
have respectable disagreement, the
simple fact of the matter is that each
of us discharges our responsibilities in
a responsible way.
Madam Speaker, after exiting the
Constitutional Convention in 1787, Ben-
jamin Franklin, when approached, was
asked what form of government had
been agreed upon; his response: ‘‘A Re-
public, if you can keep it.’’
We come here today to keep it, to not
only keep it, but make more perfect
that Union which we have all taken an
oath to protect, not just for us and our
children, but for generations unborn,
so that they may know and benefit
from the greatest experiment ever
known to humankind, the democratic
Republic we call the United States of
America.
To do this, to protect our democracy
from enemies foreign and domestic, we
must put country over party. Indeed,
there have been more than a few times
in our history when it was imperative
that the partisan give way to the patri-
otic. This is undoubtedly one of those
times and one of those paramount
issues.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote
on the rule and a ‘‘yes’’ vote on the
previous question.
The material previously referred to
by Mr. COLE is as follows:
AMENDMENT TO HOUSE RESOLUTION 650
At the end of the resolution, add the fol-
lowing:
SEC. 2. Upon adoption of this resolution,
the Committees on the Judiciary, Ways and
Means, Financial Services, Oversight and
Reform, and Foreign Affairs and the Perma-
nent Select Committee on Intelligence shall
suspend pursuing matters referred to by the
Speaker in her announcement of September
24, 2019, until such time as the National De-
fense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020
and the Department of Defense Appropria-
tions Act for Fiscal Year 2020 are signed into
law.
Mr. HASTINGS. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time, and
I move the previous question on the
resolution.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this question will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
SCHRIER). Pursuant to clause 8 of rule
XX, the Chair will postpone further
proceedings today on motions to sus-
pend the rules on which a recorded vote
or the yeas and nays are ordered, or
votes objected to under clause 6 of rule
XX.
The House will resume proceedings
on postponed questions at a later time.
f
DEBBIE SMITH REAUTHORIZATION
ACT OF 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
move to suspend the rules and pass the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.024 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8404 October 23, 2019
bill (H.R. 777) to reauthorize programs
authorized under the Debbie Smith Act
of 2004.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The text of the bill is as follows:
H.R. 777
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Debbie
Smith Reauthorization Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. REAUTHORIZATION.
Section 2 of the DNA Analysis Backlog
Elimination Act of 2000 (34 U.S.C. 40701) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘includ-
ing’’ and inserting ‘‘prioritizing, to the ex-
tent practicable consistent with public safe-
ty considerations’’; and
(B) in paragraph (8), by striking ‘‘includ-
ing’’ and inserting ‘‘in particular,’’;
(2) in subsection (b)—
(A) in paragraph (6), by striking ‘‘and’’ at
the end;
(B) in paragraph (7), by striking the period
at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) provide assurances that the DNA sec-
tion of the laboratory to be used to conduct
DNA analyses has a written policy that
prioritizes the analysis of, to the extent
practicable consistent with public safety
considerations, samples from homicides and
sexual assaults.’’;
(3) in subsection (c)(3)—
(A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through
2024’’; and
(B) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘2014
through 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through
2024’’; and
(4) in subsection (j), by striking ‘‘2015
through 2019’’ and inserting ‘‘2019 through
2024’’.
SEC. 3. TRAINING AND EDUCATION.
Section 303(b) of the DNA Sexual Assault
Justice Act of 2004 (34 U.S.C. 40722(b)) is
amended by striking ‘‘2015 through 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘2019 through 2024’’.
SEC. 4. SEXUAL ASSAULT FORENSIC EXAM
GRANTS.
Section 304(d) of the DNA Sexual Assault
Justice Act of 2004 (34 U.S.C. 40723(d)) is
amended by striking ‘‘2015 through 2019’’ and
inserting ‘‘2019 through 2024’’.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from
New York (Mr. NADLER) and the gentle-
woman from Arizona (Mrs. LESKO) each
will control 20 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that all Members
have 5 legislative days to revise and ex-
tend their remarks and include extra-
neous material on the bill under con-
sideration.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from New York?
There was no objection.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 777, the Debbie Smith Re-
authorization Act of 2019.
The Debbie Smith Act, named for a
courageous woman who has fought for
the rights of survivors of sexual as-
sault, is critical to helping States proc-
ess DNA evidence and reduce the Na-
tion’s large backlog of untested DNA
samples.
The law, which I helped author and
enact in its original form in 2004, was
developed in response to a crisis of un-
tested DNA samples, a problem that we
have helped to reduce but which, unfor-
tunately, still requires our urgent at-
tention today.
Over the past several decades, evi-
dence from DNA samples has helped us
solve an increasing number of criminal
cases and has been particularly valu-
able in identifying the perpetrators of
the horrible and all-too-common crime
of sexual assault.
The use of DNA evidence kits in sex-
ual assault cases is critical, and it is
imperative that the evidence that is
collected is analyzed as soon as pos-
sible. When the evidence is collected
and processed, the DNA profile is added
to the Combined DNA Index System so
that matches against other DNA pro-
files can be sought, increasing the
scope of the database.
By testing the DNA evidence left at
the scene of a rape or sexual assault,
we can increase the likelihood of iden-
tifying the perpetrators, making it
more likely that they will be captured,
punished, and prevented from doing it
again. This, in turn, allows victims to
obtain some measure of justice and so-
ciety to take violent criminals off the
streets. DNA evidence also allows us,
definitively, to exonerate the falsely
accused.
Over time, however, crime labs
across the country, regrettably, devel-
oped a large backlog of DNA samples
that they had not tested, an intoler-
able situation calling out for Federal
action.
In response, in 2000, I cosponsored the
passage of the DNA Analysis Backlog
Elimination Act, which provided $40
million to help States analyze DNA
evidence; and in 2002, I introduced the
Rape Kit DNA Analysis Backlog Elimi-
nation Act. This legislation authorized
funding to help police departments fi-
nance the testing of rape kits to reduce
the backlog. Working with my col-
leagues and with advocates, we main-
tained the pressure to address this
problem.
Then, in 2004, I was the original co-
sponsor of the Justice for All Act, in-
troduced by our colleague JIM SENSEN-
BRENNER. That bill included many of
the provisions of my 2002 bill.
Title II of that bill, named the
Debbie Smith Act by Congresswoman
MALONEY, authorized substantial fund-
ing for DNA testing and strengthened
the ability of State and local law en-
forcement specifically to test rape
kits. We subsequently reauthorized the
Debbie Smith Act in 2008 and again in
2014.
In recent years, the grants we have
reauthorized under the Debbie Smith
Act have supported the work of crime
labs to build capacity and process DNA
evidence, including evidence collected
in rape kits, with greater percentages
of funding allocated to testing these
kits provided in subsequent amend-
ments.
b 1315
The act also supports audits of evi-
dence awaiting analysis at law enforce-
ment agencies and charges the Depart-
ment of Justice with the task of main-
taining national testing guidelines.
Despite these efforts, the rape kit
backlog continues to be a major con-
cern, with a large volume of kits still
untested in this country, harming the
survivors of sexual assault and jeopard-
izing public safety. Therefore, we must
continue the valuable programs au-
thorized by this important law.
That is why we included the reau-
thorization of this program in the Vio-
lence Against Women Act, or VAWA
reauthorization bill, developed by the
Judiciary Committee and passed by the
House earlier this year. Unfortunately,
VAWA is languishing in the Senate.
While we take steps to separately
pass the reauthorization of the Debbie
Smith program today, I again call on
the Senate to fulfill their responsi-
bility to pass the Violence Against
Women Act reauthorization without
needless additional delay. Therefore, I
support H.R. 777.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I was actually on
the Arizona task force to look into Ari-
zona’s backlog on these rape kits, and
so it is something that I am very pas-
sionate about doing. I am pleased that
after months of inaction and after the
authorization for the program had al-
ready expired, my colleagues in the
majority have finally brought a Debbie
Smith reauthorization bill to the
House floor.
Unfortunately, I think it is the
wrong one.
Senator CORNYN’s bill, S. 820, passed
the Senate in May by unanimous con-
sent. It has been sitting here in the
House waiting to be acted upon for
more than 5 months. But my col-
leagues have been too busy chasing im-
peachment conspiracies to notice or
care. I offered an amendment right
here at this desk previously on the
floor to move forward the Debbie
Smith Act, but the Democrats voted it
down at that time. The program ex-
pired at the end of September without
so much as a glance from my fellow
Democratic colleagues. Finally, House
Republicans had to file a discharge pe-
tition to force consideration of this im-
portant legislation.
Let me repeat that, Madam Speaker.
Democrats were too busy on their cru-
sade against the duly-elected President
to engage in their efforts to nullify the
will and vote of the American people to
take up and pass a bipartisan bill to
help rape survivors and victims and
law enforcement.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.027 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8405
October 23, 2019
Even today, all we are doing is ensur-
ing there will be more delay in the re-
authorization of this vital program.
That is because rather than pass the
bipartisan bill the Senate passed 5
months ago, the majority is bringing
an alternative bill to the floor.
In the ultimate act of hubris and par-
tisanship, the majority is insisting
that this body pass a bill with an H.R.
number instead of the Senate bill that
has sat idle here for 5 months.
What would happen if we passed the
Senate bill? It would go immediately 16
blocks down Pennsylvania Avenue and
be signed by the President today. In-
stead, unfortunately, the majority is
engaging, I believe, in a game of polit-
ical brinksmanship and holding their
authorization of these precious grant
dollars hostage, grant dollars that pro-
vide closure and solace to countless
survivors of rape and the family mem-
bers of victims of rape.
The majority’s actions are putting an
unnecessary delay in getting this pro-
gram reauthorized. And for what rea-
son? I can’t think of a single good rea-
son. Perhaps someone on the other side
of the aisle can provide one. Is that
what they want? They want the credit
for the bill, a House bill instead of a
Senate bill?
As Debbie Smith herself was recently
quoted, ‘‘Don’t punish the victims.’’
Not acting on the Senate bill is doing
just that.
Madam Speaker, I will support this
bill today. I believe these programs and
the survivors they serve are too crit-
ical to be the subject of partisan
games. I am disappointed, however,
that my colleagues do not feel the
same way, otherwise they would put
forward the Senate bill. I expect and
hope we will be back on this floor in
the very near future to pass a bill to
actually authorize this vital program.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I re-
mind my colleagues that the reauthor-
ization of this bill has been sitting in
the VAWA reauthorization bill passed
by this House many months ago, it has
been sitting in the Senate since then.
Madam Speaker, I yield 3 minutes to
the distinguished gentlewoman from
New York (Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY).
Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALONEY of New
York. I thank the gentleman from the
great State of New York for yielding
and for his outstanding leadership on
the Judiciary Committee.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
this bill, H.R. 777, the Debbie Smith
Reauthorization Act, as amended. I
was pleased to introduce this bill with
my colleague and good friend ANN
WAGNER of Missouri.
I first passed this bill in 2004. This
critical State backlog grant program
provides funding for forensic labs and
local law enforcement to process DNA
evidence, including rape kits.
In 2001, I invited a woman named
Debbie Smith to testify before the
Oversight and Government Reform
Committee. Debbie was a rape sur-
vivor, and I remember being struck by
her story of waiting more than 6 years
for her rape kit to be processed. And
Debbie’s story is not unique.
Across this country, DNA evidence
collected at crime scenes sits in a
backlog, because forensic labs have
limited capacity or resources to proc-
ess it in a timely manner.
So I wrote and passed the Debbie
Smith Act, which at the time was
called the most important antirape
legislation ever signed into law.
The results of the grant program
speak for themselves. The National In-
stitute of Justice reports that since
2005 Debbie Smith funding is respon-
sible for 192,000, or about 42 percent, of
DNA matches in the FBI database.
So when it can match and convict a
rapist, it prevents future rapes. The
FBI says rapists will attack roughly
seven times, so if you catch that per-
son and put them in jail, you protect
other women from being hurt.
And as improved technology enables
collection of DNA evidence, demand for
grant funding has dramatically in-
creased. We need this funding. This
funding keeps rapists and other crimi-
nals off the street, and perhaps more
importantly, the program can deliver
some measure of justice to survivors of
violence.
Unfortunately, this Debbie Smith
Act authorization expired on Sep-
tember 30. And the Violence Against
Women Reauthorization Act passed by
this House that included an extension
of the Debbie Smith program has not
been passed in the Senate.
I truly want to thank not only Chair-
man NADLER, but also Speaker PELOSI,
Leader HOYER, the entire Democratic
Caucus for recognizing the importance
of this grant program and moving H.R.
777 forward.
Despite its lapse in authorization, we
have an opportunity to make sure that
this successful program continues to
help solve and prevent violent rape and
protect survivors.
The Debbie Smith Act has always en-
joyed broad bipartisan support, and I
hope we continue that tradition today.
I urge all of my colleagues to support
the reauthorization of the Debbie
Smith Act. It protects women from
sexual violence. It is important.
And, again, I thank all of my col-
leagues that have supported this legis-
lation in the past, particularly ANN
WAGNER, who has championed fighting
sex trafficking and protecting women
in other areas.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, the
chairman said he wanted to remind me
and others that the Debbie Smith Act
was included in the VAWA Act that
was passed out of the House. You didn’t
have to remind me. Unfortunately, as
he knows and others know, the VAWA
Act was loaded with liberal poison pills
knowing that Republicans wouldn’t
vote for it, and it was a political act.
And so, to me, it was a political act
to also include it in the VAWA bill,
knowing the VAWA bill was so con-
troversial and it wouldn’t be heard in
the Senate. So, in fact, never in the
history of the Violence Against Women
Act has the Debbie Smith Act been in-
cluded in that bill. And, in fact, I have
been told that Debbie Smith herself did
not want it included in the Violence
Against Women Act, because she knew
it was controversial.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
CLINE).
Mr. CLINE. Madam Speaker, Debbie
Smith’s courage to share her story
with the world has changed the lives of
millions, and the law bearing her name
has helped countless victims of sexual
assault see their attackers face the jus-
tice they deserve.
The importance of DNA evidence in
criminal investigations and prosecu-
tions is unquestionable. Since this pro-
gram was first enacted, incredible
progress has been made to reduce DNA
backlogs. In my home State of Vir-
ginia, the FBI’s National DNA Index
contains more than 447,000 offender
profiles and has aided in more than
11,000 criminal investigations.
This legislation will reauthorize this
vital program and will continue to sup-
port State and local law enforcement
agencies’ efforts to reduce DNA back-
logs and analyze DNA evidence col-
lected from crimes.
As a former prosecutor, I know all
too well how critical DNA evidence is
to achieving justice for victims of sex-
ual violence. I have been a strong advo-
cate to reauthorize this program. I
signed the discharge petition and spoke
on this bill last month.
With passage of this bill today, we
move a step closer to protecting people
from violent sexual predators and
allow justice to be served through our
legal system.
It would have been better if we had
taken up the Senate bill instead of
pointing fingers and casting blame, but
I hope that we will pass legislation
quickly to get this grant money to the
States and to those agencies that need
it to make sure that justice is served.
I urge my colleagues to support this
legislation.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield 3 minutes to the distinguished
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE).
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
I thank the gentleman from New York
for yielding, and I express my apprecia-
tion to the manager of our friends on
the other side of the aisle, my col-
league from Arizona, and my colleague
on the Judiciary Committee.
Let me say, first of all, to CAROLYN
MALONEY, if we go down memory lane,
we have been together on this issue
from the very start. We know when you
had Debbie Smith come when she was
willing to speak at a time that, I would
say, was most concerning in the early
stages of this. She was willing to come
to the United States Congress and to
share her story.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.029 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8406 October 23, 2019
And, Congresswoman MALONEY, let
me thank you for crafting the legisla-
tion, working with any number of bi-
partisan cosponsors, some of whom are
no longer in the United States Con-
gress, but I remember as a member of
the Judiciary Committee being very
closely aligned and supporting this bill.
And so we have made great strides.
And the over 140,000 cases that have
been solved is a testament to the great
need of this legislation. There is no
doubt.
And, of course, as we know from
2004—that is 15 years ago—that at that
time, and continuing to a certain ex-
tent, the enormity of the backlog.
Those of us who interact with law en-
forcement and interact with our dis-
trict attorneys, we know that that has
been an atrocious Achilles heel in pro-
viding comfort and justice to those
who have been violated.
I am reminded of the forensic lab
that we had in Houston; we had to do a
completely massive overhaul for the
Harris County lab to ensure that we
were in compliance or that we were
going after the backlog. That is the
word that we should be focused on, the
‘‘backlog.’’ Backlog means injustice or
no justice.
And certainly, as I have heard sto-
ries—just as recently as last night, I
was on the phone with a constituent
with a story that was just over-
whelming, and she was trying to craft
her next direction.
And so this legislation is answering
the pain of individuals who have come
forward—and even those who are not
able to identify a person immediately,
and the DNA provides that oppor-
tunity—and it reauthorizes the bill. It
ensures that grantee states and local-
ities prioritize DNA analysis of crime
scene samples, rape kits, other sexual
assault evidence, and also carries cases
without an identified suspect.
I am glad that this bill is on the
floor. But let me be very clear, we
wrote a Violence Against Women Act
starting in 2017 that was a monumental
tribute to this month, in fact, which is
Domestic Violence Awareness Month.
b 1330
We know that there are many around
the Nation who have experienced and
suffered this. In fact, there was a re-
cent trial in Houston with a family
that was killed in totality, except one
member, because of domestic violence.
We need the Violence Against Women
Act. And I might take an exception to
the fact that this bill is a holistic bill.
It is a law enforcement bill. It is a bill
of improving services to victims of do-
mestic violence and dating violence
and sexual assault.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentlewoman has expired.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield an additional 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Texas.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker,
we have some very unique aspects in
that legislation. We have counseling
for men and boys, something very
unique. I can’t view that as controver-
sial.
We, likewise, have extended the pro-
tection of the arm of justice to Native
American women.
And, let me just speak to law en-
forcement, because I speak to them al-
most every weekend that I am at
home: $291 million; and the creativity
of prosecutors, local prosecutors, and
law enforcement is amazing with those
dollars.
So I believe that we can do both. We
can continue to affirm and complement
the enormity of the work of CAROLYN
MALONEY, the years of work that we
have worked with her and attacked the
backlog, which none of us ever want to
hear or see. We want no backlog.
We hope that this bill moves in the
Senate, but it is not accurate that this
bill, the Violence Against Women Act—
there are active supporters of this leg-
islation in the Senate, and I am look-
ing forward to what we do best, work-
ing in a bipartisan manner to pass the
Debbie Smith DNA bill and pass, to
give relief to victims of domestic vio-
lence and others, the Violence Against
Women Act.
Madam Speaker, I ask Members to
vote for Debbie Smith.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I yield
5 minutes to the gentlewoman from
Missouri (Mrs. WAGNER), my friend.
Mrs. WAGNER. Madam Speaker, I
thank the gentlewoman from Arizona
(Mrs. LESKO), my friend, for yielding.
Madam Speaker, I rise today to urge
my colleagues to support H.R. 777, the
Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act.
Along with my friend CAROLYN MALO-
NEY, I introduced the Debbie Smith Act
with the support of the Rape, Abuse,
and Incest National Network, RAINN.
Madam Speaker, I thank Congress-
woman MALONEY for her untiring work
to end and prevent sex trafficking and
other forms of violence against women,
which I also support, and for her will-
ingness to reach across the aisle to get
things done. She is a warrior for vul-
nerable women and children, and I am
so proud to work with her on this im-
portant legislation.
Debbie Smith programs provide
much-needed funding for crime labs to
process DNA evidence and strengthen
the national DNA database, which has
over 17 million profiles in it. It pro-
vides justice to victims. Under Debbie
Smith, Congress provides $151 million,
annually, to State and local labs for
DNA and rape kit testing.
Better technology has improved our
ability to test and track DNA samples
from crime scenes, and this data is
making a real difference in the efforts
to bring rapists and other sexual preda-
tors of sexual violence to justice. The
FBI DNA database has been used in
more than—are you ready for this,
Madam Speaker?—465,270 investiga-
tions.
One in five rape kits entered into the
national database generates a DNA
match pointing to a serial rapist.
Since the Debbie Smith program was
created back in 2005, nearly 200,000
DNA matches have been made in crimi-
nal cases, providing justice to victims
in cases that may have otherwise gone
unsolved.
But law enforcement can’t keep up.
Untested DNA cases have increased by
85 percent since 2011. In my own home
State of Missouri alone, more than
5,400 untested rape kits are sitting in
labs and in storerooms. We need the
Debbie Smith programs now more than
ever.
This legislation authorizes $151 mil-
lion for Debbie Smith DNA Backlog
Grant programs, $4.5 million for grants
to State and local governments for
training programs, and $30 million for
State and local governments to create
programs to collect and use DNA evi-
dence related to sexual assault.
The Senate unanimously sent their
version of this legislation over to the
House in May, but the House leadership
did not bring it to the floor, allowing it
to expire on September 30.
Both Democrats and Republicans on
the Judiciary Committee, along with
Congresswoman MALONEY, have led the
charge on this reauthorization. It sad-
dens me that the Judiciary members
had to file a discharge petition to get
Speaker PELOSI to put this bill on the
floor.
This is not about personal ownership
or asserting the House’s authority.
This is about getting something signed
into law.
I worry that the Senate version of
this bill includes accountability and
performance measures that are not in
the House bill. If the Senate bill were
being voted upon today, the President
could sign it into law tomorrow.
Looking forward, I implore both par-
ties, House and Senate, to ensure the
Debbie Smith Reauthorization gets to
the President’s desk as soon as pos-
sible.
Madam Speaker, I thank Leader
MCCARTHY, Ranking Member COLLINS,
Chairman NADLER very, very much,
and Congresswoman MALONEY most of
all.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to join me in reauthorizing
these programs that convict dangerous
predators and help victims to get the
justice that they deserve.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I yield
2 minutes to the gentleman from North
Dakota (Mr. ARMSTRONG), my friend.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Speaker,
only in Congress can we fight about
something that I think we all generally
agree on.
The bill the House is considering
today will reauthorize the Debbie
Smith grant program. I strongly sup-
port reauthorization.
But this law has a 15-year history of
nearly unanimous support in Congress
under both Republican and Democratic
majorities and Presidents, but more
importantly, it has a 15-year history as
a standalone bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.031 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8407
October 23, 2019
So my question is: What changed?
When did it become so essential to be-
come a part of VAWA? And if it is es-
sential to be a part of VAWA, then why
did we pull it out, and why are we vot-
ing on it again as a standalone bill?
On May 16, the Senate continued the
bipartisan tradition and they passed a
standalone reauthorization. We sat on
that bill for months in the House.
House Republicans—I know; I was
part of it. I was on the floor arguing for
it before the last break, before the Sep-
tember 30 authorization lapsed. We
tried twice to get it voted on.
As stated by the founder of the Rape,
Abuse, and Incest National Network,
the House is using the Debbie Smith
Act as leverage to get the Senate to
pass other things that have nothing to
do with DNA testing.
So, finally, today we brought the
Debbie Smith Act to the floor, but even
today, it is the wrong bill. The bill we
are considering today has some serious
flaws, but, more importantly, it is
making changes to the Senate bill that
nobody ever asked for.
Just like the Senate, it extends the
program to 2024. However, for some
reason, we have inexplicably omitted
accountability provisions that Con-
gress has required for these grant pro-
grams for nearly a decade.
These accountability measures are
important. They include mandating a
report on the effectiveness of the grant
program to reduce the backlog of
unanalyzed DNA evidence in sexual as-
sault cases. They require recommenda-
tions to enhance the grant program,
and they require the National Institute
of Justice to define goals of the DNA
Capacity Enhancement and Backlog
Reduction program and develop per-
formance measures for each one of
these goals. All of these are worthy.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
time of the gentleman has expired.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I yield
the gentleman from North Dakota an
additional 30 seconds.
Mr. ARMSTRONG. Madam Speaker, I
can’t think of an issue where account-
ability matters more than when we are
collecting DNA evidence to get convic-
tions of violent sexual offenders and to
give some semblance of justice.
I am going to support the bill. I hope
we get it back quickly. I hope we get to
some resolution with the Senate. This
needs to be done as quickly as possible.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, how
much time do I have remaining?
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tleman from New York has 81⁄2 minutes
remaining.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Speaker, I am a little puzzled
by what I am hearing on the floor
today and, frankly, what I heard in
committee this morning on a different
bill.
The gist of that is, well, we passed a
bill, but we know it is not exactly the
way the Senate wants it; therefore, we
shouldn’t pass it. We should only pass a
bill exactly the way the Senate wants
it; otherwise, it is only for show.
On this bill, look what happened.
This reauthorization was included in
the VAWA reauthorization, which we
passed and sent to the Senate.
Ah, but that was political, we are
told, because the Senate doesn’t agree
in every respect with the VAWA reau-
thorization we passed, so they won’t
touch it.
Well, I don’t understand that. I al-
ways thought, from the time I was in
third grade, that they should pass their
own version of the VAWA bill. If it is
different from ours, we go to con-
ference.
But, no. No, we can’t rely on them to
do that. They have to have a bill that
they agree with totally, or they won’t
look at the subject no matter how im-
portant.
Ah, but they introduced their own.
They took it out of VAWA, and they
did their own Debbie Smith bill.
Fine. We are doing a Debbie Smith
bill because we don’t agree exactly
with what they did. They put in some
new accountability provisions. We have
always had accountability provisions
in the bill, still there. It has always
been the law. They are adding some
new ones which we judge to be unduly
burdensome on small providers. It is a
judgment.
We should pass this bill. They have
passed a different version of the bill.
We can go to conference, iron it out.
That is the way the process is supposed
to work.
My Republican colleagues seem to
think that we should never talk to the
Senate; we should only pass a bill ex-
actly the way they passed it. Or if they
haven’t passed it exactly the way we
know they will want it and if we pass
a bill differently, then it is just polit-
ical posturing. That is nonsense.
This reauthorization bill is a good
bill. It is the way we think it ought to
be. If we pass it—they have already
passed a different reauthorization bill.
I regret that they didn’t pass the entire
VAWA reauthorization bill, but we can
go to conference. We can iron it out.
If someone wants to argue that the
provisions in that bill are better, let
them offer it here, but not be heard to
say we should only do exactly what the
Senate wants. That doesn’t make
sense.
We are our own independent body. We
were elected to do our job. This is the
way we want to do it. This is the way
we think the bill ought to be. We put it
in the VAWA reauthorization bill. We
have given up waiting for the Senate
on that one.
They passed a Debbie Smith bill in a
version we don’t entirely approve of.
We will pass our own version. We will
get together. We will see if we can
agree on it. That is the way the process
ought to work.
If we pass this bill, that is the way
the process will work, and we are more
likely to get a reauthorization bill
than by standing here and saying:
Don’t pass this bill. Only pass a bill—
which we won’t do—exactly in a form
that we don’t like, exactly the way the
Senate wanted it.
Madam Speaker, I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Madam Speaker, I don’t think that
anybody said that we have to do ex-
actly what the Senate asks all the
time, but it does make sense that, if a
Senate bill has been sitting here for 5
months and it extends it, what we are
doing in the House bill, plus it has ac-
countability measures, that it would
get done sooner and it would get signed
into law sooner, and then the States
and the local law enforcement would
have the money sooner to get rid of the
backlog of the rape kits. That is all we
are saying.
So I don’t understand the reason we
are just not doing that bill, except
maybe that they want an H.R. name,
some House Member’s name on it in-
stead of a Senate Member’s name on it.
That is all I can think of.
Madam Speaker, I yield 2 minutes to
the gentleman from Ohio (Mr. CHABOT),
my friend.
Mr. CHABOT. Madam Speaker, I rise
today in support of H.R. 777, the Debbie
Smith Reauthorization Act of 2019.
Madam Speaker, I want to thank our
colleagues, CAROLYN MALONEY and
DEBBIE LESKO and others, for their
leadership on this important legisla-
tion to reauthorize the DNA Backlog
Elimination grant program for another
5 years.
Madam Speaker, there are over
400,000 victims of sexual assault in this
country each and every year. That
equates to approximately one sexual
assault per minute.
Debbie Smith was one of those vic-
tims; and although she underwent fo-
rensic examination, her kit went
unanalyzed for over 5 years. The pur-
pose of this legislation is to ensure
that no other victim ever has to wait
that long for justice again.
DNA analysis is an invaluable tool in
identifying and convicting criminal
suspects. The increased use of DNA evi-
dence in criminal prosecutions has led
to an increase in the collection and
processing of DNA kits, which has led
to a substantial backlog in the proc-
essing of DNA evidence, really, all
across the country.
b 1345
Fortunately, last year, after a 7-year
effort, my home State of Ohio was able
to clear its backlog of nearly 14,000 of
these kits, but many other States
haven’t been so successful. In March,
the GAO estimated that the number of
backlog requests for crime scene evi-
dence nearly doubled to nearly 170,000.
Unfortunately, at the end of Sep-
tember, the funding authorization for
this program expired.
While the legislation offered by Con-
gresswoman MALONEY is an important
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.033 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8408 October 23, 2019
step in the right direction, this body
really should have already considered
the Senate-passed reauthorization so
as to get it to the President’s desk.
Continued funding will ensure that
law enforcement nationwide will have
the resources they need to process DNA
evidence, prosecute, and punish those
who commit these heinous acts of vio-
lence.
Again, I thank Congresswoman
MALONEY and Congresswoman LESKO
for their leadership on this, and I urge
its passage.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Speaker, I yield
myself the balance of my time.
In closing, Madam Speaker, I will
support this bill, and I urge my col-
leagues to do the same. While this is
not the most expeditious manner to get
this vital program reauthorized, it is
the one that our Democratic majority
has put before us.
I am not in the habit of holding rape
victims and survivors hostage to play
political games, and it really deeply
saddens me that it appears that our
majority may be doing this.
We had the opportunity to pass the
Senate bill, and it has been sitting here
for 5 months. We had the opportunity
to show rape victims and survivors
that we care about their plight. We had
the opportunity to send the Debbie
Smith Reauthorization Act of 2019 to
the President’s desk today. Instead,
our majority has decided to squander
these opportunities.
It was bad enough that the Demo-
cratic majority allowed this authoriza-
tion to elapse last month. It is even
worse that we are placing this reau-
thorization into the realm of uncer-
tainty.
There is no timetable or guarantee
that the Senate will act on this bill.
The one thing we know is that if we
were voting on the Senate bill, it would
pass today. It could have been signed
by the President immediately. Unfor-
tunately, we are now only marginally
better off than we were this morning
with regards to this reauthorization.
In the rush to impeach our President,
our majority appears to have forgotten
what we were sent here to do. Despite
the petty motives sometimes of our
majority, I will vote for the bill before
us today and show support for the vic-
tims and survivors of rape. I urge my
colleagues to do the same.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, I
yield myself the balance of my time to
close.
Madam Speaker, it is critical that we
do all that we can to prevent sexual as-
sault and that we ensure survivors re-
ceive the essential services they need,
which is why we passed the reauthor-
ization of the Violence Against Women
Act earlier this year.
And I would remind my colleagues
that the VAWA Act, which included
the authorization for the Debbie Smith
Reauthorization Act, expired last Sep-
tember 30, 2018, when the Republicans
had the majority in the House, the ma-
jority in the Senate, and the President.
So the fact that it lapsed was unfortu-
nate, but it was also the responsibility
of the Republican Party, which then
had control of the Senate, the House,
and the Presidency to get its continu-
ation, which they neglected to do.
We continue to urge the Senate to do
the right thing and pass the reauthor-
ization of the Violence Against Women
Act, which includes the Debbie Smith
Reauthorization Act.
And we will also, again, today pass
provisions to reauthorize the Debbie
Smith Act by advancing this bill
today. In doing so, we reaffirm our
commitment to this important pro-
gram.
I, therefore, urge my colleagues to
support this bill, and to continue to
fight to support the more comprehen-
sive measures in the Violence Against
Women Act.
Madam Speaker, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, as a
senior member of both the Judiciary Com-
mittee and a co-sponsor, I rise in strong sup-
port of H.R. 777, the ‘‘Debbie Smith Reauthor-
ization Act of 2019,’’ which reauthorizes the
Debbie Smith Act and the Debbie Smith Back-
log Grant program for an additional five years,
through FY 2024.
These grant programs to address DNA
backlogs and provide DNA training and tech-
nical assistance on local, state, and federal
levels.
It is essential that these programs be reau-
thorized so that the backlog of unprocessed
rape kits can be reduced and then eliminated,
and perpetrators of sexual assault crimes can
be prosecuted and convicted.
There is an ever-present need to continue
robust funding for programs such as the
Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant Program in
order to make sure victims do not fall through
the cracks of the system.
Women who have been raped have a right
to expect police to thoroughly investigate the
case and prosecute the offenders; however,
many rape kits across the country are never
even tested, and the perpetrators never face
justice.
Under the Debbie Smith Act, not less than
40 percent of the total amount awarded in
grants must be used for DNA analyses of
samples from crime scenes, rape kits and
other sexual assault evidence, and in cases
that do not have an identified suspect.
Madam Speaker, the number of backlogged
DNA samples was in excess of 100,000 na-
tionwide as recently as January 2014.
H.R. 777 reauthorizes for five years (until
the end of fiscal year 2024) the following pro-
grams:
1. ‘‘Debbie Smith Reauthorization’’ grants
for state and local DNA crime laboratories to
address DNA backlogs and enhance their ca-
pacity.
2. DNA training and technical directed to
law enforcement, courts, forensic scientists,
and corrections.
3. DNA training and technical assistance di-
rected to sexual assault nurse examiner/
(‘‘SANE’’) programs.
In my congressional district, these grant pro-
grams have resulted in forensic laboratories
being hired to clear much of the Houston Po-
lice Department’s backlog of untested DNA
benefit from this type of legislation.
Just within the past year, decades-old rape
kits that sat untested in Houston have identi-
fied at least one-third of potential offenders in
cases where there was sufficient DNA, ac-
cording to the Houston Police Department.
In my district more than 6,600 rape kits
have been cleared because of the funding
made possible by the grant programs that
H.R. 777 will reauthorize.
This record of success highlights the impor-
tance and continuing need to provide ade-
quate funding so law enforcement agencies
can conduct necessary DNA testing and train-
ing.
Madam Speaker, when enacted in 2004, the
Debbie Smith Act was the first piece of legisla-
tion aimed at ending the backlog of untested
rape kits and other unanalyzed DNA evidence.
Debbie Smith grants have played a critical
role in states across the country.
The importance of the Debbie Smith Act is
highlighted by the fact that delays in proc-
essing DNA evidence can result in delays ap-
prehending or prosecuting violent or serial of-
fenders or it can result in wrongfully convicted
individuals serving time in prison for crimes
they did not commit.
Law enforcement has increasingly recog-
nized that the backlog of DNA evidence await-
ing entry in state databases can prevent law
enforcement officials from solving many hei-
nous crimes—which has made the Debbie
Smith Act recognized as such a crucial pro-
gram.
Madam Speaker, the DNA Initiative is an in-
valuable tool for law enforcement today, and it
will continue to be a legislative priority of mine.
That is why I am pleased to co-sponsor H.R.
777 and urge my colleagues to join me in vot-
ing to approve this critically important legisla-
tion.
Why We Also Need the Enactment of the
Entire Violence Against Women Reauthoriza-
tion Act
Although the country needs the provisions
of the Debbie Smith Act, survivors of domestic
violence and sexual assault need and deserve
more.
The Senate must pass the full VAWA Reau-
thorization, which includes:
Improving services for victims of domestic
violence, dating violence, sexual assault, and
stalking;
Giving law enforcement enhanced tools to
combat domestic violence and sexual assault;
Making vital new investments in prevention;
Helping to better protect Native American
women;
Preserving and improving housing protec-
tions for survivors;
Strengthening the health care system’s re-
sponse to domestic violence and sexual as-
sault.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, H.R. 777, as
amended.
The question was taken.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. In the
opinion of the Chair, two-thirds being
in the affirmative, the ayes have it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:22 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.035 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8409
October 23, 2019
Mr. NADLER. Madam Speaker, on
that I demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, further pro-
ceedings on this motion will be post-
poned.
f
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Ms.
JACKSON LEE). Proceedings will resume
on questions previously postponed.
Votes will be taken in the following
order:
Ordering the previous question on
House Resolution 650; and
Adoption of House Resolution 650, if
ordered.
The first electronic vote will be con-
ducted as a 15-minute vote. Pursuant
to clause 9 of rule XX, remaining elec-
tronic votes will be conducted as 5-
minute votes.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONSIDERATION
OF H.R. 4617, STOPPING HARM-
FUL INTERFERENCE IN ELEC-
TIONS FOR A LASTING DEMOC-
RACY ACT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on ordering
the previous question on the resolution
(H. Res. 650) providing for consider-
ation of the bill (H.R. 4617) to amend
the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 to clarify the obligation to report
acts of foreign election influence and
require implementation of compliance
and reporting systems by Federal cam-
paigns to detect and report such acts,
and for other purposes, on which the
yeas and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the resolu-
tion.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on ordering the previous
question.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 223, nays
180, not voting 28, as follows:
[Roll No. 579]
YEAS—223
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—180
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—28
Amodei
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Davis, Danny K.
Eshoo
Estes
Evans
Fudge
Gabbard
Grothman
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lowey
McEachin
Meuser
Morelle
Peters
Reschenthaler
Roe, David P.
Smucker
Steil
Stivers
Takano
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
b 1419
Messrs. LUCAS and GUEST changed
their vote from ‘‘yea’’ to ‘‘nay.’’
Mr. HECK and Ms. WILD changed
their vote from ‘‘nay’’ to ‘‘yea.’’
So the previous question was ordered.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
Stated against:
Mr. ESTES. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 579.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the resolution.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, on that I
demand the yeas and nays.
The yeas and nays were ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This
will be a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 226, nays
180, not voting 25, as follows:
[Roll No. 580]
YEAS—226
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kind
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.036 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8410 October 23, 2019
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NAYS—180
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Armstrong
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Biggs
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Estes
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Mitchell
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—25
Amodei
Bergman
Bilirakis
Bishop (NC)
Collins (GA)
Eshoo
Fudge
Gabbard
Grothman
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Lowey
McEachin
Meuser
Peters
Reschenthaler
Roe, David P.
Smucker
Steil
Stivers
Takano
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
Woodall
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1428
So the resolution was agreed to.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee. Madam
Speaker, due to a roundtable on veterans sui-
cide at the White House, which is part of my
work as Ranking Member of the Veterans Af-
fairs Committee, I was unable to make the first
series of votes.
Had I been present, I would have voted
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 579 and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 580.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I was unable to attend votes be-
tween October 15 and 23 due to a long stand-
ing family committment. While this would not
have change the outcome, below is how I
would have voted on each roll call.
Had I been present, I would have voted:
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 576, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No.
577, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 578, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall
No. 579, and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 580.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, The
White House held a roundtable on the Na-
tional Crisis of Veteran Suicide, which I was
invited to be a part of. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 579
and ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 580.
f
STOPPING HARMFUL INTER-
FERENCE IN ELECTIONS FOR A
LASTING DEMOCRACY ACT
GENERAL LEAVE
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I
ask unanimous consent that all Mem-
bers may have 5 legislative days in
which to revise and extend their re-
marks and to insert extraneous mate-
rial on H.R. 4617.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gentle-
woman from California?
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to House Resolution 650 and rule
XVIII, the Chair declares the House in
the Committee of the Whole House on
the state of the Union for the consider-
ation of the bill, H.R. 4617.
The Chair appoints the gentleman
from Texas (Mr. CUELLAR) to preside
over the Committee of the Whole.
b 1432
IN THE COMMITTEE OF THE WHOLE
Accordingly, the House resolved
itself into the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union for the
consideration of the bill (H.R. 4617) to
amend the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 to clarify the obligation to
report acts of foreign election influ-
ence and require implementation of
compliance and reporting systems by
Federal campaigns to detect and report
such acts, and for other purposes, with
Mr. CUELLAR in the chair.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
The CHAIR. Pursuant to the rule, the
bill is considered read the first time.
General debate shall not exceed 1
hour equally divided and controlled by
the chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee on House Admin-
istration.
The gentlewoman from California
(Ms. LOFGREN) and the gentleman from
Illinois (Mr. RODNEY DAVIS) each will
control 30 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from California.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chairman, H.R. 4617 is com-
prehensive legislation to strengthen
the resilience of our democracy and
protect against foreign interference in
our elections, including by foreign gov-
ernments.
These concerns go back to the ear-
liest days of our country. In his fare-
well address to the people of the United
States, our first President, George
Washington, warned that ‘‘Against the
insidious wiles of foreign influence . . .
the jealousy of a free people ought to
be constantly awake, since history and
experience prove that foreign influence
is one of the most baneful foes of the
republican government.’’
Mr. Chair, the 2020 Federal elections
are fast-approaching. Public confidence
and trust in our elections is of the ut-
most importance. We know that for-
eign adversaries are working to under-
mine that trust today. To quote former
Special Counsel Mueller in July, ‘‘They
are doing it as we sit here.’’
Our adversaries have a variety of
tools to interfere in our democracy.
These tools sow disinformation to pro-
voke discord. Their goal is to divide us
and attack our values of equality and
freedom. Their tactics are calculated
to undermine confidence in our demo-
cratic institutions so that they will
collapse under the pressure of the divi-
sion and distrust. The need to act is ur-
gent.
We have been warned repeatedly
about this. The former Director of Na-
tional Intelligence, Dan Coats, wrote
earlier this year in his Worldwide
Threat Assessment, that as the 2020
elections advance, our ‘‘adversaries and
strategic competitors almost certainly
will use online influence operations to
try to weaken democratic institutions,
undermine U.S. alliances and partner-
ships, and shape policy outcomes in the
United States and elsewhere.’’
He also wrote that their tactics will
include spreading disinformation, con-
ducting hack-and-leak operations, or
manipulating data in a more targeted
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.008 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8411
October 23, 2019
fashion to influence U.S. policy, ac-
tions, and elections.
Earlier this month, the Senate Select
Committee on Intelligence released a
report showing how the Kremlin’s ‘‘in-
formation warfare campaign was broad
in scope and entailed objectives beyond
the result of the 2016 presidential elec-
tion.’’ This included using content to
‘‘push Americans further away from
one another and to foment distrust in
government institutions.’’ The Senate
report also found that ‘‘no single group
of Americans was targeted by IRA’’—
that is the Russian group—‘‘informa-
tion operatives more than African
Americans.’’
Among the bipartisan Senate report’s
recommendations, are for Congress to
‘‘examine legislative approaches to en-
suring Americans know the sources of
online political advertisements,’’ and
to harmonize the rules that apply on-
line with television, radio, and sat-
ellite communications.
H.R. 4617 does just that. It builds on
two other bills that strengthen the in-
tegrity of our democracy. In March,
the House passed H.R. 1, the For the
People Act, which included strong
standards for ballot box election secu-
rity, as well as provisions to shut down
loopholes that allow foreign money, in-
cluding from foreign governments, to
influence elections here.
In June, the House passed H.R. 2722,
the SAFE Act, which sets strong cyber-
security standards for election infra-
structure and provides resources to
States to replace paperless and other
outdated systems with voter-verified
paper ballot systems.
Now we are turning to another ele-
ment of election security. H.R. 4617
closes gaps in the law that allow for-
eign nationals and foreign governments
to launder money into our elections. It
promotes full transparency of the
sources behind online campaign adver-
tising, and it codifies a basic norm that
political committees should report of-
fers of illicit campaign assistance from
foreign governments, both to the FBI
and the FEC, rather than welcome in-
terference from foreign governments.
Title I of the bill enhances reporting
requirements and advances trans-
parency and accountability. It estab-
lishes a duty upon political commit-
tees to report to the FBI and the FEC
illicit offers of campaign assistance
from foreign governments, foreign po-
litical parties, and their agents. This
provision of the bill was informed by
various proposals that were introduced
in the House, including by Representa-
tive JACKSON LEE, Representative
SWALWELL, Representative
MALINOWSKI, and Representative
SLOTKIN. The bill also includes the
Honest Ads Act, a bipartisan piece of
legislation that takes an important
step to provide more transparency to
digital political advertising, including
the ads that the Russians targeted to
Americans to build followers and the
engagement of unwitting American
citizens.
Title II closes loopholes and gaps in
the law that permit foreign nationals
and foreign governments to influence
elections. It codifies existing FEC reg-
ulations prohibiting foreign nationals
from influencing decisions about cam-
paign spending. It requires the FEC to
conduct an audit of illicit money in
elections and report its recommenda-
tions to Congress after every election
cycle. It prohibits foreign spending in
connection with ballot initiatives and
referenda; and it prohibits foreign
spending and political advertising that
promotes, attacks, supports, or opposes
the election of candidates—or in the
case of foreign governments, political
advertising during an election year
about national legislative issues of
public importance.
I will note that some of these ele-
ments received bipartisan support
when similar provisions were included
in H.R. 1.
Title III deters foreign interference
in elections. For example, it restricts
campaigns from sharing nonpublic
campaign materials, like internal op-
position research and internal polling
data with foreign governments and
their agents, or those on the sanctions
list, which can include oligarchs.
It also includes the Deceptive Prac-
tices and Voter Intimidation Preven-
tion Act—this was also part of H.R. 1—
and prohibits knowingly false state-
ments about voting and elections that
are made with the intent to impede
someone from exercising their fran-
chise. It also provides mechanisms to
ensure that state and local officials
and the attorney general, as necessary,
disseminate correct information in the
wake of false information that might
spread.
Mr. Chair, free and fair elections are
the core of what it means to live in a
democracy like ours. Free and fair
elections are at the heart of what it
means to be a citizen of the United
States. It is our solemn duty to defend
them.
I urge my colleagues to support this
important legislation, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Mr. Chairman, I said many times
since becoming the ranking member of
the Committee on House Administra-
tion, the committee with leading juris-
diction over election legislation in the
House, that the greatest threat to our
Nation’s election system is partisan-
ship.
Why is partisanship the greatest
threat?
Because when you have one side
drafting partisan legislation to further
their own political agenda, it causes in-
action. When it comes to securing our
Nation’s elections, we cannot afford in-
action. That is why it is imperative
that our colleagues across the aisle
work with us to find a bipartisan solu-
tion to preventing foreign interference
in elections.
Unfortunately, that is not the route
that the majority party chose to take
this Congress. We saw this pattern first
begin with the majority’s H.R. 1. Over
700 pages of political initiatives to help
them Federalize elections, then again,
for the SAVE Act, a partisan election
security bill, again attempting to Fed-
eralize elections and take power away
from States. Both bills were drafted
without bipartisan input and rushed
through the House.
Back then, I told my colleagues if
they were serious about reforming elec-
tions and making them more secure,
we needed to work together. But here
we are again with another partisan
election bill that has no chance—zero
chance—of becoming law. This time it
is the SHIELD Act, a bill aimed at pre-
venting foreign interference in our
elections, like what we saw with Rus-
sia’s misinformation campaign through
social media in the 2016 Presidential
election.
Look, it is safe to say that no one on
either side of the aisle wants foreign
meddling in our elections. Let me re-
peat that: I don’t believe a single Re-
publican or Democrat in this House
wants foreign meddling in our elec-
tions.
And I want to be clear that there is
bipartisan agreement on some of the
intended goals of SHIELD. We should
have increased transparency and polit-
ical digital advertising, and we should
close the loopholes that allow for for-
eign nationals to meddle in our elec-
tions.
But this bill isn’t a serious attempt
to address the type of interference that
we saw in 2016, Mr. Chairman. It is
jammed full of poison pills that the
Democrats knew would make SHIELD
a nonstarter. The SHIELD Act con-
tains provisions that would Federalize
elections, which as I have already
pointed out, is the favorite solution of
our majority for any issue.
This bill expands the powers of the
Department of Justice to allow the At-
torney General to insert himself or
herself into individual races at the
Federal, State, and local level. That is
a complete Federal overreach of
States’ constitutional rights to main-
tain their own elections.
Think about it: The AG can come in
to your race, every State and local race
if they—he or she—wants to ‘‘correct
the record.’’ There are also provisions
of this bill that I believe are unconsti-
tutional and will have a chilling effect
on our freedom of speech. For instance,
we should not be proposing broad,
vague regulations for disclosing online
political ads that create unworkable
standards for the American public.
Out of the $1.4 billion spent on polit-
ical digital ads in 2016, Russia spent
$100,000 over 2 years on Facebook ads.
The majority of those were not even
election ads, so it wouldn’t have even
been regulated by the Honest Ads Act.
Why would we then overreach and
threaten American’s free speech with
this bill when it doesn’t even address
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.041 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8412 October 23, 2019
what Russia did? We need serious elec-
tion security legislation that will pro-
tect Americans’ First Amendment
rights. That is why I introduced the
Honest Elections Act, which, if passed,
would actually address the type of for-
eign meddling we saw in 2016 and high-
lighted in the Senate intel report.
b 1445
The Honest Elections Act would
strengthen existing laws, such as the
Foreign Agents Registration Act,
FARA; the Federal Election Campaign
Act; and the Help America Vote Act.
And it would modernize online polit-
ical ad disclosure without infringing on
free speech or requiring unworkable
standards for Americans.
Our bill also increases monitoring of
spending by foreign nationals in elec-
tions and addresses domestic inter-
ference in our elections, something the
SHIELD Act fails to accomplish.
We may never be able to prevent
criminal activity, whether that is in
our elections or in our day-to-day lives,
but we can provide our law enforce-
ment with the best tools and resources
available.
The Honest Elections Act is simply a
better solution to preventing foreign
interference in our elections than the
SHIELD Act and its unintended con-
sequences on Americans.
Again, I will say the greatest threat
to our Nation’s election system is par-
tisanship because it is the partisanship
we are seeing from the majority today
that is keeping the American people
from having bipartisan legislation
right now that will prevent any poten-
tial foreign interference in our elec-
tions.
I keep hearing my Democratic col-
leagues talk about urgency, but this is
the third time we have been here with
a partisan election bill in the House
that has yet to become law or make
any real change whatsoever. If Demo-
crats are serious about this urgency in
protecting our Nation’s elections in the
2020 cycle, prove it. Stop with the po-
litical games. Come back to the table
and work with us on something that
actually stands a chance at becoming
law and protecting our Nation’s elec-
tions.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I would
note that it was Justice Kavanaugh, in
the Bluman v. Federal Election Com-
mission case, who wrote the opinion
that ‘‘it is fundamental to the defini-
tion of our national political commu-
nity that foreign citizens do not have a
constitutional right to participate in,
and thus may be excluded from, activi-
ties of democratic self-government.’’
The idea that we are going to in-
fringe on foreign governments’ rights
to participate is simply not legally
supported.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from California (Mrs.
DAVIS), a valued member of our com-
mittee.
Mrs. DAVIS of California. Mr. Chair-
man, we know that there have been
foreign attacks on our election infra-
structure. That is a fact.
Knowing there are those out there
who seek to rob us of our democracy,
why would we leave our door wide
open? Why would we not create a shield
when our democracy is under attack?
The SHIELD Act, carefully drafted
by my colleague and chair, Ms. LOF-
GREN, requires that political campaigns
report any information they receive
from foreign agents to the FBI so we
can centralize information and stop at-
tacks. Why would we not want to do
that?
The SHIELD Act establishes strong
penalties for online voter intimidation
by foreign actors. Why would we not
want to do that?
The SHIELD Act closes loopholes
that allow foreigners to spend their
money in our elections. Why would we
not want to do that?
There are enemies out there every
day trying to cast doubt on our elec-
tions. We have no excuse—no excuse—
for not doing all we can to make our-
selves less vulnerable.
This should be a bipartisan no-
brainer, Mr. Chairman. I urge my col-
leagues to support the SHIELD Act to
protect our democracy.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from Georgia (Mr.
LOUDERMILK), my good friend and a
very well-respected member of the
House Administration Committee.
Mr. LOUDERMILK. Mr. Chair, I
thank my good friend, colleague, and
the ranking member for yielding this
time.
I also want to say how thankful I am
that we are in this body, in public, in
front of the American people debating
something that is very important to
this Nation, that at least this process
isn’t held in the basement of this build-
ing, behind closed doors, away from the
American people like some other issues
are being held right now. I am at least
still thankful for that.
But here we go again. It is another
attempt by our friends on the other
side to bring a bad idea to fix a bad sit-
uation. This is the third attempt for a
Federal takeover of our election sys-
tem.
It kind of reminds me of a popular
commercial that is on television right
now about these young people in a hor-
ror show. There is something evil after
them, and they are outside of this
spooky, old house and are like: ‘‘We
have to go somewhere to hide.’’
One of the young people says: ‘‘Why
don’t we get in the running car?’’
The others say: ‘‘That is a dumb idea.
Let’s go hide in the spooky shed behind
the chainsaws.’’
Here we go, running to chainsaws
again, running to chainsaws, getting
ourselves in a worse situation. This
would have done nothing to prohibit
the Russian meddling in the 2016 elec-
tion—nothing.
What would have made a difference is
the Obama administration, which was
advised that the Russians were at-
tempting to hack into our system, that
they were meddling. The Obama cyber-
security czar, he brought it to their at-
tention and proposed countermeasures,
and he was told to stand down.
We did nothing within the power that
we already have to try to stop foreign
influence in our elections. That is
where we need to be focused.
This goes further than needs to hap-
pen by giving the Federal Government
more power, more authority to take
away the authority that has been given
to the States to oversee their elections.
If these weren’t enough concerns,
this thing has been rushed to the floor
with zero hearings. Let me repeat that:
There have been no hearings, no fact-
findings to get to the bottom of what
would be the best solution to this prob-
lem. None.
It was a quickly scheduled markup
that was rushed to the floor. And here
we are again, working on a piece of leg-
islation that would do nothing to fix
the problem and has no chance of going
anywhere in the Senate.
I suggest that we work together on a
bipartisan basis to actually come up
with a solution that works for the
American people.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I would
note that I think this bill would have
done a lot to save us from the Russian
attacks in 2016.
I will tell you one thing. The chair-
man of the Trump campaign, Mr.
Manafort, gave internal polling and
target data to a Russian agent mul-
tiple times while the Russians were
buying ads. That would be prohibited
under this act.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
RASKIN), a much-valued member of the
House Administration Committee.
Mr. RASKIN. Mr. Chair, I thank
Madam Chair for her exceptional work
on the SHIELD Act, which is long over-
due.
For 2 years, our colleagues across the
aisle had control over the Judiciary
Committee, the Rules Committee, and
the House Administration Committee.
They had no hearings about the sweep-
ing and systematic campaign by the
Russians to subvert and undermine our
election.
The Democrats have brought forth
the SHIELD Act. There is not a single
partisan word in this act. We hear our
colleagues declaring it is partisan.
Name me one provision in this act that
is partisan. There is nothing partisan
about it, except that their response to
it is partisan.
Now, some of our colleagues said that
this is unconstitutional. A takeover, a
Federal takeover, I think we just heard
the words uttered by our distinguished
colleague from Georgia.
Do you know who engineered the
Federal takeover of the American elec-
tions? The Founders of America did,
the Framers of our Constitution. In Ar-
ticle IV, they were the ones who said
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.043 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8413
October 23, 2019
that Congress may make or alter regu-
lations governing the time, place, and
manner of elections for the House of
Representatives and the U.S. Senate.
It was the Framers of the Constitu-
tion who put in Article IV that Con-
gress must guarantee to the people of
every State a republican form of gov-
ernment.
So, this is in the Constitution. We
are doing our job to protect our elec-
tions, the sovereignty of our country,
and the integrity of the democracy
against foreign attack.
We should all be together on it, and
I deplore the partisan response to this
excellent legislation.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the gen-
tleman from North Carolina (Mr. MUR-
PHY), my good and new friend, our new-
est Member of this institution.
Mr. MURPHY of North Carolina. Mr.
Chairman, it is an honor to serve be-
side Mr. DAVIS.
Mr. Chairman, I rise today with my
adamant opposition to H.R. 4617, other-
wise known as the SHIELD Act.
I think my Republican colleagues
would agree that this bill is misleading
at best and should be more effectively
monikered as the First Amendment
suppression act.
Simply put, this bill is an extension
of House Democrats’ efforts to fed-
eralize the election process away from
the States by substantially restricting
free speech through governmental
overreach. Furthermore, it does not ac-
tually do anything further to secure
our elections from foreign interference.
In the buildup to the 2016 election,
Russian operatives broke many exist-
ing U.S. laws in their attempt to
spread misinformation. Nothing in
SHIELD would provide additional re-
sources to law enforcement officials to
pursue these foreign actors.
Additionally, this bill will create a
chilling effect on free speech by pun-
ishing organizations that have nothing
to do with politics, and it mandates
Federal overreach on a substantial
scale.
The SHIELD Act even gives the Fed-
eral Government the duty of deter-
mining what qualifies as a legitimate
news source.
To combat this recklessness, I actu-
ally offered a commonsense amend-
ment that Democratic leadership
would not consider for debate. It, sim-
ply enough, would have struck the
word ‘‘legitimate’’ from the section be-
cause it is vague, overbroad, and open
to subjective interpretation. Do we
really want the Federal Government
deciding on what is or is not a legiti-
mate news outlet?
Two minutes is not enough time to
fully detail the unintended con-
sequences of the SHIELD Act, which I
intend to vote against later on today
on the floor.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I would
note that the legitimate press function
referred to is part of the FEC analysis
that has been longstanding. It is noth-
ing new in this bill.
Mr. Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentleman from North Carolina (Mr.
BUTTERFIELD), a respected and valued
member of the committee.
Mr. BUTTERFIELD. Mr. Chair, I
thank the gentlewoman for yielding. I
rise today in strong support of H.R.
4617, the SHIELD Act.
Mr. Chairman, the world knows that
our democracy was attacked in 2016 by
foreign actors. We have a responsibility
as a Congress to fight back against for-
eign cyber intrusions into our democ-
racy and protect the sanctity of our
elections. The SHIELD Act does just
that.
Mr. Chair, right now, our country is
facing an existential crisis. The ques-
tion for each of us is: What are we
going to do? What are we going to do to
defend the principles and the Constitu-
tion upon which this country was
founded?
The vote today on the SHIELD Act
will be one of those moments that,
some years from now, we will all look
back on, and each of us will have to
give an account for what we did. We
must take a vote to defend our democ-
racy from foreign interference and en-
sure that every American vote counts.
The words of my good friend and our
dear colleague, Congressman Cum-
mings, are swirling around this Cham-
ber today. He said the following:
‘‘When we are dancing with the angels,
the question will be asked: In 2019,
what did we do to make sure we kept
our democracy intact? Did we stand on
the sidelines and say nothing? Did we
play games?’’
Mr. Chair, I ask my colleagues to
support this legislation.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, before I yield to my good friend
from California, I do want to respond.
My great friend and colleague from
the great State of Maryland mentioned
that Republicans said that this bill is
unconstitutional. Well, it wasn’t just
us.
Americans for Prosperity says this
bill is unconstitutional. Heritage Ac-
tion says the bill is unconstitutional.
Even the ACLU said this bill is uncon-
stitutional.
It is not every day, Mr. Chair, that
you get those three organizations to-
gether on the same issue, but it is here.
The unconstitutionality of this bill is
from them and their remarks, adding
to what we are saying here and debat-
ing on the floor.
Mr. Chair, I yield 2 minutes to the
gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCLINTOCK), my good friend.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Mr. Chairman, I
fervently agree with the premise of
this bill. American political campaigns
should remain among Americans.
In California, it is now common for
admitted noncitizens, some of them
here illegally, to inject themselves into
campaigns and attempt to influence
voters.
Perhaps we can all agree: You are ei-
ther a citizen or you are not. If you are
not a citizen, you are a guest. If you
are a guest, you are not entitled to par-
ticipate in our elections or in the de-
bate that influences them.
b 1500
That is especially important in a na-
tion where sovereignty is vested not
with the government, but with the peo-
ple. In most countries, the government
is the sovereign. Here in America, the
people are sovereign. But in America,
our sovereign doesn’t govern. It hires
help. That is what all of us are. We are
hired help.
And once we are hired, the sovereign
people then discuss among themselves
the job we are doing, and every 2 years
this discussion informs their decision
over whether to keep us or to hire
somebody else. That is a unique exer-
cise of American sovereignty, and it
ought to be off limits to all others.
But where I fervently disagree is
with this bill’s use of governmental
power to interfere with freedom of
speech and association that is abso-
lutely essential to the preservation of
our liberty. Except for incitement to
commit crimes, every person must be
free to speak their minds.
If a foreign national inserts himself
into an American political discussion,
the remedy is to call him out, tell him
to butt out, and denounce such conduct
for the meddling that it is. The remedy
is not to insert the government into
the discussion over how the govern-
ment is doing.
Once government seizes the power to
tell the people what they can say or
who they can talk to, we will have
cracked the touchstone of our Bill of
Rights, and that crack will grow until
it shatters the bedrock of our freedom.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, may I ask
how much time remains.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
California has 19 minutes remaining.
The gentleman from Illinois has 18
minutes remaining.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I would just like to note that it was
eight Justices who said, in the Citizens
United case, that, while the First
Amendment protects political speech,
disclosure permits citizens and share-
holders to react to the speech. They
were the ones, in the Citizens United
case, who urged transparency. And it
was Justice Kavanaugh himself who
pointed out that foreign citizens don’t
have a First Amendment right to med-
dle in our elections.
Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. SAR-
BANES), who has done so much on our
ethics and election reform effort.
Mr. SARBANES. Mr. Chair, I thank
Chairwoman LOFGREN for her incred-
ible work. Nobody has done more in
this Congress to protect our democracy
and lift up the voices of everyday
Americans than ZOE LOFGREN, so I
thank her for yielding.
The measure of partisanship here is
not whether the Republicans have re-
fused to get on this and it is a Demo-
cratic bill. That is not how you meas-
ure partisanship, because that is an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.045 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8414 October 23, 2019
easy maneuver. You decide: None of us
will get on the bill. It will be all Demo-
crats that are supporting it or voting
for it, and then we can say it is a par-
tisan bill.
The measure of whether something is
partisan or not is to go out and talk to
the people in the country. And this is
one of the most bipartisan bills you
could possibly put together, judged by
what people out in the country want to
see.
Republicans, Independents, Demo-
crats coming off of the 2016 election
said to this Congress: ‘‘Protect our
house.’’ Not this House, the United
States of America. ‘‘Protect our elec-
tions from foreign interference.’’
That wasn’t just coming from Demo-
crats. That wasn’t a partisan voice out
in the wilderness. That was everybody
saying it, including Republicans and
Independents.
So the fact that the Republicans
don’t want to get on a bill that Ameri-
cans want to see doesn’t make the bill
partisan. It means that Republicans
are not listening carefully enough to
what the American people want to see.
We have tried now, three times—
three times—to get our Republican col-
leagues to support these basic meas-
ures that would safeguard the integrity
of our elections. H.R. 1, the For the
People Act, contained many of the
same provisions.
I get it. I heard what you said: Oh,
the bill is too big. It does these other
things. We love the election security
stuff—we can go get those quotes from
the H.R. 1 debate—oh, if you would just
do the election security or the ballot
box security measures to protect our
elections, we would be on that in a
minute.
Well, you got a second chance, a sec-
ond bite at the apple with the SAFE
Act. I thank the gentlewoman from
California (Ms. LOFGREN) for shep-
herding that through the committee,
the SAFE Act, that would protect the
ballot box.
But did Republicans vote for that to
protect our democracy? No, they
missed the second. Strike two.
So now we have the SHIELD Act to
protect us against foreign interference,
foreign money coming into our elec-
tions and trying to influence the out-
come, misinformation campaigns com-
ing from overseas, all this interference
that we have to push back on, that the
American people are concerned about.
So here you get a third chance to
show that you want to protect our elec-
tions and safeguard our elections. This
is the opportunity to stand up, support
what the American people want to see,
which is us protecting our democracy.
The CHAIR. Members are reminded
to address their remarks to the Chair.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, there are too many comments I
would like to make, so I will reserve
them until we have a few less speakers.
I am sure we will have a chance to de-
bate some of the issues that my good
friend and colleague from Maryland
brought up.
Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the
distinguished gentleman from the
great State of Virginia (Mr. GRIFFITH).
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Chairman, I ap-
preciate the gentleman so much for
yielding to me.
Mr. Chairman, I would say that, if I
were in a court of law, I would tell you
in advance that I am about to make an
argument that is conditionally rel-
evant, meaning: Bear with me. It will
make sense when I get to the point.
So this morning, in committee—and I
serve on the Energy and Commerce
Committee—we were having a hearing
and ObamaCare came up. About five or
six times, people said, on the Democrat
side of the aisle, ObamaCare is being
sabotaged by the Trump administra-
tion.
Well, I started thinking about that,
and I realized that that wasn’t really
fair, that the problem was that this
Congress and the Democrats in this
House voted for a bill that mentioned
the Secretary, HHS Secretary, 3,033
times; 974 times it said the ‘‘Secretary
shall’’ and then went on to say some-
thing else.
According to Dr. BURGESS, he esti-
mated that there were actually 262 dif-
ferent action items in ObamaCare
voted on by the Democrats. None of the
Republicans in the House at the time—
I was not here, but none of the Repub-
licans voted for it. 262 action items
were given over to the Secretary.
So now we have the SHIELD Act, and
you are saying: All right, Morgan,
what does this have to do with the
SHIELD Act?
I direct you to page 49, lines 10 to 25,
Corrective Action: ‘‘If the Attorney
General receives a credible report that
materially false information has been
or is being communicated in violation’’
of this bill, ‘‘and if the Attorney Gen-
eral determines that the State and
local officials have not taken adequate
steps to promptly communicate accu-
rate information to correct the materi-
ally false information, the Attorney
General shall, pursuant to the written
procedures and standards under sub-
section (b)’’—which, by the way, the
Attorney General determines—‘‘com-
municate to the public, by any
means’’—any means—‘‘including by
means of written, electronic, or tele-
phonic communications, accurate in-
formation designed to correct the ma-
terially false information.’’
What we are about to do in this bill,
Mr. Chairman, is we are about to give
the Attorney General the power to
come into our congressional elections
and to come into any election and start
running ads, to run robocalls, to get in-
volved in the election process, because
I wouldn’t want Attorney General
Holder making decisions on my ads,
and I don’t think my friends, Mr.
Chairman, on the other side of the aisle
would want Attorney General Barr
making decisions on their ads.
But that is what this bill does. It cre-
ates a situation where the Attorney
General is going to come into our dis-
tricts if they think that one of us has
issued a materially false ad and, in-
stead of letting the voters make a deci-
sion as to whether or not I have done
something wrong or my opponent has
done something wrong or you have
done something wrong or your oppo-
nent has done something wrong, the
Attorney General is going to make
that decision all by himself.
The CHAIR. The time of the gen-
tleman has expired.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield the gentleman from Vir-
ginia an additional 30 seconds.
Mr. GRIFFITH. Mr. Chair, when you
don’t like it, you are going to come
back and say: Oh, my gosh, they are
sabotaging the intent of the bill.
Well, forget the intent. Read the bill.
Read the bill.
This bill has significant problems. It
needs to go back to committee and be
worked on some more. I appreciate it,
but until this is corrected, I must vote
‘‘no’’ to try to protect our election sys-
tem from having it being taken over by
whomever the Attorney General might
be.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
I would just note that the provision
referred to relates only to the time,
place, or manner of holding an elec-
tion. So if you have a digital ad that
says Democrats vote Tuesday, Repub-
licans vote Wednesday, you can send
out an ad saying everybody votes on
Tuesday.
Mr. Chairman, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Texas (Ms. JACKSON
LEE), my colleague on the Judiciary
Committee.
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Mr. Chair, let
me thank the gentlewoman for her
leadership.
Maybe my friends have gotten a lit-
tle bit of absentmindedness. This is
volume I and II of the Mueller report,
a distinguished veteran of the Vietnam
war.
Page 174, volume I, it says specifi-
cally, well-documented: ‘‘On February
16, 2018, a Federal grand jury in the
District of Columbia returned an in-
dictment against 13 Russian nationals
and three Russian entities—including
the Internet Research Agency, IRA,
and Concord Management and Con-
sulting LLC, Concord—with violating
U.S. criminal laws in order to interfere
with U.S. elections and political proc-
esses. The indictment charges all of the
defendants with conspiracy to defraud
the United States . . . three defendants
with conspiracy to commit wire fraud
and bank fraud . . . and five defendants
with aggravated identity theft, Counts
Three through Eight. Internet Re-
search Agency Indictment. Concord,
which is one of the entities charged in
the Count One conspiracy, entered an
appearance through U.S. counsel and
moved to dismiss. . . . ‘’
They were indicted on the basis of
their interference in the 2016 election.
Let me be very clear. I rise to sup-
port this legislation, grateful that in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.047 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8415
October 23, 2019
this bill is H.R. 2353. Duty to refuse or
report foreign interference was lan-
guage that I had that said that you
cannot accept information from a for-
eign operative.
With that in mind, I thank the gen-
tlewoman from California for her lead-
ership.
Mr. Chair, I rise in strong support of H.R.
4617, the ‘‘Stopping Harmful Interference in
Elections for A Lasting Democracy Act,’’ or
SHIELD Act and the underlying legislation.
I support this legislation introduced by my
colleague, the Chairwoman of the Committee
on House Administration, the gentlelady from
California, Chairwoman LOFGREN, because it:
1. Creates a duty to report illicit offers of
campaign assistance from foreign govern-
ments and their agents;
2. Helps prevent foreign interference in fu-
ture elections by improving transparency of
online political advertisements;
3. Closes loopholes that allow foreign na-
tionals and foreign governments to spend in
U.S. elections;
4. Restricts exchange of campaign informa-
tion between candidates and foreign govern-
ments and their agents; and
5. Prohibits deceptive practices about voting
procedures.
Mr. Chair, earlier this year FBI Director
Christopher Wray testified before the Con-
gress that foreign interference in on our de-
mocracy is ‘‘a 365-day-a-year threat.’’
This is outrageous; American elections are
to be decided by Americans.
That is why I am particularly pleased that
H.R. 4617 incorporates the key provisions of
H.R. 2353, the ‘‘Duty To Refuse And Report
Foreign Interference In Elections Act’’ that I in-
troduced in April of this year.
Mr. Chair, our friends across the aisle voted
against Republicans voted against H.R. 1, the
‘‘For The People Act of 2019,’’ which, inter
alia, would secure our elections, and then
against H.R. 2722, the ‘‘Securing America’s
Federal Elections Act’’ or SAFE Act, which
closes dangerous gaps in our voting security
into the 21st Century.
Today our Republican colleagues have an-
other chance to demonstrate that they take
seriously their oath to defend the Constitution
against all enemies, foreign or domestic.
Mr. Chair, on January 6, 2017, representa-
tives of the Intelligence Community advised
the President-Elect that the Russian Federa-
tion conducted a sophisticated campaign to
subvert our democracy with the goal of elect-
ing Donald Trump and defeating Hillary Clin-
ton.
The Report issued by Special Counsel Rob-
ert Mueller on March 22, 2019 revealed that
the Russians effectuated their goals by selec-
tively disseminating stolen emails, with the
end of maximizing the adverse impact this
would have on Secretary Clinton’s electoral
prospects.
The Mueller Report further indicated that
Russia’s misinformation efforts also included
the proliferation of fake online profiles on so-
cial media platforms, with the goal of echoing
and amplifying politically divisive messages,
so as to sow discord within the electorate and
suppress the vote for Secretary Clinton.
As the Mueller Report lays bare, the Trump
Campaign knew what Russia was doing and
welcomed that assistance, did nothing to dis-
courage it, did not report it, denied its exist-
ence and knowingly and happily accepted the
benefits of the hostile foreign interference.
While some may tolerate this as awful but
lawful conduct, none of the bill’s sponsors or
supporters do because it is deeply corrosive of
our democracy.
In April of this year I introduced H.R. 2353,
the ‘‘Duty to Refuse and Report Foreign Inter-
ference in American Elections Act of 2019,’’ to
impose an affirmative duty to refuse any offer
of election campaign assistance from any
agent or entity acting on behalf or in the inter-
est of a foreign government and to report to
the Federal Bureau of Investigation any such
offer of assistance from an agent or entity act-
ing on behalf or in the interest of a foreign
government.
This duty to refuse and report applies to
candidates and any person working for, or vol-
unteering with, a candidate for election to fed-
eral office.
The legislation also requires the Federal
Election Commission to require that a can-
didate for election to federal office must certify
quarterly that he or she is compliance with the
above requirements on penalty of not more
than 5 years in prison and a fine of not more
than $250,000.
Mr. Chair, the threat to our country is real,
as documented in detail in the report issued
by Special Counsel Mueller, confirmed by the
unanimous assessment of our nation’s Intel-
ligence Community, and affirmed most re-
cently by FBI Director Wray who testified in
Congress that foreign interference in on our
democracy is ‘‘a 365-day-a-year threat.’’
It is past time to write into the books of law
the sensible and self-protective principle that
American elections are to be decided only by
American citizens, and not influenced by for-
eign adversaries.
I encourage all members to join me in vot-
ing to keep Americans in control of our elec-
toral process and elections by voting to pass
H.R. 4716, the SHIELD Act.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I have some folks who are on their
way here to offer some more remarks,
so, while we are waiting, I will offer my
remarks on some of the comments that
were made by my colleagues.
One of my colleagues talked about
bipartisanship, that this is a bipartisan
bill. It is not a bipartisan bill.
Mr. Chairman, the majority party
clearly had an opportunity to put
through our committee and onto the
floor a bill that had Republican and
Democrat cosponsors. Instead of doing
that, they chose to follow the exact
same path that they followed in the
past through other committees and
other pieces of legislation: They don’t
want to put real solutions forward;
they want to put political talking
points forward.
They decided to combine what my
colleague from Virginia just talked
about, allowing an Attorney General to
participate, possibly, in Federal cam-
paigns. That should scare every Amer-
ican, regardless of whether you are Re-
publican or Democrat. Let’s keep our
elections run in the most safe and ef-
fective way possible: at the State and
local level.
So it is not bipartisan. This bill is
not bipartisan. There are 187 cospon-
sors of the SHIELD Act, and not a sin-
gle Republican.
And that is a ploy? That is how we
run away from bipartisanship? No, bi-
partisanship was taken away from us.
Now, how do you get bipartisanship?
Well, you have hearings.
Not a single hearing was held in the
House Administration Committee
where we could ask questions to the so-
cial media platforms that are going to
be affected by this piece of legislation
if it becomes law. I certainly would
have loved to have asked Mark
Zuckerberg.
I tried to go over, today, to the Com-
mittee on Financial Services to ask
Mr. Zuckerberg why in the world did
Facebook or anybody at Facebook take
a payment from Russia for overtly po-
litical ads. They took $100,000 in pay-
ment out of $1.4 billion in digital ads
that were bought during the 2016 cycle.
That check was cashed.
I don’t know if they wrote a check; I
don’t know if they paid cash; I don’t
know if they paid rubles; but we ought
to be able to get to the bottom of it.
I didn’t even have a chance to ask be-
fore this bill was rushed to the floor.
Too many questions.
b 1515
If you want bipartisanship, you have
got to earn bipartisanship by allowing
us to have a seat at the table.
Now, it is not too hard to have dis-
cussions. It is not too hard to sit down
and work out bipartisan solutions.
There are only nine members of the
House Administration Committee. We
didn’t have a chance to do that, to sit
down and talk about our priorities. It
was great H.R. 1 was brought up. That
is the bill that was written in secret by
special interests before we were all
even sworn in. H.R. 1 had every single
Member of the majority party signed
on as a cosponsor before they even had
a chance to read it. It wasn’t even in-
troduced yet.
And let’s talk about what H.R. 1 did,
what my colleague called strike one.
H.R. 1. Every single Member of this in-
stitution who voted for that bill voted
to put either your taxpayer dollars or
corporate money for the first time ever
in our Nation’s history into their own
political campaign coffers. That is not
a strike to vote against that bill. That
is a freaking home run. That is ter-
rible. Nobody thinks getting more
money out of politics would be solved
by those provisions.
The SAFE Act, well, when the major-
ity decided to write their bill after we
had one hearing, they didn’t even lis-
ten to their own witness about the effi-
cacy of certain types of voting ma-
chines and the safety capabilities.
They didn’t listen to their own witness.
They still tried to create a process that
would have made safe election ma-
chines with a voter verified paper
backup mechanism which would have
made them essentially illegal after the
year 2021 or 2022.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.048 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8416 October 23, 2019
We know counties upon counties and
election authorities in this Nation that
have purchased these machines that
their own witness said was safe, but
that would be a waste of their own tax-
payer dollars now because somebody in
Washington that didn’t consult with
us, didn’t allow us a chance to work in
a bipartisan way, they would have
wasted hundreds of thousands of dol-
lars on voting machines.
My local Democratic election official
in my home county of Christian Coun-
ty, Illinois, they worked with their
local Republican county board to pur-
chase almost $300,000 in election ma-
chines that if the SAFE Act was signed
into law, that expense would have lit
300 grand up with a match. That is
wrong. Let’s talk to our local election
officials. I do. That is certainly not
strike two. I think that is another
home run, too.
Now the SHIELD Act. Again, I said it
is not bipartisan. 137 cosponsors, all
Democrats. We want to talk about bi-
partisanship, Mr. Chair, we can talk all
we want. I want to see some action. I
haven’t seen some action. We talked in
the Rules Committee last night about
no hearings, no ability to question wit-
nesses. We can come together. Nobody,
and I mean nobody, in this institution,
no one wants foreign interference. You
want a bipartisan bill? Our next col-
league who is going to talk was a co-
sponsor of a bipartisan bill that could
have come to the floor, but we weren’t
given the chance.
Mr. Chair, I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Wash-
ington (Mr. KILMER), who is a leader in
the Honest Ads Act.
Mr. KILMER. Mr. Chairman, I thank
Congresswoman LOFGREN for yielding
and for her leadership on this critical
election security package.
Mr. Chairman, foreign interests
shouldn’t be able to influence Amer-
ican elections, period. That is not a
Democratic notion. It is not a Repub-
lican notion. That is an American no-
tion. We know that there is an election
just a year away, and we know that
just this week one of the world’s most
prominent social media companies ac-
knowledged that Russia, Iran, China,
and other adversaries are actively
working to interfere in our next elec-
tions.
This is a no-brainer. It is time to
take real action to fix loopholes and
protect our elections from foreign in-
terference. That is why the SHIELD
Act is so important. There is a ton in
this bill, and I am proud that many of
the components of the SHIELD Act are
based on bills the New Democratic Coa-
lition endorsed, among them the Hon-
est Ads Act.
Right now if a candidate or a group
runs political ads on television that is
publicly available information. The
public and the press are able to access
that information on who is buying the
ad, how much they are paying. Same
thing on radio. But that is not true on
social media. If an entity buys ads on
social media, there are no disclosure
requirements under the law, even
though we know foreign adversaries
are seeking to buy online ads.
The Honest Ads Act would change
that, and that is why it is a bipartisan
bill; 18 Democratic sponsors, 18 Repub-
lican sponsors, the chair of Senate Ju-
diciary, the vice chair of the Intel-
ligence Committee.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
an additional 30 seconds to the gen-
tleman from Washington.
Mr. KILMER. Mr. Chairman, they see
this as a way to strengthen our democ-
racy and our national security. To en-
able law enforcement and the press and
others to better detect and investigate
foreign involvement in our elections.
The House has a choice to make, a
choice to keep loopholes open and con-
tinue to see threats against our democ-
racy or a choice to take action and
pass the SHIELD Act. I am proud to be
a sponsor of this bill.
I thank Chair LOFGREN and her team
for their hard work on this, and I am
confident the House will make the
right choice and pass this bill.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I will tell you, my colleague
from the great State of Washington,
you can’t get much more bipartisan
than Mr. KILMER. I certainly wish we
would have been able to have the bill
on the floor that my colleague spoke
about that had an even number of Re-
publican and Democratic cosponsors,
but unfortunately, we don’t have the
opportunity to do that, Mr. Chairman.
Unfortunately, we are watching poi-
son pills like the one that my colleague
from Virginia spoke about where an at-
torney general can come in and decide
to correct the record on Federal elec-
tions. I think that is scary for any
American. That is not a solution.
I do believe that we will see this bill
passed. I am not proud that this bill is
going to pass, because this bill is not
going to be signed into law.
And I know my good friend and col-
league, the chairperson of the House
Administration Committee, have dis-
cussed a couple of times about Su-
preme Court Justice Kavanaugh. I
think her and I agree with Justice
Kavanaugh, that foreign bad actors,
they don’t have freedom of speech pro-
tections in the United States of Amer-
ica. But the sad fact, Mr. Chairman, is
that if this bill were to pass into law,
it would do nothing to affect the bad
actors who interfered in our 2016 elec-
tions. Nothing.
Our bill, the Honest Elections Act
would. We will positively affect those
bad actors, and we will make sure they
are held accountable.
If this bill passes, I believe the ma-
jority party would give more free
speech protections to those foreign bad
actors.
Mr. Chair, I yield 3 minutes to the
distinguished gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. CALVERT), my good friend.
Mr. CALVERT. Mr. Chairman, I
thank the gentleman for yielding.
The bill under consideration is an at-
tempt to protect our elections from
foreign interference. That is a goal
that I certainly share, and I think all
of us share.
In fact, I tried to offer an amendment
to the bill that would have closed a
gaping hole in the security of our elec-
tion system. It is a weakness that basi-
cally rolls out the red carpet to foreign
interference. Unfortunately, my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
blocked my amendment.
My proposal would have prohibited
the practice known as ballot har-
vesting, which is something that is
only legal in a few states, where lit-
erally anyone can collect absentee bal-
lots. In California where ballot har-
vesting is legal, anyone, including paid
campaign workers and foreign nation-
als, are allowed to collect an unlimited
number of ballots.
California Democrats have refused to
put any guard rails on ballot collec-
tion, leaving it wide open to fraud and
abuse by both foreign and domestic bad
actors.
Every time I voice my concern about
ballot harvesting, my friends on the
other side of the aisle and the media
keep asking for evidence of abuse.
Mr. Chairman, the reason there is no
evidence of ballot harvesting fraud is
because California Democrats have de-
signed a system that doesn’t collect
evidence. If you collect ballots in Cali-
fornia, you aren’t required to give your
name to the voter whose ballot you are
collecting, and when you turn in that
ballot to election officials, you are not
required to give your name at that
point either. There is no requirement
to document the chain of custody of
ballots. And there is nothing in the
State law prohibiting foreign nationals
from collecting and handling ballots.
Let me repeat that. There is nothing in
California law prohibiting foreign na-
tionals from collecting and handling
ballots.
You know, in reality, the only rule is
there are no rules. Mr. Chairman, this
isn’t the Wild West. We shouldn’t wait
for fraud and abuse to occur before we
act. By rejecting my amendment,
Democrats have not only left a door
open to foreign involvement in our
elections, they have laid out the wel-
come mat.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Penn-
sylvania (Mr. LAMB), a star in our cau-
cus.
Mr. LAMB. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding.
I am proud to stand up in support of
the SHIELD Act, which incorporates
my bill, H.R. 4703, The DEFEND Act.
The DEFEND Act, as incorporated
here, would forbid paid internet activ-
ity by foreign actors, foreign political
parties, foreign intelligence services
and the like.
This is a problem because in 2016
across Pennsylvania users of social
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.050 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8417
October 23, 2019
media saw this image over and over
again. It is the real image of a coal
miner suggesting that miners were sup-
porting the Republican nominee and
getting together in huge rallies in
places like Pittsburgh and Philadel-
phia.
But the problem is, there were no ral-
lies. And the truth is, the actual opin-
ions of coal miners were much more
mixed. They know, in fact, that they
have been let down on issues like
healthcare and pensions, by both Re-
publicans and Democrats, and they
have been supported and protected on
those same issues by Members of both
parties.
In fact, just today, the House Natural
Resources Committee passed the Min-
ers Pension Protection Act, and I was
proud to stand with members of both
parties in support of that.
Mr. Chair, the man in this image died
in 1987 at the age of 57—too young—
like most miners, of black lung. These
miners have given a lot. We cannot
allow the Russians or anyone else to
take anything else from them and af-
fect our elections.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentlewoman from
Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN), a new Member
of Congress from Michigan, who had a
distinguished career in the intelligence
community.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Mr. Chair, I thank the
gentlewoman for yielding, and thank
her for all the work she has done on the
SHIELD Act.
As a former CIA officer and Pentagon
official, as the wife of a 30-year Army
officer and the stepmom of a current
Army officer, I know that when our
country sees a threat, we have the re-
sponsibility to act and to consider
ways to protect our country.
I think we have all said it many
times here today, no matter who you
are, what political party you are from,
we can all agree that foreigners have
no role in our political process.
I am incredibly proud to be sup-
porting the SHIELD Act. Certain por-
tions of it are modeled off legislation I
have been working on since I first
started in Congress in January, the
PAID AD Act, in particular. It is the
very basic idea that foreigners should
not be able to buy an ad for or against
a candidate in an American political
election. That should be illegal, plain
and simple.
Michigan was particularly targeted
by these ads. They are divisive. They
are hateful. They are meant to split us
apart and stoke fears in our commu-
nity. It is a classic in the playbook the
Russians have used in Eastern Europe,
and now they are using it here in the
United States.
The SHIELD Act closes these loop-
holes that currently allow foreign enti-
ties to purchase campaign ads. I am
thrilled to support it.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I yield
1 minute to the gentleman from Min-
nesota (Mr. PHILLIPS), a valued new
Member of Congress.
Mr. PHILLIPS. Mr. Chair, I thank
the gentlewoman for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, people in small towns
and cities in my home State of Min-
nesota and in neighborhoods all across
the Nation are being targeted for ma-
nipulation.
b 1530
Foreign governments have found a
weakness in our national security.
They are exploiting it by using social
media platforms to influence Ameri-
cans, with the hope that they will vote
for foreign interests, not American in-
terests.
Democrats and Republicans need to
come together now—today—to do
something about it. It is what our
Founders—Washington, Adams, Jeffer-
son, Madison, and others—would have
demanded.
That is why I am proud to support
the SHIELD Act, an important legisla-
tive package that includes my bill, the
Firewall Act, that simply prevents for-
eign nationals from paying for online
political advertisements, something to
which my distinguished colleague from
Illinois referred to just moments ago.
Mr. Chair, I urge my colleagues to
support this historic and necessary
package and help us build a wall, a dig-
ital wall, to protect Americans from
foreign interference in our elections.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chair, I yield myself the balance of my
time.
Mr. Chair, I thank my colleagues for
their comments today.
Look, there is a lot of activity and
the opportunity to come to this floor
and debate very important issues, and
there are no more important issues
than protecting the validity and safety
of our election system here in this in-
stitution in the great United States of
America.
You know what? We heard a lot
about this process not being bipartisan,
Mr. Chairman. Well, let’s talk about
what we have done in a bipartisan
manner to protect our elections.
When Republicans were in charge of
this institution, we worked in a bipar-
tisan fashion to actually appropriate
over $300 million to go to our States, to
work with our local officials, to part-
ner with the Department of Homeland
Security to ensure that our election in-
frastructure is safer than it was in 2016.
We all learned the lessons of 2016, and
we worked together to put solutions on
the table.
That is exactly what we should be
doing here. But on the SHIELD Act,
unfortunately, the Democratic major-
ity did not allow us a seat at the table.
You know, you go to my home State
of Illinois, where they have been raving
about their partnership with this ad-
ministration’s Department of Home-
land Security, and look at the 2018
election cycle. We had record turnout
in a midterm election, and not one in-
stance of foreign interference has been
brought forth, So it looks like we have
done something good together in a bi-
partisan fashion in the past.
I certainly hope, Mr. Chair, we could
do that in the future.
Many of the provisions that my col-
leagues talked about and that I spoke
about are just simply too egregious for
us to support. We want to support a bill
that has proper hearings, goes through
regular order, and provides an oppor-
tunity for Republicans and Democrats
to work together, just like we did to
protect America’s election systems for
the 2018 election cycle.
I want to see results, Mr. Chair. I am
not seeing results with the SHIELD
Act.
Let’s come together. Let’s take an-
other swing, take another crack at the
bat. Let’s hit another home run to-
gether. Because according to my count
right now, that bipartisan investment
of $300-plus million that we worked to-
gether on, that is a grand slam. Let’s
start working on some more grand
slams together.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Mr. Chair, I am disappointed that,
apparently, we are not going to get
support for this important bill from at
least the ranking member and some of
the Members who have spoken today
on the other side of the aisle.
There are no poison pills in this bill,
and much of the bill is made up of bills
that had bipartisan support.
It is interesting to hear that some-
how this is partisan because the Repub-
lican leadership refuses to step forward
to confront the danger that we face
from Russian interference in our elec-
tions and the possible interference
from other nations. We have been told
by the FBI that might include Iran as
well as Turkey.
I listened carefully to my friend, the
ranking member, about the money that
was appropriated—and that was bipar-
tisan; we supported that—in the last
Congress for election security. Demo-
crats included $600 million this year for
election security. We sent it to the
Senate, and unlike last year, they now
are refusing to act.
I remember back in law school that I
was told by one of my professors, who
I liked so much, that if you can’t argue
the law and you can’t argue the facts,
argue a lot. I think that is some of
what we heard today.
We have had some hearings on these
issues, three in the House Administra-
tion Committee. Although the Elec-
tions Subcommittee, which has been so
active, did not focus entirely on these
issues, it did touch also on these issues,
in fact, just earlier this week. In the
House Administration Committee,
there have been 11 of these hearings.
To say that this bill threatens First
Amendment rights is certainly incor-
rect. Now, I value the ACLU. We work
with them very closely on a variety of
issues, including the role of due process
in immigration, and they have an im-
portant role in American society. But
when it comes to campaign finance re-
form, they have a long history of op-
posing laws that regulate the raising
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.051 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8418 October 23, 2019
and spending of money to influence
elections.
The ACLU filed an amicus brief in
support of the Citizens United case.
They opposed the effort by the Con-
gress to get rid of the dark money in
our elections. They, I think, misunder-
stand the issue of free speech when it
comes to foreign governments.
I will quote the entire thing again
that Justice Kavanaugh wrote: ‘‘The
United States has a compelling inter-
est for purposes of First Amendment
analysis in limiting the participation
of foreign citizens in activities of
American democratic self-government,
and in thereby preventing foreign in-
fluence over the U.S. political proc-
ess.’’
We don’t have to worry about wheth-
er the Russian trolls’ rights to free
speech are being violated when we keep
them from interfering in our elections
because we have a compelling interest
to keep the Russians and others from
trying to subvert our elections, to hurt
our country. We have a right to defend
ourselves from them, and the SHIELD
Act does that.
I would like to note also that ele-
ments in this bill would have prevented
some of the misconduct or problems
that occurred in the 2016 election.
I was interested that my colleague
expressed concern that we didn’t hear
from some of the platforms, that we
didn’t hear from Mark Zuckerberg. He
is correct. We did not call Facebook
into the House Administration Com-
mittee. Frankly, if they had said, ‘‘We
don’t want to do this,’’ I would have
said, ‘‘Too bad.’’
We need to set some rules that pre-
vent the lack of responsibility on the
part of some of these platforms. They
accepted money from Russian
influencers to place ads to harm our
democracy. This bill requires them to
make a reasonable effort to find out
that the ads that are being placed are
not actually coming from our foreign
adversaries.
We, as I mentioned earlier, in this
bill directly prohibit the sharing of
sensitive campaign information by
American campaigns with foreign ac-
tors. That happened in the 2016 elec-
tion. We had the chairman of the
Trump campaign, Mr. Manafort, shar-
ing internal polling data with a Rus-
sian agent, sharing the playbook for
the States at play with a Russian
agent.
I have wondered a lot about what was
going on there. I didn’t get an answer
to that, but this bill makes that imper-
missible. This bill makes that a crime.
It also requires campaigns to report
to the FBI when they have been con-
tacted by a foreign campaign. We all
know now that the Russians contacted
the Trump campaign, and the Presi-
dent’s son said: ‘‘If it is what you say,
I love it.’’ They supposedly had dirt on
the Democratic opponent. They were
going to funnel information into the
campaign. Did the campaign tell the
FBI? No, they did not.
Well, if this bill had passed, there
would have been a requirement to no-
tify the FEC and the FBI that the Rus-
sians were trying to interfere in the
campaign.
Now, I would think that would be
something that most people would
think you would do anyway, that we
shouldn’t need a law to require it. But,
apparently, we do, and this bill would
include that.
I want to mention the Honest Ads
Act because the Honest Ads Act has
been introduced with a broad bipar-
tisan group to make sure that there is
disclosure.
We have had a disclosure regime
when it comes to broadcast TV and
radio for a long time, but it did not ex-
tend to the digital advertising environ-
ment. That is a mistake because as in-
formation migrates to the digital
world, we need to have disclosure
there, too. The Honest Ads Act does
that. It is incorporated in the SHIELD
Act.
It is important. It requires the plat-
forms to maintain copies of the ads for
4 years. It requires that there be a dis-
closure of who is paying for it. The
American people have a right to know
who is trying to influence them online,
just as they do in TV broadcasting.
Does it make a difference? Yes, it
does. I remember in my State of Cali-
fornia, a number of years ago, there
was an initiative to control smoking in
restaurants. It was polling at, like, 80
percent, something of that nature.
Then it came out that the backers of
the initiative were the tobacco compa-
nies. They were doing it to undercut
local ordinances that were stricter
than what they were trying to put into
place at the State level.
Support for the initiative dropped
like a stone because people aren’t stu-
pid. They know that they have to con-
sider the source of the information
when information is sent to them.
The American voters have a right to
know who is spending money to influ-
ence them.
I would like to say that this measure
deserves the support of every Member
of this body. To say that the Senate
will take it up—I would hate to think
that the Senate cares so little about
protecting our country from foreign in-
fluence that they would simply say no.
Mr. Chair, I urge adoption of this
bill. I think it is important for our
country. I think it is essential for our
democracy.
Mr. Chair, I yield back the balance of
my time.
The CHAIR. All time for general de-
bate has expired.
Pursuant to the rule, the bill shall be
considered for amendment under the 5-
minute rule.
In lieu of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute recommended by
the Committee on House Administra-
tion, printed in the bill, it shall be in
order to consider as an original bill for
the purpose of amendment under the 5-
minute rule an amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute consisting of the
text of Rules Committee Print 116–35,
modified by the amendment printed in
part A of House Report 116–253. That
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be considered as read.
The text of the amendment in the na-
ture of a substitute is as follows:
H.R. 4617
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This Act may be cited as
the ‘‘Stopping Harmful Interference in Elections
for a Lasting Democracy Act’’ or the ‘‘SHIELD
Act’’.
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is as follows:
Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
TITLE I—ENHANCED REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS
Subtitle A—Establishing Duty to Report Foreign
Election Interference
Sec. 101. Federal campaign reporting of foreign
contacts.
Sec. 102. Federal campaign foreign contact re-
porting compliance system.
Sec. 103. Criminal penalties.
Sec. 104. Rule of construction.
Subtitle B—Strengthening Oversight of Online
Political Advertising
Sec. 111. Short title.
Sec. 112. Purpose.
Sec. 113. Expansion of definition of public com-
munication.
Sec. 114. Expansion of definition of election-
eering communication.
Sec. 115. Application of disclaimer statements to
online communications.
Sec. 116. Political record requirements for on-
line platforms.
Sec. 117. Preventing contributions, expendi-
tures, independent expenditures,
and disbursements for election-
eering communications by foreign
nationals in the form of online
advertising.
TITLE II—CLOSING LOOPHOLES ALLOW-
ING SPENDING BY FOREIGN NATIONALS
IN ELECTIONS
Sec. 201. Clarification of prohibition on partici-
pation by foreign nationals in
election-related activities.
Sec. 202. Clarification of application of foreign
money ban to certain disburse-
ments and activities.
Sec. 203. Audit and report on illicit foreign
money in Federal elections.
Sec. 204. Prohibition on contributions and do-
nations by foreign nationals in
connections with ballot initiatives
and referenda.
Sec. 205. Expansion of limitations on foreign
nationals participating in polit-
ical advertising.
TITLE III—DETERRING FOREIGN
INTERFERENCE IN ELECTIONS
Subtitle A—Deterrence Under Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971
Sec. 301. Restrictions on exchange of campaign
information between candidates
and foreign powers.
Sec. 302. Clarification of standard for deter-
mining existence of coordination
between campaigns and outside
interests.
Subtitle B—Prohibiting Deceptive Practices and
Preventing Voter Intimidation
Sec. 311. Short title.
Sec. 312. Prohibition on deceptive practices in
Federal elections.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:15 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.053 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8419
October 23, 2019
Sec. 313. Corrective action.
Sec. 314. Reports to Congress.
TITLE IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
Sec. 401. Effective dates of provisions.
Sec. 402. Severability.
TITLE I—ENHANCED REPORTING
REQUIREMENTS
Subtitle A—Establishing Duty to Report
Foreign Election Interference
SEC. 101. FEDERAL CAMPAIGN REPORTING OF
FOREIGN CONTACTS.
(a) INITIAL NOTICE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 304 of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30104)
is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
‘‘(j) DISCLOSURE OF REPORTABLE FOREIGN
CONTACTS.—
‘‘(1) COMMITTEE OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY.—Not
later than 1 week after a reportable foreign con-
tact, each political committee shall notify the
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Com-
mission of the reportable foreign contact and
provide a summary of the circumstances with re-
spect to such reportable foreign contact.
‘‘(2) INDIVIDUAL OBLIGATION TO NOTIFY.—Not
later than 3 days after a reportable foreign con-
tact—
‘‘(A) each candidate shall notify the treasurer
or other designated official of the principal cam-
paign committee of such candidate of the report-
able foreign contact and provide a summary of
the circumstances with respect to such report-
able foreign contact; and
‘‘(B) each official, employee, or agent of a po-
litical committee shall notify the treasurer or
other designated official of the committee of the
reportable foreign contact and provide a sum-
mary of the circumstances with respect to such
reportable foreign contact.
‘‘(3) REPORTABLE FOREIGN CONTACT.—In this
subsection:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘reportable for-
eign contact’ means any direct or indirect con-
tact or communication that—
‘‘(i) is between—
‘‘(I) a candidate, a political committee, or any
official, employee, or agent of such committee;
and
‘‘(II) an individual that the person described
in subclause (I) knows, has reason to know, or
reasonably believes is a covered foreign na-
tional; and
‘‘(ii) the person described in clause (i)(I)
knows, has reason to know, or reasonably be-
lieves involves—
‘‘(I) an offer or other proposal for a contribu-
tion, donation, expenditure, disbursement, or so-
licitation described in section 319; or
‘‘(II) coordination or collaboration with, an
offer or provision of information or services to or
from, or persistent and repeated contact with, a
covered foreign national in connection with an
election.
‘‘(B) EXCEPTIONS.—
‘‘(i) CONTACTS IN OFFICIAL CAPACITY AS ELECT-
ED OFFICIAL.—The term ‘reportable foreign con-
tact’ shall not include any contact or commu-
nication with a covered foreign national by an
elected official or an employee of an elected offi-
cial solely in an official capacity as such an of-
ficial or employee.
(ii) CONTACTS FOR PURPOSES OF ENABLING OB-
SERVATION OF ELECTIONS BY INTERNATIONAL OB-
SERVERS.—The term ‘reportable foreign contact’
shall not include any contact or communication
with a covered foreign national by any person
which is made for purposes of enabling the ob-
servation of elections in the United States by a
foreign national or observation of elections out-
side of the United States by a candidate, polit-
ical committee, or any official, employee, or
agent of such committee.
(iii) EXCEPTIONS NOT APPLICABLE IF CONTACTS
OR COMMUNICATIONS INVOLVE PROHIBITED DIS-
BURSEMENTS.—A contact or communication by
an elected official or an employee of an elected
official shall not be considered to be made solely
in an official capacity for purposes of clause (i),
and a contact or communication shall not be
considered to be made for purposes of enabling
the observation of elections for purposes of
clause (ii), if the contact or communication in-
volves a contribution, donation, expenditure,
disbursement, or solicitation described in section
319.
‘‘(C) COVERED FOREIGN NATIONAL DEFINED.—
‘‘(i) IN GENERAL.—In this paragraph, the term
‘covered foreign national’ means—
‘‘(I) a foreign principal (as defined in section
1(b) of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of
1938 (22 U.S.C. 611(b)) that is a government of a
foreign country or a foreign political party;
‘‘(II) any person who acts as an agent, rep-
resentative, employee, or servant, or any person
who acts in any other capacity at the order, re-
quest, or under the direction or control, of a for-
eign principal described in subclause (I) or of a
person any of whose activities are directly or in-
directly supervised, directed, controlled, fi-
nanced, or subsidized in whole or in major part
by a foreign principal described in subclause (I);
or
‘‘(III) any person included in the list of spe-
cially designated nationals and blocked persons
maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Con-
trol of the Department of the Treasury pursuant
to authorities relating to the imposition of sanc-
tions relating to the conduct of a foreign prin-
cipal described in subclause (I).
‘‘(ii) CLARIFICATION REGARDING APPLICATION
TO CITIZENS OF THE UNITED STATES.—In the case
of a citizen of the United States, subclause (II)
of clause (i) applies only to the extent that the
person involved acts within the scope of that
person’s status as the agent of a foreign prin-
cipal described in subclause (I) of clause (i).’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to re-
portable foreign contacts which occur on or
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(b) INFORMATION INCLUDED ON REPORT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 304(b) of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30104(b)) is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of paragraph
(7);
(B) by striking the period at the end of para-
graph (8) and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(9) for any reportable foreign contact (as de-
fined in subsection (j)(3))—
‘‘(A) the date, time, and location of the con-
tact;
‘‘(B) the date and time of when a designated
official of the committee was notified of the con-
tact;
‘‘(C) the identity of individuals involved; and
‘‘(D) a description of the contact, including
the nature of any contribution, donation, ex-
penditure, disbursement, or solicitation involved
and the nature of any activity described in sub-
section (j)(3)(A)(ii)(II) involved.’’.
(2) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by paragraph (1) shall apply with respect to re-
ports filed on or after the expiration of the 60-
day period which begins on the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
SEC. 102. FEDERAL CAMPAIGN FOREIGN CONTACT
REPORTING COMPLIANCE SYSTEM.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 302 of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30102)
is amended by adding at the end the following
new subsection:
‘‘(j) REPORTABLE FOREIGN CONTACTS COMPLI-
ANCE POLICY.—
‘‘(1) REPORTING.—Each political committee
shall establish a policy that requires all offi-
cials, employees, and agents of such committee
to notify the treasurer or other appropriate des-
ignated official of the committee of any report-
able foreign contact (as defined in section 304(j))
not later than 3 days after such contact was
made.
‘‘(2) RETENTION AND PRESERVATION OF
RECORDS.—Each political committee shall estab-
lish a policy that provides for the retention and
preservation of records and information related
to reportable foreign contacts (as so defined) for
a period of not less than 3 years.
‘‘(3) CERTIFICATION.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—Upon filing its statement
of organization under section 303(a), and with
each report filed under section 304(a), the treas-
urer of each political committee (other than an
authorized committee) shall certify that—
‘‘(i) the committee has in place policies that
meet the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2);
‘‘(ii) the committee has designated an official
to monitor compliance with such policies; and
‘‘(iii) not later than 1 week after the begin-
ning of any formal or informal affiliation with
the committee, all officials, employees, and
agents of such committee will—
‘‘(I) receive notice of such policies;
‘‘(II) be informed of the prohibitions under
section 319; and
‘‘(III) sign a certification affirming their un-
derstanding of such policies and prohibitions.
‘‘(B) AUTHORIZED COMMITTEES.—With respect
to an authorized committee, the candidate shall
make the certification required under subpara-
graph (A).’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The amendment made by
subsection (a) shall apply with respect to polit-
ical committees which file a statement of organi-
zation under section 303(a) of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30103(a))
on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
(2) TRANSITION RULE FOR EXISTING COMMIT-
TEES.—Not later than 30 days after the date of
the enactment of this Act, each political com-
mittee under the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 shall file a certification with the Federal
Election Commission that the committee is in
compliance with the requirements of section
302(j) of such Act (as added by subsection (a)).
SEC. 103. CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
Section 309(d)(1) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30109(d)(1)) is
amended by adding at the end the following
new subparagraphs:
‘‘(E) Any person who knowingly and willfully
commits a violation of subsection (j) or (b)(9) of
section 304 or section 302(j) shall be fined not
more than $500,000, imprisoned not more than 5
years, or both.
‘‘(F) Any person who knowingly and willfully
conceals or destroys any materials relating to a
reportable foreign contact (as defined in section
304(j)) shall be fined not more than $1,000,000,
imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.’’.
SEC. 104. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
Nothing in this subtitle or the amendments
made by this subtitle shall be construed—
(1) to impede legitimate journalistic activities;
or
(2) to impose any additional limitation on the
right to express political views or to participate
in public discourse of any individual who—
(A) resides in the United States;
(B) is not a citizen of the United States or a
national of the United States, as defined in sec-
tion 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nation-
ality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22)); and
(C) is not lawfully admitted for permanent
residence, as defined by section 101(a)(20) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(20)).
Subtitle B—Strengthening Oversight of
Online Political Advertising
SEC. 111. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Honest Ads
Act’’.
SEC. 112. PURPOSE.
The purpose of this subtitle is to enhance the
integrity of American democracy and national
security by improving disclosure requirements
for online political advertisements in order to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:15 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.018 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8420 October 23, 2019
uphold the Supreme Court’s well-established
standard that the electorate bears the right to be
fully informed.
SEC. 113. EXPANSION OF DEFINITION OF PUBLIC
COMMUNICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Paragraph (22) of section
301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101(22)) is amended by striking
‘‘or satellite communication’’ and inserting
‘‘satellite, paid internet, or paid digital commu-
nication’’.
(b) TREATMENT OF CONTRIBUTIONS AND EX-
PENDITURES.—Section 301 of such Act (52 U.S.C.
30101) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (8)(B)(v), by striking ‘‘on
broadcasting stations, or in newspapers, maga-
zines, or similar types of general public political
advertising’’ and inserting ‘‘in any public com-
munication’’; and
(2) in paragraph (9)(B)—
(A) by amending clause (i) to read as follows:
‘‘(i) any news story, commentary, or editorial
distributed through the facilities of any broad-
casting station or any print, online, or digital
newspaper, magazine, blog, publication, or peri-
odical, unless such broadcasting, print, online,
or digital facilities are owned or controlled by
any political party, political committee, or can-
didate;’’; and
(B) in clause (iv), by striking ‘‘on broad-
casting stations, or in newspapers, magazines,
or similar types of general public political adver-
tising’’ and inserting ‘‘in any public commu-
nication’’.
(c) DISCLOSURE AND DISCLAIMER STATE-
MENTS.—Subsection (a) of section 318 of such
Act (52 U.S.C. 30120) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘financing any communication
through any broadcasting station, newspaper,
magazine, outdoor advertising facility, mailing,
or any other type of general public political ad-
vertising’’ and inserting ‘‘financing any public
communication’’; and
(2) by striking ‘‘solicits any contribution
through any broadcasting station, newspaper,
magazine, outdoor advertising facility, mailing,
or any other type of general public political ad-
vertising’’ and inserting ‘‘solicits any contribu-
tion through any public communication’’.
SEC. 114. EXPANSION OF DEFINITION OF ELEC-
TIONEERING COMMUNICATION.
(a) EXPANSION TO ONLINE COMMUNICATIONS.—
(1) APPLICATION TO QUALIFIED INTERNET AND
DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subparagraph (A) of section
304(f)(3) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30104(f)(3)(A)) is amended by
striking ‘‘or satellite communication’’ each place
it appears in clauses (i) and (ii) and inserting
‘‘satellite, or qualified internet or digital com-
munication’’.
(B) QUALIFIED INTERNET OR DIGITAL COMMU-
NICATION.—Paragraph (3) of section 304(f) of
such Act (52 U.S.C. 30104(f)) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(D) QUALIFIED INTERNET OR DIGITAL COMMU-
NICATION.—The term ‘qualified internet or dig-
ital communication’ means any communication
which is placed or promoted for a fee on an on-
line platform (as defined in subsection (k)(3)).’’.
(2) NONAPPLICATION OF RELEVANT ELECTORATE
TO ONLINE COMMUNICATIONS.—Section
304(f)(3)(A)(i)(III) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
30104(f)(3)(A)(i)(III)) is amended by inserting
‘‘any broadcast, cable, or satellite’’ before ‘‘com-
munication’’.
(3) NEWS EXEMPTION.—Section 304(f)(3)(B)(i)
of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30104(f)(3)(B)(i)) is
amended to read as follows:
‘‘(i) a communication appearing in a news
story, commentary, or editorial distributed
through the facilities of any broadcasting sta-
tion or any online or digital newspaper, maga-
zine, blog, publication, or periodical, unless
such broadcasting, online, or digital facilities
are owned or controlled by any political party,
political committee, or candidate;’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply with respect to com-
munications made on or after January 1, 2020.
SEC. 115. APPLICATION OF DISCLAIMER STATE-
MENTS TO ONLINE COMMUNICA-
TIONS.
(a) CLEAR AND CONSPICUOUS MANNER RE-
QUIREMENT.—Subsection (a) of section 318 of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30120(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘shall clearly state’’ each place
it appears in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) and in-
serting ‘‘shall state in a clear and conspicuous
manner’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following flush
sentence: ‘‘For purposes of this section, a com-
munication does not make a statement in a clear
and conspicuous manner if it is difficult to read
or hear or if the placement is easily over-
looked.’’.
(b) SPECIAL RULES FOR QUALIFIED INTERNET
OR DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 318 of such Act (52
U.S.C. 30120) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(e) SPECIAL RULES FOR QUALIFIED INTERNET
OR DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS.—
‘‘(1) SPECIAL RULES WITH RESPECT TO STATE-
MENTS.—In the case of any communication to
which this section applies which is a qualified
internet or digital communication (as defined in
section 304(f)(3)(D)) which is disseminated
through a medium in which the provision of all
of the information specified in this section is not
possible, the communication shall, in a clear
and conspicuous manner—
‘‘(A) state the name of the person who paid
for the communication; and
‘‘(B) provide a means for the recipient of the
communication to obtain the remainder of the
information required under this section with
minimal effort and without receiving or viewing
any additional material other than such re-
quired information.
‘‘(2) SAFE HARBOR FOR DETERMINING CLEAR
AND CONSPICUOUS MANNER.—A statement in a
qualified internet or digital communication (as
defined in section 304(f)(3)(D)) shall be consid-
ered to be made in a clear and conspicuous man-
ner as provided in subsection (a) if the commu-
nication meets the following requirements:
‘‘(A) TEXT OR GRAPHIC COMMUNICATIONS.—In
the case of a text or graphic communication, the
statement—
‘‘(i) appears in letters at least as large as the
majority of the text in the communication; and
‘‘(ii) meets the requirements of paragraphs (2)
and (3) of subsection (c).
‘‘(B) AUDIO COMMUNICATIONS.—In the case of
an audio communication, the statement is spo-
ken in a clearly audible and intelligible manner
at the beginning or end of the communication
and lasts at least 3 seconds.
‘‘(C) VIDEO COMMUNICATIONS.—In the case of
a video communication which also includes
audio, the statement—
‘‘(i) is included at either the beginning or the
end of the communication; and
‘‘(ii) is made both in—
‘‘(I) a written format that meets the require-
ments of subparagraph (A) and appears for at
least 4 seconds; and
‘‘(II) an audible format that meets the require-
ments of subparagraph (B).
‘‘(D) OTHER COMMUNICATIONS.—In the case of
any other type of communication, the statement
is at least as clear and conspicuous as the state-
ment specified in subparagraph (A), (B), or
(C).’’.
(2) NONAPPLICATION OF CERTAIN EXCEP-
TIONS.—The exceptions provided in section
110.11(f)(1)(i) and (ii) of title 11, Code of Federal
Regulations, or any successor to such rules,
shall have no application to qualified internet
or digital communications (as defined in section
304(f)(3)(D) of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971, as added by this Act).
(c) MODIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR CERTAIN COMMUNICATIONS.—Section
318(d) of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30120(d)) is amend-
ed—
(1) in paragraph (1)(A)—
(A) by striking ‘‘which is transmitted through
radio’’ and inserting ‘‘which is in an audio for-
mat’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘BY RADIO’’ in the heading
and inserting ‘‘AUDIO FORMAT’’;
(2) in paragraph (1)(B)—
(A) by striking ‘‘which is transmitted through
television’’ and inserting ‘‘which is in video for-
mat’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘BY TELEVISION’’ in the head-
ing and inserting ‘‘VIDEO FORMAT’’; and
(3) in paragraph (2)—
(A) by striking ‘‘transmitted through radio or
television’’ and inserting ‘‘made in audio or
video format’’; and
(B) by striking ‘‘through television’’ in the
second sentence and inserting ‘‘in video for-
mat’’.
SEC. 116. POLITICAL RECORD REQUIREMENTS
FOR ONLINE PLATFORMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 304 of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30104),
as amended by section 101(a), is further amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(k) DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN ONLINE ADVER-
TISEMENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) REQUIREMENTS FOR ONLINE PLAT-
FORMS.—An online platform shall maintain, and
make available for online public inspection in
machine readable format, a complete record of
any request to purchase on such online platform
a qualified political advertisement which is
made by a person whose aggregate requests to
purchase qualified political advertisements on
such online platform during the calendar year
exceeds $500.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENTS FOR ADVERTISERS.—Any
person who requests to purchase a qualified po-
litical advertisement on an online platform shall
provide the online platform with such informa-
tion as is necessary for the online platform to
comply with the requirements of subparagraph
(A).
‘‘(2) CONTENTS OF RECORD.—A record main-
tained under paragraph (1)(A) shall contain—
‘‘(A) a digital copy of the qualified political
advertisement;
‘‘(B) a description of the audience targeted by
the advertisement, the number of views gen-
erated from the advertisement, and the date and
time that the advertisement is first displayed
and last displayed; and
‘‘(C) information regarding—
‘‘(i) the average rate charged for the adver-
tisement;
‘‘(ii) the name of the candidate to which the
advertisement refers and the office to which the
candidate is seeking election, the election to
which the advertisement refers, or the national
legislative issue to which the advertisement re-
fers (as applicable);
‘‘(iii) in the case of a request made by, or on
behalf of, a candidate, the name of the can-
didate, the authorized committee of the can-
didate, and the treasurer of such committee; and
‘‘(iv) in the case of any request not described
in clause (iii), the name of the person pur-
chasing the advertisement, the name and ad-
dress of a contact person for such person, and
a list of the chief executive officers or members
of the executive committee or of the board of di-
rectors of such person.
‘‘(3) ONLINE PLATFORM.—For purposes of this
subsection, the term ‘online platform’ means
any public-facing website, web application, or
digital application (including a social network,
ad network, or search engine) which—
‘‘(A) sells qualified political advertisements;
and
‘‘(B) has 50,000,000 or more unique monthly
United States visitors or users for a majority of
months during the preceding 12 months.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.018 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8421
October 23, 2019
‘‘(4) QUALIFIED POLITICAL ADVERTISEMENT.—
For purposes of this subsection, the term ‘quali-
fied political advertisement’ means any adver-
tisement (including search engine marketing,
display advertisements, video advertisements,
native advertisements, and sponsorships) that—
‘‘(A) is made by or on behalf of a candidate;
or
‘‘(B) communicates a message relating to any
political matter of national importance, includ-
ing—
‘‘(i) a candidate;
‘‘(ii) any election to Federal office; or
‘‘(iii) a national legislative issue of public im-
portance.
‘‘(5) TIME TO MAINTAIN FILE.—The informa-
tion required under this subsection shall be
made available as soon as possible and shall be
retained by the online platform for a period of
not less than 4 years.
‘‘(6) SAFE HARBOR FOR PLATFORMS MAKING
BEST EFFORTS TO IDENTIFY REQUESTS WHICH ARE
SUBJECT TO RECORD MAINTENANCE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—In accordance with rules established by
the Commission, if an online platform shows
that the platform used best efforts to determine
whether or not a request to purchase a qualified
political advertisement was subject to the re-
quirements of this subsection, the online plat-
form shall not be considered to be in violation of
such requirements.
‘‘(7) PENALTIES.—For penalties for failure by
online platforms, and persons requesting to pur-
chase a qualified political advertisement on on-
line platforms, to comply with the requirements
of this subsection, see section 309.’’.
(b) RULEMAKING.—Not later than 120 days
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the
Federal Election Commission shall establish
rules—
(1) requiring common data formats for the
record required to be maintained under section
304(k) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (as added by subsection (a)) so that all on-
line platforms submit and maintain data online
in a common, machine-readable and publicly ac-
cessible format;
(2) establishing search interface requirements
relating to such record, including searches by
candidate name, issue, purchaser, and date; and
(3) establishing the criteria for the safe harbor
exception provided under paragraph (6) of sec-
tion 304(k) of such Act (as added by subsection
(a)).
(c) REPORTING.—Not later than 2 years after
the date of the enactment of this Act, and bian-
nually thereafter, the Chairman of the Federal
Election Commission shall submit a report to
Congress on—
(1) matters relating to compliance with and
the enforcement of the requirements of section
304(k) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971, as added by subsection (a);
(2) recommendations for any modifications to
such section to assist in carrying out its pur-
poses; and
(3) identifying ways to bring transparency
and accountability to political advertisements
distributed online for free.
SEC. 117. PREVENTING CONTRIBUTIONS, EX-
PENDITURES, INDEPENDENT EX-
PENDITURES, AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR ELECTIONEERING COMMUNICA-
TIONS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS IN
THE FORM OF ONLINE ADVERTISING.
Section 319 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121) is amended by add-
ing at the end the following new subsection:
‘‘(c) RESPONSIBILITIES OF BROADCAST STA-
TIONS, PROVIDERS OF CABLE AND SATELLITE
TELEVISION, AND ONLINE PLATFORMS.—
‘‘(1) RESPONSIBILITIES DESCRIBED.—Each tele-
vision or radio broadcast station, provider of
cable or satellite television, or online platform
(as defined in section 304(k)(3)) shall make rea-
sonable efforts to ensure that communications
described in section 318(a) and made available
by such station, provider, or platform are not
purchased by a foreign national, directly or in-
directly. For purposes of the previous sentence,
a station, provider, or online platform shall not
be considered to have made reasonable efforts
under this paragraph in the case of the avail-
ability of a communication unless the station,
provider, or online platform directly inquires
from the individual or entity making such pur-
chase whether the purchase is to be made by a
foreign national, directly or indirectly.
‘‘(2) SPECIAL RULES FOR DISBURSEMENT PAID
WITH CREDIT CARD.—For purposes of paragraph
(1), a television or radio broadcast station, pro-
vider of cable or satellite television, or online
platform shall be considered to have made rea-
sonable efforts under such paragraph in the
case of a purchase of the availability of a com-
munication which is made with a credit card
if—
‘‘(A) the individual or entity making such
purchase is required, at the time of making such
purchase, to disclose the credit verification
value of such credit card; and
‘‘(B) the billing address associated with such
credit card is located in the United States or, in
the case of a purchase made by an individual
who is a United States citizen living outside of
the United States, the individual provides the
television or radio broadcast station, provider of
cable or satellite television, or online platform
with the United States mailing address the indi-
vidual uses for voter registration purposes.’’.
TITLE II—CLOSING LOOPHOLES ALLOW-
ING SPENDING BY FOREIGN NATIONALS
IN ELECTIONS
SEC. 201. CLARIFICATION OF PROHIBITION ON
PARTICIPATION BY FOREIGN NA-
TIONALS IN ELECTION-RELATED AC-
TIVITIES.
(a) CLARIFICATION OF PROHIBITION.—Section
319(a) of the Federal Election Campaign Act of
1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121(a)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of paragraph
(1);
(2) by striking the period at the end of para-
graph (2) and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(3) a foreign national to direct, dictate, con-
trol, or directly or indirectly participate in the
decision making process of any person (includ-
ing a corporation, labor organization, political
committee, or political organization) with regard
to such person’s Federal or non-Federal elec-
tion-related activity, including any decision
concerning the making of contributions, dona-
tions, expenditures, or disbursements in connec-
tion with an election for any Federal, State, or
local office or any decision concerning the ad-
ministration of a political committee.’’.
(b) CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.—Section
319 of such Act (52 U.S.C. 30121), as amended by
section 117, is further amended by adding at the
end the following new subsection:
‘‘(d) CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED
PRIOR TO CARRYING OUT ACTIVITY.—Prior to
the making in connection with an election for
Federal office of any contribution, donation, ex-
penditure, independent expenditure, or dis-
bursement for an electioneering communication
by a corporation, labor organization (as defined
in section 316(b)), limited liability corporation,
or partnership during a year, the chief executive
officer of the corporation, labor organization,
limited liability corporation, or partnership (or,
if the corporation, labor organization, limited li-
ability corporation, or partnership does not
have a chief executive officer, the highest rank-
ing official of the corporation, labor organiza-
tion, limited liability corporation, or partner-
ship), shall file a certification with the Commis-
sion, under penalty of perjury, that a foreign
national did not direct, dictate, control, or di-
rectly or indirectly participate in the decision
making process relating to such activity in vio-
lation of subsection (a)(3), unless the chief exec-
utive officer has previously filed such a certifi-
cation during that calendar year.’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall take effect upon the expira-
tion of the 180-day period which begins on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 202. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICATION OF
FOREIGN MONEY BAN TO CERTAIN
DISBURSEMENTS AND ACTIVITIES.
(a) APPLICATION TO DISBURSEMENTS TO SUPER
PACS.—Section 319(a)(1)(A) of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30121(a)(1)(A)) is amended by striking the semi-
colon and inserting the following: ‘‘, including
any disbursement to a political committee which
accepts donations or contributions that do not
comply with the limitations, prohibitions, and
reporting requirements of this Act (or any dis-
bursement to or on behalf of any account of a
political committee which is established for the
purpose of accepting such donations or con-
tributions);’’.
(b) CONDITIONS UNDER WHICH CORPORATE
PACS MAY MAKE CONTRIBUTIONS AND EXPENDI-
TURES.—Section 316(b) of such Act (52 U.S.C.
30118(b)) is amended by adding at the end the
following new paragraph:
‘‘(8) A separate segregated fund established by
a corporation may not make a contribution or
expenditure during a year unless the fund has
certified to the Commission the following during
the year:
‘‘(A) Each individual who manages the fund,
and who is responsible for exercising decision-
making authority for the fund, is a citizen of
the United States or is lawfully admitted for
permanent residence in the United States.
‘‘(B) No foreign national under section 319
participates in any way in the decisionmaking
processes of the fund with regard to contribu-
tions or expenditures under this Act.
‘‘(C) The fund does not solicit or accept rec-
ommendations from any foreign national under
section 319 with respect to the contributions or
expenditures made by the fund.
‘‘(D) Any member of the board of directors of
the corporation who is a foreign national under
section 319 abstains from voting on matters con-
cerning the fund or its activities.’’.
SEC. 203. AUDIT AND REPORT ON ILLICIT FOR-
EIGN MONEY IN FEDERAL ELEC-
TIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30101 et
seq.) is amended by inserting after section 319
the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 319A. AUDIT AND REPORT ON DISBURSE-
MENTS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS.
‘‘(a) AUDIT.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Commission shall con-
duct an audit after each Federal election cycle
to determine the incidence of illicit foreign
money in such Federal election cycle.
‘‘(2) PROCEDURES.—In carrying out paragraph
(1), the Commission shall conduct random au-
dits of any disbursements required to be reported
under this Act, in accordance with procedures
established by the Commission.
‘‘(b) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the end of each Federal election cycle, the Com-
mission shall submit to Congress a report con-
taining—
‘‘(1) results of the audit required by subsection
(a)(1); and
‘‘(2) recommendations to address the presence
of illicit foreign money in elections, as appro-
priate.
‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘Federal election cycle’ means
the period which begins on the day after the
date of a regularly scheduled general election
for Federal office and which ends on the date of
the first regularly scheduled general election for
Federal office held after such date.
‘‘(2) The term ‘illicit foreign money’ means
any disbursement by a foreign national (as de-
fined in section 319(b)) prohibited under such
section.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.018 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8422 October 23, 2019
Federal election cycle that began during Novem-
ber 2018, and each succeeding Federal election
cycle.
SEC. 204. PROHIBITION ON CONTRIBUTIONS AND
DONATIONS BY FOREIGN NATIONALS
IN CONNECTIONS WITH BALLOT INI-
TIATIVES AND REFERENDA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 319(a)(1)(A) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30121(a)(1)(A)) is amended by striking
‘‘election’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘elec-
tion, including a State or local ballot initiative
or referendum’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment made
by this section shall apply with respect to elec-
tions held in 2020 or any succeeding year.
SEC. 205. EXPANSION OF LIMITATIONS ON FOR-
EIGN NATIONALS PARTICIPATING IN
POLITICAL ADVERTISING.
(a) DISBURSEMENTS DESCRIBED.—Section
319(a)(1) of the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121(a)(1)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of subpara-
graph (B); and
(2) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting
the following:
‘‘(C) an expenditure;
‘‘(D) an independent expenditure;
‘‘(E) a disbursement for an electioneering com-
munication (within the meaning of section
304(f)(3));
‘‘(F) a disbursement for a communication
which is placed or promoted for a fee on a
website, web application, or digital application
that refers to a clearly identified candidate for
election for Federal office and is disseminated
within 60 days before a general, special or run-
off election for the office sought by the can-
didate or 30 days before a primary or preference
election, or a convention or caucus of a political
party that has authority to nominate a can-
didate for the office sought by the candidate;
‘‘(G) a disbursement for a broadcast, cable or
satellite communication, or for a communication
which is placed or promoted for a fee on a
website, web application, or digital application,
that promotes, supports, attacks or opposes the
election of a clearly identified candidate for
Federal, State, or local office (regardless of
whether the communication contains express
advocacy or the functional equivalent of express
advocacy);
‘‘(H) a disbursement for a broadcast, cable, or
satellite communication, or for any communica-
tion which is placed or promoted for a fee on an
online platform (as defined in section 304(k)(3)),
that discusses a national legislative issue of
public importance in a year in which a regu-
larly scheduled general election for Federal of-
fice is held, but only if the disbursement is made
by a covered foreign national described in sec-
tion 304(j)(3)(C); or
‘‘(I) a disbursement by a covered foreign na-
tional described in section 304(j)(3)(C) to com-
pensate any person for internet activity that
promotes, supports, attacks or opposes the elec-
tion of a clearly identified candidate for Fed-
eral, State, or local office (regardless of whether
the activity communication contains express ad-
vocacy or the functional equivalent of express
advocacy);’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made
by this section shall apply with respect to dis-
bursements made on or after the date of the en-
actment of this Act.
TITLE III—DETERRING FOREIGN
INTERFERENCE IN ELECTIONS
Subtitle A—Deterrence Under Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971
SEC. 301. RESTRICTIONS ON EXCHANGE OF CAM-
PAIGN INFORMATION BETWEEN CAN-
DIDATES AND FOREIGN POWERS.
Section 319 of the Federal Election Campaign
Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121), as amended by sec-
tion 117 and section 201(b), is further amended
by adding at the end the following new sub-
section:
‘‘(e) RESTRICTIONS ON EXCHANGE OF INFORMA-
TION BETWEEN CANDIDATES AND FOREIGN POW-
ERS.—
‘‘(1) TREATMENT OF OFFER TO SHARE NON-
PUBLIC CAMPAIGN MATERIAL AS SOLICITATION OF
CONTRIBUTION FROM FOREIGN NATIONAL.—If a
candidate or an individual affiliated with the
campaign of a candidate, or if a political com-
mittee or an individual affiliated with a polit-
ical committee, provides or offers to provide non-
public campaign material to a covered foreign
national or to another person whom the can-
didate, committee, or individual knows or has
reason to know will provide the material to a
covered foreign national, the candidate, com-
mittee, or individual (as the case may be) shall
be considered for purposes of this section to
have solicited a contribution or donation de-
scribed in subsection (a)(1)(A) from a foreign
national.
‘‘(2) DEFINITIONS.—In this subsection, the fol-
lowing definitions apply:
‘‘(A) The term ‘candidate’ means an indi-
vidual who seeks nomination for, or election to,
any Federal, State, or local public office.
‘‘(B) The term ‘covered foreign national’ has
the meaning given such term in section
304(j)(3)(C).
‘‘(C) The term ‘individual affiliated with a
campaign’ means, with respect to a candidate,
an employee of any organization legally author-
ized under Federal, State, or local law to sup-
port the candidate’s campaign for nomination
for, or election to, any Federal, State, or local
public office, as well as any independent con-
tractor of such an organization and any indi-
vidual who performs services on behalf of the
organization, whether paid or unpaid.
‘‘(D) The term ‘individual affiliated with a
political committee’ means, with respect to a po-
litical committee, an employee of the committee
as well as any independent contractor of the
committee and any individual who performs
services on behalf of the committee, whether
paid or unpaid.
‘‘(E) The term ‘nonpublic campaign material’
means, with respect to a candidate or a political
committee, campaign material that is produced
by the candidate or the committee or produced
at the candidate or committee’s expense or re-
quest which is not distributed or made available
to the general public or otherwise in the public
domain, including polling and focus group data
and opposition research, except that such term
does not include material produced for purposes
of consultations relating solely to the can-
didate’s or committee’s position on a legislative
or policy matter.’’.
SEC. 302. CLARIFICATION OF STANDARD FOR DE-
TERMINING EXISTENCE OF COORDI-
NATION BETWEEN CAMPAIGNS AND
OUTSIDE INTERESTS.
Section 315(a) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30116(a)) is amend-
ed by adding at the end the following new para-
graph:
‘‘(10) For purposes of paragraph (7), an ex-
penditure or disbursement may be considered to
have been made in cooperation, consultation, or
concert with, or coordinated with, a person
without regard to whether or not the coopera-
tion, consultation, or coordination is carried out
pursuant to agreement or formal collabora-
tion.’’.
Subtitle B—Prohibiting Deceptive Practices
and Preventing Voter Intimidation
SEC. 311. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Deceptive
Practices and Voter Intimidation Prevention Act
of 2019’’.
SEC. 312. PROHIBITION ON DECEPTIVE PRAC-
TICES IN FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—Subsection (b) of section
2004 of the Revised Statutes (52 U.S.C. 10101(b))
is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘No person’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—No person’’; and
(2) by inserting at the end the following new
paragraphs:
‘‘(2) FALSE STATEMENTS REGARDING FEDERAL
ELECTIONS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—No person, whether act-
ing under color of law or otherwise, shall, with-
in 60 days before an election described in para-
graph (5), by any means, including by means of
written, electronic, or telephonic communica-
tions, communicate or cause to be communicated
information described in subparagraph (B), or
produce information described in subparagraph
(B) with the intent that such information be
communicated, if such person—
‘‘(i) knows such information to be materially
false; and
‘‘(ii) has the intent to impede or prevent an-
other person from exercising the right to vote in
an election described in paragraph (5).
‘‘(B) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—Information
is described in this subparagraph if such infor-
mation is regarding—
‘‘(i) the time, place, or manner of holding any
election described in paragraph (5); or
‘‘(ii) the qualifications for or restrictions on
voter eligibility for any such election, includ-
ing—
‘‘(I) any criminal penalties associated with
voting in any such election; or
‘‘(II) information regarding a voter’s registra-
tion status or eligibility.
‘‘(3) FALSE STATEMENTS REGARDING PUBLIC EN-
DORSEMENTS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—No person, whether act-
ing under color of law or otherwise, shall, with-
in 60 days before an election described in para-
graph (5), by any means, including by means of
written, electronic, or telephonic communica-
tions, communicate, or cause to be commu-
nicated, a materially false statement about an
endorsement, if such person—
‘‘(i) knows such statement to be false; and
‘‘(ii) has the intent to impede or prevent an-
other person from exercising the right to vote in
an election described in paragraph (5).
‘‘(B) DEFINITION OF ‘MATERIALLY FALSE’.—For
purposes of subparagraph (A), a statement
about an endorsement is ‘materially false’ if,
with respect to an upcoming election described
in paragraph (5)—
‘‘(i) the statement states that a specifically
named person, political party, or organization
has endorsed the election of a specific candidate
for a Federal office described in such para-
graph; and
‘‘(ii) such person, political party, or organiza-
tion has not endorsed the election of such can-
didate.
‘‘(4) HINDERING, INTERFERING WITH, OR PRE-
VENTING VOTING OR REGISTERING TO VOTE.—No
person, whether acting under color of law or
otherwise, shall intentionally hinder, interfere
with, or prevent another person from voting,
registering to vote, or aiding another person to
vote or register to vote in an election described
in paragraph (5).
‘‘(5) ELECTION DESCRIBED.—An election de-
scribed in this paragraph is any general, pri-
mary, run-off, or special election held solely or
in part for the purpose of nominating or electing
a candidate for the office of President, Vice
President, presidential elector, Member of the
Senate, Member of the House of Representatives,
or Delegate or Commissioner from a Territory or
possession.’’.
(b) PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subsection (c) of section 2004
of the Revised Statutes (52 U.S.C. 10101(c)) is
amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘Whenever any person’’ and
inserting the following:
‘‘(1) Whenever any person’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) Any person aggrieved by a violation of
subsection (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) may institute a
civil action for preventive relief, including an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.018 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8423
October 23, 2019
application in a United States district court for
a permanent or temporary injunction, restrain-
ing order, or other order. In any such action,
the court, in its discretion, may allow the pre-
vailing party a reasonable attorney’s fee as part
of the costs.’’.
(2) CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.—
(A) Subsection (e) of section 2004 of the Re-
vised Statutes (52 U.S.C. 10101(e)) is amended by
striking ‘‘subsection (c)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (c)(1)’’.
(B) Subsection (g) of section 2004 of the Re-
vised Statutes (52 U.S.C. 10101(g)) is amended by
striking ‘‘subsection (c)’’ and inserting ‘‘sub-
section (c)(1)’’.
(c) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—
(1) DECEPTIVE ACTS.—Section 594 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended—
(A) by striking ‘‘Whoever’’ and inserting the
following:
‘‘(a) INTIMIDATION.—Whoever’’;
(B) in subsection (a), as inserted by subpara-
graph (A), by striking ‘‘at any election’’ and in-
serting ‘‘at any general, primary, run-off, or
special election’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following new
subsections:
‘‘(b) DECEPTIVE ACTS.—
‘‘(1) FALSE STATEMENTS REGARDING FEDERAL
ELECTIONS.—
‘‘(A) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for
any person, whether acting under color of law
or otherwise, within 60 days before an election
described in subsection (e), by any means, in-
cluding by means of written, electronic, or tele-
phonic communications, to communicate or
cause to be communicated information described
in subparagraph (B), or produce information de-
scribed in subparagraph (B) with the intent that
such information be communicated, if such per-
son—
‘‘(i) knows such information to be materially
false; and
‘‘(ii) has the intent to mislead voters, or the
intent to impede or prevent another person from
exercising the right to vote in an election de-
scribed in subsection (e).
‘‘(B) INFORMATION DESCRIBED.—Information
is described in this subparagraph if such infor-
mation is regarding—
‘‘(i) the time or place of holding any election
described in subsection (e); or
‘‘(ii) the qualifications for or restrictions on
voter eligibility for any such election, includ-
ing—
‘‘(I) any criminal penalties associated with
voting in any such election; or
‘‘(II) information regarding a voter’s registra-
tion status or eligibility.
‘‘(2) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
paragraph (1) shall be fined not more than
$100,000, imprisoned for not more than 5 years,
or both.
‘‘(c) HINDERING, INTERFERING WITH, OR PRE-
VENTING VOTING OR REGISTERING TO VOTE.—
‘‘(1) PROHIBITION.—It shall be unlawful for
any person, whether acting under color of law
or otherwise, to intentionally hinder, interfere
with, or prevent another person from voting,
registering to vote, or aiding another person to
vote or register to vote in an election described
in subsection (e).
‘‘(2) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
paragraph (1) shall be fined not more than
$100,000, imprisoned for not more than 5 years,
or both.
‘‘(d) ATTEMPT.—Any person who attempts to
commit any offense described in subsection (a),
(b)(1), or (c)(1) shall be subject to the same pen-
alties as those prescribed for the offense that the
person attempted to commit.
‘‘(e) ELECTION DESCRIBED.—An election de-
scribed in this subsection is any general, pri-
mary, run-off, or special election held solely or
in part for the purpose of nominating or electing
a candidate for the office of President, Vice
President, presidential elector, Member of the
Senate, Member of the House of Representatives,
or Delegate or Commissioner from a Territory or
possession.’’.
(2) MODIFICATION OF PENALTY FOR VOTER IN-
TIMIDATION.—Section 594(a) of title 18, United
States Code, as amended by paragraph (1), is
amended by striking ‘‘fined under this title or
imprisoned not more than one year’’ and insert-
ing ‘‘fined not more than $100,000, imprisoned
for not more than 5 years’’.
(3) SENTENCING GUIDELINES.—
(A) REVIEW AND AMENDMENT.—Not later than
180 days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the United States Sentencing Commission, pur-
suant to its authority under section 994 of title
28, United States Code, and in accordance with
this section, shall review and, if appropriate,
amend the Federal sentencing guidelines and
policy statements applicable to persons con-
victed of any offense under section 594 of title
18, United States Code, as amended by this sec-
tion.
(B) AUTHORIZATION.—The United States Sen-
tencing Commission may amend the Federal
Sentencing Guidelines in accordance with the
procedures set forth in section 21(a) of the Sen-
tencing Act of 1987 (28 U.S.C. 994 note) as
though the authority under that section had not
expired.
(4) PAYMENTS FOR REFRAINING FROM VOTING.—
Subsection (c) of section 11 of the Voting Rights
Act of 1965 (52 U.S.C. 10307) is amended by strik-
ing ‘‘either for registration to vote or for voting’’
and inserting ‘‘for registration to vote, for vot-
ing, or for not voting’’.
SEC. 313. CORRECTIVE ACTION.
(a) CORRECTIVE ACTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Attorney General re-
ceives a credible report that materially false in-
formation has been or is being communicated in
violation of paragraphs (2) and (3) of section
2004(b) of the Revised Statutes (52 U.S.C.
10101(b)), as added by section 312(a), and if the
Attorney General determines that State and
local election officials have not taken adequate
steps to promptly communicate accurate infor-
mation to correct the materially false informa-
tion, the Attorney General shall, pursuant to
the written procedures and standards under
subsection (b), communicate to the public, by
any means, including by means of written, elec-
tronic, or telephonic communications, accurate
information designed to correct the materially
false information.
(2) COMMUNICATION OF CORRECTIVE INFORMA-
TION.—Any information communicated by the
Attorney General under paragraph (1)—
(A) shall—
(i) be accurate and objective;
(ii) consist of only the information necessary
to correct the materially false information that
has been or is being communicated; and
(iii) to the extent practicable, be by a means
that the Attorney General determines will reach
the persons to whom the materially false infor-
mation has been or is being communicated; and
(B) shall not be designed to favor or disfavor
any particular candidate, organization, or polit-
ical party.
(b) WRITTEN PROCEDURES AND STANDARDS FOR
TAKING CORRECTIVE ACTION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney
General shall publish written procedures and
standards for determining when and how cor-
rective action will be taken under this section.
(2) INCLUSION OF APPROPRIATE DEADLINES.—
The procedures and standards under paragraph
(1) shall include appropriate deadlines, based in
part on the number of days remaining before the
upcoming election.
(3) CONSULTATION.—In developing the proce-
dures and standards under paragraph (1), the
Attorney General shall consult with the Election
Assistance Commission, State and local election
officials, civil rights organizations, voting rights
groups, voter protection groups, and other inter-
ested community organizations.
(c) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There are authorized to be appropriated to the
Attorney General such sums as may be nec-
essary to carry out this subtitle.
SEC. 314. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after each general election for Federal office,
the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a
report compiling all allegations received by the
Attorney General of deceptive practices de-
scribed in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of section
2004(b) of the Revised Statutes (52 U.S.C.
10101(b)), as added by section 312(a), relating to
the general election for Federal office and any
primary, run-off, or a special election for Fed-
eral office held in the 2 years preceding the gen-
eral election.
(b) CONTENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Each report submitted under
subsection (a) shall include—
(A) a description of each allegation of a de-
ceptive practice described in subsection (a), in-
cluding the geographic location, racial and eth-
nic composition, and language minority-group
membership of the persons toward whom the al-
leged deceptive practice was directed;
(B) the status of the investigation of each al-
legation described in subparagraph (A);
(C) a description of each corrective action
taken by the Attorney General under section
4(a) in response to an allegation described in
subparagraph (A);
(D) a description of each referral of an allega-
tion described in subparagraph (A) to other Fed-
eral, State, or local agencies;
(E) to the extent information is available, a
description of any civil action instituted under
section 2004(c)(2) of the Revised Statutes (52
U.S.C. 10101(c)(2)), as added by section 312(b),
in connection with an allegation described in
subparagraph (A); and
(F) a description of any criminal prosecution
instituted under section 594 of title 18, United
States Code, as amended by section 3(c), in con-
nection with the receipt of an allegation de-
scribed in subparagraph (A) by the Attorney
General.
(2) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General shall
not include in a report submitted under sub-
section (a) any information protected from dis-
closure by rule 6(e) of the Federal Rules of
Criminal Procedure or any Federal criminal
statute.
(B) EXCLUSION OF CERTAIN OTHER INFORMA-
TION.—The Attorney General may determine
that the following information shall not be in-
cluded in a report submitted under subsection
(a):
(i) Any information that is privileged.
(ii) Any information concerning an ongoing
investigation.
(iii) Any information concerning a criminal or
civil proceeding conducted under seal.
(iv) Any other nonpublic information that the
Attorney General determines the disclosure of
which could reasonably be expected to infringe
on the rights of any individual or adversely af-
fect the integrity of a pending or future criminal
investigation.
(c) REPORT MADE PUBLIC.—On the date that
the Attorney General submits the report under
subsection (a), the Attorney General shall also
make the report publicly available through the
Internet and other appropriate means.
Subtitle C—Inadmissibility and Deportability
of Aliens Engaging in Improper Election In-
terference
SEC. 321. INADMISSIBILITY AND DEPORTABILITY
OF ALIENS ENGAGING IN IMPROPER
INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS.
(a) INADMISSIBILITY.—Section 212(a)(3) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C.
1182(a)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(H) IMPROPER INTERFERENCE IN A UNITED
STATES ELECTION.—Any alien who a consular
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:14 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 6333 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.018 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8424 October 23, 2019
officer, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Secretary of State, or the Attorney General
knows, or has reasonable grounds to believe, is
seeking admission to the United States to engage
in improper interference in a United States elec-
tion, or has engaged in improper interference in
a United States election, is inadmissible.’’.
(b) DEPORTABILITY.—Section 237(a) of such
Act (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(8) IMPROPER INTERFERENCE IN A UNITED
STATES ELECTION.—Any alien who has engaged,
is engaged, or at any time after admission en-
gages in improper interference in a United
States election is deportable.’’.
(c) DEFINITION.—Section 101(a) of such Act (8
U.S.C. 1101(a)) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(53) The term ‘improper interference in a
United States election’ means conduct by an
alien that—
‘‘(A)(i) violates Federal criminal, voting
rights, or campaign finance law, or
‘‘(ii) is performed by any person acting as an
agent of or on behalf of a foreign government or
criminal enterprise; and
‘‘(B) includes any covert, fraudulent, decep-
tive, or unlawful act or attempted act, under-
taken with the purpose or effect of undermining
public confidence in election processes or insti-
tutions, or influencing, undermining confidence
in, or altering the result or reported result of, a
general or primary Federal, State, or local elec-
tion or caucus, including—
‘‘(i) the campaign of a candidate; or
‘‘(ii) a ballot measure, including an amend-
ment, a bond issue, an initiative, a recall, a re-
ferral or a referendum.’’,
TITLE IV—MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SEC. 401. EFFECTIVE DATES OF PROVISIONS.
Each provision of this Act and each amend-
ment made by a provision of this Act shall take
effect on the effective date provided under this
Act for such provision or such amendment with-
out regard to whether or not the Federal Elec-
tion Commission, the Attorney General, or any
other person has promulgated regulations to
carry out such provision or such amendment.
SEC. 402. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Act or any amendment
made by this Act, or the application of a provi-
sion of this Act or an amendment made by this
Act to any person or circumstance, is held to be
unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, and
the application of the provisions to any person
or circumstance, shall not be affected by the
holding.
The CHAIR. No amendment to that
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute shall be in order except those
printed in part B of House Report 116–
253. Each such amendment may be of-
fered only in the order printed in the
report, by a Member designated in the
report, shall be considered read, shall
be debatable for the time specified in
the report, equally divided and con-
trolled by the proponent and an oppo-
nent, shall not be subject to amend-
ment, and shall not be subject to a de-
mand for division of the question.
AMENDMENT NO. 1 OFFERED BY MR. DESAULNIER
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 1 printed in part
B of House Report 116–253.
Mr. DESAULNIER. Mr. Chairman, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 54, insert after line 14 the following:
Subtitle C — Notifying States of
Disinformation Campaigns by Foreign Na-
tionals
SEC. 321. NOTIFYING STATES OF
DISINFORMATION CAMPAIGNS BY
FOREIGN NATIONALS.
(a) REQUIRING DISCLOSURE.—If the Federal
Election Commission makes a determination
that a foreign national has initiated or has
attempted to initiate a disinformation cam-
paign targeted at an election for public of-
fice held in a State, the Commission shall
notify the State involved of the determina-
tion not later than 30 days after making the
determination.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section the term
‘‘foreign national’’ has the meaning given
such term in section 319(b) of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30121(b)).
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 650, the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. DESAULNIER) and a Member
opposed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
b 1545
Mr. DESAULNIER. Mr. Chairman, as
the first amendment, I don’t want to
belabor many of the points that have
been brought up in the general debate
by my friend from Illinois and my very
good friend from the Bay Area. I do
want to say, as someone who has been
in elected office in the San Francisco
Bay Area for a long time, where so
many of the innovations around social
platforms and communications have
taken place—much of it in Ms. LOF-
GREN’s district—how proud I have been
of them. But how now—appropriately I
think—skeptical I am of their ability
to unilaterally, or merely by them-
selves, enforce the proper protections
for American democracy. That is why I
think this bill and this discussion are
so very important.
We know from the Mueller report
that 126 million Americans were con-
tacted, either directly or indirectly,
just on Facebook by the Russians. We
also know the outcome of the Presi-
dential election was based on less than
80,000 votes in three key States in the
electoral college. We know that Mr.
Mueller said that this was a systematic
attempt by the Russians. And we know
also that the President’s appointed FBI
director has said recently, ‘‘Russia at-
tempted to interfere with the last elec-
tion and continues to engage in malign
influence operations to this day. This
is a threat we need to take extremely
seriously and to tackle and respond to
with fierce determination and focus.’’
Mr. Chairman, we also have talked a
lot, in the last few years, about the
role of the Federal Government, State
governments, and local communities,
and I agree with how diffused our his-
toric relationships are. But here is an
instance in my amendment. It is a sim-
ple one. It is to give the States and
local jurisdictions the information
they need to be aware of some of these
influences that are afforded by this
bill.
My amendment is very simple. It re-
quires that when the FEC is made
aware of credible targeted
disinformation campaigns, that af-
fected States must be notified within
30 days. I think that is a fairly simple
amendment. I would hope, in the spirit
of bipartisanship, my colleagues would
agree with that.
Thomas Jefferson famously said that,
‘‘We in America do not have govern-
ment by the majority. We have govern-
ment by the majority who partici-
pate.’’
We know that disinformation hurts
participation when done effectively, as
it was just a short time ago in the re-
cent Presidential election. And we also
know that effective oversight and this
government’s engagement of both par-
ties at the Federal level, the State
level, and the local level, when we are
open, honest, and afford transparency
to American voters, they will partici-
pate at a higher rate and also at a
more knowledgeable rate.
It is our responsibility to recognize
that disinformation is a threat to the
participation that is vital to our con-
tinued success as a democracy, and it
is our responsibility to act.
Mr. Chairman, I urge my colleagues
to support this simple amendment, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I rise in opposition to the
amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentleman is recog-
nized for 5 minutes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, the core function of the
Federal Election Commission is to be
the independent regulatory agency
charged with administering and enforc-
ing Federal campaign finance law. The
FEC has jurisdiction over the financing
of campaigns for the U.S. House, the
Senate, the Presidency, and the Vice
Presidency.
We do think States should be notified
of disinformation by foreign actors.
The FEC is not equipped to investigate,
much less make a final determination,
that foreign nationals have meddled in
an election. This is better left to law
enforcement and intelligence agencies.
In one way that they are not
equipped is that FEC commissioners do
not have the authority to obtain clear-
ances to access certain classified infor-
mation, which would make it impos-
sible for any commissioner or the FEC
to make such a notification to States,
not to mention the fact that the FEC
chair is too busy attacking the Presi-
dent to spend time on additional notifi-
cation requirements.
It is also worth noting that the ma-
jority of the committee’s position has
been that the FEC is dysfunctional,
even to the point that they voted to
make it a five-member partisan com-
mission in H.R. 1.
The Department of Justice, FBI,
DHS, and other national security agen-
cies are better suited to address the
problem of foreign meddling in our
elections, which is exactly what we
allow them to do in the Honest Elec-
tions Act—my bill—that I would cer-
tainly hope some on the other side of
the aisle would cosponsor.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.018 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8425
October 23, 2019
Mr. Chairman, for these reasons, I
urge a ‘‘no’’ vote, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. DESAULNIER. Mr. Chairman, I
appreciate my friend from Illinois’
baseball metaphor earlier, and I would
say that for this metaphor, I disagree.
I think his call is wrong.
I think this amendment is a simple
strike. As he knows, the bill requires
other agencies to give the information
to the FEC. They are merely a col-
lector, in many instances, of the infor-
mation, so they are the appropriate
body to disseminate that information.
That is what my amendment does. I
don’t disagree or think that it is appro-
priate to debate the gentleman’s other
aspects, which may be true or not,
based on his perspective. The amend-
ment is basically consistent with the
bill that the information goes here, and
it should be disseminated to the
States.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I appreciate my colleague
from California offering an amendment
and participating in this process. It is
not every time that we have disagree-
ments on not only legislation, but
amendments like this.
I believe that this amendment needs
to be clarified before it should be put
into law. And just as with the SHIELD
Act, I believe it should go back to the
drawing board and we ought to be able
to have more hearings to find out the
effect on free speech in the United
States of America, but also give us a
chance in a bipartisan way to question
the social media platforms that we
want to work with us to protect this
Nation from foreign meddling.
For the reasons I mentioned above
and for the reasons that I stated just
now, I am going to urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
this amendment.
Mr. Chairman, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The CHAIR. The question is on the
amendment offered by the gentleman
from California (Mr. DESAULNIER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MRS. LESKO
The CHAIR. It is now in order to con-
sider amendment No. 2 printed in part
B of House Report 116–253.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Chairman, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The CHAIR. The Clerk will designate
the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Strike section 313 (and redesignate the suc-
ceeding sections accordingly).
The CHAIR. Pursuant to House Reso-
lution 650, the gentlewoman from Ari-
zona (Mrs. LESKO) and a Member op-
posed each will control 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Arizona.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Chairman, I rise in
support of my amendment to H.R. 4617,
which would strike from the bill a sec-
tion that gives the U.S. Attorney Gen-
eral unprecedented power to involve
him or herself in State and local elec-
tions. This should be a concern for all
Americans as it says Washington
knows best when it comes to our local
elections.
Not only does this section represent
a massive Federal overreach, it is also
vague.
For example, the section requires the
Attorney General to determine wheth-
er State and local election officials
have taken ‘‘adequate steps’’ to com-
municate information to address mis-
information.
What are adequate steps? It doesn’t
say.
What is misinformation? This bill
turns the United States Attorney Gen-
eral into a fact-checker.
This section also requires the Attor-
ney General to communicate to the
public ‘‘by any means’’ to address mis-
information.
Taken together, this language would
grant the United States Attorney Gen-
eral power without guardrails and we,
as Congress, should find this con-
cerning.
In addition to the troublesome sub-
stance of this section, it also arrived
on the floor through a deficient proc-
ess.
As a member of the Judiciary Com-
mittee, I have an interest in ensuring
legislation under my committee’s ju-
risdiction is considered in the Judici-
ary Committee. This did not happen
here.
Despite the request from Judiciary
Committee Ranking Member COLLINS,
this section of the legislation was not
afforded the opportunity of a markup
by the Judiciary Committee, despite it
having jurisdiction. In fact, this is at
least the fourth piece of legislation
this year that Ranking Member COL-
LINS requested to markup but was de-
nied an opportunity by the chairman of
the Judiciary Committee.
Because this section is a Federal in-
trusion into State and local elections
and came to the floor through a defi-
cient process, I urge my colleagues to
support my amendment to strike this
section, and I reserve the balance of
my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I rise
in opposition to the amendment.
The CHAIR. The gentlewoman from
California is recognized for 5 minutes.
Ms. LOFGREN. Mr. Chairman, I op-
pose the amendment. I think the
amendment strikes what is really a
commonsense section of the underlying
bill.
Section 313, beginning on page 49,
line 11, comes from the Deceptive Prac-
tices and Voter Intimidation Act. It
first gives deference to State and local
officials to combat deceptive practices
in their localities if there is a credible
report made that materially false in-
formation has been communicated to
the public regarding Federal elections
such as the time, place, or manner of
holding an election.
Section 313 provides that the respon-
sibility first falls on State and local of-
ficials to correct the materially false
information. It is only if State and
local election officials fall short of
making a correction that the Attorney
General would ensure that voters do
not fall victim to deceptive practices.
I don’t believe this is an example of
Federal interference or overreach. It is
an example of putting to use all levels
of government to protect voters in our
democracy.
Let’s be clear, section 313 is, at its
core, about enhancing transparency
and disclosure. The sort of activity we
are talking about here is merely pro-
viding factual information to voters to
ensure they are not deceived, that they
are adequately informed, and that they
have a fair chance of participating in
their democracy.
Section 313, page 51, directs the U.S.
Attorney General to work in partner-
ship with the Election Assistance Com-
mission, State and local officials, and
others to come up with procedures and
standards for how to take corrective
action if there is an instance of materi-
ally false information regarding vot-
ing. It is not just whatever he or she
thinks at the time. This is going to be
said in advance.
The procedures in the partnership de-
termines exactly how the AG could
step in when there is materially false
information being spread. The informa-
tion communicated by the AG also
should be designed not to favor or dis-
favor any particular candidate, organi-
zation, or political party.
I think this is an example of how
local, State, and Federal levels of gov-
ernment could work together to pro-
tect voters in our democracy. This is
not an academic issue. We have seen
situations where online, or elsewhere,
information has been spread to people
that certain people—for example, one
party or the other—would be allowed
to vote on a day that wasn’t election
day. Well, that needs to be corrected or
people will be disenfranchised if they
believe it because they saw it on the
internet.
Mr. Chairman, I think, though I am
sure well-intended, this amendment is
a mistake. I urge its defeat, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Mr. Chairman, I yield 2
minutes to the gentleman from Illinois
(Mr. RODNEY DAVIS), my good friend.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Mr.
Chairman, I thank my good friend from
Arizona (Mrs. LESKO) for yielding.
Mr. Chairman, this amendment is a
very well-intended amendment. I agree
with my colleague from California that
it is a very well-intended amendment
that is going to actually correct, I be-
lieve, what would be an unintended
consequence if this bill were to ever be-
come law.
b 1600
This section that is being amended
today provides unprecedented power to
the Attorney General to intercede in
Federal races when he or she believes
State and local officials have not taken
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.058 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8426 October 23, 2019
‘‘adequate steps’’ to correct ‘‘misin-
formation.’’
Madam Chair, the Attorney General
is a partisan official. They are not a
nonpartisan official. Imagine if Attor-
ney General Barr was given broad au-
thority to take ‘‘adequate steps.’’ This
is the language in the bill.
These are the facts, Madam Chair. If
Attorney General Barr was given broad
authority to take adequate steps in
correcting the record in any Demo-
cratic districts, imagine that. Imagine
the uproar. There would be a public up-
roar. The same could be said for a
Democratic Attorney General.
The section not only gives broad au-
thority to the AG, but it is extremely
vague and will also leave State and
local election officials struggling to
comply with this section.
To make matters worse, we have not
heard from a single State or local elec-
tion official about how this might im-
pact their ability to conduct elections.
This is the reason why we have hear-
ings. This is the reason why we call
people into Congress to listen to them
about the impact of legislation that we
are debating in this House.
And we did not have a single hearing
before this bill was rushed to the floor.
This is not regular order. This is not
what the Democratic majority prom-
ised when they were given the majority
by the American people to run this in-
stitution. This is a broken promise
that they made to the American peo-
ple, and I think we need to pass this
amendment.
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Chair, I
would note that this bill is supported
by a broad spectrum of civil rights
groups, including the Leadership Con-
ference on Civil and Human Rights, the
NAACP, as well as the Brennan Center
for Justice. And there is a reason for
that.
A lot of the mischief that goes on to
try and prevent people from voting has
a racial impact. We have seen the sup-
pression of the vote, the efforts that
have been undertaken to suppress the
vote through confusion and through
lies, where a piece of information
would go into a minority community—
‘‘the vote is now on Wednesday, not on
Tuesday’’—so that people will be con-
fused and not show up to vote.
That is simply wrong. We need to
take steps that are reasonable, as this
is, to confront that.
This bill will help. That is why so
many groups support it.
I urge defeat of the amendment, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Chair, I agree
that it is wrong if somebody pulls out
false information about an election,
like the date or time, but I certainly
don’t agree that the United States At-
torney General should get involved in
local elections.
On this bill and other bills, I think
there is a fundamental difference be-
tween the way some of my Democratic
colleagues believe and what fellow Re-
publicans and I believe. They believe
the U.S. Government should know ev-
erything and should do everything. I
think local control is better, that they
know better what is going on.
Madam Chair, I ask my colleagues to
support the amendment, and I yield
back the balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR (Ms. DEGETTE).
The question is on the amendment of-
fered by the gentlewoman from Arizona
(Mrs. LESKO).
The question was taken; and the Act-
ing Chair announced that the noes ap-
peared to have it.
Mrs. LESKO. Madam Chair, I demand
a recorded vote.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, further pro-
ceedings on the amendment offered by
the gentlewoman from Arizona will be
postponed.
AMENDMENT NO. 3 OFFERED BY MR. LYNCH
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 3 printed in
part B of House Report 116–253.
Mr. LYNCH. Madam Chair, I have an
amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 54, insert after line 14 the following:
Subtitle C—Prohibiting Use of Deepfakes in
Election Campaigns
SEC. 321. PROHIBITION ON DISTRIBUTION OF MA-
TERIALLY DECEPTIVE AUDIO OR
VISUAL MEDIA PRIOR TO ELECTION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101 et seq.), as amended by section 203, is
further amended by adding at the end the
following new section:
‘‘SEC. 325. PROHIBITION ON DISTRIBUTION OF
MATERIALLY DECEPTIVE MEDIA
PRIOR TO ELECTION.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
subsections (b) and (c), a person, political
committee, or other entity shall not, within
60 days of a election for Federal office at
which a candidate for elective office will ap-
pear on the ballot, distribute, with actual
malice, materially deceptive audio or visual
media of the candidate with the intent to in-
jure the candidate’s reputation or to deceive
a voter into voting for or against the can-
didate.
‘‘(b) EXCEPTION.—
‘‘(1) REQUIRED LANGUAGE.—The prohibition
in subsection (a) does not apply if the audio
or visual media includes—
‘‘(A) a disclosure stating: ‘‘This lllll
has been manipulated.’’; and
‘‘(B) filled in the blank in the disclosure
under subparagraph (A), the term ‘image’,
‘video’, or ‘audio’, as most accurately de-
scribes the media.
‘‘(2) VISUAL MEDIA.—For visual media, the
text of the disclosure shall appear in a size
that is easily readable by the average viewer
and no smaller than the largest font size of
other text appearing in the visual media. If
the visual media does not include any other
text, the disclosure shall appear in a size
that is easily readable by the average viewer.
For visual media that is video, the disclosure
shall appear for the duration of the video.
‘‘(3) AUDIO-ONLY MEDIA.—If the media con-
sists of audio only, the disclosure shall be
read in a clearly spoken manner and in a
pitch that can be easily heard by the average
listener, at the beginning of the audio, at the
end of the audio, and, if the audio is greater
than two minutes in length, interspersed
within the audio at intervals of not greater
than two minutes each.
‘‘(c) INAPPLICABILITY TO CERTAIN ENTI-
TIES.—This section does not apply to the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(1) A radio or television broadcasting sta-
tion, including a cable or satellite television
operator, programmer, or producer, that
broadcasts materially deceptive audio or vis-
ual media prohibited by this section as part
of a bona fide newscast, news interview, news
documentary, or on-the-spot coverage of
bona fide news events, if the broadcast clear-
ly acknowledges through content or a disclo-
sure, in a manner that can be easily heard or
read by the average listener or viewer, that
there are questions about the authenticity of
the materially deceptive audio or visual
media.
‘‘(2) A radio or television broadcasting sta-
tion, including a cable or satellite television
operator, programmer, or producer, when it
is paid to broadcast materially deceptive
audio or visual media.
‘‘(3) An internet website, or a regularly
published newspaper, magazine, or other pe-
riodical of general circulation, including an
internet or electronic publication, that rou-
tinely carries news and commentary of gen-
eral interest, and that publishes materially
deceptive audio or visual media prohibited
by this section, if the publication clearly
states that the materially deceptive audio or
visual media does not accurately represent
the speech or conduct of the candidate.
‘‘(4) Materially deceptive audio or visual
media that constitutes satire or parody.
‘‘(d) CIVIL ACTION.—
‘‘(1) INJUNCTIVE OR OTHER EQUITABLE RE-
LIEF.—A candidate for elective office whose
voice or likeness appears in a materially de-
ceptive audio or visual media distributed in
violation of this section may seek injunctive
or other equitable relief prohibiting the dis-
tribution of audio or visual media in viola-
tion of this section. An action under this
paragraph shall be entitled to precedence in
accordance with the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure.
‘‘(2) DAMAGES.—A candidate for elective of-
fice whose voice or likeness appears in a ma-
terially deceptive audio or visual media dis-
tributed in violation of this section may
bring an action for general or special dam-
ages against the person, committee, or other
entity that distributed the materially decep-
tive audio or visual media. The court may
also award a prevailing party reasonable at-
torney’s fees and costs. This paragraph shall
not be construed to limit or preclude a plain-
tiff from securing or recovering any other
available remedy.
‘‘(3) BURDEN OF PROOF.—In any civil action
alleging a violation of this section, the
plaintiff shall bear the burden of establishing
the violation through clear and convincing
evidence.
‘‘(e) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—This section
shall not be construed to alter or negate any
rights, obligations, or immunities of an
interactive service provider under section 230
of title 47, United States Code.
‘‘(f) MATERIALLY DECEPTIVE AUDIO OR VIS-
UAL MEDIA DEFINED.—In this section, the
term ‘materially deceptive audio or visual
media’ means an image or an audio or video
recording of a candidate’s appearance,
speech, or conduct that has been inten-
tionally manipulated in a manner such that
both of the following conditions are met:
‘‘(1) The image or audio or video recording
would falsely appear to a reasonable person
to be authentic.
‘‘(2) The image or audio or video recording
would cause a reasonable person to have a
fundamentally different understanding or
impression of the expressive content of the
image or audio or video recording than that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.061 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8427
October 23, 2019
person would have if the person were hearing
or seeing the unaltered, original version of
the image or audio or video recording.’’.
(b) CRIMINAL PENALTIES.—Section 309(d)(1)
of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971
(52 U.S.C. 30109(d)(1)), as amended by section
103, is further amended by adding at the end
the following new subparagraph:
‘‘(G) Any person who knowingly and will-
fully commits a violation of section 325 shall
be fined not more than $100,000, imprisoned
not more than 5 years, or both.’’.
(c) EFFECT ON DEFAMATION ACTION.—For
purposes of an action for defamation, a viola-
tion of section 325 of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971, as added by subsection
(a), shall constitute defamation per se.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentleman
from Massachusetts (Mr. LYNCH) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Massachusetts.
Mr. LYNCH. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
First of all, I thank Ms. LOFGREN for
her leadership and her courage and
hard work in bringing this important
bill to the floor.
My amendment to H.R. 4617, the
SHIELD Act, would generally prohibit
the use of so-called deepfakes within 60
days of a Federal election.
These digital photo, audio, and video
forgeries are generated using artificial
intelligence. They appear realistic and
are intended to manipulate or deceive
their audience.
This amendment also establishes
criminal and civil penalties for the ma-
licious use of deepfakes in Federal elec-
tions while providing necessary exemp-
tions for broadcasting or publication of
deepfake content by news media orga-
nizations in satire or parity and other
appropriate cases.
As chairman of the National Security
Subcommittee of the Oversight and Re-
form Committee, I can attest to the es-
calating warnings that we have re-
ceived from U.S. intelligence commu-
nity officials and national security ex-
perts regarding the use of these
deepfake technologies as an emerging
tool of foreign election interference.
During our recent hearing to exam-
ine election security, government and
private-sector panelists testified about
the capacity of deepfake technologies
to ‘‘weaponize’’ false information on a
massive scale. That is because it is al-
ready widely accessible, easy to use,
low cost, and rapidly evolving.
In reference to the security of the
2020 U.S. Presidential election, FBI Di-
rector Christopher Wray has stated
that deepfake content is a ‘‘topic of
great concern,’’ as Federal intelligence
agencies combat the threat of election
meddling by foreign adversaries that
are intent on developing new ways to
perpetuate malign influence oper-
ations.
According to the nonpartisan Council
on Foreign Relations, deepfakes
present ‘‘disinformation on steroids’’
and could easily be deployed to influ-
ence an election, spark violence, exac-
erbate societal divisions, and under-
mine other democratic institutions.
The Congressional Research Service
similarly warns that hostile state ac-
tors could release digitally altered vid-
eos of government officials or can-
didates making incendiary comments
or engaged in inappropriate behavior to
erode public trust, degrade our public
discourse, defame particular can-
didates, and sway elections.
The proliferation of deepfake tech-
nologies presents a serious threat to
the integrity of U.S. elections, consid-
ering that our Nation’s 17 intelligence
agencies already determined that our
most fundamental democratic process
has come under attack by foreign ad-
versaries. With high confidence, the
U.S. intelligence community found
that Russian President Vladimir Putin
ordered an influence campaign aimed
at the 2016 election that included clan-
destine intelligence operations and bla-
tant meddling by state-owned agencies,
state-funded media outlets, third-party
intermediaries, and paid social media
trolls. The final report issued by Spe-
cial Counsel Robert Mueller augmented
this assessment.
According to the ‘‘2019 Worldwide
Threat Assessment of the U.S. Intel-
ligence Community,’’ our adversaries
will continue refining their inter-
ference capabilities and add new tac-
tics to dramatically alter the threat
landscape for 2020 and future elections.
In the interest of enhancing election
security, campaign law must adapt to
these evolving technologies. A prohibi-
tion on the use of deepfakes in Federal
elections is a great first step in the
right direction.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
on both sides of the aisle to support
this amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to
the amendment, although I am not
necessarily opposed it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, this is a problem. Misin-
formation, false representation,
digitally manipulated images, that is a
problem.
What we do in this institution, and
the political nature of our jobs, I think
we have all been victims of videos that
try to provide false information. This
has to be addressed.
I believe we need to have some hear-
ings on this issue because it is pretty
complicated. And we haven’t had a sin-
gle hearing with any of the platforms,
where many of these videos would be
published, before this bill was rushed
to the floor.
I agree with my colleague from Mas-
sachusetts (Mr. LYNCH) that deepfakes
present a unique challenge for Congress
to address. I would hate to see a poten-
tial solution that is being offered by
my good friend put on a partisan bill.
An additional problem I see is that I
am not aware of any technology that
can identify which images or video are
deepfakes. Perhaps the Committee on
Science, Space, and Technology should
hold a hearing on this issue as well.
In dealing with this issue, Congress
needs to appropriately weigh the First
Amendment protections afforded to
public speech with the dangerous po-
tential of deepfakes to add further
damage to our already polarized cli-
mate.
This amendment, like many of these
amendments, would be better served to
pass through regular order and give the
American public a chance to learn
about these very important and, at
times, recent and troubling issues.
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LYNCH. Madam Chair, I do ap-
preciate the gentleman from Illinois’
thoughtful support for this amend-
ment.
I thank Chair LOFGREN for her lead-
ership again in bringing the SHIELD
Act to the floor and working with me
on this amendment.
I again urge my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to support this
amendment, and I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Massachusetts (Mr.
LYNCH).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 4 OFFERED BY MR. LEVIN OF
MICHIGAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 4 printed in
part B of House Report 116–253.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 36, insert after line 22 the following:
SEC. 206. PROHIBITING ESTABLISHMENT OF COR-
PORATION TO CONCEAL ELECTION
CONTRIBUTIONS AND DONATIONS
BY FOREIGN NATIONALS.
(a) PROHIBITION.—Chapter 29 of title 18,
United States Code is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 612. Establishment of corporation to con-
ceal election contributions and donations
by foreign nationals
‘‘(a) OFFENSE.—It shall be unlawful for an
owner, officer, attorney, or incorporation
agent of a corporation, company, or other
entity to establish or use the corporation,
company, or other entity with the intent to
conceal an activity of a foreign national (as
defined in section 319 of the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121)) pro-
hibited under such section 319.
‘‘(b) PENALTY.—Any person who violates
subsection (a) shall be imprisoned for not
more than 5 years, fined under this title, or
both.’’.
(b) TABLE OF SECTIONS.—The table of sec-
tions for chapter 29 of title 18, United States
Code, is amended by inserting after the item
relating to section 611 the following:
‘‘612. Establishment of corporation to con-
ceal election contributions and
donations by foreign nation-
als.’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0655 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.023 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8428 October 23, 2019
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentleman
from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN) and a Mem-
ber opposed each will control 5 min-
utes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Michigan.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, my bipartisan amendment
cracks down on foreign influence in our
elections.
I would like to begin by thanking my
friend and coauthor of this amend-
ment, Ranking Member MCCAUL, with
whom I have the great privilege of
serving on the House Foreign Affairs
Committee, as well as my colleagues
cosponsoring this amendment, espe-
cially Representatives ROUDA, SLOTKIN,
and SPEIER.
I also thank Chairwoman LOFGREN
for her inspiring leadership and for
working with me on this provision.
I came to Congress to strengthen our
democracy, and that is the funda-
mental purpose of this truly bipartisan
amendment that I am proposing today.
Current campaign finance laws pro-
hibit foreign nationals from making
campaign contributions or conducting
political activity. But because of a
loophole, there is no law specifically
preventing foreign nationals from set-
ting up a shell corporation or company
to hide illegal political activity.
Our bipartisan amendment will nail
that loophole shut by prohibiting for-
eign nationals from funneling money
through shell companies to engage in
political activity in America.
We must keep our democratic process
safe from all bad actors, including for-
eign actors, and strengthen the integ-
rity of our elections. That is what this
amendment does.
Specifically, this amendment will
make it a felony for an owner, officer,
attorney, or incorporated agent of a
corporation, company, or other entity
to establish or use the corporation,
company, or other entity with the in-
tent to conceal the political activities
of foreign actors.
Put simply, passing our amendment
will ensure serious consequences for
anyone who starts or operates a shell
company, or anyone who helps start or
operate a shell company, for the pur-
pose of concealing political activities
of bad foreign actors.
I am proud to partner with the gen-
tleman from Texas in proposing this bi-
partisan amendment to defend our
elections against foreign interference.
Our elections are a sacred cornerstone
of our democracy, and we must do ev-
erything in our power to protect them.
I urge my colleagues to support this
amendment.
I am particularly pleased to yield 1
minute to the gentleman from Cali-
fornia (Mr. ROUDA), my good friend.
Mr. ROUDA. Madam Chair, I thank
my friend from Michigan, Representa-
tive LEVIN, for yielding.
Madam Chair, preventing foreign
election interference is a bipartisan
issue. This amendment is proof of that
statement. I am proud to support this
amendment, a commonsense measure
to close a loophole that is allowing il-
legal political spending by foreign na-
tionals in United States elections.
In the 2016 election, millions of
Americans saw and engaged with polit-
ical advertisements paid for by foreign
nationals. Last year, Facebook CEO
Mark Zuckerberg confirmed in sworn
testimony before Congress that foreign
nationals were purchasing campaign
ads and issue ads through American
shell companies.
As elected officials, we took an oath
to defend the Constitution of the
United States of America against both
foreign and domestic adversaries and
threats. That includes the cornerstone
of our democracy, free and fair elec-
tions.
b 1615
This amendment and the underlying
bill seek to end a dangerous and well-
documented form of foreign election
interference.
I thank Representatives LEVIN and
MCCAUL for offering this important
amendment, and I look forward to con-
tinuing to work with them to address
this critical issue.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I claim the time in oppo-
sition, although I am not opposed to
this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman is recognized for 5
minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I support this amend-
ment.
I want to thank my colleagues, Mr.
LEVIN, Ranking Member MCCAUL, Mr.
ROUDA, Ms. SPEIER, and Ms. SLOTKIN,
for offering this very thoughtful
amendment. I would like to note that,
even though the issue of using shell
corporations to make contributions is
covered under the existing straw donor
prohibition, I do believe more clarity is
needed on this issue.
Madam Chair, I want to thank my
colleagues. I am prepared to close, and
I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam
Chair, I will close by thanking the gen-
tleman from Illinois for his kinds
words on this. We really have worked
hard as a team. It is a truly bipartisan
effort.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I thank, again, my good
friend from the great State of Michigan
for offering this amendment.
The only thing that I wish could have
happened is I wish we could have had
some hearings on this bill so that we
could have brought experts in on shell
corporations that are making straw
donor donations to Federal campaigns
that are already prohibited so we could
find out the best way to ensure that
doesn’t happen in the future, especially
from nefarious foreign actors.
Madam Chair, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote on
this amendment, and I yield back the
balance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Michigan (Mr. LEVIN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 5 OFFERED BY MR. LANGEVIN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 5 printed in
part B of House Report 116–253.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 28, insert after line 12 the following:
SEC. 118. INDEPENDENT STUDY ON MEDIA LIT-
ERACY AND ONLINE POLITICAL CON-
TENT CONSUMPTION.
(a) INDEPENDENT STUDY.—Not later than 30
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Federal Election Commission shall com-
mission an independent study and report on
media literacy with respect to online polit-
ical content consumption among voting-age
Americans.
(b) ELEMENTS.—The study and report under
subsection (a) shall include the following:
(1) An evaluation of media literacy skills,
such as the ability to evaluate sources, syn-
thesize multiple accounts into a coherent
understanding of an issue, understand the
context of communications, and responsibly
create and share information, among voting-
age Americans.
(2) An analysis of the effects of media lit-
eracy education and particular media lit-
eracy skills on the ability to critically con-
sume online political content, including po-
litical advertising.
(3) Recommendations for improving vot-
ing-age Americans’ ability to critically con-
sume online political content, including po-
litical advertising.
(c) DEADLINE.—Not later than 270 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
entity conducting the study and report
under subsection (a) shall submit the report
to the Commission.
(d) SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS.—Not later
than 30 days after receiving the report under
subsection (c), the Commission shall submit
the report to the Committee on House Ad-
ministration of the House of Representatives
and the Committee on Rules and Adminis-
tration of the Senate, together with such
comments on the report as the Commission
considers appropriate.
(e) DEFINITION OF MEDIA LITERACY.—The
term ‘‘media literacy’’ means the ability
to—
(1) access relevant and accurate informa-
tion through media;
(2) critically analyze media content and
the influences of media;
(3) evaluate the comprehensiveness, rel-
evance, credibility, authority, and accuracy
of information;
(4) make educated decisions based on infor-
mation obtained from media and digital
sources;
(5) operate various forms of technology and
digital tools; and
(6) reflect on how the use of media and
technology may affect private and public
life.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentleman
from Rhode Island (Mr. LANGEVIN) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Rhode Island.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.065 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8429
October 23, 2019
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
yield myself such time as I may con-
sume.
Madam Chair, it is quite evident that
our democracy is under attack from
concerted foreign influence campaigns,
and online disinformation is one of our
enemies’ most potent weapons.
Starting in 2013, Russian operatives
associated with the Internet Research
Agency waged a robust and systematic
influence campaign on Facebook,
Instagram, and Twitter that reached
millions of users in the United States.
These operatives used political ad-
vertisements and falsified news articles
and other content in an attempt to de-
ceive social media users, widen our po-
litical and social divisions, and weaken
our confidence and participation in the
democratic process.
Their efforts, particularly sur-
rounding the 2016 election, were dis-
turbingly successful.
About 60 percent of Americans who
prefer getting their news through so-
cial media say they have shared false
information. Additionally, public con-
fidence in our democracy is low, and we
are perhaps more polarized than ever
before.
With the 2020 elections right around
the corner, we must act now to build
up our resilience to these efforts and
ensure Americans are informed, crit-
ical consumers of online content. Vot-
ers must view online political adver-
tising with a discerning eye and be able
to make educated decisions based on
the content that they consume.
This amendment, Madam Chair, to
the SHIELD Act would direct the FEC
to commission a study on Americans’
media literacy skills, including the
ability to critically evaluate sources
and responsibly share information. It
would require a report on the impact of
media literacy education on how Amer-
icans consume and understand online
political content, with a focus on polit-
ical advertisements. The study would
also include recommendations to im-
prove voters’ resilience to
disinformation.
A functioning democracy depends on
informed citizens who can responsibly
participate in the political process, and
the unquestioning consumption and
sharing of disinformation online under-
mines the integrity of this system. My
amendment will help shed light on the
skills Americans need to resist these
malicious campaigns.
Renee Hobbs, the director of Media
Education Lab in Rhode Island and a
professor at the University of Rhode Is-
land, puts it plainly:
‘‘Learning to recognize and resist
propaganda and disinformation is an
essential dimension of education in a
digital age. After all, it is the only
long-term strategy that embodies our
country’s vital democratic traditions
of robust dialogue and debate in the
marketplace of ideas.’’
Professor Hobbs is right, and as more
and more Americans rely on social
media to get their news, media literacy
is becoming ever more important.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support my amendment so we can
explore how best to build up our citi-
zens’ resilience to foreign online influ-
ence campaigns.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I claim the time in oppo-
sition to this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman is
recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I thank my colleague,
Mr. LANGEVIN, for offering this amend-
ment. As good a friend as he is, it
somewhat pains me to have to stand up
and be opposed to it.
Again, the FEC, the Federal Election
Commission, is the independent regu-
latory agency charged with admin-
istering and enforcing the Federal
campaign finance law. They have juris-
diction over the financing of cam-
paigns for us here in the House, our
colleagues in the Senate, the Presi-
dent, and the Vice President. They are
not the fake news police, much to the
chagrin of the current FEC Chair.
This amendment requires an inde-
pendent report from the FEC, and I am
not convinced that the FEC Chair is
capable of issuing any independent re-
port, any independent guidance, or any
independent legal interpretations; and,
frankly, I don’t think she is capable of
offering any independent tweets.
I think it is worth noting that every
single House Democrat voted to make
the FEC a partisan agency earlier this
Congress in H.R. 1 and has lamented
how dysfunctional they believe the
FEC is. If the FEC were a partisan
agency, would we want them deter-
mining which news was fake news and
which news was legitimate?
I agree we need to understand and
improve media literacy with respect to
political content in this country, but
the FEC is not the entity to lead that
endeavor.
Let’s take a look at the danger of
overregulating online ads and misinter-
preting political content. The ad I have
behind me and the ones behind it are
already being labeled as political ads
on Facebook. These came straight from
the Facebook ad library.
First off, we have my favorite. As the
proud dad of two Yorkies at home in
Taylorville, Illinois, this political ad
for hotdogcollars.com would allow me
to get my two Yorkies some new dog
collars. I don’t know—except maybe
the American flag dog collar—how po-
litical that is.
Next up is the very political ad
Facebook is now categorizing under
current law and under their current
regulations as a political ad—Pizza
Crave. Hey, it is Halloween season, it is
almost upon us, $10 pizza pies. I don’t
know why that is categorized as polit-
ical, but it is.
Do we really want the FEC to figure
out that they are the agency to correct
that? No. Facebook ought to correct it.
Lastly, Stone Bridge Pizza & Salad:
We always crave the classic—obviously
a political ad. I don’t know anybody
who would eat pizza like that, but
clearly this is not a political ad.
I think we need to take a step back.
We need to realize that the current
FEC that is dysfunctional is the last
place for independent review of any-
thing. We need to make sure that the
FEC does its job in a nonpartisan way.
Madam Chair, we need to vote ‘‘no’’
on this amendment, and I reserve the
balance of my time.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, may I
inquire how much time I have remain-
ing.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Rhode Island has 2 minutes re-
maining.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, if
only my colleague had actually read
and understood the bill, he would know
that it is an independent study. I think
that would make a difference in how,
perhaps, he felt about the bill.
Madam Chair, I yield 1 minute to the
gentlewoman from Michigan (Ms.
SLOTKIN).
Ms. SLOTKIN. Madam Chair, I rise
today in support of this amendment to
the SHIELD Act, the digital citizen-
ship and media literacy amendment.
We have said it before. No matter
who we are, Democrats, Republicans,
or Independents, we should all agree
that we don’t want foreigners manipu-
lating our citizens, sowing discord in
our society, and playing in our polit-
ical process.
We know that foreign entities con-
tinue to target social media ads and
disinformation at voters, particularly
in swing States like mine, Michigan.
These ads are horrible. They seek to di-
vide us and influence our political
process.
The Senate Select Committee on In-
telligence released a bipartisan report
late last month and said that the pub-
lic needs to be informed and both un-
derstand and identify disinformation
that is critical to preventing foreign
influence. This means our citizens, and
especially our kids, need to have the
tools to spot this disinformation.
In this new age of digital warfare, we
need education. Education is critical.
This study helps us get at this so that
we can all understand how to identify
propaganda and flag it.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I appreciate the com-
ments from my good friend from Michi-
gan. I, too, am in a swing district. We
don’t want misinformation.
To address comments made by my
good friend from Rhode Island, I under-
stand that what the gentleman is ask-
ing for is an independent report. I don’t
believe the FEC can offer an inde-
pendent assessment of anything right
now.
Madam Chair, you have an FEC that
is completely dysfunctional. You have
a Chair of the FEC who is doing noth-
ing but taking partisan shots at our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.068 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8430 October 23, 2019
President. That is not what the FEC
should be.
The FEC is incapable of offering any
independent review of anything. That
is my concern. That is why I believe if
we could work together and come up
with a more viable solution to get a
true independent study, I think we
could do that.
Madam Chair, I am ready to close,
and I reserve the balance of my time.
Mr. LANGEVIN. Madam Chair, I
yield myself the balance of my time to
close.
Madam Chair, to address my col-
league’s point, again, it is not the FEC
that is going to do the study. It is an
independent study that will be done, be
commissioned to be concluded, and
that would be the final product, not
the FEC.
So, with that, Russia’s election inter-
ference efforts in 2016 were sweeping
and damaging, and we know that social
media was one of their greatest weap-
ons. As the 2020 elections approach, and
for future elections, we must ensure
that our citizens are resilient to for-
eign influence companies by arming
them with the skills to be critical con-
sumers of online political content.
I urge my colleagues to support my
amendment to study media literacy
and its impact on American voters—
again, an independent study that will
be commissioned.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, to clarify, I don’t think
the FEC is capable of actually commis-
sioning an independent study. I would
be happy to work with the gentleman
from Rhode Island to find another
agency that we believe could offer a
fair assessment.
Madam Chair, I will urge a ‘‘no’’ vote
on this amendment for those reasons,
and I yield back the balance of my
time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Rhode Island (Mr. LAN-
GEVIN).
The amendment was agreed to.
b 1630
AMENDMENT NO. 6 OFFERED BY MR. SWALWELL
OF CALIFORNIA
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 6 printed in
part B of House Report 116–253.
Mr. SWALWELL of California.
Madam Chair, I have an amendment at
the desk, No. 6, made in order under
the rule.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 15, insert ‘‘and each immediate
family member of a candidate’’ after ‘‘each
candidate’’.
Page 4, line 9, insert ‘‘an immediate family
member of the candidate,’’ after ‘‘a can-
didate,’’.
Page 7, line 9, strike the closing quotation
mark and the second period.
Page 7, insert after line 9 the following:
‘‘(4) IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER.—In this
subsection, the term ‘immediate family
member’ means, with respect to a candidate,
a parent, parent-in-law, spouse, adult child,
or sibling.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentleman
from California (Mr. SWALWELL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from California.
Mr. SWALWELL of California.
Madam Chair, I yield myself such time
as I may consume.
Madam Chair, I rise in support of the
underlying bill and my amendment,
which would include a candidate’s im-
mediate family members to those
whose direct or indirect contacts or
communications with a foreign na-
tional may amount to a reportable for-
eign contact.
I also think it is very fitting that we
are doing this legislation in the same
week that we will honor Oversight and
Reform Committee Chairman, Elijah
Cummings, someone who I have had
the privilege of not only working with
but being represented by when I was a
law student in Baltimore.
But Elijah, the gentleman from
Maryland, and I worked to write the
Protecting Our Democracy Act imme-
diately after the Russian interference
campaign.
Every member of the Democrat Cau-
cus and members from the Republican
Caucus signed on to that. I still believe
that is the best way to address what
the Russians did in 2016 and to harden
our systems so they don’t do it again.
But I believe that this effort, the
SHIELD Act, led by Chairwoman ZOE
LOFGREN will go a very, very long way
in protecting our elections, and I thank
the chairwoman for her leadership in
this effort.
American elections should be decided
by Americans. Ms. LOFGREN’s bill will
go a long way to stopping secret for-
eign attempts to influence our democ-
racy, as we saw in 2016.
We know that as a part of Russia’s
attack on us, it purchased social media
advertisements.
Madam Chair, 3,500 advertisements
on political or public policy topics
were purchased using rubles. To com-
bat this conduct, I had introduced in
May, H.R. 2853, the Corporate Duty to
Report Act. Part of my bill would re-
quire companies distributing political
communications, including social
media companies, to take the small but
important step in at least asking if the
purchaser is a foreign national. I thank
Chairwoman LOFGREN for including
this concept in the SHIELD Act.
We also learned in June 2016 that
Donald Trump, Jr., was told over email
that the Russian Government was of-
fering ‘‘official documents and infor-
mation that would incriminate Hillary
and her dealings with Russia,’’ which
was, ‘‘part of Russia and its govern-
ment support for Mr. Trump.’’
Don Jr., replied in part, ‘‘If it’s what
you say, I love it, especially later in
the summer.’’ Then he accepted the
offer of assistance. He told a lot of peo-
ple about the offer, including his broth-
er-in-law and the chairman of the cam-
paign, he had a meeting around the
offer, but he never told law enforce-
ment.
This is the part of the honor code
that most candidates in America fol-
low. It is just the right thing to do. Un-
fortunately, Donald Trump, Jr.’s con-
duct highlights that we have to take
parts of the honor code that good peo-
ple usually just follow and codify them
into law.
I wrote the Duty to Report Act last
Congress with Senator RICHARD
BLUMENTHAL, who sponsored it in the
Senate, that also would include imme-
diate family members, not just the
candidate to tell law enforcement, but
the parent, parent-in-law, spouse, adult
child, or sibling.
I am afraid that someone like Don
Jr., who didn’t have an official role in
the Trump campaign, would not be in-
cluded in the SHIELD Act as written,
and that is the reason I am offering
this amendment.
Madam Chair, I ask for support on
my amendment, and I reserve the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to
this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Illinois is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, this amendment amends
the underlying duty to report section.
The goal of this underlying section is
something I share with my friend
across the aisle. If a foreign national
would approach me with an offer of as-
sistance in my campaign, I would abso-
lutely alert the FBI.
My colleague from California men-
tions an instance with the President’s
son. I mean, clearly, I know that he
and my Democratic colleagues, they
look at this, this is not about what is
going to happen to many of the col-
leagues here, because, likely, we are
never going to be approached by a for-
eign national. But if we are, I think we
all agree, it is a pretty bipartisan con-
sensus, we would call the FBI.
This is a partisan attack on the
President. But rarely are instances as
blatant as what I mentioned before
about being contacted and I would call
the FBI. What this underlying section
is asking of political committees is for
them to serve as immigration officials,
where they will be in a position to de-
termine the citizenship of anyone that
their campaign comes into contact
with.
But, again, I believe through bipar-
tisan negotiations, we could make this
work. The underlying duty to report
section was already vague to begin
with, and adding in additional parties,
as this amendment does, that must
comply only adds to our concern that
we are setting up campaign commit-
tees, as well as their families, we are
setting them up for failure.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.069 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8431
October 23, 2019
It is also worth noting that this
amendment would affect family mem-
bers the candidate has no control over.
My family members own fast food res-
taurants. So are they going to have to
ask—if this becomes law—every cus-
tomer if they are a foreign national
representing a foreign government?
Do they have a duty to report?
That is something that needs to be
clarified.
We have to do a little bit more work.
I think we can work this out, but
again, the secretive nature of how this
bill was written and forced onto the
floor with zero hearings doesn’t give us
a chance, or frankly, the majority a
chance to ask these questions and ad-
dress our concerns.
Madam Chair, I would urge a ‘‘no’’
vote, and I reserve the balance of my
time.
Mr. SWALWELL of California.
Madam Chair, I yield myself the bal-
ance of my time.
I appreciate the gentleman’s con-
cerns and I accept that the gentleman
would report, if he was contacted by a
foreign national. And I want to clarify,
in the legislation under section (c)(1),
the term is covered, ‘‘foreign na-
tional,’’ which means a foreign prin-
cipal who would fall subject to the For-
eign Agents Registration Act. So it is
not an immigrant. It is not any person
born outside the United States. It is
someone acting on behalf of a foreign
agent.
And it also has a ‘‘knowing stand-
ard,’’ meaning that you would have to
have some knowledge that this person
is acting on behalf of a foreign agent.
And the Donald Trump, Jr., example, it
was represented that the individuals
were working with the prosecutor gen-
eral of Russia, so clearly, that would be
notice that this is on behalf of a for-
eign agent.
Now, I also want to just point out
that, yes, there is an honor code that
we all follow, and I believe most of my
colleagues would tell the FBI. And, of
course, in 2000, when the Gore cam-
paign received debate prep materials
for the Bush campaign, the Gore cam-
paign went to the FBI because it was
provided by a foreign national.
However, what we learned in 2016 is
not everyone is as honorable, and so we
have to codify this. And I do believe
that we will be judged by what we do as
our democracy has been tested. And
not only what we do, but what we learn
from the vulnerabilities that have been
exposed.
And that is why I think it is so im-
portant that Ms. LOFGREN’s legislation
is voted for and passed on this floor,
and that we include this amendment to
make sure it is not just candidates, but
also the family members.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I agree with my col-
league from California. We will be
judged on how we actually impact for-
eign interference in our elections. We
will be judged on the chilling effect to
free speech that this legislation, if put
into law, would have on our system
that is so much different from those
nefarious countries and leaders who
want to meddle in our election process.
But my point earlier still stands. I
agree that somebody who would fall
under FARA, the Foreign Agent Reg-
istration Act, would be the ones that
we would have a duty to report, if they
came to our campaign. But at the same
time, how do we know? Are they going
to wear a badge that says, Hey, I am a
FARA-registered individual from an-
other country, and I am coming to talk
to you since you are a Member of Con-
gress in a political campaign?
I mean, am I going to have my kids
who are in college, am I going to have
to have them ask everyone they come
into contact with, ‘‘Are you registered
under the Foreign Agent Registration
Act in Washington, D.C., because I
have a duty to report.’’
How are we going to know? That is
why we have to take a step back. We
have to sit down. We have to work this
together. There are too many unin-
tended consequences that, yes, Madam
Chair, we will be judged by in this
country. We will be judged by the free-
doms and the freedom of speech that
many in this country take for granted,
that we should stand together, Repub-
licans and Democrats, to protect, or we
will be judged by bad legislation that
could be turned into law that could
have a chilling effect on these free-
doms, on these liberties that our adver-
saries that meddle in our elections
want to use to take them away from
every single American.
Vote ‘‘no’’ on this amendment. Vote
to protect free speech and vote to take
a step back to clarify how we work to
ensure that no foreign entity can inter-
fere with our elections again.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from California (Mr.
SWALWELL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 7 OFFERED BY MR. BROWN OF
MARYLAND
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 7 printed in
part B of House Report 116–253.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I have an amendment at the
desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 3, line 11, insert after ‘‘foreign con-
tact.’’ the following: ‘‘The Federal Bureau of
Investigation, not later than 1 week after re-
ceiving a notification from a political com-
mittee under this paragraph, shall submit to
the political committee, the Permanent Se-
lect Committee on Intelligence of the House
of Representatives, and the Select Com-
mittee on Intelligence of the Senate written
or electronic confirmation of receipt of the
notification.’’
Page 11, insert after line 23 the following
(and redesignate the succeeding section):
SEC. 104. REPORT TO CONGRESSIONAL INTEL-
LIGENCE COMMITTEES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than one year
after the date of enactment of this Act, and
annually thereafter, the Director of the Fed-
eral Bureau of Investigation shall submit to
the congressional intelligence committees a
report relating to notifications received by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation under
section 304(j)(1) of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (as added by section 101(a)
of this Act).
(b) ELEMENTS.—Each report under sub-
section (a) shall include, at a minimum, the
following with respect to notifications de-
scribed in subsection (a):
(1) The number of such notifications re-
ceived from political committees during the
year covered by the report.
(2) A description of protocols and proce-
dures developed by the Federal Bureau of In-
vestigation relating to receipt and mainte-
nance of records relating to such notifica-
tions.
(3) With respect to such notifications re-
ceived during the year covered by the report,
a description of any subsequent actions
taken by the Director resulting from the re-
ceipt of such notifications.
(c) CONGRESSIONAL INTELLIGENCE COMMIT-
TEES DEFINED.—In this section, the term
‘‘congressional intelligence committees’’ has
the meaning given that term in section 3 of
the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3003).
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentleman
from Maryland (Mr. BROWN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. BROWN of Maryland. Madam
Chair, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
Madam Chair, I want to recognize,
first, the hard work of Chairwoman
LOFGREN. Your hard work and your
leadership on this important issue and
the underlying bill. It is clear that our
foreign adversaries have and will con-
tinue to interfere and influence our
elections and attempt to erode con-
fidence in our government and destroy
our democratic system.
The Mueller report made clear that
the Russian Government interfered in
the 2016 Presidential election in a
sweeping and systematic fashion. And
Mr. Mueller testified earlier this year
that many more countries have devel-
oped misinformation campaigns since
2016 targeted at the United States, our
democracy, and our system of elec-
tions.
Facebook on Monday disclosed that
it had taken down four new foreign in-
terference operations originating from
Iran and Russia. Soliciting or accept-
ing foreign interference doesn’t just
violate our democratic norms; it clear-
ly violates our laws.
Yet, in June, President Trump said
there would be nothing wrong with ac-
cepting from a foreign government in-
criminating information about an op-
ponent and saw no reason—the Presi-
dent saw no reason—to call the FBI if
it were to happen.
He went one step further and said it
was wrong for FBI Director Chris Wray
to say that public officials or cam-
paigns should contact the FBI if they
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.072 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8432 October 23, 2019
are contacted by other nations seeking
to influence or interfere with our elec-
tions.
The President’s remarks mirrored
one given by his son-in-law, Jared
Kushner, who also said he was not sure
he would call the FBI if a foreign gov-
ernment offered damaging information
about a political foe.
That is why it is critical that we pass
this legislation, to protect the integ-
rity of our elections.
The underlying bill requires public
officials, candidates, and campaigns to
report to the FBI when foreign govern-
ments and their agents contact them
and holds them responsible when they
fail to report.
Madam Chair, my amendment
strengthens this legislation by requir-
ing the FBI to confirm receipt of any
notification of possible foreign inter-
ference operations.
Additionally, the FBI must also no-
tify both the House and Senate Intel-
ligence Committees guaranteeing that
Congress, as a coequal branch of gov-
ernment, is made aware when foreign
agents and hostile nations are attempt-
ing to undermine our democracy.
Finally, my amendment would re-
quire the FBI to submit an annual re-
port to Congress related to all the noti-
fications it has received and the cor-
responding actions the Bureau has
taken in response.
The FBI cannot be passive to these
threats to our national security but
must take decisive action to respond to
election interference.
Madam Chair, I strongly encourage
my colleagues to support this amend-
ment and this underlying bill, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to
this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Illinois is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, the provision this sec-
tion seeks to amend has problems in
and of itself. I object to this amend-
ment because I object to the under-
lying premise of the bill. It is unrea-
sonable to require candidates to vet
every foreign national they come into
contact with.
I understand that this bill requires
that candidates know or have reason to
know that foreign nationals are cov-
ered. My question is: Would not any
government employee, such as those
that work at an embassy, be covered
under this bill? Wouldn’t a conversa-
tion with a traffic officer or embassy
clerk be subject to penalties under this
section?
I absolutely believe that campaigns
should have to report offers of assist-
ance from foreign nationals. The issue
with this bill and, thus, this amend-
ment, is that it is overbroad and puts
the responsibility on campaigns. Cam-
paigns are ill-prepared to interpret this
language.
I am also concerned that requiring
the FBI to not only notify Congress,
but detail how they are managing and
responding to notifications from polit-
ical committees will inevitably lead to
selective leaks and will politicize the
well-intended goal of preventing for-
eign influence.
Madam Chair, for those reasons, I op-
pose this bill. And since my colleague
yielded back, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from Maryland (Mr. BROWN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 8 OFFERED BY MR. DELGADO
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 8 printed in
part B of House Report 116–253.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 33, line 7, strike ‘‘and’’
Page 33, insert after line 7 the following
(and redesignate the succeeding provision ac-
cordingly):
‘‘(2) an analysis of the extent to which il-
licit foreign money was used to carry out
disinformation and propaganda campaigns
focused on depressing turnout among rural
communities and the success or failure of
these efforts, together with recommenda-
tions to address these efforts in future elec-
tions; and’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentleman
from New York (Mr. DELGADO) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from New York.
b 1645
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I yield
myself such time as I may consume.
Today, I rise in support of my amend-
ment to the SHIELD Act, which is
meant to keep foreign influences from
depressing voter turnout in rural com-
munities.
Protecting our democracy and up-
holding the sanctity of our elections is
of critical importance.
Madam Chair, the SHIELD Act is ur-
gently needed legislation. Americans
will go to the polls in a matter of
weeks, and every day, we are presented
with more data that our foreign adver-
saries are working to influence our
elections and undermine our democ-
racy.
These destructive tactics, as we have
seen in previous election cycles, con-
tinue to get more sophisticated, with
outside parties now manipulating our
elections through the ballot box, social
media, and spreading misinformation.
My amendment fights against these
tactics and requires an analysis, fol-
lowing each Federal election, into
whether or not illicit foreign money
was used to carry out disinformation
or propaganda campaigns focused on
depressing turnout among rural com-
munities.
The amendment also requires a
breakdown of the successes or failures
of these efforts and recommendations
for how we can address these tactics in
future elections.
Americans in rural communities face
many hurdles to exercising the right to
vote, including the distance to the
nearest poll. We cannot add additional
hurdles of foreign disinformation and
its influence on voter turnout.
There is nothing more important
than protecting our democracy and en-
suring every American has the ability
to vote and the opportunity to make
their voices heard.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to
the amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Illinois is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I, too, like my colleague
from New York, represent a district
with a very large rural population. I
want to see rural turnout as high as
possible.
But the mission of the FEC is to ad-
minister and enforce Federal campaign
finance law. I mean, if this becomes
law, along with some of the other pre-
vious amendments and amendments
after this, I don’t know when the FEC
is going to have any time to actually
enforce campaign finance violations
that are happening right now. The FEC
is not equipped to receive all these
mandates from Congress.
This is an extremely important job, a
job some on the Commission, including
the Chair, are ignoring by spending all
their time attacking the President. I
think we need to let the FEC focus on
their day job.
There are many groups, within and
outside government, that could
produce a report on misinformation,
such as the U.S. Commission on Civil
Rights, maybe even the Brennan Cen-
ter. Let’s let them do it.
Help us help the FEC to be able to do
the job that we have required it to do.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I
would note to my friend that in order
for the FEC to enforce the law as you
suggest, which I certainly believe they
ought to, it would help if they would
have the data and the information to
do so and to be able to track down at-
tempts to break the law.
This would be exactly what we are
trying to do with this amendment. To
speculate on who might—when, where,
and how—be able to do this is a waste
of time when we know at this point
that we are under siege.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I look forward to work-
ing with my colleague from New York
to address many issues regarding rural
America. I would love to be able to sit
down and find a workable solution.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:38 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.075 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8433
October 23, 2019
The problem is, the solution that is
being offered in this amendment is
going to be tacked on to a bill that is
never going to become law. So we are
either going to talk about amendments
that are going to remain talking points
or we can sit down together and work
in a bipartisan fashion to get a law
passed that is going to have the impact
that my colleague from New York and
I want it to have.
Let’s sit down, without having to
write the rules that the FEC would
have to follow. Let’s work together and
send a letter to the U.S. Commission
on Civil Rights. Let’s send a letter to
the Brennan Center and see if they can
study it.
Why do we have to wait so long? This
is a much easier way to address the
problem that I think he and I agree
ought to be addressed. Let’s do that.
When this bill passes on a partisan
rollcall today and goes nowhere when
it moves into the Senate, let’s commit
to working together to see what we can
do to get this done because rural Amer-
ica is too important to be affected by
partisanship here in Washington, D.C.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I
would be more than happy to work
with my colleague to do whatever we
can to deal with protecting our elec-
tions and ensuring that they remain
free and fair.
As I am sure the gentleman under-
stands, representing a rural district,
too many folks in our communities are
being left behind, and they should not
be left behind in the least bit when it
comes to the sanctity of our elections.
While we might be in a position
where, unfortunately, partisanship gets
in the way of these issues, I will note
that to simply say these things won’t
become law is part of the problem. I
think it is also important to
deconstruct why these things are not
making their way into law in the first
place.
When people become overly partisan
in this environment, we are at an im-
passe, unfortunately. I am here to
work beyond that.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, again, I agree with my
colleague. This place becomes overly
partisan. This entire process, this bill,
with zero hearings in the House Admin-
istration Committee before it was
forced to markup through our com-
mittee, without us to have a chance to
ask experts what they can and cannot
do to address many of the problems
that my colleague from New York ac-
tually offers solutions for, that is the
problem of partisanship.
We can’t just blame the Senate. I was
told by many of my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle when we were in
the majority, ‘‘So what if the Senate is
not going to pass it? We ought to work
together in the House.’’ I agreed then,
and I agree now. We ought to find solu-
tions.
Unfortunately, partisanship has over-
taken this process. The unfortunate re-
sult of that is that good ideas like the
one my colleague has are going to stop
in their tracks when this amendment
passes on a partisan rollcall vote for
this amendment, and then it is not
going to be signed into law.
Again, I can’t wait to work with my
colleague on finding a way to get this
information into the right hands and
have those who can study it without
having to go through a dysfunctional
Federal Election Commission and also
have them study why we had historic
turnout not just in urban America but
in rural America during the 2018 mid-
terms. Let’s talk about what we have
done right to make sure that voters
have a chance to get to the polls at his-
toric turnout numbers like we saw dur-
ing the 2018 election cycle, which al-
lowed many of my colleagues to get
elected to this institution.
Madam Chair, I urge a ‘‘no’’ vote on
this amendment. I look forward to
working with my colleague in the fu-
ture to address the problem of access
and voter access in rural America, and
I yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. DELGADO. Madam Chair, I
would like to note, to bring the discus-
sion back full circle, when my friend
says that the FEC is dysfunctional but
began this conversation saying that it
has the responsibility to enforce elec-
tion laws, those two points don’t really
go hand in hand.
I think it is important that if we are
going to make the FEC able and capa-
ble of enforcing the laws that we know
are critical to protecting our democ-
racy, then we should operate on the as-
sumption of how we could make the
FEC as functional as possible and give
the FEC data and information to
achieve its stated purpose.
I thank Chairwoman LOFGREN for her
leadership on this issue and urge my
colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
put the protection of our democracy
over partisan division and pass both
my amendment and the underlying
bill.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from New York (Mr. DELGADO).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 9 OFFERED BY MS. HOULAHAN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 9 printed in
part B of House Report 116–253.
Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 40, insert after line 6 the following:
SEC. 303. PROHIBITION ON PROVISION OF SUB-
STANTIAL ASSISTANCE RELATING
TO CONTRIBUTION OR DONATION BY
FOREIGN NATIONALS.
Section 319 of the Federal Election Cam-
paign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C. 30121), as amend-
ed by section 117, section 201(a), section
201(b), and section 301, is further amended—
(1) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of para-
graph (2);
(B) by striking the period at the end of
paragraph (3) and inserting ‘‘; or’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(4) a person to knowingly provide sub-
stantial assistance to another person in car-
rying out an activity described in paragraph
(1), (2), or (3).’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
subsections:
‘‘(f) KNOWINGLY DESCRIBED.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of sub-
section (a)(4), the term ‘knowingly’ means
actual knowledge, constructive knowledge,
awareness of pertinent facts that would lead
a reasonable person to conclude there is a
substantial probability, or awareness of per-
tinent facts that would lead a reasonable
person to conduct a reasonable inquiry to es-
tablish—
‘‘(A) with respect to an activity described
in subsection (a)(1), that the contribution,
donation, expenditure, independent expendi-
ture, or disbursement is from a foreign na-
tional;
‘‘(B) with respect to an activity described
in subsection (a)(2), that the contribution or
donation solicited, accepted, or received is
from a foreign national; and
‘‘(C) with respect to an activity described
in subsection (a)(3), that the person direct-
ing, dictating, controlling, or directly or in-
directly participating in the decision making
process is a foreign national.
‘‘(2) PERTINENT FACTS.—For purposes of
paragraph (1), pertinent facts include, but
are not limited to, that the person making
the contribution, donation, expenditure,
independent expenditure, or disbursement, or
that the person from whom the contribution
or donation is solicited, accepted, or re-
ceived, or that the person directing, dic-
tating, controlling, or directly or indirectly
participating in the decision making proc-
ess—
‘‘(A) uses a foreign passport or passport
number for identification purposes;
‘‘(B) provides a foreign address;
‘‘(C) uses a check or other written instru-
ment drawn on a foreign bank, or by a wire
transfer from a foreign bank, in carrying out
the activity; or
‘‘(D) resides abroad.
‘‘(g) SUBSTANTIAL ASSISTANCE DEFINED.—
As used in this section, the term ‘substantial
assistance’ means, with respect to an activ-
ity prohibited by paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of
subsection (a), involvement with an intent to
facilitate successful completion of the activ-
ity.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentlewoman
from Pennsylvania (Ms. HOULAHAN) and
a Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Pennsylvania.
Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Chair-
woman, I yield myself such time as I
may consume.
I thank Chairwoman LOFGREN today
for having supported such an amazing
body of work and for also supporting
this amendment.
I rise today in support of my amend-
ment to H.R. 4617, which helps secure
our elections by holding Americans
who help foreigners funnel money into
our elections more accountable.
Throughout our history, people have
fought for the right to vote, and our
men and women in uniform have died
to protect that right. Being an Amer-
ican is a privilege, and the right for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.078 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8434 October 23, 2019
every American to cast their ballot is
sacred. It is part of our duty, and it is
part of our duty in Congress, to protect
that right. That is why I am encour-
aging my colleagues on both sides of
the aisle to support my amendment.
Foreign money in our elections is an
assault on the American electorate and
on the democracy that our forefathers
built. Americans who help foreign ac-
tors meddle in our elections must be
held accountable under the law.
To vote against my amendment is,
therefore, to condone the actions of
Americans who act against the inter-
ests of our country and who help for-
eigners undermine our elections.
I believe I speak for my colleagues on
both sides of the aisle when I say this
body is committed to defending our
country’s democratic processes. This
need not be partisan because there is
nothing more fundamentally American
than protecting our most sacred right,
the right to vote, from all foreign in-
terference.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition, al-
though I am not opposed to this
amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Illinois is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I thank my good friend
from the great State of Pennsylvania
for offering this amendment.
However, I would like to add, this is
an incredibly wonky amendment to an
already complicated, convoluted, and
confusing bill. I don’t think you should
have to be a high-powered campaign fi-
nance attorney to understand what is
at stake in terms of election security.
The issue of foreign nationals med-
dling in elections can be resolved more
simply by passing my bill, the Honest
Elections Act. My bill does not have to
empower the FEC, an already—I have
said, and I hope my colleagues agree—
pretty dysfunctional agency.
If they didn’t believe it was dysfunc-
tional, they wouldn’t have voted, in
H.R. 1, to make it a partisan agency. If
they think it is great now, why did
they try to make it into an even more
partisan agency?
So, I think we all agree it is dysfunc-
tional. We may have different reasons
why.
But my bill doesn’t empower a dys-
functional FEC to address the problem
of foreign nationals meddling in our
elections. My bill empowers the De-
partment of Justice, which has juris-
diction over enforcing the Foreign
Agents Registration Act. That is a bet-
ter option.
Clearly, I am not going to get an op-
tion because this bill was brought to
the floor without any hearings, with-
out any opportunity for us to have
input, and that is a problem. That is a
problem with legislating in this insti-
tution.
That is a broken promise that this
Democratic majority made to the vot-
ers who sent them here and put them
in the majority. They said they were
going to do things differently, right? I
heard from my colleagues on the other
side of the aisle, in my terms before
this one, how things were ramrodded
through, how regular order wasn’t fol-
lowed, how they weren’t given a chance
to sit down and come up with solu-
tions. Well, I find it ironic that the
success story we have of the Repub-
lican majority in the 115th Congress of
investing $380 million in election secu-
rity funds, where we saw historic turn-
out in the 2018 midterms—we saw his-
toric turnout, and we saw success.
That is what a Republican majority
gave. The Democrat majority, they
have given us hearings—well, wait, no.
No hearings before this bill was put to
the floor, that is a problem.
I really want to say thank you to my
colleague from Pennsylvania for offer-
ing this amendment. It is a common-
sense amendment. But, again, the FEC
is not the place. I am not going to be
opposed to this amendment. The DOJ
is the place.
Madam Chair, I am going to make
sure I reserve my time. If I had a chal-
lenge flag, I thought my colleague last
time yielded back, but I believe the
judgment from the referees up there
was that he did not yield back. Maybe
we could check the replay a little later,
so I will go ahead and reserve this
time.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. HOULAHAN. Madam Chair, I will
take it as the deepest compliment from
my colleague, Mr. DAVIS, that he says
that my amendment is wonky since I
believe that is our responsibility here
in Congress, to legislate and to develop
good policy.
I will also take that back to the
working group that was a bipartisan
working group that developed this
amendment with me, the bipartisan
Task Force Sentry, which really
worked very hard to find a way to
make sure that we would codify what
was already being practiced by the
FEC.
This doesn’t give the FEC any more
power. It simply gives the power to us
to be able to actually criminalize peo-
ple by defining what it means to sup-
port foreign interference.
I believe that this amendment does
speak for itself, and I am very, very
grateful for the compliments of how
this is a policy wonk’s dream. I will go
ahead and interpret the gentleman’s
words.
I very much would encourage Ameri-
cans to understand why we need to pre-
vent funneling foreign money into our
elections.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Pennsylvania (Ms.
HOULAHAN).
The amendment was agreed to.
b 1700
AMENDMENT NO. 10 OFFERED BY MS. SLOTKIN
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 10 printed
in part B of House Report 116–253.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 54, insert after line 14 the following:
Subtitle C—Assessment of Exemption of Reg-
istration Requirements Under FARA for
Registered Lobbyists
SEC. 321. ASSESSMENT OF EXEMPTION OF REG-
ISTRATION REQUIREMENTS UNDER
FARA FOR REGISTERED LOBBYISTS.
Not later than 90 days after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States shall conduct and
submit to Congress an assessment of the im-
plications of the exemption provided under
the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938,
as amended (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.) for agents
of foreign principals who are also registered
lobbyists under the Lobbying Disclosure Act
of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and shall in-
clude in the assessment an analysis of the
extent to which revisions in such Acts might
mitigate the risk of foreign government
money influencing elections or political
processes in the United States.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentlewoman
from Michigan (Ms. SLOTKIN) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Michigan.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Madam Chair, I rise
today in support of an amendment to
the SHIELD Act, which takes a step
toward solving a tough, complicated,
outstanding challenge in preventing
foreign influence in our elections, and
that is closing loopholes that currently
allow lobbyists of foreign governments
to contribute to U.S. campaigns.
Again, no matter who we are or what
party we are from, we can all agree
that we don’t want foreigners playing
in our political process.
I am very proud that the SHIELD
Act includes legislation—we have dis-
cussed it earlier—that closes loopholes
so that foreigners cannot buy ads for or
against a candidate in an American
election. That idea was very simple.
Particularly on social media, this is
important.
So why, then, if we are not letting
foreign entities buy ads in our political
process is it okay that lobbyists for
foreign governments are able to con-
tribute to candidates, campaigns, and
otherwise influence U.S. elections?
There is some work to be done on
this. It is, admittedly, complicated.
But in order to properly close these
loopholes, we need to first understand
what those loopholes are and how they
impact foreign entities’ ability to in-
fluence our elections.
My amendment directs the Govern-
ment Accountability Office to assess
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.081 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8435
October 23, 2019
existing law to identify loopholes in
FARA, the Foreign Agents Registra-
tion Act, and then recommend the
right legislative fixes.
The SHIELD Act does a great deal to
meet the threat of foreign influence
and interference with robust legislative
responses. This amendment will help us
continue that work and get us closer to
a solution to an outstanding vulnera-
bility in our system.
Madam Chair, I urge my colleagues
to support this amendment, and I re-
serve the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition, al-
though I am supportive of this amend-
ment.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Illinois is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I just want to say to my
colleague from the great State of
Michigan, thank you.
Finally—finally—we have a study
that is not too wonky, a perfect
amount of wonkiness, that is going to
go through an agency that is going to
give us an unbiased review: the GAO.
Thank you, thank you, thank you,
thank you. Pass this amendment.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Ms. SLOTKIN. Madam Chair, I am
just shocked because I have them run-
ning, jumping up and down over there.
I continue to think that the gen-
tleman from Illinois doesn’t under-
stand that when he calls our bills
wonky and our amendments wonky, we
are deeply proud of that over here. I
am thrilled that he is supportive.
There actually is a bipartisan agree-
ment on the need to reform FARA, as
reflected, I think, by Senator GRASS-
LEY’s bipartisan bill, very similar lan-
guage.
I am thrilled. I thank the gentleman
for his support and for jumping up and
down, giving us a little energy.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Michigan (Ms.
SLOTKIN).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 11 OFFERED BY MS. SHERRILL
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 11 printed
in part B of House Report 116–253.
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Chair, I have
an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 41, line 1, strike ‘‘60’’ and insert ‘‘90’’.
Page 42, line 11, strike ‘‘60’’ and insert
‘‘90’’.
Page 45, line 20, strike ‘‘60’’ and insert
‘‘90’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentlewoman
from New Jersey (Ms. SHERRILL) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from New Jersey.
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Chair, I rise
today to offer an amendment to
strengthen protections from deceptive
practices in Federal elections.
We know that in the lead-up to the
2016 election, our adversaries employed
multiple systematic efforts to spread
disinformation and sow confusion
among American voters. In one par-
ticularly egregious example, Russian
bots used social media to mislead vot-
ers and tell them that they could ‘‘vote
from home’’ by simply texting a code
or going online.
On the eve of the 2018 election,
Facebook deleted many accounts—in-
cluding those with links to the Russian
Government—that were engaged in co-
ordinated, deceptive behavior.
Today, we know that our adversaries
are not only working to hijack our po-
litical system just before an election,
they are interfering in our democracy
on a continuous basis.
Madam Chair, election security is
not about Democrats or Republicans.
Election security is about all Ameri-
cans coming together to defend our
shared democracy—our democracy—en-
shrined in our Constitution.
I have prioritized election security
since arriving in Washington 10 months
ago. As chairwoman of the House
Science Subcommittee on Investiga-
tions and Oversight, I held a hearing on
disinformation and the threat posed by
online imposters and deep fakes.
I have worked with a group of col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle on
election security, and we have heard
over and over again from experts on
the need for more robust protections to
combat this new era of coordinated
disinformation efforts.
As a proud Representative of the
great State of New Jersey, I will al-
ways defend our right as Americans to
have a spirited debate, particularly
when it comes to what matters to us in
the run-up to our elections.
One of the things I love about my dis-
trict is, while we don’t always agree on
the path forward, we agree on the need
for honest and respectful debate. That
is what our democracy is all about. It
is what I signed up to defend when I
joined the United States Navy.
So it is essential that we stand to-
gether as Americans to strengthen our
laws and to ensure that our foreign ad-
versaries are not able to dictate the
outcomes of our elections.
I offer this amendment to prohibit
any attempts to deceive voters 90 days
before a Federal primary and general
elections. This includes knowingly pro-
viding false information about the
time or place of voting, what qualifica-
tions a voter must have in order to
vote, or public endorsements of can-
didates.
Expanding the provisions in the De-
ceptive Practices and Voter Intimida-
tion Act from 60 days before an elec-
tion to 90 days will better protect our
democracy from hostile foreign actors
trying to disrupt the voices and votes
of Americans. It also protects against
longstanding efforts to disenfranchise
communities of color, women, and
other marginalized groups.
In my home State of New Jersey,
early voting can occur up to 45 days be-
fore an election. In fact, 39 States
across the country have some form of
early voting. That is why we need this
critical amendment to extend protec-
tions and prohibit disinformation be-
fore any American casts their ballot.
I urge my colleagues to pass this im-
portant amendment, safeguard our de-
mocracy, and ensure that the Amer-
ican people, not our foreign adver-
saries, determine the results of our
elections.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to
this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Illinois is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I appreciate my new col-
league from New Jersey offering this
amendment and participating in this
process. I look to work with her and
many of my colleagues when the ma-
jority party finally comes to the table
and wants to put a bipartisan solution
together.
Everyone here is against deceptive
practices. This includes providing false
information about the time or place of
voting and qualifications for voting.
But the underlying section here pre-
sents numerous questions because of
its vagueness. Some of the situations
this would apply to seem pretty ridicu-
lous.
Do you want to know how ridiculous
this section of the SHIELD Act is?
Let’s talk about public endorsements.
Recently, former Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton said about current
Presidential candidate, our colleague,
Congresswoman TULSI GABBARD:
I think the Russians have got their eye on
somebody and are grooming her to be a
third-party candidate. She’s a favorite of the
Russians.
So Secretary Clinton is suggesting
the Russians endorse Congresswoman
GABBARD. Is that not a false endorse-
ment? Would Hillary Clinton not be
subject to 5 years in prison according
this section if this bill were passed?
Let the RECORD show, nobody is
chanting ‘‘Lock her up.’’
This is another ridiculous section of
the bill. It is not surprising, given the
warp speed with which this bill is being
rushed to the floor.
I have to commend my colleague
from New Jersey because this amend-
ment is right about the amount of
wonkiness that we need in amendments
and pieces of legislation.
But I will stand here and say, as a
Member of this institution, that we can
never get so wonky with our jobs and
our writing of bills that it has a
chilling effect on the First Amendment
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.084 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8436 October 23, 2019
rights to free speech that every Amer-
ican in this country deserves.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Ms. SHERRILL. Madam Chair, I
yield back the balance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from New Jersey (Ms.
SHERRILL).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 12 OFFERED BY MR.
CUNNINGHAM
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 12 printed
in part B of House Report 116–253.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 33, line 7, strike ‘‘and’’
Page 33, insert after line 7 the following
(and redesignate the succeeding provision ac-
cordingly):
‘‘(2) an analysis of the extent to which il-
licit foreign money was used to carry out
disinformation and propaganda campaigns
focused on depressing turnout among Afri-
can-American and other minority commu-
nities and the success or failure of these ef-
forts, together with recommendations to ad-
dress these efforts in future elections; and’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from South Carolina.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, I
rise today in support of my straight-
forward, commonsense amendment
which would specifically examine how
illicit foreign money was used to carry
out disinformation and propaganda
campaigns focused on depressing turn-
out among African American and other
minority communities and the success
or failure of these efforts during our re-
cent elections. This amendment would
also call for recommendations to ad-
dress these concerns in future elec-
tions.
Republicans and Democrats agree
that foreign adversaries should never
be allowed to sow discord in our polit-
ical system and interfere with our elec-
toral process. Unfortunately, in the
last two elections, we saw massive mis-
information campaigns launched by
hostile foreign powers, and we know—
we know—those efforts disproportion-
ately targeted African American com-
munities.
Last May, the House Judiciary Com-
mittee released a trove of over 3,500
Facebook ads posted by Russia-linked
accounts between 2014 and 2017. In 2015,
for instance, Kremlin-backed accounts
tweeted and retweeted dozens of mes-
sages manipulating the tragic mass
shooting at the predominantly African
American Mother Emanuel AME
Church in downtown Charleston. Ads
like this reached over 11.4 million peo-
ple.
Russia has sought to influence our
democratic process by stoking racial,
religious, and political differences, and
this has had real consequences. African
American turnout declined in 2016 for
the Presidential election for the first
time in 20 years, according to the U.S.
Census Bureau, falling to less than 60
percent, from a record high of 66.6 per-
cent in 2012.
Election security is not a partisan
issue; it is essential to our democracy;
and Americans deserve to have the con-
fidence of knowing the information
they seek hasn’t been manipulated by
foreign adversaries.
Our next elections are quickly ap-
proaching, so the time to show the
world that we stand united on election
security is now. I ask all my col-
leagues, Republicans and Democrats
alike, to support this amendment to
protect against foreign interference in
America’s elections.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition, al-
though I am not necessarily opposed.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Illinois is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I have had the oppor-
tunity to travel the country with my
friend and colleague Congresswoman
MARCIA FUDGE on the subject of the
Voting Rights Act.
We have heard testimony that minor-
ity turnout across the board was higher
than ever: Hispanic and Asian commu-
nities jumped 13 points above the turn-
out levels in 2014 when compared to the
2018 election cycle; this last midterm,
in 2018, African American turnout
jumped 11 points.
I hope this trend continues, and I
hope we see increased minority turnout
in our upcoming elections.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, in
closing, I urge both Democrats and Re-
publicans to support this commonsense
amendment to prevent malicious mis-
information and propaganda campaigns
from targeting African American and
other minority communities.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 13 OFFERED BY MR.
CUNNINGHAM
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 13 printed
in part B of House Report 116–253.
Madam Chair, I have an amendment
at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 33, line 7, strike ‘‘and’’
Page 33, insert after line 7 the following
(and redesignate the succeeding provision ac-
cordingly):
‘‘(2) an analysis of the extent to which il-
licit foreign money was used to carry out
disinformation and propaganda campaigns
focused on influencing military and veteran
communities and the success or failure of
these efforts, together with recommenda-
tions to address these efforts in future elec-
tions; and’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentleman
from South Carolina (Mr. CUNNINGHAM)
and a Member opposed each will con-
trol 5 minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentleman
from South Carolina.
b 1715
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair,
today I rise in support of my amend-
ment to help protect our Nation’s vet-
erans and servicemembers from tar-
geted disinformation campaigns
bankrolled by foreign governments.
Earlier this month the Republican-
led Senate Intelligence Committee re-
leased its report on Russia’s attempts
to interfere with the 2016 U.S. Presi-
dential election. In that report, the
committee described how Russian-in-
fluenced operatives created fake online
personas to target specific groups, in-
cluding veterans, with the goal of sow-
ing discord in the American political
system.
To that end, operatives created social
media pages impersonating congres-
sionally-chartered veteran service or-
ganizations, or VSOs, to push their di-
visive message. In one such case, a
page impersonating Vietnam Veterans
of America run by a troll farm in Bul-
garia grew to nearly 200,000 followers
before it was shut down.
After learning of this illicit account,
VVA launched their own 2-year inves-
tigation into the issue, and they found
more than 150 similar efforts across
every major social media platform.
And while I think their actions are
reprehensible, I have to admit that
their approach makes sense. Numerous
studies have shown that veterans vote
at higher rates than those who haven’t
served. And those votes are especially
concentrated in swing states. In my
South Carolina district, veterans make
up nearly 13 percent of the voting pop-
ulation, so I for one prefer my chances
against a fellow American, rather than
a campaign run out of a troll farm in
Saint Petersburg.
Joking aside, it is unacceptable that
we are allowing those same men and
women who have served our Nation
overseas to be susceptible to these ma-
lign influences. That is why I am proud
to support the underlying bill, which
would prohibit foreign governments
from sponsoring influenced campaigns
designed to affect the outcome of a
Federal election.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.086 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8437
October 23, 2019
But since we know that foreign ad-
versaries aren’t interested in playing
by our own rules, my amendment
would require the FEC to investigate
those foreign influence campaigns after
each election so we can put a stop to
them.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I claim the time in oppo-
sition to the amendment, even though
I am not opposed to it.
The Acting CHAIR. Without objec-
tion, the gentleman from Illinois is
recognized for 5 minutes.
There was no objection.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, as much as I would like
to have some fun with my good friend
and colleague from South Carolina and
oppose this amendment and have great
debate back and forth, it is a pretty
darn good amendment.
I think we need to do everything we
can in a bipartisan way to make sure
that our Nation’s heroes have the right
to vote not only here at home, but
abroad.
I look forward to working with you—
after this bill that will pass today on a
partisan roll call but will go nowhere—
to make sure that our Nation’s heroes
are not adversely affected by any prop-
aganda or any attempts to stop them
from exercising that right.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. CUNNINGHAM. Madam Chair, in
closing, I want to thank Chairwoman
LOFGREN for her leadership on the
House Administration Committee and
all the members of the committee for
their work on this critical legislation.
I also want to thank Chairman MCGOV-
ERN and the members of the Rules
Committee for allowing my amend-
ments to come to the floor. I want to
thank my colleague, Mr. DAVIS, across
the aisle for his work. And I hope that
all my colleagues on both sides of the
aisle will join me in supporting my
straightforward, commonsense amend-
ment, as well as the underlying bill.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tleman from South Carolina (Mr.
CUNNINGHAM).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 14 OFFERED BY MS.
SPANBERGER
The Acting CHAIR. It is now in order
to consider amendment No. 14 printed
in part B of House Report 116–253.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Madam Chair, I
have an amendment at the desk.
The Acting CHAIR. The Clerk will
designate the amendment.
The text of the amendment is as fol-
lows:
Page 23, line 8, strike ‘‘and a list’’ and in-
sert ‘‘a list’’.
Page 23, line 11, strike the period and in-
sert the following: ‘‘, and, if the person pur-
chasing the advertisement is acting as the
agent of a foreign principal under the For-
eign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as
amended (22 U.S.C. 611 et seq.), a statement
that the person is acting as the agent of a
foreign principal and the identification of
the foreign principal involved.’’.
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
House Resolution 650, the gentlewoman
from Virginia (Ms. SPANBERGER) and a
Member opposed each will control 5
minutes.
The Chair recognizes the gentle-
woman from Virginia.
Ms. SPANBERGER. Madam Chair, I
rise in support of my amendment to
H.R. 4617, the SHIELD Act.
Today the House is discussing and de-
bating how we can safeguard the integ-
rity of our elections, the bedrock of our
democracy. How do we protect our
electoral systems from foreign threats?
And how do we prevent foreign influ-
ence over our electorate?
As we stand here today, the number
of countries engaged in active cam-
paigns to mislead the electorate, the
American people continues to grow.
According to a new report from the
University of Oxford, the number of
countries engaged in disinformation
campaigns has more than doubled in
the last 2 years. Additionally, at least
seven countries have used their intel-
ligence or military apparatuses to de-
ploy disinformation on social media to
influence a foreign country and its peo-
ple.
As a former intelligence officer, I
recognize the risks that these potential
attacks, yes, attacks, pose as we head
into the next year’s Federal, State, and
local elections. There is a legitimate
fear across our intelligence community
that foreign governments will build on
Russia’s extensive information warfare
strategy. Foreign actors from Russia
to China to North Korea to Iran are
eager to undermine the foundations of
our democracy.
Leading up to the 2016 Presidential
election Facebook disclosed that it had
found more than $100,000 worth of ads
on divisive issues purchased by a Rus-
sian company linked to the Kremlin,
and the potential return on investment
is extremely high. As we approach 2020,
they have every reason to follow this
playbook again and to strengthen their
disinformation operations.
In the context of these threats, we
need to take a serious look at how we
build resiliency against foreign inter-
ference on social media platforms. Dig-
ital advertising can be a far less ex-
pense and time intensive as a tool for
propaganda, and it can spread
disinformation, confusion, hate, and di-
vision at an alarming rate.
The SHIELD Act takes real steps to
require large online platforms to keep
records of qualified political advertise-
ments, and I would like to thank my
colleagues for their hard work on this
critical issue.
The SHIELD Act would require on-
line companies to keep publicly avail-
able records about online digital polit-
ical advertisements. It would require
information about the contents of a
specific advertisement, its target audi-
ence, and the issue it addresses.
Additionally, it would require disclo-
sure information about those pur-
chasing the advertisement. Disclosure
sheds light on corruption. It unmasks
influence. And it stops our democracy
from becoming vulnerable to foreign
governments, nonstate actors, and
shadowy influence groups constantly
working to distract and mislead the
American people. My amendment
would strengthen this disclosure re-
quirement.
My amendment would add that on-
line platforms need to include a state-
ment when the person purchasing a po-
litical advertisement is acting as the
agent of a foreign principal.
Not only would it include language
making it clear that they are acting on
behalf of a foreign entity, but it would
require the online platform to identify
the foreign principal involved. That
principal could be a foreign govern-
ment, a foreign political party or a
nonstate actor.
Fundamentally, my amendment to
the SHIELD Act would put the power
back in the hands of the American peo-
ple. It would help address a critical un-
derlying question, who is in charge of
deciding American elections? Is it
those abroad, working to divide and in-
fluence the American people? Or is it
the American people themselves?
By requiring online records of pur-
chase requests that include public in-
formation on the foreign principal be-
hind these advertisements, the Amer-
ican people will be able to see clearly
who is attempting to influence their
decisions.
As Congress acts today to restore the
trust of those we serve in our system of
government, my amendment would
strengthen our efforts to prevent the
spread of foreign influence in our
democratic system.
I urge my colleagues to support my
amendment to H.R. 4617 to increase
transparency in online advertisements,
something that should not be con-
troversial.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I rise in opposition to
this amendment.
The Acting CHAIR. The gentleman
from Illinois is recognized for 5 min-
utes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I thank my colleague
from Virginia for offering this amend-
ment, but this amendment shares the
same flaw as the main text of the bill,
putting media platforms in charge of
enforcing our Nation’s laws.
They are not doing a good job right
now. I don’t know if Mr. Zuckerberg is
still across the street testifying in
front of the Financial Services Com-
mittee, but if they were doing a good
job, he wouldn’t have been here so
long.
Rather, we need to strengthen FARA
and help the Department of Justice do
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.091 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8438 October 23, 2019
its job. I do not understand why the
Democrats want the social media com-
panies to have more responsibilities
when they failed miserably in 2016.
I strongly urge a ‘‘no’’ vote. I also
urge every Member, both Republicans
and Democrats, to take a look at my
bill. It is a nonpartisan bill.
I don’t want to empower the media
platforms or restrict speech by Amer-
ican citizens. I want to give the DOJ
the resources to do its job
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time
Ms. SPANBERGER. Madam Chair,
the purpose of this amendment is, in
fact, to ensure that the American peo-
ple are aware when an agent of a for-
eign principal under FARA parameters
purchases a political advertisement.
We, as Members of Congress, have the
ability to set the parameters under
which the transparency and informa-
tion is available to the American pub-
lic. And in doing so, we need to make
sure that not only do the American
people know when there is a foreign in-
dividual purchasing advertisements
meant to influence them, but when
someone else is purchasing those ad-
vertisements on behalf of a foreign en-
tity as described by FARA.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I appreciate the gentle-
woman’s willingness to want to help fix
a bill where the underlying bill is one
that we never had a chance to have an
open debate about, never had a chance
to have hearings about.
When it doesn’t pass, I look forward
to working with my colleagues. When
it doesn’t pass into law—it will pass
here on a partisan roll call—when it
doesn’t pass into law, I look forward to
working with my colleagues.
But I do have a bill that would ad-
dress this situation. FARA, let’s work
together to let the DOJ have the re-
sources and the ability to do their job.
The SHIELD Act is not allowing that
to happen. The Honest Elections Act,
my bill, will allow that to happen. I
would urge everybody to take a look at
that.
Madam Chair, I reserve the balance
of my time
Ms. SPANBERGER. Madam Chair, I
also support increasing the enforce-
ment of FARA.
But this, in particular, is about
transparency and the transparency
that it brings as it relates to the un-
derlying aspect of the Honest Ads Act,
which is a bipartisan bill, Republicans
and Democrats in equal amounts. This
is about transparency. This is about al-
lowing the American people to know
who, in fact, is purchasing the ads that
are meant to influence them.
Madam Chair, I yield back the bal-
ance of my time.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Chair, I yield back the balance
of my time.
The Acting CHAIR. The question is
on the amendment offered by the gen-
tlewoman from Virginia (Ms.
SPANBERGER).
The amendment was agreed to.
AMENDMENT NO. 2 OFFERED BY MRS. LESKO
The Acting CHAIR. Pursuant to
clause 6 of rule XVIII, the unfinished
business is the request for a recorded
vote on amendment No. 2 printed in
part B of House Report 116–253 offered
by the gentlewoman from Arizona
(Mrs. LESKO) on which further pro-
ceedings were postponed and on which
the noes prevailed by voice vote.
The Clerk will redesignate the
amendment.
The Clerk redesignated the amend-
ment.
RECORDED VOTE
The Acting CHAIR. A recorded vote
has been demanded.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 180, noes 231,
not voting 26, as follows:
[Roll No. 581]
AYES—180
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Ferguson
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Steube
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—231
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
Norton
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Plaskett
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sablan
San Nicolas
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—26
Amodei
Armstrong
Bilirakis
Collins (GA)
Eshoo
Estes
Gabbard
González-Colón
(PR)
Grothman
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Kind
Luria
McEachin
Meuser
Mitchell
Peters
Radewagen
Reschenthaler
Smucker
Steil
Stivers
Takano
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
b 1759
Messrs. RUSH, VAN DREW, Ms.
WILD, and Mr. LOWENTHAL changed
their vote from ‘‘aye’’ to ‘‘no.’’
So the amendment was rejected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.093 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8439
October 23, 2019
The Acting CHAIR (Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi). The question is on the
amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute, as amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The Acting CHAIR. Under the rule,
the Committee rises.
Accordingly, the Committee rose;
and the Speaker pro tempore (Ms.
DEGETTE) having assumed the chair,
Mr. THOMPSON of Mississippi, Acting
Chair of the Committee of the Whole
House on the state of the Union, re-
ported that that Committee, having
had under consideration the bill (H.R.
4617) to amend the Federal Election
Campaign Act of 1971 to clarify the ob-
ligation to report acts of foreign elec-
tion influence and require implementa-
tion of compliance and reporting sys-
tems by Federal campaigns to detect
and report such acts, and for other pur-
poses, and, pursuant to House Resolu-
tion 650, he reported the bill back to
the House with an amendment adopted
in the Committee of the Whole.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the rule, the previous question is or-
dered.
Is a separate vote demanded on any
amendment to the amendment re-
ported from the Committee of the
Whole?
If not, the question is on the amend-
ment in the nature of a substitute, as
amended.
The amendment was agreed to.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the engrossment and
third reading of the bill.
The bill was ordered to be engrossed
and read a third time, and was read the
third time.
MOTION TO RECOMMIT
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I have a motion to re-
commit at the desk.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is the
gentleman opposed to the bill?
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. I am
in its current form.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Clerk will report the motion to recom-
mit.
The Clerk read as follows:
Mr. Rodney Davis of Illinois moves to re-
commit the bill H.R. 4617 to the Committee
on House Administration with instructions
to report the same back to the House forth-
with with the following amendment:
Strike subsection (b) of section 1 and all
that follows and insert the following:
(b) TABLE OF CONTENTS.—The table of con-
tents of this Act is as follows:
TITLE I—FOREIGN AGENTS
REGISTRATION REFORM
Sec. 101. Clarification of coverage of activi-
ties directed within the United
States by agents outside of
United States.
Sec. 102. Application of press exemption to
other forms of media for pur-
poses of engagement in polit-
ical activities.
Sec. 103. Treatment of activities to influ-
ence public opinion on elections
as political activity.
Sec. 104. Effective date.
TITLE II—DISCLAIMER REQUIREMENTS
FOR ONLINE POLITICAL ADVERTISE-
MENTS
Sec. 201. Clarifying disclaimer requirements
for online political advertise-
ments.
TITLE III—REDUCING ILLICIT FOREIGN
MONEY IN ELECTIONS
Sec. 301. Report on illicit foreign money in
Federal elections.
Sec. 302. Prohibition on contributions and
donations by foreign nationals
in connections with ballot ini-
tiatives and referenda.
TITLE IV—PROHIBITING PAYMENT OF
ELECTION ASSISTANCE FUNDS TO
STATES ALLOWING BALLOT HAR-
VESTING
Sec. 401. Prohibition on payments to States
allowing collection and trans-
mission of ballots by certain
third parties.
TITLE V—PROHIBITING PAYMENT OF
ELECTION ASSISTANCE FUNDS TO
STATES ALLOWING VOTING BY NON-
CITIZENS
Sec. 501. Prohibition on payments to States
allowing voting by non-citizens.
TITLE VI—INADMISSIBILITY AND DE-
PORTABILITY OF ALIENS ENGAGING IN
IMPROPER ELECTION INTERFERENCE
Sec. 601. Inadmissibility and deportability
of aliens engaging in improper
interference in United States
elections.
TITLE I—FOREIGN AGENTS
REGISTRATION REFORM
SEC. 101. CLARIFICATION OF COVERAGE OF AC-
TIVITIES DIRECTED WITHIN THE
UNITED STATES BY AGENTS OUT-
SIDE OF UNITED STATES.
(a) TREATMENT OF AGENTS ENGAGED IN AC-
TIVITIES AS AGENTS OF FOREIGN PRINCIPALS.—
Section 1(c)(1) of the Foreign Agents Reg-
istration Act of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C.
611(c)(1)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘or’’ at the end of clause
(iii);
(2) by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end of clause
(iv) and inserting ‘‘or’’; and
(3) by adding at the end the following new
clause:
‘‘(v) engages outside the United States in
political activities for or in the interests of
such foreign principal which are directed at
persons within the United States, including
activities consisting of communications dis-
seminated within the United States through
telecommunications or computer equipment
or services, the Internet, broadcast, cable,
satellite, print, or mail; and’’.
(b) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 9 of
such Act (22 U.S.C. 619) is amended by strik-
ing the period at the end and inserting the
following: ‘‘, and shall be applicable outside
the United States to the extent described in
section 1(c)(1)(v).’’.
SEC. 102. APPLICATION OF PRESS EXEMPTION TO
OTHER FORMS OF MEDIA FOR PUR-
POSES OF ENGAGEMENT IN POLIT-
ICAL ACTIVITIES.
(a) APPLICATION.—Section 1(d) of the For-
eign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as
amended (22 U.S.C. 611(d)(1)) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘(d)’’ and insert ‘‘(d)(1)’’;
and
(2) by adding at the end the following new
paragraph:
‘‘(2) In addition to the exception described
in paragraph (1), to the extent that a person
engages with the United States in political
activities, the term ‘agent of a foreign prin-
cipal’ does not include any bona fide media
outlet organized under the laws of the
United States or of any State or other place
subject to the jurisdiction of the United
States, or any bona fide media outlet for
which there is on file with the United States
Postal Service information in compliance
with section 3685 of title 39, United States
Code, published in the United States, solely
by virtue of any bona fide news or journal-
istic activities, including the solicitation or
acceptance of paid advertisements, subscrip-
tions, free social media access which is made
available to the general public, or other
compensation therefor, so long as it is at
least 80 per centum beneficially owned by,
and its officers and directors, if any, are citi-
zens of the United States, and such media
outlet is not owned, directed, supervised,
controlled, subsidized, or financed, and none
of its policies are determined by, any foreign
principal defined in subsection (b), or by any
agent of a foreign principal required to reg-
ister under this Act.’’.
(b) DEFINITION.—Section 1 of such Act (22
U.S.C. 611) is amended by adding at the end
the following new subsection:
‘‘(q) The term ‘media outlet’ means any of
the following:
‘‘(1) Any newspaper, magazine, or peri-
odical.
‘‘(2) Any broadcast, satellite or cable tele-
vision or radio station.
‘‘(3) Any Internet-based website, applica-
tion, or platform.’’.
SEC. 103. TREATMENT OF ACTIVITIES TO INFLU-
ENCE PUBLIC OPINION ON ELEC-
TIONS AS POLITICAL ACTIVITY.
Section 1(o) of the Foreign Agents Reg-
istration Act of 1938, as amended (22 U.S.C.
611(o)) is amended by striking the semicolon
at the end and inserting the following: ‘‘, or
with reference to public opinion about public
officials, candidates, or elections of the
United States.’’.
SEC. 104. EFFECTIVE DATE.
The amendments made by this title shall
apply with respect to activities carried out
on or after the date of the enactment of this
Act.
TITLE II—DISCLAIMER REQUIREMENTS
FOR ONLINE POLITICAL ADVERTISE-
MENTS
SEC. 201. CLARIFYING DISCLAIMER REQUIRE-
MENTS FOR ONLINE POLITICAL AD-
VERTISEMENTS.
(a) CLARIFICATION.—Section 318 of the Fed-
eral Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30120) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(e) APPLICATION OF REQUIREMENTS TO ON-
LINE COMMUNICATIONS.—
‘‘(1) METHOD OF PROVISION OF INFORMA-
TION.—Except as provided in paragraph (2) or
paragraph (3), a covered Internet commu-
nication shall provide the information re-
quired under this section on the face of the
communication.
‘‘(2) AUTHORIZING USE OF ALTERNATIVE
MECHANISMS.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—In the case of a covered
Internet communication described in sub-
paragraph (C) of paragraph (4), the commu-
nication may provide the information re-
quired under this section through the use of
a technological mechanism described in sub-
paragraph (B), so long as the communication
presents an indicator described in subpara-
graph (C).
‘‘(B) TECHNOLOGICAL MECHANISM DE-
SCRIBED.—A technological mechanism de-
scribed in this subparagraph is, with respect
to a communication, any technology which
enables the individual reading, observing, or
listening to the communication to read, ob-
serve, or listen to the information required
under this section without navigating more
than one step away from the communication
itself. Such mechanism may take any form,
including hover-over, mouse-over, voice-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.097 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8440 October 23, 2019
over, rollover, pop-up screen, scrolling text,
rotating panels, or click-through or
hyperlink to a landing page.
‘‘(C) INDICATOR DESCRIBED.—An indicator
described in this subparagraph is, with re-
spect to a communication, any clear and
conspicuous visible or audible element of the
communication that gives notice to the indi-
vidual reading, observing, or listening to the
communication that the individual may
read, observe, or listen to the information
required under this section through a tech-
nological mechanism. An indicator may take
any form, including words such as ‘Paid for
by’, ‘Paid by’, ‘Sponsored by’, or ‘Ad by’, a
website URL, an image, a sound, a symbol,
or an icon.
‘‘(3) WAIVER.—A disclaimer shall not be re-
quired for any covered internet communica-
tion that cannot provide a clear and con-
spicuous statement of the information re-
quired under this section either on the face
of communication or through the use of a
technological mechanism under paragraph
(2).
‘‘(4) COVERED INTERNET COMMUNICATION DE-
FINED.—In this subsection, the term ‘covered
Internet communication’ means any commu-
nication which is required to include infor-
mation under this section and which is any
of the following:
‘‘(A) Any electronic mailing of more than
500 substantially similar communications
which is disseminated by a political com-
mittee.
‘‘(B) Any communication disseminated on
a publicly-available website of a political
committee.
‘‘(C) Any communication placed for a fee
on another person’s website or Internet-
based application or platform.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall apply with respect
to communications made after the expira-
tion of the 30-day period which begins on the
date of the enactment of this Act.
TITLE III—REDUCING ILLICIT FOREIGN
MONEY IN ELECTIONS
SEC. 301. REPORT ON ILLICIT FOREIGN MONEY
IN FEDERAL ELECTIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Title III of the Federal
Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52 U.S.C.
30101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after
section 319 the following new section:
‘‘SEC. 319A. REPORT ON PRESENCE OF ILLICIT
FOREIGN MONEY.
‘‘(a) REPORT.—Not later than 180 days after
the end of each Federal election cycle, the
Commission shall submit to Congress a re-
port containing—
‘‘(1) an analysis of the presence of illicit
foreign money in such cycle; and
‘‘(2) recommendations to address the pres-
ence of illicit foreign money in elections, as
appropriate.
‘‘(b) DEFINITIONS.—As used in this section:
‘‘(1) The term ‘Federal election cycle’
means the period which begins on the day
after the date of a regularly scheduled gen-
eral election for Federal office and which
ends on the date of the first regularly sched-
uled general election for Federal office held
after such date.
‘‘(2) The term ‘illicit foreign money’ means
any disbursement by a foreign national (as
defined in section 319(b)) prohibited under
such section.’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by subsection (a) shall apply with re-
spect to the Federal election cycle that
began during November 2018, and each suc-
ceeding Federal election cycle.
SEC. 302. PROHIBITION ON CONTRIBUTIONS AND
DONATIONS BY FOREIGN NATION-
ALS IN CONNECTIONS WITH BALLOT
INITIATIVES AND REFERENDA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 319(a)(1)(A) of the
Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 (52
U.S.C. 30121(a)(1)(A)) is amended by striking
‘‘election’’ and inserting the following:
‘‘election, including a State or local ballot
initiative or referendum’’.
(b) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendment
made by this section shall apply with respect
to elections held in 2020 or any succeeding
year.
TITLE IV—PROHIBITING PAYMENT OF
ELECTION ASSISTANCE FUNDS TO
STATES ALLOWING BALLOT HAR-
VESTING
SEC. 401. PROHIBITION ON PAYMENTS TO STATES
ALLOWING COLLECTION AND
TRANSMISSION OF BALLOTS BY CER-
TAIN THIRD PARTIES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle D of title II of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21001 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end
the following new part:
‘‘PART 7—PROHIBITION ON PAYMENTS TO
STATES ALLOWING COLLECTION AND
TRANSMISSION OF BALLOTS BY CER-
TAIN THIRD PARTIES
‘‘SEC. 297. ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS OF
STATES ALLOWING COLLECTION
AND TRANSMISSION OF BALLOTS BY
CERTAIN THIRD PARTIES.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—A State is not eligible to
receive funds under this Act unless the State
has in effect a law that prohibits an indi-
vidual from the knowing collection and
transmission of a ballot in an election for
Federal office that was mailed to another
person, other than an individual described as
follows:
‘‘(1) An election official while engaged in
official duties as authorized by law.
‘‘(2) An employee of the United States
Postal Service while engaged in official du-
ties as authorized by law.
‘‘(3) Any other individual who is allowed by
law to collect and transmit United States
mail, while engaged in official duties as au-
thorized by law.
‘‘(4) A family member, household member,
or caregiver of the person to whom the ballot
was mailed.
‘‘(b) DEFINITIONS.—For purposes of this sec-
tion, with respect to a person to whom the
ballot was mailed:
‘‘(1) The term ‘caregiver’ means an indi-
vidual who provides medical or health care
assistance to such person in a residence,
nursing care institution, hospice facility, as-
sisted living center, assisted living facility,
assisted living home, residential care insti-
tution, adult day health care facility, or
adult foster care home.
‘‘(2) The term ‘family member’ means an
individual who is related to such person by
blood, marriage, adoption or legal guardian-
ship.
‘‘(3) The term ‘household member’ means
an individual who resides at the same resi-
dence as such person.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents of such Act is amended by inserting
after the item relating to section 296 the fol-
lowing new item:
‘‘PART 7–PROHIBITION ON PAYMENTS TO
STATES ALLOWING COLLECTION AND TRANS-
MISSION OF BALLOTS BY CERTAIN THIRD PAR-
TIES
‘‘Sec. 297. Eligibility for payments of States
allowing collection and trans-
mission of ballots by certain
third parties.’’.
TITLE V—PROHIBITING PAYMENT OF
ELECTION ASSISTANCE FUNDS TO
STATES ALLOWING VOTING BY NON-
CITIZENS
SEC. 501. PROHIBITION ON PAYMENTS TO STATES
ALLOWING VOTING BY NON-CITI-
ZENS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Subtitle D of title II of
the Help America Vote Act of 2002 (52 U.S.C.
21001 et seq.), as amended by section 401, is
further amended by adding at the end the
following new part:
‘‘PART 8—PROHIBITION ON PAYMENTS TO
STATES ALLOWING VOTING BY NON-
CITIZENS
‘‘SEC. 298. ELIGIBILITY FOR PAYMENTS OF
STATES ALLOWING VOTING BY NON-
CITIZENS.
‘‘A State is not eligible to receive funds
under this Act if the State allows an indi-
vidual who is not a citizen of the United
States to vote in an election for public of-
fice.’’.
(b) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents for such Act, as amended by section
401, is further amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 297 the following
new item:
‘‘PART 8–PROHIBITION ON PAYMENTS TO
STATES ALLOWING VOTING BY NON-CITIZENS
‘‘Sec. 298. Eligibility for payments of States
allowing voting by non-citi-
zens.’’.
TITLE VI—INADMISSIBILITY AND DEPORT-
ABILITY OF ALIENS ENGAGING IN IM-
PROPER ELECTION INTERFERENCE
SEC. 601. INADMISSIBILITY AND DEPORTABILITY
OF ALIENS ENGAGING IN IMPROPER
INTERFERENCE IN UNITED STATES
ELECTIONS.
(a) INADMISSIBILITY.—Section 212(a)(3) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8
U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(H) IMPROPER INTERFERENCE IN A UNITED
STATES ELECTION.—Any alien who a consular
officer, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Secretary of State, or the Attorney Gen-
eral knows, or has reasonable grounds to be-
lieve, is seeking admission to the United
States to engage in improper interference in
a United States election, or has engaged in
improper interference in a United States
election, is inadmissible.’’.
(b) DEPORTABILITY.—Section 237(a) of such
Act (8 U.S.C. 1227(a)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(8) IMPROPER INTERFERENCE IN A UNITED
STATES ELECTION.—Any alien who has en-
gaged, is engaged, or at any time after ad-
mission engages in improper interference in
a United States election is deportable.’’.
(c) DEFINITION.—Section 101(a) of such Act
(8 U.S.C. 1101(a)) is amended by adding at the
end the following:
‘‘(53) The term ‘improper interference in a
United States election’ means conduct by an
alien that—
‘‘(A)(i) violates Federal criminal, voting
rights, or campaign finance law, or
‘‘(ii) is performed by any person acting as
an agent of or on behalf of a foreign govern-
ment or criminal enterprise; and
‘‘(B) includes any covert, fraudulent, de-
ceptive, or unlawful act or attempted act,
undertaken with the purpose or effect of un-
dermining public confidence in election proc-
esses or institutions, or influencing, under-
mining confidence in, or altering the result
or reported result of, a general or primary
Federal, State, or local election or caucus,
including—
‘‘(i) the campaign of a candidate; or
‘‘(ii) a ballot measure, including an amend-
ment, a bond issue, an initiative, a recall, a
referral, or a referendum.’’.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (dur-
ing the reading). Madam Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent to dispense with
the reading.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Illinois?
There was no objection.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.033 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8441
October 23, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to the rule, the gentleman from Il-
linois is recognized for 5 minutes.
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I rise in support of
the motion to recommit, a proposal
that would actually assist law enforce-
ment in pursuing those individuals who
seek to disrupt our elections, as op-
posed to the partisan bill we have been
debating here today.
I first want to address some of the
accusations made here today about
how my colleagues and I on this side of
the aisle do not care about election se-
curity or how we are the only thing
standing in the way of securing elec-
tions. This is simply not true.
In the 115th Congress, a Republican-
controlled Congress appropriated over
$400 million to the States and to DHS
prior to the 2018 midterms to bolster
election security, allowing for unprece-
dented cooperation between DHS and
all 50 States and 1,400 localities. Ear-
lier this year, $33 million was appro-
priated to DHS to continue these as-
sistance efforts.
I also introduced a bill during the de-
bate of the SAFE Act that will provide
even more funding for DHS to combat
nefarious activity. But last week, I in-
troduced, along with many of my col-
leagues, the Honest Elections Act,
which the entire basis for this motion
to recommit is based upon. So don’t
tell me that we on this side of the aisle
are standing in the way.
According to the report recently re-
leased by the Senate Intelligence Com-
mittee, out of the $1.4 billion spent on
digital political ads in the 2016 election
cycle, Russia spent $100,000 over 2 years
on Facebook ads. The majority of those
were not election ads, so they wouldn’t
necessarily be regulated by the Honest
Ads Act portion of SHIELD and will
not address the real threat that we saw
in 2016.
My motion today strengthens and re-
forms the Foreign Agents Registration
Act, FARA, to combat election inter-
ference. It modernizes online political
ad disclosure. It increases monitoring
of spending by foreign nationals in
elections. It incentivizes States to pro-
hibit the practice of ballot harvesting
and encourages States to stop this re-
cent trend of noncitizen voting.
Madam Speaker, I urge my col-
leagues to vote for this motion to re-
commit because I was given some ad-
vice by our colleague from Idaho (Mr.
SIMPSON) before I came up here. He
said: ‘‘The more you talk, the fewer
votes this MTR will get.’’
So, let’s make sure everyone goes
back to their districts. But first, vote
for this motion to recommit. Vote to
protect our elections from interference
from foreign countries like Russia,
China, and all others. Vote to hunt
down those who are attempting to
interfere in our elections. And vote, fi-
nally, to restore the American people’s
trust in our institutions.
Madam Speaker, I urge a ‘‘yes’’ vote
on this motion to recommit, and I
yield back the balance of my time.
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I
rise in opposition to the motion to re-
commit.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The gen-
tlewoman from California is recognized
for 5 minutes.
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I
would like to say that this motion to
recommit should be opposed. It is so
much weaker than the bill that we
have an opportunity to pass to get for-
eign interference out of our elections
so that millions of Americans are not
exposed unwittingly to ads by Russian
trolls.
I yield the balance of my time to the
gentleman from New York (Mr. ROSE).
Mr. ROSE of New York. Madam
Speaker, I rise today in strong opposi-
tion to this blatant attempt to help
foreign agents subvert our democracy.
Madam Speaker, we stand at the
crossroads of history. Foreign enemies
have attacked our elections in a sweep-
ing and systematic fashion, and they
are continuing to do so.
We are faced today with a very sim-
ple question: Should Iran, Russia, and
China be allowed to interfere in our
elections? Should they have more of a
say in who gets elected than our con-
stituents?
Let me tell you my answer. Our sol-
diers did not fight our enemies over-
seas just to watch them try to corrupt
our democracy here at home. I am not
sure when that became a controversial
position, but it is a damn shame that it
has.
Protecting America should not be a
one-party issue. It should be what
unites us, not a cause for petty games.
But once again, the minority party
has decided it is more important to
practice the kind of politics that put
them in the minority in the first place.
They have decided, yet again, to play
another political stunt, just like they
played this morning in the SCIF. It is
the same exact thing.
That is your choice. My choice is to
stand up to say American elections are
for Americans only.
The SHIELD Act puts forward crit-
ical reforms to improve our defenses
against foreign influence and inter-
ference. The bill strengthens reporting
requirements, closes loopholes, and de-
ters illegal foreign activity in our elec-
tions.
I can understand if some of my col-
leagues are worried that they cannot
win on a fair and level election playing
field, but for all those who believe in
free and fair elections, who swore an
oath to protect and defend the Con-
stitution, I urge you to reject this
MTR and stand with the United States
of America.
Ms. LOFGREN. Madam Speaker, I
yield back the balance of my time.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the previous question is or-
dered on the motion to recommit.
There was no objection.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion to recommit.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the noes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I demand a recorded
vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 9 of rule XX, this 5-
minute vote on the motion to recom-
mit will be followed by 5-minute votes
on:
Passage of H.R. 4617, if ordered; and
The motion to suspend the rules and
pass H.R. 777.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 182, noes 225,
not voting 24, as follows:
[Roll No. 582]
AYES—182
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Van Drew
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOES—225
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:42 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.098 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8442 October 23, 2019
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOT VOTING—24
Amodei
Armstrong
Bilirakis
Collins (GA)
Estes
Gabbard
Grothman
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Kind
McEachin
Meuser
Mitchell
Newhouse
Peters
Reschenthaler
Smucker
Steil
Steube
Stivers
Takano
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The Speaker Pro Tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1816
So the motion to recommit was re-
jected.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the passage of the bill.
The question was taken; and the
Speaker pro tempore announced that
the ayes appeared to have it.
RECORDED VOTE
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
Madam Speaker, I demand a recorded
vote.
A recorded vote was ordered.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. This is a
5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—ayes 227, noes 181,
not voting 23, as follows:
[Roll No. 583]
AYES—227
Adams
Aguilar
Allred
Axne
Barragán
Bass
Beatty
Bera
Beyer
Bishop (GA)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brindisi
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Bustos
Butterfield
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cleaver
Clyburn
Cohen
Connolly
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Davids (KS)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
Deutch
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Finkenauer
Fletcher
Foster
Frankel
Fudge
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (TX)
Gottheimer
Green, Al (TX)
Grijalva
Haaland
Harder (CA)
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Higgins (NY)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Huffman
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (TX)
Kaptur
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Lamb
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Lowenthal
Lowey
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCollum
McGovern
McNerney
Meeks
Meng
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Murphy (FL)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Norcross
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Omar
Pallone
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Perlmutter
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Raskin
Rice (NY)
Richmond
Rose (NY)
Rouda
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Scott (VA)
Scott, David
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Speier
Stanton
Stevens
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Underwood
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watson Coleman
Welch
Wexton
Wild
Wilson (FL)
Yarmuth
NOES—181
Abraham
Aderholt
Allen
Amash
Arrington
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Bergman
Biggs
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Bost
Brady
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Byrne
Calvert
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Cline
Cloud
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Cook
Crawford
Crenshaw
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis, Rodney
DesJarlais
Diaz-Balart
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Ferguson
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Flores
Fortenberry
Foxx (NC)
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Gonzalez (OH)
Gooden
Gosar
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Griffith
Guest
Guthrie
Hagedorn
Harris
Hartzler
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Hill (AR)
Holding
Hollingsworth
Hudson
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Katko
Kelly (MS)
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamborn
Latta
Lesko
Long
Loudermilk
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McHenry
McKinley
Meadows
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Mullin
Murphy (NC)
Newhouse
Norman
Nunes
Olson
Palazzo
Palmer
Pence
Perry
Peterson
Posey
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (SC)
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose, John W.
Rouzer
Roy
Rutherford
Scalise
Schweikert
Scott, Austin
Sensenbrenner
Shimkus
Simpson
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Spano
Stauber
Stefanik
Stewart
Taylor
Thornberry
Tipton
Turner
Upton
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Watkins
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Wenstrup
Westerman
Williams
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NOT VOTING—23
Amodei
Armstrong
Bilirakis
Collins (GA)
Estes
Gabbard
Grothman
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Kind
McEachin
Meuser
Mitchell
Peters
Reschenthaler
Smucker
Steil
Steube
Stivers
Takano
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE SPEAKER PRO TEMPORE
The Speaker Pro Tempore (during
the vote). There are 2 minutes remain-
ing.
b 1824
So the bill was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
f
DEBBIE SMITH REAUTHORIZATION
ACT OF 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Pursu-
ant to clause 8 of rule XX, the unfin-
ished business is the vote on the mo-
tion to suspend the rules and pass the
bill (H.R. 777) to reauthorize programs
authorized under the Debbie Smith Act
of 2004, as amended, on which the yeas
and nays were ordered.
The Clerk read the title of the bill.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.034 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8443
October 23, 2019
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
question is on the motion offered by
the gentleman from New York (Mr.
NADLER) that the House suspend the
rules and pass the bill, as amended.
This is a 5-minute vote.
The vote was taken by electronic de-
vice, and there were—yeas 402, nays 1,
not voting 28, as follows:
[Roll No. 584]
YEAS—402
Abraham
Adams
Aderholt
Aguilar
Allen
Allred
Arrington
Axne
Babin
Bacon
Baird
Balderson
Banks
Barr
Barragán
Beatty
Bera
Bergman
Beyer
Biggs
Bishop (GA)
Bishop (NC)
Bishop (UT)
Blumenauer
Blunt Rochester
Bonamici
Bost
Boyle, Brendan
F.
Brady
Brindisi
Brooks (AL)
Brooks (IN)
Brown (MD)
Brownley (CA)
Buchanan
Buck
Bucshon
Budd
Burchett
Burgess
Bustos
Butterfield
Byrne
Calvert
Carbajal
Cárdenas
Carson (IN)
Carter (GA)
Carter (TX)
Cartwright
Case
Casten (IL)
Castor (FL)
Castro (TX)
Chabot
Cheney
Chu, Judy
Cicilline
Cisneros
Clark (MA)
Clarke (NY)
Clay
Cline
Cloud
Clyburn
Cohen
Cole
Comer
Conaway
Connolly
Cook
Cooper
Correa
Costa
Courtney
Cox (CA)
Craig
Crawford
Crenshaw
Crist
Crow
Cuellar
Cunningham
Curtis
Davidson (OH)
Davis (CA)
Davis, Danny K.
Davis, Rodney
Dean
DeFazio
DeGette
DeLauro
DelBene
Delgado
Demings
DeSaulnier
DesJarlais
Deutch
Diaz-Balart
Dingell
Doggett
Doyle, Michael
F.
Duncan
Dunn
Emmer
Engel
Escobar
Eshoo
Espaillat
Evans
Ferguson
Finkenauer
Fitzpatrick
Fleischmann
Fletcher
Flores
Fortenberry
Foster
Foxx (NC)
Frankel
Fudge
Fulcher
Gaetz
Gallagher
Gallego
Garamendi
Garcı́a (IL)
Garcia (TX)
Gianforte
Gibbs
Gohmert
Golden
Gomez
Gonzalez (OH)
Gonzalez (TX)
Gooden
Gosar
Gottheimer
Granger
Graves (GA)
Graves (LA)
Graves (MO)
Green (TN)
Green, Al (TX)
Griffith
Grijalva
Guest
Guthrie
Haaland
Hagedorn
Harder (CA)
Harris
Hartzler
Hastings
Hayes
Heck
Hern, Kevin
Herrera Beutler
Hice (GA)
Higgins (LA)
Higgins (NY)
Hill (AR)
Hill (CA)
Himes
Holding
Hollingsworth
Horn, Kendra S.
Horsford
Houlahan
Hoyer
Hudson
Huffman
Huizenga
Hunter
Hurd (TX)
Jackson Lee
Jayapal
Jeffries
Johnson (GA)
Johnson (LA)
Johnson (OH)
Johnson (SD)
Johnson (TX)
Jordan
Joyce (OH)
Kaptur
Katko
Keating
Kelly (IL)
Kelly (MS)
Kennedy
Khanna
Kildee
Kilmer
Kim
King (IA)
King (NY)
Kinzinger
Kirkpatrick
Krishnamoorthi
Kuster (NH)
Kustoff (TN)
LaHood
LaMalfa
Lamb
Lamborn
Langevin
Larsen (WA)
Larson (CT)
Latta
Lawrence
Lawson (FL)
Lee (CA)
Lee (NV)
Lesko
Levin (CA)
Levin (MI)
Lewis
Lieu, Ted
Lipinski
Loebsack
Lofgren
Long
Loudermilk
Lowenthal
Lowey
Lucas
Luetkemeyer
Luján
Luria
Lynch
Malinowski
Maloney,
Carolyn B.
Maloney, Sean
Marchant
Marshall
Massie
Mast
Matsui
McAdams
McBath
McCarthy
McCaul
McClintock
McCollum
McGovern
McHenry
McKinley
McNerney
Meadows
Meeks
Meng
Miller
Moolenaar
Mooney (WV)
Moore
Morelle
Moulton
Mucarsel-Powell
Mullin
Murphy (FL)
Murphy (NC)
Nadler
Napolitano
Neal
Neguse
Newhouse
Norcross
Nunes
O’Halleran
Ocasio-Cortez
Olson
Omar
Palazzo
Pallone
Palmer
Panetta
Pappas
Pascrell
Payne
Pence
Perlmutter
Perry
Peterson
Phillips
Pingree
Pocan
Porter
Posey
Pressley
Price (NC)
Quigley
Ratcliffe
Reed
Rice (NY)
Rice (SC)
Richmond
Riggleman
Roby
Rodgers (WA)
Roe, David P.
Rogers (AL)
Rogers (KY)
Rooney (FL)
Rose (NY)
Rose, John W.
Rouda
Rouzer
Roy
Roybal-Allard
Ruiz
Ruppersberger
Rush
Rutherford
Ryan
Sánchez
Sarbanes
Scalise
Scanlon
Schakowsky
Schiff
Schneider
Schrader
Schrier
Schweikert
Scott (VA)
Scott, Austin
Scott, David
Sensenbrenner
Serrano
Sewell (AL)
Shalala
Sherman
Sherrill
Shimkus
Simpson
Sires
Slotkin
Smith (MO)
Smith (NE)
Smith (NJ)
Smith (WA)
Soto
Spanberger
Spano
Speier
Stanton
Stauber
Stefanik
Stevens
Stewart
Suozzi
Swalwell (CA)
Taylor
Thompson (CA)
Thompson (MS)
Thornberry
Tipton
Titus
Tlaib
Tonko
Torres (CA)
Torres Small
(NM)
Trahan
Trone
Turner
Underwood
Upton
Van Drew
Vargas
Veasey
Vela
Velázquez
Visclosky
Wagner
Walberg
Walden
Walker
Walorski
Waltz
Wasserman
Schultz
Waters
Watkins
Watson Coleman
Weber (TX)
Webster (FL)
Welch
Wenstrup
Westerman
Wexton
Wild
Williams
Wilson (FL)
Wilson (SC)
Wittman
Womack
Woodall
Wright
Yarmuth
Yoho
Young
Zeldin
NAYS—1
Amash
NOT VOTING—28
Amodei
Armstrong
Bass
Bilirakis
Cleaver
Collins (GA)
Davids (KS)
Estes
Gabbard
Grothman
Joyce (PA)
Keller
Kelly (PA)
Kind
McEachin
Meuser
Mitchell
Norman
Peters
Raskin
Reschenthaler
Smucker
Steil
Steube
Stivers
Takano
Thompson (PA)
Timmons
b 1831
So (two-thirds being in the affirma-
tive) the rules were suspended and the
bill, as amended, was passed.
The result of the vote was announced
as above recorded.
A motion to reconsider was laid on
the table.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. PETERS. Madam Speaker, had I been
present, I would have voted: ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 568 (H. Res. 630 final passage); ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 569 (H.R. 4406 final passage);
‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 570 (H.R. 4407 final pas-
sage); ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 577 (H.R. 2513
final passage); ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 578 (H.R.
2426 final passage); ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 583
(H.R. 4617 final passage); and ‘‘yea’’ on roll-
call No. 584 (H.R. 777 final passage).
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Mr. TAKANO. Madam Speaker, please ac-
cept the following vote recommendations in
my absence as I represent the United States
at the formal ascension of the Emperor in
Japan. Had I been present, I would have
voted: ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 579, ‘‘yea’’ on roll-
call No. 580, ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 581,‘‘nay’’
on rollcall No. 582, ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 583,
and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 584.
f
MOMENT OF SILENCE HONORING
241 AMERICAN HEROES KILLED
IN 1983 BEIRUT BARRACKS BOMB-
ING
(Mr. PENCE asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. PENCE. Madam Speaker, friends,
colleagues, and distinguished guests in
the gallery, we are gathered here today
on the 36th anniversary of the 1983 Bei-
rut barracks bombing to honor 241
American heroes who made the ulti-
mate sacrifice.
The 241 names—220 of which are my
fellow Marines—will be forever etched
in our hearts and on the walls of the
Beirut Memorial in Jacksonville,
North Carolina.
Although you may not recognize
these names, they are the names of
sons, brothers, fathers, and friends.
They are the names of true American
patriots who came in peace and were
stolen from us by an act of pure evil.
They are the heroes who gave their
lives so we could keep ours.
Semper fidelis means ‘‘always faith-
ful.’’ It is the motto of the United
States Marine Corps. Today, we re-
member the 241 fallen heroes of Beirut.
Today, we remain faithful.
Madam Speaker, I ask that all Mem-
bers and distinguished guests in the
gallery rise for a moment of silence.
f
HOUR OF MEETING ON TOMOR-
ROW, AND ADJOURNMENT FROM
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2019, TO
MONDAY OCTOBER 28, 2019
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I ask
unanimous consent that when the
House adjourns today, it adjourn to
meet at 9 a.m. tomorrow; and further,
when the House adjourns on that day,
it adjourn to meet on Monday, October
28, 2019, when it should convene at noon
for morning-hour debate and 2 p.m. for
legislative business.
The SPEAKER pro tempore (Mr.
ROUDA). Is there objection to the re-
quest of the gentleman from Maryland?
There was no objection.
f
LEGISLATIVE PROGRAM
(Mr. SCALISE asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute and to revise and extend his re-
marks.)
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I rise for
the purpose of inquiring of the major-
ity leader the schedule for next week. I
would be happy to yield to my friend,
the gentleman from Maryland (Mr.
HOYER), the distinguished majority
leader of the House.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend from Louisiana for yielding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.103 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8444 October 23, 2019
On Monday, Mr. Speaker, the House
will meet at 12 p.m. for morning-hour
debate and 2 p.m. for legislative busi-
ness, with votes postponed until 6:30
p.m.
On Tuesday and Wednesday, the
House will meet at 10 a.m. for morning-
hour debate, and 12 p.m. for legislative
business.
On Thursday, the House will meet at
9 a.m. for legislative business; the last
votes of the week are expected no later
than 3 p.m.
We will consider several bills under
suspension of the rules. The complete
list of suspensions will be announced
by close of business on Friday.
The House will consider H.R. 823, the
Colorado Outdoor Recreation and
Economy Act; H.R. 2181, the Chaco Cul-
tural Heritage Area Protection Act;
and H.R. 1373, the Grand Canyon Cen-
tennial Protection Act. These three
bills all recognize the need to protect
some of America’s most iconic and im-
portant public lands.
The House, Mr. Speaker, will also
consider H.R. 4695, the Protect Against
Conflict by Turkey Act. This bipar-
tisan legislation, cosponsored by the
chair and ranking member of the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, provides a
strong, targeted response to the crisis
caused by Turkey’s invasion of North-
ern Syria.
It sanctions senior Turkish officials
involved in the decision and those com-
mitting human rights abuses, and pe-
nalizes Turkish financial institutions
involved in perpetuating President
Erdogan’s practices.
Lastly, the House will consider H.Res
296 affirming the United States’ record
on the Armenian Genocide.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for his response.
I would like the gentleman to walk
through, if he could, the scheduling
process for how the House will further
proceed with the impeachment inquiry.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield?
Mr. SCALISE. I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I cannot
respond to that at this point in time.
We haven’t made that decision to move
ahead. The committees, as the gen-
tleman knows, are considering it, and
if they decide that the House should
move forward, then we will make that
decision.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I, again,
ask the question I had asked last week:
Are we currently in an impeachment
inquiry, as the Speaker said we are a
few weeks ago?
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I will re-
spond as I responded last week. We are
doing our constitutional duty of over-
sight of the administration and the ac-
tions of the President of the United
States to determine whether or not
there had been violations of law,
whether the President has committed
high crimes and misdemeanors. And
when those hearings are concluded, ob-
viously, they will make some deter-
mination and make recommendations
to the House, as they do with other
matters that the committees consider.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman. As this determination
moves forward, there is a growing cry
for fairness. And I know we talked a
little bit about that last week, but we
saw it again this week with more
closed hearings, more hearings where
both sides were not allowed the same
equal rights that have always been pro-
vided in impeachment inquiries.
And, of course, when you look
through our Nation’s history, fortu-
nately, there are not that many in-
stances where Congress had to try to
impeach or inquire about impeaching a
President—three times.
In fact, in all three cases, it started
with a vote of the full House, and it
started with a fair set of rules. And in
the last two that were the most public,
where you saw the proceedings on tele-
vision, you saw both sides vote for
Nixon, where you had a divided govern-
ment. You had a Democrat House and a
Republican President.
And then, for the Clinton impeach-
ment, you had a Republican House and
a Democrat President. They used the
same set of rules. Both sides got to call
witnesses, both sides got to subpoena.
The President’s legal counsel actually
got to be in the room and, maybe most
importantly, the public got to be in the
room.
Members of Congress, even if they
weren’t on the relevant committees,
were allowed to watch these hearings.
That is not going on today. These hear-
ings are going on in secret in a secret
room.
A number of my colleagues and I
went down to see what was going on, to
see the hearings and the proceedings. It
turned out, what we found out in the
SCIF, which is designed for classified
briefings, it wasn’t a classified brief-
ing. The chairman, himself, acknowl-
edged that it was not a classified brief-
ing. In fact, it included a Department
of Defense official. And members of the
Committee on Armed Services asked if
they would be able to participate in
that hearing, and they were denied the
ability.
And so when the press can’t see
what’s going on, when the public can’t
see what’s going on, when Members of
Congress try to see what is going on,
and the chairman takes the witness
and runs out of the room, it begs the
question, ‘‘What are they trying to
hide.’’
What kind of tainted document are
they creating, if it is an impeachment
inquiry?
And if it is not, then stop trying to
use two different sets of rules. But if it
is—and the Speaker, herself, is the one
who said it is an impeachment in-
quiry—at a minimum, use the same
standards that have always been used
for that serious of a process. The House
of Representatives has a constitutional
ability to ultimately make this kind of
decision.
And, again, it has only been done
three times, but in each of those cases,
there were fair sets of rules used, so
that you could actually find out what
was happening. And if there was some-
thing that reached the level of high
crimes and misdemeanors, it was not
based on what one person decided, but
based on everybody being able to
present the evidence, everybody being
able to bring witnesses forward. That is
not happening right now, and it ought
to change.
And I would hope, and ask the gen-
tleman, if this is going to continue
moving forward, if there is going to be
any credibility to whatever report
would come out of it.
There is much less credibility if it is
done in secret with one person and one
person only getting to choose who
comes forth to testify, as opposed to an
open process, as has always been the
case in our country’s history.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Mr. Speaker, no matter how many
times the gentleman from Louisiana,
the Republican whip, says that these
are unfair hearings, or that they are
secret hearings, or that Republicans
can’t participate, no matter how many
times he says that, it will not be true.
b 1845
He talks about secret hearings. I will
show you the front page of The Wash-
ington Post about the hearing yester-
day. It is on the front page.
Now, I know your Members can read.
There are over 105 Members, 40 or so of
your Members, who are authorized to
sit in the committee.
The President, Mr. Speaker, called
the Republicans, and he has tweeted
about how they need to be tougher.
What I want to ask, Mr. Speaker, is:
When are they going to focus on de-
fending the Constitution of the United
States?
I ask the gentleman: Does he believe
that the President is above the law?
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I would
imagine the gentleman would also
agree that the chairman of the Intel-
ligence Committee should also not be
above the law. He should not be able to
write his own rules of impeachment,
his own rules of engagement, in secret.
These meetings are being held in se-
cret. In fact, when some of us went into
the room today, he ran out with the
witness.
What are you trying to hide when, as
any kind of secret hearing, people run
out of the room as soon as the lights
come on? What is really going on?
If you want to talk about numbers—
Mr. HOYER. Read the paper.
Mr. SCALISE. The sad part is, the
only way you can find out what hap-
pens in those secret hearings is reading
the paper because somebody on the ma-
jority staff is, against the direction of
the chairman, selectively leaking in-
formation to the press.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.105 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8445
October 23, 2019
The press knows more about this im-
peachment inquiry than voting Mem-
bers of Congress. Mr. Speaker, 75 per-
cent of this Congress is denied access
to those hearings, 75 percent.
Maybe you can read what was leaked
by somebody on your majority staff,
Mr. Speaker. Maybe that is where you
can get your information because that
is the only place to get information.
That shouldn’t be where Members of
Congress have to go to find out what
happened.
By the way, you talk to some of the
people who were in the room, and they
were directed by the chairman not to
say anything. He can say something or
somebody on his staff can say some-
thing, and he hasn’t done anything to
control the leaks. But then they say,
actually, there was a lot of other testi-
mony that contradicted what was
leaked to the paper. But nobody really
knows because they are denied access.
Do you know, if you take the voting
Members of Congress who are not al-
lowed in that room, it represents over
230 million American citizens who are
denied representation in those im-
peachment hearings, over 230 million
Americans who are denied access be-
cause 75 percent of voting Members of
Congress are not allowed in the room?
You can talk about who is allowed in
the room. Everybody should be allowed
in the room. The press should be al-
lowed in the room. Cameras should be
in the room, like in previous impeach-
ments.
If you want to try to remove a Presi-
dent—maybe you don’t agree with the
2016 election result, and you are con-
cerned about what might happen next
year. That is not why you impeach a
President, by the way.
But if you really do want to search
for the truth, you search for the truth
in public. The people of this country
ought to be able to see what is hap-
pening. It shouldn’t be a selected story
in the newspaper that was leaked by
the majority staff. It should be some-
thing every Member of Congress who is
going to be asked to vote on this actu-
ally can find something out about.
We can’t go and read the transcripts.
Seventy-five percent of us can’t. Yet,
that is the process that is going on
right now.
If you want to call that fair, maybe
it is fair to you, but is it really the jus-
tice that we look for across the street
at the Supreme Court?
Imagine if only one side—the accused
couldn’t present witnesses. You could
accuse anybody of anything. And you
have that ability, as you are doing
right now, and then you tie the hands
behind the back of those you are accus-
ing because they can’t even be in the
room.
The other side can’t even bring wit-
nesses forward. There are witnesses
that our Members would like to bring
forward who were in that room, yet
they are not even allowed that oppor-
tunity. That is not fair. Maybe in the
Soviet Union that is fair, but not in
the United States of America.
It is not how you should be running
an impeachment operation to try to
take out a President of the United
States when we have an election next
year. Let the people of this country
make that decision, not one person sit-
ting in a secret room downstairs, keep-
ing other people out. When Members of
Congress who are trying to find out
what is going on walk in the room, he
runs out of the room with the witness.
Is that really the fair process that
this country deserves? It falls well
short. We can absolutely do better than
this.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, as usual,
the whip did not answer my question. I
said, is the President above the law?
But he wants to pound on the table,
Mr. Speaker, because neither the facts
nor the law is on his side.
The process is consistent with the
rules put in place by the current Sec-
retary of State, Mr. Pompeo, and Mr.
Trey Gowdy, who was a Member of this
body.
Let me ask the gentleman, Mr.
Speaker: Does he believe it appropriate
that the Congress appropriates $391
million to help an ally confront Rus-
sia—which I understand Mr. Putin
probably wasn’t for—but does he be-
lieve that the President should have
withheld that money from Ukraine to
defend itself on its eastern front?
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, the law
requires the President to verify that
there is not corruption involved with
the taxpayer money that is in ques-
tion. That is a law we passed. I believe
the gentleman from Maryland voted, as
I did vote, for that law. It is a good law
to say that if we are going to send tax-
payer money to a foreign country, we
ought to make sure that there is no
corruption.
There were claims of corruption in
Ukraine. In fact, a lot of the inter-
ference in our election by the Russians
went through Ukraine in 2016.
Now, President Trump wasn’t the
President back then when this country
was allowing Russia to interfere with
the election.
Mr. HOYER. He has no evidence of
that. If the gentleman will yield, he
has no evidence of that.
Mr. SCALISE. But he is looking into
it, as he should be.
Mr. HOYER. He makes a bald-faced
assertion that he has no way to back
up.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman.
Mr. HOYER. It is not true, in my
opinion, but he has no way to back up
that statement, and I think the gen-
tleman must know that.
Mr. SCALISE. Again, we can talk
about why we needed to root out cor-
ruption, why we want to find out what
happened in the 2016 election where the
Russians tried to interfere, because we
don’t want it to happen again.
We also know, as it was discussed on
that phone call, that President Trump
sold Javelin missiles to Ukraine so
they could protect themselves against
the Russians, the aggression that the
gentleman was talking about on the
eastern front, where the previous
President allowed the Russians to
come into Crimea when Ukraine was
asking us to help them.
Ukraine, back when President Obama
was in office, was asking us to sell
them those same Javelin missiles, and
President Obama wouldn’t do it. He has
never answered why he wouldn’t, but it
is a fact that he didn’t sell the Jave-
lins. But President Trump did and al-
lowed Ukraine to defend themselves
against the Russians.
In fact, they talked about maybe
buying more, but they were already al-
lowed to buy what they needed to de-
fend themselves, and I am glad they
were. It helped a friend.
But you talk about all of those
things that are going on right now with
impeachment. The real issue is what is
not happening here in this Congress.
I will refer you to a different news-
paper, as you want to talk about news-
papers, the front page of The Wash-
ington Times: Democrats writing more
subpoenas than laws. Impeachment in-
quiries sideline Pelosi’s agenda.
In fact, if you look at the difference
between subpoenas and bills that came
out of this House that are actually
signed into law, you have produced 56
subpoenas. You have produced only 46
laws. That is 20 percent more sub-
poenas that you have produced than
laws to help people across this country.
Mr. HOYER. Would the gentleman
like to know the reason for that?
Mr. SCALISE. I would be happy to
yield when we talk about all the things
that this House could be doing that it
is not, like lowering drug prices, like
getting better trade deals with our
friends in Mexico and in Canada and in
all the other countries that are lined
up that would love to come behind
USMCA that can’t right now.
They can’t because there is this in-
fatuation with impeachment, in a one-
sided way, in a closed way, in a Soviet-
style Star Chamber.
But that is not happening right now.
This is what is not happening; this is
what is happening. It is not what the
American people expected out of this
majority.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. I thank the gentleman
for yielding. It is a wonderful poster.
Mr. SCALISE. It is factual.
Mr. HOYER. We passed over 250 bills.
The Senate won’t take them up, par-
ticularly one bill that says what 90 per-
cent of the American people want done:
Pass a comprehensive background
check to make their communities
safer.
They won’t bring it up. No wonder it
can’t be signed, because they won’t
bring up any of our bills.
The Republican leadership in the
Senate stops our bills from going to
the Senate. They are not even being
considered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.107 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8446 October 23, 2019
Then they have a poster that says
you haven’t passed any bills? Oh, no,
we passed them, and the American peo-
ple support them.
Yes, we had an election in 2018, and
the people spoke, which is why I am
the majority leader and you are the
minority whip.
So, yes, we honor those elections.
And when you were in the majority,
you passed bills you wanted to pass.
So, I tell my friend, it is an inter-
esting poster, but it is a reflection of
the refusal of the Republicans in the
United States Senate to consider legis-
lation supported by the overwhelming
majority of the American people. How
sad.
But, let me ask you again: Are you
saying it was right to keep the $391
million, to refuse to have a meeting
with Mr. Zelensky at the White House
until he agreed to conduct a political
investigation that would advantage the
President of the United States? Do you
believe that was right?
Mr. SCALISE. Well, first of all, the
gentleman is making an assertion that
has been disputed—in fact, disputed by
the President of Ukraine, this alleged
quid pro quo that didn’t happen.
Zelensky himself said it didn’t happen.
In fact, he got the money. He got the
money.
Now, we had to check to make sure,
like the law says, in two different
places. We have two different sets of
law that require the administration en-
sure that there is not corruption before
they send the money.
I can assure the gentleman from
Maryland that, if he would have sent
the money over and there was corrup-
tion involved, you would be going after
him for breaking the law, for not fol-
lowing the law.
You voted for the law. I voted for the
law. Again, it is a good law. But then
he ultimately released the money.
You talk about the Javelin missiles.
He sold that to them before the phone
call even happened because it was a
friend saying protect us against Rus-
sia.
President Obama wouldn’t stand up
to Russia when Ukraine made that
same phone call, yet President Trump
did. President Trump said: I will sell
you those missiles so you can protect
yourself and can defend yourself
against the Russians.
And Zelensky, on that phone call,
was thanking the President, again, for
selling those missiles to them. It has
allowed them to push back the Russian
aggression and to root out—ultimately,
they talked about rooting out and get-
ting to the bottom of the corruption
and the interference that happened
with Russia in our 2016 election, which
I hoped we would be more vigilant to
root out together.
It shouldn’t just be President Trump
wanting to stop it from happening
again. All of us should want to make
sure that that doesn’t happen again.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
Of course, the Acting Chief of Staff,
who is, I think, also the acting head of
OMB—not technically but actually, in
my view—he said there was a quid pro
quo. Now, he tried to clean it up. I get
that. I get that.
But he said, yes, there was a quid pro
quo.
And you read the transcript—which
is not a transcript but a report of the
substance of the conversation—in
which he brings up a number of things,
including Joe Biden and Hunter Biden.
And, yes, we now have testimony
that says there was a quid pro quo.
There was going to be no meeting at
the White House. There was going to be
no sending of the $391 million that we
thought was essential for our Ukrain-
ian friends defending democracy in
Ukraine from Putin.
Now, we have had a more recent ac-
tion where a telephone conversation
with Erdogan led to another headline
on that same page: Russia and Turkey
reach deal on Syria. America in re-
treat. America no longer a factor in
trying to bring peace.
b 1900
Mr. Speaker, I asked a question. Is
the President above the law?
I asked another question: Is it right
to keep the $391 million that we appro-
priated because we thought Ukraine
was at great risk? And again, the ques-
tion wasn’t answered. It was answered
with a question and with an assertion
that the President had the authority to
make sure that there wasn’t corruption
in Ukraine.
Mr. Speaker, we are concerned
whether there is corruption in the
United States of America. That con-
cerns us, and that is why these hear-
ings are proceeding, consistent with
our constitutional duty.
And all the Republicans can do is—
not defend the actions, because they
are indefensible. All they can do is talk
about process.
One thousand subpoenas issued by
Dan Burton when he was the Repub-
lican chairman of the Oversight and
Government Reform Committee. One
hundred subpoenas, unilaterally, under
the Gowdy rule, under the Pompeo
rule, under the Republican rules, uni-
laterally.
Trey Gowdy, himself, as chairman of
the Benghazi Select Committee, three
dozen subpoenas, without any input,
under the Gowdy-Pompeo rules.
So I ask the gentleman, do you think
it is consistent with our Constitution
that the President of the United States
suggest to a foreign leader that they
become involved in our elections?
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, first of
all, it is not a question. It is a false as-
sertion that the gentleman is making.
And so you can make claims about peo-
ple, but ultimately, if it is not backed
up in fact, you just continue on.
This has been the pattern of this ma-
jority, really, since before you took the
majority. It has been an assertion to
impeach the President, finding some-
thing; if there is nothing there, just
keep looking.
You had the Mueller investigation;
2,800 subpoenas, 22 months meandering
around, looking for something, hoping;
and we saw the chairman of the Intel-
ligence Committee said publicly, time
and time again, for 2 years, that he,
himself, had more than circumstantial
evidence of criminal acts. It turned out
there were none.
The chairman never showed the evi-
dence that he had. Maybe he went and
had a meeting with Mueller and
Mueller discarded it. But if he really
did have more than circumstantial evi-
dence, he would have brought it for-
ward. He would have shown all of us,
but he didn’t. He made the assertion,
but it was a false assertion.
And if it wasn’t false, by the way, I
would challenge the gentleman to
bring it forward. He ought to have that
duty to bring it forward.
Mr. HOYER. We are in that process.
Mr. SCALISE. No, no. We are talking
about the Mueller investigation, but it
didn’t happen. So the collusion argu-
ment that was supposedly going to
yield some kind of ability to go and
impeach the President didn’t turn out
to be true.
So, instead of stopping and moving
on to the business of the American peo-
ple, instead of more subpoenas—not
laws. No lower drug prices because it is
an impeachment infatuation. Instead
of moving on, they went to this be-
cause there was this whistleblower.
And let’s go back to the memo of the
whistleblower, before the whistle-
blower complaint. The whistleblower
actually wrote a memo. Admittedly,
they never even listened to the phone
conversation, but they talked to other
people.
And if it was so dangerous what those
other people heard, they had a legal
ability and authority to go and file
their own whistleblower complaint, but
they didn’t. So someone with a polit-
ical bias, by the inspector general’s
own admission, a person with a polit-
ical bias who had access to information
that was classified, in violation of law,
hears what they want to hear, writes a
memo saying it was crazy; it was dis-
turbing. Those were the words that the
whistleblower wrote about the phone
conversation.
Lo and behold, the phone conversa-
tion gets released by the President. It
was unprecedented. He didn’t have to
do it. I might have preferred if he
didn’t do it because you don’t want a
pattern where every conversation be-
tween world leaders is going to be out
in the public.
But, okay, it is now. And all of those
assertions that were made were false.
It wasn’t a crazy conversation. It
wasn’t a disturbing conversation. It
was two people talking about—one con-
gratulating the other on his election.
One talking about how he got elected
on a platform of rooting out corrup-
tion, which he is doing, and we are
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.108 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8447
October 23, 2019
helping them with. That was the con-
versation.
So now the whistleblower isn’t even
going to be brought forward, according
to the chairman, because the chairman
is the only person who gets to bring
witnesses forward.
Then the gentleman talked about
Trey Gowdy’s committee, the Benghazi
Select Committee. He tries to use that
as the reference point for holding an
impeachment inquiry.
Let’s all be clear: Trey Gowdy’s com-
mittee on Benghazi was a special select
committee to find out what happened.
Mr. HOYER. Will the gentleman
yield on that point?
Mr. SCALISE. I will ultimately
yield, but you mentioned all of these
things, and so I want to clear up the
things that the gentleman mentioned.
So the Trey Gowdy committee, where
four Americans died and we were try-
ing to get to the bottom of that—not to
impeach anybody, but to find out how
four Americans died when people
should have known that there was dan-
ger over there and the proper pre-
cautions weren’t taken. So he had a
committee.
Do you know, I would ask the gen-
tleman from Maryland, that Chairman
Gowdy allowed the minority to call
witnesses? He didn’t sit there and say:
Hey, I won and you lost, and so I can
just roll over you and then back up the
car again. That is not what Trey
Gowdy did. He was the chairman, but
he let the ranking member, the minor-
ity leader of the committee, call their
witnesses.
That is not happening right now. Not
one witness has been allowed by our
side. Closed hearings to the public.
If this is something that you are so
concerned about, if you are concerned
about corruption, why root it out in se-
cret, behind closed doors, with a one-
sided set of rules that represents and
reflects more how the Soviet Union
would conduct something like this as
opposed to how the United States of
America has always conducted im-
peachment inquiries? We are talking
about impeachment inquiries in secret,
behind closed doors.
So, yes, the gentleman raised a lot of
issues, and I wanted to go back to each
of those.
So what we have asked for is the
same fairness that has always been al-
lowed, both sides—not just the winning
side, both sides. This is America.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding.
What he didn’t mention was the
Benghazi Gowdy commission was the
eighth Republican-led investigation of
that matter. They all reached the same
conclusion and found no evidence of
wrongdoing; eight Republican-led, and
they kept after it, over and over and
over again.
Why? As the minority leader said, on
television, well, no, we got something
out of it. We got some dirt on Hillary
Clinton.
I don’t think it was dirt. It was the
use of a computer which, by the way,
some of the Trump family is doing the
same thing—somewhat irrelevant.
What is relevant is not all this stuff
about fairness and this, that, and the
other. We are following the Constitu-
tion. We are following the rules of this
House. We are following the law, and
every legal scholar that I have read as-
serts that. The only people who don’t
assert that are the people who are
afraid of the facts, afraid of what has
been done.
I asked the gentleman questions: Do
you think this is right? Do you think
the President is above the law? He
mentions the Mueller report.
What he fails to mention and he just
ignores is the Mueller report said there
was evidence to suggest that there was
the failure to follow the law and co-
operate with the law, in other words,
obstruction of justice. But he said Jus-
tice Department rules, of which he was
an employee, do not provide for the
ability to indict a President of the
United States. That did not mean that
there wasn’t obstruction of justice.
But what he said was this is the body
to deal with this matter. So we are fol-
lowing our constitutional duty, and we
are going to continue to do so, and
there are going to be public hearings.
There is going to be debate. There is
going to be a vote on the rule if some-
thing is brought to the floor and full
opportunity to debate on both sides of
the aisle.
Right now, of course, there are mem-
bers of the committee—you would
think this was somehow Mr. SCHIFF
and the Democrats meeting in some se-
cret room. They are meeting with the
Republican members of the committee.
And, by the way, I asked the gen-
tleman the question about Mr. NUNES.
But Mr. NUNES, apparently, comes
sometimes and he doesn’t come some-
times. And Mr. MEADOWS is apparently
always there, so he can always tell you
what is going on. This is an endless de-
bate.
If the Republicans think we are vio-
lating the law, of course they can go to
court, as we have been forced to do by
this President who has instructed peo-
ple not to cooperate with Congress, not
to testify before the Congress because
he feels aggrieved.
He will have his day in court. That is
how we run these kinds of events in
America: under our Constitution,
under our laws. And, yes, he will have
due process.
But right now we are trying to find
out whether there is probable cause to
believe the President of the United
States committed high crimes and mis-
demeanors and abused the power of his
office, as Hamilton said the purpose of
the impeachment provision was de-
signed to address. Hamilton said that
in two of the Federalist Papers.
But we are going to endlessly talk
about fairness, with Republicans sit-
ting in the committee. He asserts, with
no knowledge, that somehow the
Democratic members of the committee
released this information.
I am not sure how the paper got this
information. I know they get almost
all the information on all these net-
works. But this was the testimony that
was prepared by the witness who was
there—who was there.
He talks about the whistleblower and
hearsay, but what he doesn’t talk
about: Does he believe the President is
above the law? Does he believe it is ap-
propriate?
And the transcript—I could read it
again. I keep saying ‘‘transcript.’’ It is
not a transcript. A report of the phone
call that the President thought was
okay, that is why he released it. He
thought it was perfect.
In addition, he said: The other thing,
there is a lot of talk about Biden’s son,
that Biden stopped the prosecutor, and
a lot of people want to find out about
that. So whatever you can do with the
Attorney General—he wants his law-
yer. It should be the Justice Depart-
ment’s lawyer, but Mr. BARR to partici-
pate. And, of course, he wanted Mr.
Giuliani to participate as well.
So, Mr. Speaker, I would conclude,
we are going down this rat hole too
long. We are going to have hearings.
We are going to find out the truth, and
we are finding out the truth every day,
and every day our Republican col-
leagues get more nervous.
Every day there is some Republican
who says: I don’t know how long I can
defend President Trump. Every day
that is happening now, because the
facts are coming out.
When you don’t have the facts, as I
have said, Mr. Speaker, you attack the
process. Republicans know the facts
aren’t on their side. They can’t answer
the fundamental question: Is it accept-
able for a President to seek foreign in-
terference in elections?
They will say: Oh, there is no proof of
that. And the problem they have is al-
most every day there is proof of that,
not hearsay.
Yes, the whistleblower did the right
thing. The whistleblower heard some-
thing that he felt was dangerous to our
national security, to our men and
women in uniform, and to the democ-
racy that we hold so dear, and so he
said something. You have seen the
signs: You see something, say some-
thing. He heard this.
One could say, well, he didn’t hear it,
but then the President admitted it.
Then the Chief of Staff, Acting Chief of
Staff, Mr. Mulvaney, said, yes, that is
what we did. And he instructed, don’t
get that money to the Ukrainians.
Those are facts. We know those are
facts.
So I tell my friend, we really ought
to conclude this. We believe we are fol-
lowing the law. If you don’t feel we are
following the law, go to court, just as
we had to go to court with the Presi-
dent refusing to cooperate with the
Congress of the United States in its
constitutional duty.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.110 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8448 October 23, 2019
b 1915
And we are going to be fair, and I am
sure the Senate will be fair if we take
action here. And I don’t know that we
are going to take action. That hasn’t
been decided. But we are going to con-
tinue to try to find the truth, to try to
get to the bottom of what has hap-
pened.
I, frankly, think what we did in Tur-
key in that Erdogan phone call is as
damaging to the interests of the United
States of America. And the President
talks about the public. The public
ought to know.
I want any Member of the Congress I
will yield to to tell me what the deal
was between Putin and Trump when
they met in private and refused to tell
anybody.
Mr. Trump is great at disclosure. He
says, I have nothing to hide in my tax
returns. I will show my tax returns.
That was 3 years ago. We have, by law,
requested those returns. It has been de-
nied. It has been denied.
No openness. No, Mr. and Mrs. Amer-
ica, this is what my interests are. I am
acting in your interests, not in mine.
Doral. He decided that was too much,
and Republicans criticized him.
And, Mr. Speaker, on Turkey we had
a vote in this House. He was really
angry about that vote. 354 people of
this House said this is wrong, Mr.
President, this is harmful to our allies.
You are exposing allies that we asked
to participate to confront terrorists.
You are letting them out perhaps to be
murdered and slaughtered. 354-to-60.
We voted on that.
We need to deal with the facts. And
we are going to find out the facts no
matter how hard the Republicans want
to pound on the table and talk about
process and ignore any discussion on
the substance of what is being dis-
closed.
So, Mr. Speaker, we can conclude
this colloquy because it is not going to
come to any end. I understand the gen-
tleman’s perception. I think he is mis-
representing each time he says that
this is not a fair procedure or that this
is not a procedure consistent with the
rules that the Republicans adopted in
their rules package when they were in
the majority.
So I hope that we can move on, de-
cide what the facts are, have a com-
mittee recommendation as is the proc-
ess of this House and then have a vote
on the floor of the House, if such is re-
quired, and the committees decide that
moving forward is appropriate under
the facts adduced by those committees.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, if we
really are about getting to the facts, to
think that you can suggest it is a fair
process when only one side gets to
choose who the witnesses are—again,
the gentleman references Trey Gowdy’s
committee. Chairman Gowdy allowed
both sides, Republican and Democrat,
to bring forward witnesses because he
wanted to get the facts. If you really
wanted to get the facts, would the
chairman of the committee, literally,
take the witness and run out of the
room as soon as other voting Members
of Congress showed up? That happened
today.
If the chairman really wanted to get
the facts out, would he literally close
the meetings? Tell all Members, Re-
publican and Democrat, not to go talk
to the press. And then somebody mys-
teriously, selectively leaks things to
the press that are negative, in many
cases disputed by other testimony that
was given in secret, so it can’t get out.
And so you get one side of the story.
I guess if you are okay with having
only one side of a story told, that
might be your prerogative because you
are in the majority, but don’t call that
fair. It is clearly not fair if only one
side gets to tell their story and the
other side doesn’t get to bring their
witnesses.
The President who you are accusing
of possibly committing some crime so
high, high crime and misdemeanors is
the standard, if you are accusing him
of that, you can’t lay it out yet, you
are hoping and looking around for
something, which isn’t the process, by
the way, that has been used in the past.
If you don’t like the results of the
election, there is an election next year.
And if you don’t trust the people of
this country to make that decision, do
you really go into a Star Chamber and
run a Soviet-style set of hearings
where only one side gets to tell their
side of the story?
Mr. HOYER. Mr. SCALISE, watch your
words. Watch your words, Mr. SCALISE.
You and I both know it has no analogy
to what you have just said. You ought
to know that. If you don’t know it, you
ought to sit down with your counsel
and find out about it. That is an allega-
tion that is absolutely untrue and very
offensive.
Mr. SCALISE. What is the allegation
that is untrue?
Mr. HOYER. It is very offensive.
Mr. SCALISE. Who can call the wit-
nesses? Just your side. You think it is
fair that only you can call the wit-
nesses, and then you want to get the
truth? Are you going to get the facts
when you shut out the other side?
When you don’t let the President have
his own legal counsel there, like has al-
ways been done.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. SCALISE, I know you
are not a lawyer. Do you have any idea
what a grand jury is?
Mr. SCALISE. This is not a grand
jury. This is the United States House
of Representatives.
Mr. HOYER. Of course it is.
Mr. SCALISE. If you want to run a
grand jury, go get a jury.
This is the United States Congress.
Voting Members of Congress are being
shut out of the room, Mr. Speaker.
Voting Members of Congress are being
shut out of this process. You want to
call that fair? Good luck. But it is not
fair.
It is a one-sided process to create a
document with a determined outcome.
It is going to be a tainted document,
because it only tells one side of the
story. The old saying is, a grand jury
can indict a ham sandwich, if they
want to. There is a reason for that be-
cause only one side can call witnesses.
When we have had impeachment in-
quiries in the past you don’t have to
reinvent the wheel. It has only hap-
pened three times. And in modern
times they have used the exact same
standard.
The standard is: Both sides get to
call witnesses. That is not going on
right now.
It was done in public. That is not
being done right now.
It is going on in secret. The press
can’t go in. You can’t go in. I can’t go
in, unless they run out with the wit-
ness.
That is not a fair process. Maybe
that is the process that you want to
conduct, but don’t call it fair, because
it is not.
And, ultimately, it is not going to re-
sult in a fair document that is going to
be determining whether or not a Presi-
dent of the United States is impeached.
And Members of both sides, 75 per-
cent of the Members of this body, Re-
publican and Democrat, are going to be
asked to cast a vote on something that
they can’t even go and determine and
find out about. They can’t sit in the
hearings. They can’t read the testi-
mony. 230 million Americans are rep-
resented by those Members of Congress
who cannot get access to what is going
on in that room. Maybe you can get it
from reading leaked press reports.
Is that really how you determine
whether or not to impeach a President
of the United States? That is not fair.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Maryland.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I thank
the gentleman for yielding. I hesitate
to respond because this is a circular
discussion.
Mr. SCALISE and the Republican
party, at the behest of Mr. Trump, need
to get tougher. They can’t mention the
facts. The facts are known by the tran-
script the President sent down here.
Again, not a transcript, a report of a
telephone call, the statement of the
ambassador, I think, a former U.S. ma-
rine.
They don’t want to talk about the
facts. I get that. So we can go around
and around in circles.
And I will tell you, to have eight
hearings on Benghazi? Don’t give me
this Trey Gowdy allowed this to hap-
pen and that to happen. It was the
eighth hearing you Republicans had on
that one subject, eight, and you never
got the result you wanted, so you just
kept doing it over and over and over.
Getting the same result. We all know
that quote.
There are going to be public hear-
ings, Mr. Speaker, but they are going
to be public hearings when the wit-
nesses can’t check one another, can’t
give one story and then parrot the
other story that was said.
And Ambassador Sondland, of course.
I don’t know that he was our friend. He
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.113 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8449
October 23, 2019
was the President’s friend, big contrib-
utor, special envoy to the European
Union, but apparently doing part-time
work in Ukraine along with Mr.
Giuliani.
The facts are going to come out, Mr.
Speaker. And they are going to try to
say, oh, the process. You are going to
have public hearings, Mr. SCHIFF has
said so. He said so in his letter.
And you are going to have to answer
the question: Do I believe that the con-
duct that has been pursued by the
President of the United States, if he
were a Democrat, would I believe that
was right? That is the question you’re
going to have to answer. It is going to
be a tough question for your side be-
cause the facts almost every day are
mounting up.
So I want to urge my friend, let’s
conclude this discussion, because I am
not going to agree with you, and you
are not going to agree with me.
But ultimately the American peo-
ple—and those 236 million people you
talk about, there is not going to be any
indictment, there is not going to be
any impeachment, unless 218 of us in
this body vote. And we are all going to
vote. It is not going to be any Star
Chamber. Everybody is going to have
to vote.
And then they are going to have to
answer to their constituents, did I vote
my conscience, or did I vote my poli-
tics?
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, I don’t
know if the gentleman is asserting that
we will have a vote on impeachment,
that might be breaking news, but if
these Members, all of us, are going to
vote on impeachment, shouldn’t we be
able to see what goes on? Shouldn’t we
be able to have access to the hearings?
Shouldn’t we be able to have access to
the transcripts? Can we now?
I would ask the gentleman, would he
release the transcripts now of these
hearings so that Members can start
preparing? So Members can know what
they are going to vote on?
Are you going to keep it in secret
and then drop something on the floor
after it has been baked and predeter-
mined what the outcome should be be-
fore Members really have an idea of
what is going on in those rooms that
are being denied entrance to those
rooms right now? It has never hap-
pened before in other impeachment in-
quiries.
And you can say it is about process.
It is about history.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, I don’t say
that.
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, Mr.
HOYER mocked that the process is
tainted, that the process is being run
like it might be run in the Soviet
Union, not in the United States of
America. It has never been done like
that before.
And you talk about Trey Gowdy, as if
we were looking around for something
to impeach a President on. We weren’t.
You had four Americans die. There
are a lot of questions that still haven’t
been answered about why those Ameri-
cans died.
And all of us should be concerned
about what happened at Benghazi. To
ridicule the fact that there were eight
hearings on something so alarming?
Nobody was fishing around, looking—
By the way, we never tried to im-
peach the President over anything. All
of the things that we disagreed with
him on, none of those. Even times
when he would sign executive orders
that circumvented the law, and we
would challenge him in the court, and
we won a number of those court cases,
but that doesn’t mean it rose to the
level of high crimes and misdemeanors.
And so we never went down that road.
But maybe some, in some part of a
base, want to see impeachment, no
matter what. And some have said that.
Some in your own party have said they
just want to impeach the President be-
cause if they don’t, he will get re-
elected. That has been said by members
of your party.
That is not why you impeach a Presi-
dent, because you think he is going to
get reelected. The American people
make that determination next year.
We have had investigation after in-
vestigation. Again, Mueller alone had
2,800 subpoenas. He had the full author-
ity to bring charges against the Presi-
dent on collusion, on obstruction. Even
the Attorney General said that he had
the authority to bring charges, but
even if he did have those, he wouldn’t
have brought charges on obstruction,
because there wasn’t obstruction and
there wasn’t collusion. But he had full
authority to bring charges on both
fronts, and he didn’t. But, again, 222
months of that meandering witch hunt
to try to find something. And it wasn’t
found because it wasn’t there.
And then you had the whistleblower,
the so-called whistleblower. Who, if
you are worried about who is talking
to somebody to try to get their stories
straight, interestingly, the whistle-
blower—who, again, was identified to
be somebody with a political bias—
went and met with Chairman SCHIFF’s
staff prior to filing the whistleblower
complaint.
Yes, somebody did collude. Real in-
teresting how that happened. Before
the whistleblower complaint was filed,
they actually sat down with the staff
of the majority leader, Chairman
SCHIFF, and lo and behold, you get a
political document that comes out
with allegations, disproven in many
cases, but that is where we are. That is
the basis for starting an impeachment
inquiry.
That is not really an impeachment
inquiry, because we are not following
the same rules that have always been
followed under an impeachment in-
quiry, but that is the genesis of this,
and that is where we are.
b 1930
And if that is what the document is
going to ultimately yield, it will be a
tainted document. But I guess if you
want to find an outcome—this isn’t a
grand jury. This is the United States
House of Representatives, and there
are 75 percent in this body who are
going to be asked to vote on something
that they cannot see, they cannot par-
ticipate in, they have absolutely no ac-
cess to. That is not what this country
is all about.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gen-
tleman.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, the gen-
tleman keeps misstating the facts and
the law and the process.
Every Member is going to have ac-
cess to all the documents, all the testi-
mony before they are asked to vote on
it, period.
Mr. SCALISE. When?
Mr. HOYER. When they have con-
cluded their private sessions, which are
trying to get at the facts and not hav-
ing been tainted by some circus. Every-
body is going to have the right to see
what evidence is adduced.
That is the fear, of course, and I
again suggest the gentleman think of
this: If he saw these headlines and it
was a Democratic President and Tur-
key and Russia were deciding what is
happening in the Middle East and de-
ciding whether they are going to go
after ISIS, our ally, and then this other
headline replete with the aid to
Ukraine was conditioned on a quid pro
quo or they weren’t going to be in the
White House, they may not get the $391
million, he would be outraged. He
would be on this ceiling.
Mr. SCALISE. I would if it was true,
but it is not.
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, do I still
have my time?
Mr. SCALISE. You can only read it
in the press because of selective leak-
ing. And so that is how Members of
Congress are supposed to make a deter-
mination on impeachment of the Presi-
dent, based on selected leaks to the
press?
Mr. HOYER. Mr. Speaker, the gen-
tleman wasn’t here during the Clinton
impeachment with Starr. Starr might
as well——
Mr. SCALISE. Mr. Speaker, here is
another headline: ‘‘Democrats Writing
More Subpoenas Than Laws.’’ That is a
headline. That is what angers people
who want to see their prescription drug
prices lowered, but they can’t because
of this infatuation with impeachment.
That is what is holding this country
back. That is what is holding this
House back from doing the people’s
work.
Mr. Speaker, I would ask if the gen-
tleman has anything else. If not, I
would be ready to yield back.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
150TH BIRTHDAY OF SANTA ANA,
CALIFORNIA
(Mr. CORREA asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. CORREA. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today in celebration of the city of
Santa Ana’s 150th birthday.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:59 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.114 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8450 October 23, 2019
My hometown was founded on Octo-
ber 27, 1869, on just 70 acres of land in
Orange County; and today, Santa Ana
is the second largest city in Orange
County.
It is home to veterans of World War
II, the Korean war, the Vietnam war,
and the last few conflicts.
It is also home to the largest His-
panic population, percentagewise, in
the country. It is essentially the new
Ellis Island of the United States.
Congratulations to the city of Santa
Ana on their 150 years. Congratulations
to their constituents and to the council
and to the mayor.
f
IMPEACHMENT INQUIRY BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS
(Mr. WRIGHT asked and was given
permission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. WRIGHT. Mr. Speaker, my col-
leagues on the other side of the aisle
seem to think it is appropriate to con-
duct an impeachment inquiry behind
closed doors, shutting out the Amer-
ican people.
They have denied Republican Mem-
bers of Congress the right to fully par-
ticipate in the inquiry process but ex-
pect them to cast a vote to impeach a
duly elected President of the United
States without seeing all the facts.
In addition to all that, Democrats de-
nied us the right to vote on a resolu-
tion to censure Chairman SCHIFF for
his deception of Americans day in and
day out.
This morning, I joined dozens of my
colleagues as we stormed into the SCIF
demanding transparency, shedding
light on this corrupt process. Instead of
having a conversation, Chairman
SCHIFF abruptly ended the deposition,
taking the witness with him out of the
room.
The Speaker of this House is putting
her hatred of the President above what
is best for her constituents. She is
harming the entire Nation by con-
ducting this inquiry in such a manner.
Mr. Speaker, enough is enough. We
are better than this; our country is bet-
ter than this; and the American people
certainly deserve better than this.
They deserve better than an impeach-
ment inquiry in a secret room based on
assertions of a phantom whistleblower.
f
TRIBUTE TO COLONEL TOM C.
‘‘IKE’’ MORRIS
(Mr. ROY asked and was given per-
mission to address the House for 1
minute.)
Mr. ROY. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
pay tribute to a constituent of the 21st
Congressional District of Texas. This
man was a hero, veteran, and the old-
est known graduate of Texas A&M Uni-
versity, the alma mater of my bride.
His name was Colonel Tom C. ‘‘Ike’’
Morris.
Colonel Morris passed away Sunday
in San Antonio at the age of 109 years
old, leaving behind a life and legacy all
of us can only aspire to someday.
Colonel Morris is the epitome of what
the Greatest Generation embodied. He
worked five jobs to stay in school dur-
ing the Depression and graduated from
Texas A&M with a bachelor’s degree in
agriculture.
Working his way through school
didn’t stop him from being an engaged
member of the Aggie community. He
was senior class president, chaired the
committee that set the first require-
ments for seniors to earn the famous
Aggie Ring, and was a member of the
track and field team.
He also knew what it meant to fight
for a man’s right to live free. He fought
in the 38th Infantry of the 2nd Infantry
Division in World War II. He went on to
land on Omaha Beach during the inva-
sion of Normandy and, with his unit, he
liberated the first city in France.
Colonel Morris married his high
school sweetheart, and they were mar-
ried for 77 years.
Colonel Morris celebrated his 109th
birthday this August. When asked
about the secret to living a long life,
Colonel Morris said, ‘‘Do your best.’’
We could improve from adhering to
such sage, simple advice.
Colonel Morris, we thank you for
your service and for leading a life wor-
thy of example. May you rest in peace
now. God bless you, sir.
f
HONORING THE 36TH ANNIVER-
SARY OF THE 241 MARINES LOST
IN BEIRUT, LEBANON
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the gentleman from Indi-
ana (Mr. PENCE) is recognized for 60
minutes as the designee of the minor-
ity leader.
GENERAL LEAVE
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I ask unan-
imous consent that all Members may
have 5 legislative days in which to re-
vise and extend their remarks and in-
clude extraneous materials on the
topic of my Special Order.
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Is there
objection to the request of the gen-
tleman from Indiana?
There was no objection.
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, we are here
today to honor the 241 American heroes
who made the ultimate sacrifice on
this very day 36 years ago in Beirut,
Lebanon.
For my family and so many families,
today is deeply emotional.
When I enlisted in 1979 as a young
man, I wanted to serve and be part of
something bigger. That led me to the
United States Marine Corps and, like
every marine, I took an oath to God,
country, and to the Corps.
Semper fidelis is not just a slogan or
a creed; it is a way of life that only
those who have earned the eagle, globe,
and anchor can fully understand. Sem-
per fidelis is part of the very fabric of
every marine, past and present.
I served as a first lieutenant in the
3rd Battalion, 3rd Marines. In 1983, my
battalion was ordered to Beirut, Leb-
anon, in support of the 1st Battalion,
8th Marine Regiment and the 24th Ma-
rine Amphibious Unit.
I vividly remember the evenings we
sat on the roof of the Marine barracks
with the American flag flying over our
head. The barrage of small arms gun-
fire and mortar rounds made it very
clear that we were in harm’s way every
day.
On this very day 36 years ago, a ter-
rorist affiliated with Hezbollah and fi-
nanced by Iran drove a truck bomb
into the barracks we called home.
241 American servicemen were killed,
220 of which were my fellow marines.
241 sons, brothers, fathers, and friends
never returned home. 241 came in
peace, and 241 lives were stolen from us
by an act of absolute pure evil.
It was the deadliest day for the Ma-
rine Corps since the Battle of Iwo
Jima.
It is by the grace of God that I was
able to come home to my wife, Denise,
who was expecting our first child. My
battalion had shipped out 10 days be-
fore the bombing.
Mr. Speaker, today is not about me.
People may not recognize the 241
names listed here, but they are the
names of the 241 who answered the call
of duty 36 years ago.
Today is about those 241 soldiers,
sailors, and marines who laid down
their lives to protect our freedoms, and
today is about every veteran who has
nobly worn the uniform of our Armed
Forces.
On this somber day, I look out at the
flag flying above the U.S. Capitol and
feel the same reverence I felt standing
below the Stars and Stripes on the roof
of the Beirut barracks in 1983. Though
I will never know exactly why I was
spared when so many were not, I under-
stand that our first duty is to remem-
ber and be faithful.
Mr. Speaker, three of my fellow ma-
rines, Representatives GALLAGHER,
CARBAJAL, and MOULTON, joined me to
offer legislation to remember the faith
and loyalty of the 241.
Fellow marine, Representative
GALLEGO, joined me to offer legislation
to provide a sliver of justice for the
Gold Star families who lost their loved
ones. Our bill, the OORAH Act, passed
both the House and Senate, and for
that I am very grateful.
But, Mr. Speaker, there is still work
to be done here. Terrorists and those
who support them financially must be
held accountable for their terrible ac-
tions.
Mr. Speaker, I thank my colleagues
for participating in this Special Order
to remember the sacrifice of those who
answered the call of duty to defend our
freedom in conflicts across the globe.
Mr. Speaker, I yield to the gentleman
from Indiana (Mr. BAIRD), my fellow
Hoosier and decorated Vietnam vet-
eran.
Mr. BAIRD. Mr. Speaker, I thank the
gentleman for yielding.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:59 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.116 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8451
October 23, 2019
Mr. Speaker, I rise today to join my
colleague in remembering the 36th an-
niversary of the appalling terrorist at-
tack on American troops stationed in
Beirut, Lebanon, on October 23, 1983.
This horrific attack took the lives of
241 U.S. troops and injured countless
others. This incident marked the high-
est single-day death toll for the United
States Marine Corps since the Battle of
Iwo Jima.
My friend and fellow Hoosier, GREG
PENCE, was stationed in Beirut just 10
days before the terrorist attack and
lost many fellow marines in the bomb-
ing.
Here with us today, seated in the gal-
lery, are a few of the Gold Star families
who lost their loved ones and family
members on that fateful day.
Mr. Speaker, freedom truly is not
free, and I thank them for their sac-
rifice and pay tribute to the brave serv-
icemembers who paid the ultimate sac-
rifice to defend and protect the United
States of America.
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentlewoman from West Virginia
(Mrs. MILLER), my friend and col-
league.
b 1945
Mrs. MILLER. Mr. Speaker, I rise
today to speak in honor of those who
lost their lives in the Beirut terrorist
attacks.
The men and women of our Armed
Forces are true American heroes. They
demonstrate bravery, courage, and an
unmatched sense of duty to us all.
They fight each day to preserve our
great Nation and defend us from en-
emies we can and cannot see.
Our veterans have fought for our
independence and liberty countless
times throughout our history. They
have fought off tyranny to defend free-
dom around the world. They have de-
fended the innocent who cannot defend
themselves. They have worked to pre-
serve peace for all. Because of them, we
are here in this Chamber today. And
because of them, our Star-Spangled
Banner waves proudly above.
This is what the valiant men and
women were doing in Beirut in 1983.
They were part of an important peace-
keeping mission when Lebanon was
facing a violent civil war.
In a single moment, 220 marines, 18
sailors, and 3 soldiers lost their lives,
and 128 Americans were wounded.
Two hundred and forty-one Ameri-
cans gave their lives that day. This was
the largest number of casualties lost in
one day since the Tet Offensive in the
Vietnam war. This event is one of the
darkest in our history.
As a wife, a mother, and a grand-
mother, I cannot imagine the pain 241
families have endured since that fate-
ful day 36 years ago.
Today, I would like to honor those
who made the ultimate sacrifice in Bei-
rut, for their fearless service and for
working toward the more peaceful
world that we all want. They will never
be forgotten.
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I yield to
the gentleman from Michigan (Mr.
BERGMAN), my friend, colleague, and
fellow marine.
Mr. BERGMAN. Mr. Speaker, I thank
my friend, colleague, and fellow ma-
rine, GREG PENCE, for the honor to
speak before this body tonight on such
a—you don’t call an occasion like this
important, but I think we call it rel-
evant.
It is relevant because Marines, for a
long time, since 1775, have fought to
defend freedom, and we go to the fight
to win, but we also go to the fight to
help others.
On Sunday, 23 October 1983, you have
heard the story told already, how 220
marines, 18 sailors, and 3 soldiers lost
their lives when a terrorist’s truck
bomb exploded at a barracks compound
in Beirut, Lebanon.
The same day, 58 of our French
brothers in arms lost their lives in an
additional attack by Hezbollah.
In what would be the deadliest day
for the Marine Corps since the battle of
Iwo Jima, seven of the marines and
sailors were Michiganders, including
Lance Corporal David Bousum of Fife
Lake, Michigan.
I remember that day very vividly. At
the time, I was a KC–130 pilot stationed
at Naval Air Station Glenview, Illinois,
flying the KC–130 refuelers. We used to
fly all around the world, in and out of
the Middle East doing our mission.
Five days after the bombing was the
annual Marine Corps Birthday Ball for
our unit and our greater Chicago ma-
rines. And that year, we had as our
guest of honor then-Major General Al
Gray, commander of the 2nd Marine Di-
vision, who a couple years after that
became the commandant of the Marine
Corps.
The Marines are full of tradition and
pageantry. And I will tell you what,
the only thing we do more than cele-
brate, is grieve. And of the roughly 50
years of birthday balls that I have at-
tended, that one was heavy with grief.
We had lost our brothers through a hei-
nous act, and a cowardly act. It took us
a while to get over it at that time, but,
in the end, you really never get over it.
All you do is set your course for the fu-
ture fight to make sure that that does
not happen again.
The loss of life will always have an
impact on our entire armed services
community and our Nation. Our mis-
sion, as the Marine Corps, is to be the
most ready when the Nation is least
ready, and we will always be that,
whether it be in the 1770s or in the
2070s and beyond.
Today, we honor the fallen, we honor
their lives, their legacies, and their
families.
We will never forget the sacrifices
made by Michigan’s own that day. We
lost the following warriors, marines,
and sailors:
Lance Corporal David Bousum from
Fife Lake
Lance Corporal Johansen Banks from
Detroit
Sergeant Anthony K. Brown from De-
troit
Hospital Corpsman 2 Michael H.
Johnson from Detroit
Sergeant Michael R. Massman from
Port Huron
Sergeant William H. Pollard from
Flint
First Lieutenant William A. Zimmer-
man from Grand Haven
We will never forget.
In the Marines’ Hymn, the third stan-
za ends with: ‘‘If the Army and the
Navy ever look on Heaven’s scenes,
they will find the streets are guarded
by United States Marines.’’
I would suggest to you that some of
those marines are on duty today. We
honor their service, we honor their sac-
rifice, and we honor our country by re-
membering. God bless you all and Sem-
per Fidelis.
Mr. PENCE. Mr. Speaker, I thank my
friends, colleagues, and distinguished
guests in the gallery for their partici-
pation in my Special Order.
As a Beirut veteran, I am deeply
moved by their remarks, and I know
their words will comfort the Gold Star
Families across this Nation.
Today, on the 36th anniversary of
this horrific attack, and every day, we
must strive to ensure that all are re-
membered, and all are honored. We re-
member their loyalty, their selfless-
ness, and their courage. We are hum-
bled by their tremendous sacrifice.
We must hold them closely in our
hearts and hometowns. We must live in
gratitude for the precious gift they
have given to us here today.
Most of all, we must uphold our
promise to honor our fallen. We must
remain always faithful.
Mr. Speaker, I will always remain
faithful. God bless America, and Sem-
per Fi.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
Mr. MCCAUL. Mr. Speaker, in the morning
of October 22, 1983, a suicide bomber drove
a truck full of explosives into a Marine com-
pound in Beirut, Lebanon, killing 241 U.S.
service members. This was the deadliest at-
tack against our U.S. Marines since Iwo Jima.
These Marines were stationed in Beirut to
assist with the Palestinian withdrawal during
the Lebanese civil war—they were protecting
those who were being persecuted and fought
to keep peace in the area.
There is a memorial at Camp Lejeune for
those who lost their lives that day and it reads,
‘‘They came in Peace.’’ I do not think I could
say it any better. Our service men and women
go overseas to ensure war does not reach our
shores. They selflessly put aside their fears,
and without hesitation say bravely, ‘‘I will
serve, send me.’’
Some may know that my dear friend, Con-
gressman GREG PENCE, was serving that day
in Beirut. I am thankful that my friend’s life
was spared on that day.
For those who perished that day we will
never forget your ultimate sacrifice to your
country. Of those who passed away, eight
were from Texas:
Leland E. Gann, Matilde Hernandez Jr. and
Timothy R McMahon from Austin; Rodolfo
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.118 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8452 October 23, 2019
Hernandez from El Paso; Michael S. Fulton
from Ft. Worth; Marcus E. Coleman from Dal-
las; Johnnie D. Caesar from El Campo; and
David W. Brown from Conroe.
We must never forget this day and those
who were murdered because of what the free-
doms they believed in so fiercely they were
willing to put their life on line.
f
TRIBUTE TO LEON G. FELT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Under
the Speaker’s announced policy of Jan-
uary 3, 2019, the Chair recognizes the
gentleman from California (Mr.
MCCLINTOCK) for 30 minutes.
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I
rise tonight to tell a remarkable story
of the unacknowledged patriotism and
heroism of a 23-year-old Army scout,
who, on December 3, 1944, was im-
mersed in the horror and peril of some
of the worst of the fighting in the
bloody nightmare of the Philippines
campaign. At Mount Cabunganan,
Technician 5th Class Leon G. Felt he-
roically engaged the enemy.
His family keeps the steel helmet he
wore that day. The back half of that
helmet is riddled with shrapnel holes
from the inside out. A grenade ex-
ploded beneath him, and the deadly
shrapnel blew up his left side, blowing
off his helmet from below with enough
force to pierce it.
Now, Leon never talked much about
what happened that day. The war
ended, and he came home after months
in Army hospitals dealing with his
grave injuries. The only thing his fam-
ily really knew, years later, was a brief
entry in his journal. It said, ‘‘Lieuten-
ant Hanna told me he put me in for a
Silver Star for what I did in the at-
tack,’’ but nothing came of it.
His wife told me that the Army’s
final orders to Leon and his comrades
were: go home, get a job, look after
your families. Well, that is exactly
what Leon Felt did. He joined the
Southern Pacific Railroad, ultimately
retiring as a shop foreman. He became
deeply involved in his church. He mar-
ried Lois Wade, his wife of 32 years,
until she died in 1976. He then married
Nola Pulsipher, who survives him after
42 years of marriage. He raised eight
children and today has 41 grand-
children, 110 great-grandchildren with
three more on the way, and seven
great-great-grandchildren.
The war never left him. Nola says she
would often rescue him from his fre-
quent nightmares, and all he could say
through his tears was, ‘‘It’s either kill
or be killed.’’ His children only knew
that he was in the thick of the war,
that he had come home wounded, and
that those days in the Philippines still
haunted him.
In recent years, Leon’s family began
looking into his service record. Having
read his journal, his daughter, Lydean,
began searching for what he did that
day that would have rated a rec-
ommendation for the Silver Star. They
had ordered copies of his medals, but
there was no mention of a Silver Star
in them. He had received the Bronze
Star and the Purple Heart, among
other decorations.
But Lydean remained curious about
that entry in his diary, and what
seemed to be a confusing note on one
Army form that suggested there might
be something more, though there was
no official record of it. Now, Lydean,
who has all of the timidity of a heat-
seeking missile, wouldn’t give up. She
wrote the National Personnel and
Record Center of the National Ar-
chives. The Archives could find no
record of other medals, including the
Silver Star. A fire in 1973, they feared,
would have destroyed any record if he
had. But Lydean persisted.
The archives kept digging, and then
they stumbled upon a curious thing: a
collection of citations of the most he-
roic deeds of World War II. In it, they
found the citation for Leon G. Felt and
what he did that December day in 1944.
They were right about one thing: he
was never awarded the Silver Star.
On February 12, 1945, as he lay recov-
ering from his wounds in an Army hos-
pital, Leon Felt had been awarded the
Nation’s second highest honor, the Dis-
tinguished Service Cross, revered more
than any other medal, but the Medal of
Honor itself. But somewhere along the
way, probably because of a clerical
error, his service record was never up-
dated, and word never reached him.
Now, here are the words that were
supposed to have been spoken as he re-
ceived our Nation’s second highest
military honor:
‘‘Technician Fifth Grade Leon G.
Felt, Serial Number 39902244, Cavalry,
United States Army. For extraordinary
heroism against the enemy at Mount
Cabunganan, Leyte, Philippine Islands,
on 3 December 1944.
‘‘Advancing through very rugged ter-
rain, his troop encountered the enemy
entrenched in a strong position astride
a narrow ridge. The enemy were well
dug in, their rifle pits being concealed
with top coverings of brush and grass.
During an attack by our troops, the ad-
vance of the right platoon was tempo-
rarily diverted by heavy enemy fire,
but upon receiving reinforcing fire
from the left platoon, the intensity of
the enemy fire slackened. Seizing this
opportunity, Technician Felt, a scout
for his platoon, voluntarily rushed the
nearest enemy rifle pit, and grasping
the top cover, stripped it off, exposing
three occupants whom he killed. Con-
tinuing his advance, he reached and un-
covered a second pit and killed three
more enemy. He then advanced toward
a third pit but was struck and wounded
by the fragments from an exploding
hand grenade.
b 2000
‘‘Despite his wound and the warning
shouts of his comrades, he continued to
push his attack, and reaching the fox-
hole, killed its two occupants. Unable
to advance farther because of his
wounds, he from his advanced position
directed the attack of his platoon upon
remaining enemy within the position.
This attack was successful, and the
enemy were driven from the position
with heavy losses.
‘‘Technician Felt’s prompt, heroic ac-
tions in voluntarily attacking the
enemy single-handedly were an inspira-
tion to his comrades and reflect the
highest traditions of the United States
Army. By command of General Mac-
Arthur.’’
Long ago, soldiers coined the term
‘‘snafu’’ to describe the military bu-
reaucracy. It is an acronym that,
roughly translated, means, ‘‘Situation
Normal—All Fouled Up.’’
Well, in a terrible snafu, the medal
was never given to Technician Felt. He
was never told of how grateful his
country was for the sacrifices he made,
for the bravery that saved the soldiers
in his unit, and for the exemplary her-
oism and leadership that turned the
tide of battle.
His family arranged to surprise him
with this long-overdue presentation
about 3 weeks ago on October 5. This
was the Saturday before his 98th birth-
day. They gathered from across the
country. They decorated the house and
made a cake.
I have never been more honored or
more moved than to have been asked to
fulfill that long-overdue presentation
that General MacArthur had ordered so
long ago.
On my way to meet this gentle giant,
as his family called him, I received
word that Leon Felt had passed away
in the early hours of that morning, sur-
rounded by his loving family. But they
were still gathered at the house, in
grief now as well as pride, and so I
made the presentation posthumously
to his widow, an extraordinary woman
in her own right.
There is some consolation in this
story. As his health began slipping in
the days before he died, his family told
him that he had been awarded the Na-
tion’s second-highest military honor
and that he was about to receive it at
his birthday celebration.
Mrs. Felt told me that his face
brightened up, and he said, ‘‘So, I real-
ly am your hero.’’ And his wife replied,
‘‘That is what I have been telling you
all these years.’’
The tragedy is that this honor should
have followed Leon Felt throughout his
life, as Shakespeare said, to ‘‘remem-
ber, with advantage, what feats he did
that day.’’ He should have been feasted
and feted, and thanked every day of his
life, as this honor spoke of his coura-
geous deeds.
Instead of feeling guilt, he should
have felt pride. For every nightmare he
suffered alone, he should have enjoyed
the gratitude of his fellow citizens. In-
stead, Technician Leon Felt, a recipi-
ent of the Distinguished Service Cross
that he never received, did what he was
told, quietly went home, got a job, and
looked after his family.
His memorial service will be held in
Dixon, California, tomorrow, and he
will be buried with full military honors
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.039 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8453
October 23, 2019
at the Sacramento Valley National
Cemetery. He will take to his grave
pieces of shrapnel from the injuries he
sustained at Mount Cabunganan. He
will also take the Distinguished Serv-
ice Cross that he was supposed to have
been awarded 74 years ago.
I want to say to his family on behalf
of our country that this long-missing
medal now attests that the American
people finally know what the Felt fam-
ily has known all along, that he really
was and is our Nation’s hero, too.
Mr. Speaker, I wanted to tell this
story tonight, not for Leon Felt’s sake,
but for our country’s sake, to remind
us what we owe heroes like him for the
sacrifices often unrecognized and unre-
quited that they have made, to answer
James Michener’s haunting question:
‘‘Where do we get such men?’’—and
also to place in the RECORD in these
hallowed Halls an apology, really, for a
74-year-old clerical mistake, a snafu
that prevented him from knowing in
life the gratitude and respect that our
Nation can now express only after his
death.
Mr. Speaker, I ask that the House ob-
serve a moment of silence to honor the
memory of Technician Fifth Grade
Leon Gustave Felt, United States
Army, recipient of the Distinguished
Service Cross.
Mr. Speaker, I yield back the balance
of my time.
f
ADJOURNMENT
Mr. MCCLINTOCK. Mr. Speaker, I
move that the House do now adjourn.
The motion was agreed to; accord-
ingly (at 8 o’clock and 6 minutes p.m.),
under its previous order, the House ad-
journed until tomorrow, Thursday, Oc-
tober 24, 2019, at 9 a.m.
h
EXPENDITURE REPORTS CONCERNING OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL
Reports concerning the foreign currencies and U.S. dollars utilized for Official Foreign Travel during the second and
third quarters of 2019, pursuant to Public Law 95–384, are as follows:
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, DELEGATION TO FRANCE, EXPENDED BETWEEN SEPT. 4 AND SEPT. 8, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Nancy Pelosi .................................................... 9/5 9/8 France ................................................... .................... 2,418.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,418.00
Wyndee Parker ......................................................... 9/5 9/8 France ................................................... .................... 1,526.00 .................... 1,034.50 .................... .................... .................... 2,560.50
Terri McCullough ..................................................... 9/5 9/8 France ................................................... .................... 1,526.00 .................... 1,034.50 .................... .................... .................... 2,560.50
Kate Knudson .......................................................... 9/5 9/8 France ................................................... .................... 1,526.00 .................... 1,034.50 .................... .................... .................... 2,560.50
Dr. Brian Monahan .................................................. 9/5 9/8 France ................................................... .................... 1,526.00 .................... (3) .................... .................... .................... 2,560.50
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 8,522.00 .................... 3,103.50 .................... .................... .................... 11,625.50
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
3 Military air transportation.
HON. NANCY PELOSI, Oct. 7, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. JERROLD NADLER, Oct. 15, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON NATURAL RESOURCES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Hon. Amata Radewagen .......................................... 6/28 6/30 Switzerland ........................................... .................... 1,151.03 .................... .................... .................... 493.74 .................... 1,644.77
6/30 7/4 Israel ..................................................... .................... 2,106.00 .................... .................... .................... 967.46 .................... 3,073.46
7/4 7/6 Qatar ..................................................... .................... 769.05 .................... .................... .................... 206.65 .................... 975.70
7/6 7/7 Cyprus ................................................... .................... 585.11 .................... .................... .................... 591.01 .................... 1,176.12
7/7 7/7 Greece ................................................... .................... 257.00 .................... .................... .................... 39.20 .................... 296.20
Sarah Lim ................................................................ 8/15 8/29 Switzerland ........................................... .................... 4,332.91 .................... 2,462.13 .................... .................... .................... 6,795.04
Kenneth Degenfelder ............................................... 7/26 7/31 Micronesia ............................................ .................... 328.00 .................... 2,750.09 .................... .................... .................... 3,078.09
Brian Modeste ......................................................... 7/26 7/31 Micronesia ............................................ .................... 328.00 .................... 2,450.09 .................... .................... .................... 2,778.09
Committee total ......................................... ............. ................. ............................................................... .................... 9,857.10 .................... 7,662.31 .................... 2,298.06 .................... 19,817.47
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. RAÚL M. GRIJALVA, Oct. 11, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON RULES, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. JAMES P. McGOVERN, Oct. 8, 2019.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 8634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC7.121 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8454 October 23, 2019
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, COMMITTEE ON SMALL BUSINESS, HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. NYDIA M. VELÁZQUEZ, Oct. 8, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, JOINT COMMITTEE ON TAXATION, EXPENDED BETWEEN APRIL 1 AND JUNE 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL, Oct. 3, 2019.
REPORT OF EXPENDITURES FOR OFFICIAL FOREIGN TRAVEL, JOINT COMMITTEE ON TAXATION, EXPENDED BETWEEN JULY 1 AND SEPT. 30, 2019
Name of Member or employee
Date
Country
Per diem 1 Transportation Other purposes Total
Arrival Departure
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
Foreign
currency
U.S. dollar
equivalent
or U.S.
currency 2
HOUSE COMMITTEES
Please Note: If there were no expenditures during the calendar quarter noted above, please check the box at right to so indicate and return. ◊
1 Per diem constitutes lodging and meals.
2 If foreign currency is used, enter U.S. dollar equivalent; if U.S. currency is used, enter amount expended.
HON. RICHARD E. NEAL, Oct. 3, 2019.
h
EXECUTIVE COMMUNICATIONS,
ETC.
Under clause 2 of rule XIV, executive
communications were taken from the
Speaker’s table and referred as follows:
2734. A letter from the Secretary, Depart-
ment of Defense, transmitting a letter stat-
ing that the last grade Major General Lee K.
Levy II, United States Air Force, served sat-
isfactorily, before retirement, was major
general, pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1370(c)(1); Pub-
lic Law 96-513, Sec. 112 (as amended by Public
Law 104-106, Sec. 502(b)); (110 Stat. 293); to
the Committee on Armed Services.
2735. A letter from the General Counsel,
National Credit Union Administration,
transmitting the Administration’s final rule
— Federal Credit Union Bylaws (RIN: 3313-
AE86) received October 22, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Fi-
nancial Services.
2736. A letter from the General Counsel,
National Credit Union Administration,
transmitting the Administration’s final rule
— Supervisory Committee Audits and
Verifications (RIN: 3133-AE91) received Octo-
ber 22, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Financial Services.
2737. A letter from the Secretary, Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission, transmitting
the Commission’s Major final rule — Revi-
sions to Prohibitions and Restrictions on
Proprietary Trading and Certain Interests
in, and Relationships With, Hedge Funds and
Private Equity Funds [Release No.: BHCA-7;
File no.: S7-14-18] (RIN: 3235-AM10) received
October 22, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Financial
Services.
2738. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Outer Continental Shelf Air
Regulations; Consistency Update for Vir-
ginia [EPA-R03-OAR-2011-0140; FRL-9999-40-
Region 3] October 18, 2019, pursuant to 5
U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce.
2739. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — National Emission Stand-
ards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay
Ceramics Manufacturing [EPA-HQ-OAR-2013-
0290; FRL-10001-21-OAR] (RIN: 2060-AT25] re-
ceived October 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2740. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Air Plan Approval; Arkan-
sas; Interstate Transport Requirements for
the 2010 1-Hour SO2 NAAQS [EPA-R06-OAR-
2019-0438; FRL-10000-92-Region 6] received Oc-
tober 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2741. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval and Promulgation
Air Quality Implementation Plans; Pennsyl-
vania; Philadelphia County Reasonably
Available Control Technology for the 2008
Ozone National Ambient Air Quality Stand-
ard [EPA-R03-OAR-2019-0082; FRL-10001-46-
Region 3] received October 18, 2019, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121,
Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
2742. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval and Promulgation
of Air Quality Implementation Plans; Vir-
ginia; Correction Due to Vacatur of Revi-
sions to Implement the Revocation of the
1997 Ozone National Ambient Air Quality
Standards Final Rule [EPA-R03-OAR-2017-
0382; FRL-10001-45-Region 3] received October
18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A);
Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to
the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2743. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s final rule — Approval of Air Quality Im-
plementation Plans; Ohio and West Virginia;
Attainment Plans for the Steubenville, Ohio-
West Virginia 2010 Sulfur Dioxide Nonattain-
ment Area [EPA-R03-OAR-2019-0044; EPA-
R05-OAR-2015-0699; FRL-10001-26-Region 5] re-
ceived October 18, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
2744. A letter from the Director, Regu-
latory Management Division, Environmental
Protection Agency, transmitting the Agen-
cy’s withdrawal of direct final rule — Air
Plan Approval: ID; Update to CRB Fee Bill-
ing Procedures [EPA-R10-OAR-2019-0403;
FRL-10001-24-Region 10] received October 18,
2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public
Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
2745. A letter from the Assistant Secretary
for Export Administration, Bureau of Indus-
try and Security, Department of Commerce,
transmitting the Department’s final rule —
Addition of Certain Entities to the Entity
List [Docket No.: 190925-0044] (RIN: 0694-
AH68) received October 22, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
2746. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Hook-
and-Line Catcher/Processors in the Central
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.012 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8455
October 23, 2019
Regulatory Area of the Gulf of Alaska
[Docket No.: 170816769-8162-02] (RIN: 0648-
XG869) received October 21, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on Nat-
ural Resources.
2747. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pa-
cific Cod in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Is-
lands Management Area [Docket No.:
170817779-8161-02] (RIN: 0648-XG591) received
October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2748. A letter from the Acting Director, Of-
fice of Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, Na-
tional Oceanic and Atmospheric Administra-
tion, transmitting the Administration’s tem-
porary rule — Fisheries of the Exclusive Eco-
nomic Zone Off Alaska; Alaska Plaice in the
Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area [Docket No.: 170817779-8161-02]
(RIN: 0648-XF292) received October 21, 2019,
pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law
104-121, Sec. 251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Com-
mittee on Natural Resources.
2749. A letter from the Director, Office of
Sustainable Fisheries, NMFS, National Oce-
anic and Atmospheric Administration, trans-
mitting the Administration’s temporary rule
— Fisheries of the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Ocean Perch in the Ber-
ing Sea Subarea of the Bering Sea and Aleu-
tian Islands Management Area [Docket No.:
180713633-9174-02] (RIN: 0648-XY039) received
October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources.
2750. A letter from the Attorney — Advisor,
U.S. Coast Guard, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting the Department’s
temporary final rule — Special Local Regu-
lation; Gulf of Mexico, Fort Myers Beach, FL
[Docket Number: USCG-2019-0602] (RIN: 1625-
AA08] received October 22, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2751. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary rule — Safety Zone
for Fireworks Display; Patapsco River, Inner
Harbor, Baltimore, MD [Docket Number:
USCG-2019-0571] (RIN: 1625-AA00) received
October 22, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); to the Committee on Transpor-
tation and Infrastructure.
2752. A letter from the Attorney-Advisor,
Office of Regulations and Administrative
Law, U.S. Coast Guard, Department of
Homeland Security, transmitting the De-
partment’s temporary final rule — Safety
Zone; Manasquan Inlet, Manasquan, NJ
[Docket No.: USCG-2019-0799] (RIN: 1625-
AA00) received October 22, 2019, pursuant to
5 U.S.C. 801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec.
251; (110 Stat. 868); to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
2753. A letter from the Alternate OSD
FRLO, Office of the Secretary, Department
of Defense, transmitting the Department’s
direct final rule — Voluntary State Tax
Withholding From Retired Pay [Docket ID:
DOD-2019-OS-0012] (RIN:0790-AK19) received
October 21, 2019, pursuant to 5 U.S.C.
801(a)(1)(A); Public Law 104-121, Sec. 251; (110
Stat. 868); jointly to the Committees on
Armed Services and Ways and Means.
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. RYAN (for himself, Ms. UNDER-
WOOD, Mr. GONZALEZ of Ohio, and Mr.
STIVERS):
H.R. 4801. A bill to amend the Public
Health Service Act to reauthorize the
Healthy Start program; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina (for
himself and Mr. DEUTCH):
H.R. 4802. A bill to amend the State De-
partment Basic Authorities Act of 1956 to au-
thorize rewards under the Department of
State’s rewards program relating to informa-
tion regarding individuals or entities en-
gaged in activities in contravention of
United States or United Nations sanctions,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Foreign Affairs.
By Mr. NADLER (for himself, Mr. COL-
LINS of Georgia, Mr. SMITH of Wash-
ington, Mr. THORNBERRY, Ms. LOF-
GREN, Mr. BUCK, Mr. TED LIEU of
California, and Mr. GALLEGO):
H.R. 4803. A bill to facilitate the automatic
acquisition of citizenship for lawful perma-
nent resident children of military and Fed-
eral Government personnel residing abroad,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Ms. JACKSON LEE (for herself, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, and Mr. KING
of New York):
H.R. 4804. A bill to amend the Endangered
Species Act of 1973 to prohibit the taking for
a trophy of any endangered or threatened
species of fish or wildlife in the United
States and the importation of endangered
and threatened species trophies into the
United States, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Natural Resources.
By Mr. KIM (for himself, Mr.
BURCHETT, and Ms. KENDRA S. HORN
of Oklahoma):
H.R. 4805. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide an exclusion
from gross income for interest on certain
small business loans; to the Committee on
Ways and Means.
By Mr. LATTA:
H.R. 4806. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to authorize the debarment
of certain registrants, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, and in addition to the Committee on
the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. PINGREE (for herself, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. HIGGINS of New York,
and Miss RICE of New York):
H.R. 4807. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to provide for the award of a
military service medal to members of the
Armed Forces who served honorably during
the Cold War, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 4808. A bill to require Community De-
velopment Block Grant and Surface Trans-
portation Block Grant recipients to develop
a strategy to support inclusive zoning poli-
cies, to allow for a credit to support housing
affordability, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Ways and Means, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on Financial Serv-
ices, and Transportation and Infrastructure,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. CORREA (for himself, Mrs.
NAPOLITANO, Mr. VARGAS, Mr. COSTA,
Ms. SÁNCHEZ, Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ, Ms.
GARCIA of Texas, Ms. HAALAND, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, Mr. HUFFMAN, Ms.
NORTON, Ms. JUDY CHU of California,
Ms. ESCOBAR, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Ms.
BARRAGÁN, Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. SMITH
of Washington, Mr. ROUDA, Ms. POR-
TER, Mr. KHANNA, Mr. FOSTER, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Ms. LEE of California, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. SOTO, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. TAKANO, Mrs. TRAHAN,
Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois,
Ms. TITUS, and Mr. ESPAILLAT):
H.R. 4809. A bill to require the White House
and each agency to provide an official
website in the five most commonly used lan-
guages in the United States other than
English as determined by the Census data
and any other languages determined to be
appropriate by the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform.
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois (for
himself, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. BUCSHON,
Mr. SHIMKUS, and Mr. LATTA):
H.R. 4810. A bill to facilitate responsible,
informed dispensing of controlled substances
and other prescribed medications, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Energy
and Commerce.
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 4811. A bill to amend title XXVII of
the Public Health Service Act to provide for
a definition of short-term limited duration
insurance, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 4812. A bill to amend the Controlled
Substances Act to provide for the modifica-
tion, transfer, and termination of a registra-
tion to manufacture, distribute, or dispense
controlled substances or list I chemicals, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on the Judiciary, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois:
H.R. 4813. A bill to prohibit large platform
utilities from being a financial institution or
being affiliated with a person that is a finan-
cial institution, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Financial Services, and in
addition to the Committee on Agriculture,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. MATSUI (for herself and Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio):
H.R. 4814. A bill to improve reporting of
the distribution of controlled substances,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Energy and Commerce, and in addition to
the Committee on the Judiciary, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. AGUILAR:
H.R. 4815. A bill to provide for joint reports
by relevant Federal agencies to Congress re-
garding incidents of terrorism, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Homeland Se-
curity.
By Mrs. AXNE:
H.R. 4816. A bill to amend the Commodity
Exchange Act to modify provisions relating
to whistleblower incentives and protection,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Agriculture, and in addition to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform, for a period
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23OC7.000 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8456 October 23, 2019
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. BAIRD (for himself, Mr.
STEUBE, Mr. GOSAR, Mr. THOMPSON of
Pennsylvania, Mr. COOK, Mr.
MOOLENAAR, Mr. BANKS, Mr. BISHOP
of Georgia, Mr. CROW, Mr. WATKINS,
Mr. CALVERT, Mr. WALTZ, Mr. PENCE,
Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. ABRAHAM, Mr.
BOST, Mr. MOULTON, Ms. STEVENS,
Mr. MAST, Mr. CASE, Mr. TAYLOR, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. CRAWFORD, Mr.
RESCHENTHALER, Mr. BILIRAKIS, Mr.
GREEN of Tennessee, Mr. ALLRED,
Mrs. WALORSKI, Mr. LAMB, Mr. ROSE
of New York, Mr. GOLDEN, Mrs.
BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. BACON, Mr.
VISCLOSKY, Mrs. WAGNER, Mrs. LURIA,
Mrs. HARTZLER, Mrs. MILLER, and Mr.
WENSTRUP):
H.R. 4817. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to ensure that certain De-
partment of Veterans Affairs medical facili-
ties have physical locations for the disposal
of controlled substances medications; to the
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mr. BARR (for himself, Mr. MURPHY
of North Carolina, Mr. HAGEDORN,
Mr. MITCHELL, Mr. HUIZENGA, Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana, and Mr. SHIM-
KUS):
H.R. 4818. A bill to impose sanctions with
respect to the provision of certain vessels for
the construction of Russian energy export
pipelines, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Affairs, and in addi-
tion to the Committees on the Judiciary, Fi-
nancial Services, Oversight and Reform, and
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Mr. BUCHANAN, Ms. PRESSLEY, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
GARCÍA of Illinois, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
LIPINSKI, and Ms. HAALAND):
H.R. 4819. A bill to amend title 23, United
States Code, to allow States to use funding
provided under the surface transportation
block grant program and the congestion
mitigation and air quality improvement pro-
gram to develop and implement vision zero
plans in eligible localities, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Transportation
and Infrastructure.
By Mr. BRINDISI (for himself, Ms.
CRAIG, and Mr. KATKO):
H.R. 4820. A bill to amend the Department
of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to
provide assistance to manage farmer and
rancher stress and for the mental health of
individuals in rural areas, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Agriculture.
By Mr. CÁRDENAS (for himself, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Ms. GABBARD, Mr.
WOMACK, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mr. CASE,
Mr. SABLAN, and Mr. SAN NICOLAS):
H.R. 4821. A bill to amend title IV of the
Personal Responsibility and Work Oppor-
tunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 to restore
Medicaid coverage for citizens of the Freely
Associated States lawfully residing in the
United States under the Compacts of Free
Association between the Government of the
United States and the Governments of the
Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic
of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of
Palau; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT (for himself, Mr.
MCKINLEY, Mr. MOULTON, Mr. LUJÁN,
Mr. PETERS, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Ms.
SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. SCHIFF, Mr. KING of
New York, Mr. SWALWELL of Cali-
fornia, Ms. MOORE, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mrs. NAPOLITANO, Mr.
ENGEL, and Mr. HASTINGS):
H.R. 4822. A bill to promote and ensure de-
livery of high-quality special education and
related services to students with visual dis-
abilities or who are deaf or hard of hearing
or deaf-blind through instructional meth-
odologies meeting their unique learning
needs, to enhance accountability for the pro-
vision of such services, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Ms. CLARKE of New York (for her-
self, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Mrs. DINGELL, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr. CASE,
Mr. SOTO, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER, Ms.
HAALAND, Ms. MOORE, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Mr. LOWENTHAL, Mrs. KIRK-
PATRICK, Ms. BARRAGÁN, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. KILDEE, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Mr.
CLEAVER, Mr. KENNEDY, and Mr.
WELCH):
H.R. 4823. A bill to direct the Adminis-
trator of the Federal Emergency Manage-
ment Agency to revise the policy of the
Agency to address the threats of climate
change, to include considerations of climate
change in the strategic plan of the Agency,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. COHEN (for himself, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, Ms. NORTON, Ms. JACKSON
LEE, and Ms. MOORE):
H.R. 4824. A bill to reauthorize the VOW to
Hire Heroes Act of 2011, to provide assistance
to small businesses owned by veterans, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs, and in addition to the Com-
mittees on Oversight and Reform, Armed
Services, Science, Space, and Technology,
and the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. COLE (for himself, Mr. MULLIN,
Mr. KEVIN HERN of Oklahoma, Mr.
MCHENRY, Mr. CARTER of Texas, and
Mr. HUDSON):
H.R. 4825. A bill to amend title 28, United
States Code, to provide for the secure stor-
age of a licensed firearm possessed by a Fed-
eral judge, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
for a period to be subsequently determined
by the Speaker, in each case for consider-
ation of such provisions as fall within the ju-
risdiction of the committee concerned.
By Ms. CRAIG:
H.R. 4826. A bill to award career pathways
innovation grants to local educational agen-
cies and consortia of local educational agen-
cies, to provide technical assistance within
the Office of Career, Technical, and Adult
Education to administer the grants and sup-
port the local educational agencies with the
preparation of grant applications and man-
agement of grant funds, to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to support community
college and industry partnerships, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Edu-
cation and Labor.
By Mr. CRIST:
H.R. 4827. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to enhance age-friendly com-
munities for older individuals; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM (for himself, Mr.
GRAVES of Louisiana, Mr. AUSTIN
SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. VEASEY, and
Mrs. DINGELL):
H.R. 4828. A bill to amend the Dingell-
Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act with re-
spect to sport fish restoration and rec-
reational boating safety, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Natural Re-
sources, and in addition to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure, for a pe-
riod to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. DELBENE (for herself and Mr.
YOUNG):
H.R. 4829. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide that the 50 per-
cent limitation on the deduction for meal ex-
penses does not apply to meals provided on
certain fishing boats or at certain fish proc-
essing facilities; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. DESAULNIER (for himself and
Mr. CARTER of Georgia):
H.R. 4830. A bill to provide payment for pa-
tient navigator services under title XIX of
the Social Security Act, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr.
YOUNG):
H.R. 4831. A bill to reauthorize and amend
the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation
Establishment Act; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Ms. FUDGE (for herself and Mr.
KATKO):
H.R. 4832. A bill to amend the Safe Drink-
ing Water Act and the Federal Water Pollu-
tion Control Act to establish pilot programs
to assist low-income households in maintain-
ing access to sanitation services and drink-
ing water, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Transportation and Infra-
structure, and in addition to the Committees
on Energy and Commerce, and Ways and
Means, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GOLDEN (for himself and Mr.
WRIGHT):
H.R. 4833. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to establish a grant program
for multigenerational collaboration; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER (for himself and
Mr. PASCRELL):
H.R. 4834. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for an excep-
tion to the definition of an off-campus out-
patient department of a provider under the
Medicare program for certain departments of
a provider if such provider was forced to re-
locate its campus; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. HAYES (for herself and Ms.
WILD):
H.R. 4835. A bill to provide grants to im-
prove trauma support services and mental
health care for children and youth in edu-
cational settings, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. HORSFORD (for himself, Ms.
NORTON, and Ms. KELLY of Illinois):
H.R. 4836. A bill to build safer, thriving
communities, and save lives by investing in
effective violence reduction initiatives; to
the Committee on the Judiciary, and in addi-
tion to the Committee on Energy and Com-
merce, for a period to be subsequently deter-
mined by the Speaker, in each case for con-
sideration of such provisions as fall within
the jurisdiction of the committee concerned.
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 4837. A bill to prohibit Federal agen-
cies from using funds for grants related to
the history of wine in countries outside of
the United States, whether insects are at-
tracted to artificial light, or the levels of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23OC7.100 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8457
October 23, 2019
stress on humans when discussing politics in
social situations, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. MCGOVERN (for himself and
Mr. SMITH of Nebraska):
H.R. 4838. A bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to allow payments under
the Medicare program for certain items and
services furnished by off-campus outpatient
departments of a provider to be determined
under the prospective payment system for
hospital outpatient department services, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on En-
ergy and Commerce, and in addition to the
Committee on Ways and Means, for a period
to be subsequently determined by the Speak-
er, in each case for consideration of such pro-
visions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 4839. A bill to amend part E of title IV
of the Social Security Act to require States
to provide for the placement of a foster child
in a cottage home, and to make a child so
placed eligible for foster care maintenance
payments; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself, Mr.
GOSAR, Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Mr.
SCHWEIKERT, Mr. STANTON, Mrs.
LESKO, and Mr. GALLEGO):
H.R. 4840. A bill to modify the boundary of
the Casa Grande Ruins National Monument,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Natural Resources.
By Mr. PHILLIPS:
H.R. 4841. A bill to require the prudential
banking regulators to provide annual testi-
mony to Congress on their supervision and
regulation activities, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Financial Services.
By Mr. PHILLIPS (for himself, Ms.
CRAIG, Mr. EMMER, Mrs. FLETCHER,
Mr. HAGEDORN, Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr.
OLSON, Ms. OMAR, Mr. PETERSON, Mr.
STAUBER, and Mr. YOHO):
H.R. 4842. A bill to authorize the Secretary
of State to provide funds for a United States
pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Foreign Af-
fairs.
By Mr. POCAN (for himself, Mr. COURT-
NEY, Ms. NORTON, Ms. LEE of Cali-
fornia, Ms. WILD, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mr. NORCROSS,
Mr. NADLER, Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD,
Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. WILSON of Florida,
Ms. TLAIB, Mr. LEVIN of Michigan,
Ms. MENG, and Mr. TAKANO):
H.R. 4843. A bill to authorize the Susan
Harwood Training Grant Program; to the
Committee on Education and Labor.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 4844. A bill to remove the authorized
purpose of maintaining water supply for ag-
ricultural uses for the project for
Caloosahatchee River and Lake Okeechobee
drainage areas, Florida; to the Committee on
Transportation and Infrastructure.
By Mr. ROSE of New York:
H.R. 4845. A bill to amend title 36, United
States Code, to grant a Federal charter to
the National Lighthouse Center and Mu-
seum; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. SCANLON:
H.R. 4846. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to provide priority for the
senior community service employment pro-
gram; to the Committee on Education and
Labor.
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 4847. A bill to establish a United
States Global Health Commission and a
United States Global Health Attaché Pro-
gram, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committees on Intelligence (Permanent
Select), and Armed Services, for a period to
be subsequently determined by the Speaker,
in each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 4848. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a credit for em-
ployer-provided job training, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means, and in addition to the Committee on
Education and Labor, for a period to be sub-
sequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mr. SMITH of Missouri (for himself
and Mr. DANNY K. DAVIS of Illinois):
H.R. 4849. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to increase the exclusion
for educational assistance programs; to the
Committee on Ways and Means.
By Ms. SPANBERGER (for herself and
Mr. REED):
H.R. 4850. A bill to provide for certain addi-
tional requirements with respect to patent
disclosures; to the Committee on Energy and
Commerce, and in addition to the Committee
on the Judiciary, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Ms. STEFANIK (for herself and Mr.
KELLER):
H.R. 4851. A bill to amend the Higher Edu-
cation Act of 1965 to carry out a State work-
force incentive program; to the Committee
on Education and Labor.
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 4852. A bill to amend title 38, United
States Code, to require the Secretary of Vet-
erans Affairs to make available to veterans
certain additional information about post-
secondary educational institutions, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Vet-
erans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. TRAHAN (for herself and Mr.
COMER):
H.R. 4853. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to eliminate the percentage
cap on funding available to carry out the
program to provide support services to older
caregivers; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 4854. A bill to amend title II of the So-
cial Security Act to update and improve eli-
gibility criteria for the Social Security Dis-
ability Program, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means, and in
addition to the Committee on Oversight and
Reform, for a period to be subsequently de-
termined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. BANKS:
H.J. Res. 78. A joint resolution expressing
support for freedom of conscience; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. BLUMENAUER (for himself,
Ms. BONAMICI, Mr. WALDEN, Mr.
DEFAZIO, and Mr. SCHRADER):
H. Con. Res. 69. Concurrent resolution con-
gratulating the Portland Trail Blazers on
the 50th anniversary of their inaugural sea-
son; to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form.
By Mr. CORREA:
H. Res. 652. A resolution honoring the city
of Santa Ana’s 150th anniversary; to the
Committee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mr. WESTERMAN (for himself, Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Ms. BROWNLEY
of California, Mr. MOULTON, Mr.
BUCSHON, Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr.
PALAZZO, Mr. KILMER, Mrs. BEATTY,
Mr. SWALWELL of California, Mr.
TAKANO, Ms. KUSTER of New Hamp-
shire, Mr. STIVERS, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of
Oklahoma, and Mrs. WALORSKI):
H. Res. 653. A resolution calling on Con-
gress, schools, and State and local edu-
cational agencies to recognize the signifi-
cant educational implications of dyslexia
that must be addressed, and supporting the
designation of October 2019 as ‘‘National
Dyslexia Awareness Month’’; to the Com-
mittee on Education and Labor.
f
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. RYAN:
H.R. 4801.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8: ‘‘To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. WILSON of South Carolina:
H.R. 4802.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1.
By Mr. NADLER:
H.R. 4803.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, clause 4 provides Con-
gress with the power to establish a ‘‘uniform
rule of Naturalization.’’
By Ms. JACKSON LEE:
H.R. 4804.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clauses 3 and 18 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. KIM:
H.R. 4805.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1
By Mr. LATTA:
H.R. 4806.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. PINGREE:
H.R. 4807.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. CLYBURN:
H.R. 4808.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CORREA:
H.R. 4809.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
(1) The U.S. Constitution including Article
1, Section 8
By Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois:
H.R. 4810.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:59 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L23OC7.100 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8458 October 23, 2019
The Necessary and Proper Clause, Article
I, Section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion
By Mr. BIGGS:
H.R. 4811.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion
By Mr. GRIFFITH:
H.R. 4812.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois:
H.R. 4813.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8 Clause 3
By Ms. MATSUI:
H.R. 4814.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. AGUILAR:
H.R. 4815.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, section 8, clause 18 of the United
States Constitution
By Mrs. AXNE:
H.R. 4816.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8 of the US Constitution
By Mr. BAIRD:
H.R. 4817.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3,
Congress has the authority to regulate for-
eign and interstate commerce. In addition,
Congress has the power to make all Laws
necessary and proper to carry out all other
of its vested powers pursuant to Article 1,
Section 8, Clause 18.
By Mr. BARR:
H.R. 4818.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. BLUMENAUER:
H.R. 4819.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section VIII, Clause VII
By Mr. BRINDISI:
H.R. 4820.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. CÁRDENAS:
H.R. 4821.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1.
All legislative powers herein granted shall
be vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.
By Mr. CARTWRIGHT:
H.R. 4822.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3 of the United
States Constitution
By Ms. CLARKE of New York:
H.R. 4823.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mr. COHEN:
H.R. 4824.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. COLE:
H.R. 4825.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article IV, Section 3, Clause 2 gives Con-
gress the authority to make all needful
Rules and regulations respecting US Terri-
tory.
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Ms. CRAIG:
H.R. 4826.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 of the United States
Constitution.
By Mr. CRIST:
H.R. 4827.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Mr. CUNNINGHAM:
H.R. 4828.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 3: To regulate
Commerce with foreign Nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian
Tribes.
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power To lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States.
Article 1 Section 8 Clause 18: The Congress
shall have Power . . . To make all Laws
which shall be necessary and proper for car-
rying into Execution the foregoing Powers,
and all other Powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the Government of the United States,
or in any Department or Officer thereof.
By Ms. DELBENE:
H.R. 4829.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. DESAULNIER:
H.R. 4830.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8.
By Mrs. DINGELL:
H.R. 4831.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The Constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, Section 8 of the United States Con-
stitution.
By Ms. FUDGE:
H.R. 4832.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 3
The Congress shall have Power * * * To
regulate Commerce with foreign Nations,
and among the several States, and wit the
Indian Tribes.
By Mr. GOLDEN:
H.R. 4833.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mr. GOTTHEIMER:
H.R. 4834.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18: To make all
laws that shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into execution the foregoing pow-
ers, and all powers vested by this Constitu-
tion in the government of the United States,
or in any department or officer thereof.
By Mrs. HAYES:
H.R. 4835.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I Section 8
By Mr. HORSFORD:
H.R. 4836.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 of the Con-
stitution of the United States
By Mrs. LEE of Nevada:
H.R. 4837.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 9, Clause 7: ‘‘No Money
shall be drawn from the Treasury, but in
Consequence of Appropriations made by Law;
and a regular Statement and Account of the
Receipts and Expenditures of all public
Money shall be published from time to
time.’’
By Mr. MCGOVERN:
H.R. 4838.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. MEADOWS:
H.R. 4839.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1 states: ‘‘The
Congress shall have Power to . . . provide for
. . . the general Welfare of the United States
. . .’’
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 4840.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. PHILLIPS:
H.R. 4841.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Under Article I, Section 8 of the Constitu-
tion, Congress has the power ‘‘to make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or any Department or Officer there-
of’’.
By Mr. PHILLIPS:
H.R. 4842.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
ARTICLE I, SECTION 8, CLAUSE 18
‘‘The Congress shall have Power To . . .
make all Laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into Execution the fore-
going Powers, and all other Powers vested by
this Constitution in the Government of the
United States, or in any Department or Offi-
cer thereof.’’
By Mr. POCAN:
H.R. 4843.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion.
By Mr. ROONEY of Florida:
H.R. 4844.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. ROSE of New York:
H.R. 4845.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
‘‘to make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or any De-
partment or Officer thereof’’.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:34 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.041 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H8459
October 23, 2019
By Ms. SCANLON:
H.R. 4846.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1 Section 8
By Mr. SHERMAN:
H.R. 4847.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. SIRES:
H.R. 4848.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Pursuant to clause 3(d)(1) of rule XIII of
the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Committee finds the authority for this
legislation in article I, section 8 of the Con-
stitution.
By Mr. SMITH of Missouri:
H.R. 4849.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 1 of the United
States Constitution.
By Ms. SPANBERGER:
H.R. 4850.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Ms. STEFANIK:
H.R. 4851.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, section 8 of the Constitution of
the United States
By Mrs. TORRES of California:
H.R. 4852.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
According to Article 1: Section 8: Clause
18: of the United States Constitution, seen
below, this bill falls within the Constitu-
tional Authority of the United States Con-
gress.
Article 1: Section 8: Clause 18: To make all
Laws which shall be necessary and proper for
carrying into Execution the foregoing Pow-
ers, and all other Powers vested by this Con-
stitution in the Government of the United
States, or in any Department or Officer
thereof.
By Mrs. TRAHAN:
H.R. 4853.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. YOHO:
H.R. 4854.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8
By Mr. BANKS:
H.J. Res. 78.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The constitutional authority of Congress
to enact this legislation is provided by Arti-
cle I, section 8 of the United States Constitu-
tion, specifically clause 18 (relating to the
power to make all laws necessary and proper
for carrying out the powers vested in Con-
gress).
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 51: Mr. COSTA.
H.R. 94: Mr. CROW.
H.R. 129: Mr. MULLIN.
H.R. 141: Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. NADLER, and
Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 144: Mr. RICE of South Carolina.
H.R. 217: Mr. LAHOOD and Mr. MAST.
H.R. 451: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 463: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 478: Mr. JOYCE of Ohio.
H.R. 535: Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN.
H.R. 613: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 625: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 649: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 671: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 712: Ms. WILD.
H.R. 737: Mr. EVANS, Ms. SEWELL of Ala-
bama, and Mr. GAETZ.
H.R. 777: Mr. NADLER, Ms. NORTON, and Mr.
TAYLOR.
H.R. 847: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 865: Ms. GABBARD, Mr. CORREA, Mr.
HASTINGS, Mr. BUTTERFIELD, and Mr. THOMP-
SON of California.
H.R. 884: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 895: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 921: Mr. VELA.
H.R. 934: Mr. RASKIN.
H.R. 935: Mr. TRONE and Ms. DELBENE.
H.R. 945: Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. STAUBER, and
Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 960: Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 961: Ms. STEVENS and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.R. 991: Mr. BACON and Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1002: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Ms.
SPANBERGER, Ms. MENG, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
and Ms. ESCOBAR.
H.R. 1007: Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1025: Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr. FITZPATRICK,
and Ms. HAALAND.
H.R. 1078: Ms. TORRES SMALL of New Mex-
ico.
H.R. 1108: Mr. WESTERMAN, Mr. KEVIN HERN
of Oklahoma, and Mr. RIGGLEMAN.
H.R. 1142: Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 1224: Ms. PORTER, Mrs. AXNE, Ms.
KELLY of Illinois, Mr. DAVID SCOTT of Geor-
gia, Mrs. MILLER, Mr. SUOZZI, Ms.
VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. KIM, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr. PAS-
CRELL, Mr. MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsyl-
vania, Mr. DELGADO, and Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 1230: Mr. NADLER.
H.R. 1243: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 1309: Mr. FORTENBERRY.
H.R. 1315: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 1341: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 1345: Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 1379: Mr. JEFFRIES and Mr. STANTON.
H.R. 1380: Mr. HORSFORD, Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr.
EVANS, Mr. MCEACHIN, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN
of Oklahoma, Mrs. LURIA, Mr. STANTON, Mr.
CLAY, and Ms. SHERRILL.
H.R. 1394: Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 1407: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 1446: Mr. MEEKS.
H.R. 1497: Ms. TLAIB.
H.R. 1498: Mrs. DEMINGS.
H.R. 1528: Mrs. MILLER.
H.R. 1529: Mr. LIPINSKI.
H.R. 1570: Mr. BUCSHON, Ms. DAVIDS of Kan-
sas, and Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1601: Mr. NORMAN.
H.R. 1636: Ms. BARRAGÁN.
H.R. 1643: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 1646: Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of Okla-
homa.
H.R. 1652: Mr. SOTO and Ms. GABBARD.
H.R. 1680: Mr. HIGGINS of Louisiana and Mr.
CRAWFORD.
H.R. 1692: Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 1695: Mr. STAUBER.
H.R. 1713: Mr. COX of California, Mr. KIL-
DEE, Mr. NADLER, Mr. THOMPSON of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. O’HALLERAN.
H.R. 1717: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 1765: Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 1766: Ms. BROWNLEY of California, Mr.
TURNER, and Miss RICE of New York.
H.R. 1774: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 1777: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 1794: Mr. KILMER, Mr. RUTHERFORD,
and Mrs. FLETCHER.
H.R. 1865: Mrs. ROBY and Ms. FRANKEL.
H.R. 1866: Mr. COLLINS of Georgia.
H.R. 1869: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Ms.
HOULAHAN, and Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 1882: Ms. SÁNCHEZ.
H.R. 1903: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 2128: Mr. HUFFMAN.
H.R. 2135: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2146: Mr. RUSH, Mr. YARMUTH, Mr.
DESAULNIER, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2147: Mr. GUTHRIE, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr.
MCCAUL, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. OLSON, Mr. BISHOP
of North Carolina, Mr. RICE of South Caro-
lina, Ms. CHENEY, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, Mr.
MURPHY of North Carolina, Mr. MALINOWSKI,
Mr. BURGESS, Mr. ALLEN, and Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 2179: Mr. BACON.
H.R. 2191: Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois.
H.R. 2201: Mr. PETERSON, Mr. LARSEN of
Washington, Mr. FLEISCHMANN, and Mrs.
AXNE.
H.R. 2207: Ms. SCANLON and Ms.
SPANBERGER.
H.R. 2214: Mr. KIM, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Mr.
CLEAVER, and Mr. MCEACHIN.
H.R. 2235: Mr. CONNOLLY.
H.R. 2256: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 2258: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama and Mr.
BUDD.
H.R. 2279: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. KIND, Mr.
SMUCKER, and Ms. SEWELL of Alabama.
H.R. 2282: Mr. PETERS.
H.R. 2311: Mr. NORCROSS.
H.R. 2349: Mr. TED LIEU of California.
H.R. 2411: Mr. CICILLINE, Mr. BEYER, and
Mr. ROONEY of Florida.
H.R. 2415: Mr. AGUILAR.
H.R. 2420: Mr. MALINOWSKI, Ms. DELBENE,
Mr. DEFAZIO, Mr. ROGERS of Kentucky, Mr.
COOPER, Ms. LOFGREN, Mr. KILDEE, Mrs. DIN-
GELL, Mrs. AXNE, Ms. KENDRA S. HORN of
Oklahoma, and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2431: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2435: Ms. SPANBERGER and Mrs. WAT-
SON COLEMAN.
H.R. 2438: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 2442: Mr. CARTWRIGHT and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 2478: Mr. COX of California.
H.R. 2487: Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 2521: Mr. WALDEN and Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2540: Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr. POSEY,
and Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 2584: Mr. KILMER, Mr. BOST, and Mr.
COLE.
H.R. 2628: Mr. SPANO.
H.R. 2645: Mr. LARSEN of Washington, Mr.
STEUBE, and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2650: Mr. KUSTOFF of Tennessee.
H.R. 2683: Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 2694: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois and Ms.
HILL of California.
H.R. 2734: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2747: Mrs. AXNE and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2767: Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 2772: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 2802: Ms. SEWELL of Alabama, Mr.
MAST, and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 2808: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 2812: Mr. BISHOP of Georgia and Mr.
SUOZZI.
H.R. 2818: Mr. MCKINLEY and Ms.
FINKENAUER.
H.R. 2825: Ms. WILD and Mr. HILL of Arkan-
sas.
H.R. 2831: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 2913: Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 2932: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 2986: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 2989: Mr. CALVERT.
H.R. 2990: Mr. BALDERSON, Mr. KELLY of
Mississippi, Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia,
and Mr. ROGERS of Alabama.
H.R. 3038: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. SWALWELL
of California.
H.R. 3068: Ms. GABBARD, Mr. MCGOVERN,
Mr. LEVIN of California, Mr. TONKO, Mr.
POCAN, Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. PAPPAS, and Mrs.
LURIA.
H.R. 3073: Mr. SARBANES and Mr. GOLDEN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:34 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.044 H23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H8460 October 23, 2019
H.R. 3077: Mr. ALLRED, Mr. PRICE of North
Carolina, Ms. BROWNLEY of California, and
Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 3078: Mr. TIPTON.
H.R. 3085: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 3103: Mr. PRICE of North Carolina and
Mr. DELGADO.
H.R. 3127: Ms. SPANBERGER, Mr. HOLLINGS-
WORTH, and Mr. SMUCKER.
H.R. 3128: Mr. TED LIEU of California and
Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 3129: Mrs. NAPOLITANO.
H.R. 3131: Mr. CURTIS.
H.R. 3165: Mr. VISCLOSKY.
H.R. 3182: Mr. MCADAMS.
H.R. 3219: Ms. GARCIA of Texas.
H.R. 3222: Mrs. BEATTY, Mr. AGUILAR, and
Mrs. DAVIS of California.
H.R. 3225: Mr. PANETTA, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, and Mr. QUIGLEY.
H.R. 3265: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 3355: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 3373: Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 3374: Mr. MEEKS and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3463: Mr. BUTTERFIELD.
H.R. 3473: Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 3495: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. KIND, Mr.
PAYNE, Mr. COOK, Mr. KING of Iowa, Ms. WIL-
SON of Florida, Mr. CLAY, Mr. JOHNSON of
Ohio, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, Mr. LUCAS, and Mr. GRAVES of Geor-
gia.
H.R. 3502: Mr. WEBSTER of Florida and Mr.
MCCAUL.
H.R. 3513: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD.
H.R. 3524: Mr. RUSH.
H.R. 3529: Mr. UPTON.
H.R. 3559: Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 3588: Mrs. WAGNER.
H.R. 3632: Mrs. TRAHAN, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
KIND, and Mr. SMITH of Washington.
H.R. 3665: Mr. CRIST.
H.R. 3668: Mr. PALLONE.
H.R. 3708: Mr. KELLY of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 3760: Mr. GOMEZ, Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York, and Mr. VARGAS.
H.R. 3787: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 3794: Mr. PERLMUTTER.
H.R. 3815: Mrs. AXNE.
H.R. 3820: Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 3822: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire.
H.R. 3870: Mr. REED.
H.R. 3896: Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. HAALAND,
Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. CRIST, Mr. VARGAS, and
Mr. SIRES.
H.R. 3934: Mr. WALKER.
H.R. 3956: Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 3957: Mr. WELCH.
H.R. 3960: Mr. AGUILAR and Mr. THOMPSON
of Mississippi.
H.R. 3973: Ms. KUSTER of New Hampshire
and Mr. SERRANO.
H.R. 4037: Mr. DAVID P. ROE of Tennessee.
H.R. 4051: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4096: Mrs. HAYES.
H.R. 4098: Mr. YOHO.
H.R. 4105: Mr. KIND.
H.R. 4162: Mr. WOMACK.
H.R. 4228: Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York and Mr. CORREA.
H.R. 4230: Mr. VISCLOSKY and Ms.
WASSERMAN SCHULTZ.
H.R. 4237: Mr. WALKER and Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 4269: Ms. LOFGREN.
H.R. 4279: Mr. EVANS and Mr. CARTWRIGHT.
H.R. 4297: Ms. BARRAGÁN and Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 4300: Mr. KEATING.
H.R. 4303: Mr. WELCH, Mr. GARCÍA of Illi-
nois, and Mr. YARMUTH.
H.R. 4304: Mr. DUNN.
H.R. 4305: Mr. REED, Mr. SEAN PATRICK
MALONEY of New York, Mr. CRENSHAW, Mr.
NADLER, Mrs. ROBY, Mr. WOMACK, Mr.
MCHENRY, Mr. STAUBER, Mr. SMITH of New
Jersey, Mr. BURGESS, Mr. MITCHELL, Mr.
GOTTHEIMER, Mr. VAN DREW, Mr. NEWHOUSE,
Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. WAT-
KINS, Mr. FITZPATRICK, Mr. WILSON of South
Carolina, and Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 4319: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 4333: Mr. KATKO.
H.R. 4334: Mr. KELLER.
H.R. 4348: Mr. VISCLOSKY and Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 4374: Ms. BROWNLEY of California.
H.R. 4386: Mrs. FLETCHER, Mr. COHEN, Mr.
CASE, and Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4397: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4399: Mr. WENSTRUP.
H.R. 4482: Ms. SLOTKIN.
H.R. 4487: Mr. COX of California and Mr.
GALLAGHER.
H.R. 4560: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 4584: Mr. GRIJALVA.
H.R. 4588: Mr. SOTO and Mr. CRENSHAW.
H.R. 4589: Mr. STAUBER, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. CRENSHAW, and Mr. PAPPAS.
H.R. 4615: Ms. ROYBAL-ALLARD and Mr.
CARSON of Indiana.
H.R. 4623: Mr. KENNEDY.
H.R. 4639: Ms. UNDERWOOD and Mr. TRONE.
H.R. 4650: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.R. 4670: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 4674: Ms. FRANKEL, Ms. CASTOR of
Florida, Mr. HIGGINS of New York, Ms.
HAALAND, Mr. PANETTA, Ms. JUDY CHU of
California, Ms. BARRAGÁN, and Mr. GARCÍA of
Illinois.
H.R. 4678: Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER.
H.R. 4686: Mr. SIRES and Mr. STEUBE.
H.R. 4691: Ms. CASTOR of Florida.
H.R. 4695: Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
LOWENTHAL, Mr. LUJÁN, Mr. KILDEE, Ms.
BASS, Mr. PALLONE, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. LAN-
GEVIN, Mrs. LURIA, and Mr. DESAULNIER.
H.R. 4700: Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. CARTER of
Georgia, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr. LONG, Mr. SCA-
LISE, Mr. BURGESS, Mrs. BROOKS of Indiana,
and Mr. BILIRAKIS.
H.R. 4701: Mr. GARCÍA of Illinois.
H.R. 4705: Ms. OMAR.
H.R. 4724: Ms. OCASIO-CORTEZ.
H.R. 4736: Mr. WALBERG, Mr. CRENSHAW,
Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio, Mr. HILL of Arkansas,
Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. SMUCKER, Mr. HURD of
Texas, Mr. CONAWAY, Mr. FITZPATRICK, and
Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 4737: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H.R. 4739: Mr. MCCAUL.
H.R. 4753: Mr. TAYLOR.
H.R. 4754: Mr. WILSON of South Carolina,
Mr. YOHO, and Mr. SENSENBRENNER.
H.R. 4758: Mr. WITTMAN and Mr. HAGEDORN.
H.R. 4764: Ms. JACKSON LEE and Mr. BUDD.
H.R. 4779: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY.
H.R. 4782: Ms. TITUS.
H.R. 4794: Mr. ENGEL, Ms. MENG, and Miss
RICE of New York.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. LEWIS.
H.J. Res. 48: Mr. MALINOWSKI.
H.J. Res. 67: Mr. SMITH of New Jersey.
H. Con. Res. 54: Mr. JOHNSON of Ohio.
H. Res. 49: Mr. TED LIEU of California, Mr.
SENSENBRENNER, and Mr. MEEKS.
H. Res. 230: Mr. WITTMAN.
H. Res. 255: Mr. COOK, Mr. HUFFMAN, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, Mr. CUELLAR, and Mr.
LATTA.
H. Res. 296: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr.
LAMALFA, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. THOMPSON of
Mississippi, and Mr. CLAY.
H. Res. 410: Mr. SIRES, Mr. DEUTCH, Mr.
KEATING, Ms. TITUS, Mr. BERA, and Ms. WILD.
H. Res. 515: Mrs. LURIA.
H. Res. 520: Mr. CRIST and Mr. LOWENTHAL.
H. Res. 531: Ms. BASS, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr.
MCGOVERN, and Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H. Res. 538: Mr. MITCHELL.
H. Res. 546: Mr. MEEKS, Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN, Mr. KEATING, Mr. TED LIEU of Cali-
fornia, Mr. GOTTHEIMER, Ms. WILD, Ms.
BROWNLEY of California, and Mr. BERA.
H. Res. 574: Ms. MCCOLLUM, Mr. CONNOLLY,
and Mr. COHEN.
H. Res. 620: Mr. CRAWFORD.
H. Res. 633: Mr. GUTHRIE.
H. Res. 636: Ms. UNDERWOOD.
H. Res. 639: Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr. GUTHRIE,
Mr. HARRIS, and Mrs. HARTZLER.
f
PETITIONS, ETC.
Under clause 3 of rule XII, petitions
and papers were laid on the clerk’s
desk and referred as follows:
56. The SPEAKER presented a petition of
the City Council of the City of New York,
relative to Resolution No. 1047, calling on
the United States Congress to pass, and the
President to sign, legislation that would pro-
hibit the enactment of the federal rule enti-
tled, ‘‘Inadmissibility on Public Charge
Grounds’’; to the Committee on the Judici-
ary.
57. Also, a petition of the Council of the
City of New York, relative to Resolution No.
866-A, calling on the United States Congress
to re-introduce and pass, and the President
to sign, the 3-D Firearms Prohibition Act;
jointly to the Committees on Energy and
Commerce and the Judiciary.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:34 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC7.049 H23OCPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S6051
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 23, 2019 No. 168
Senate
The Senate met at 9:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
Eternal God, give our lawmakers this
day the wisdom to know Your words
and obey Your precepts. As they follow
Your leading, may they remember the
many times You have delivered them
in the past.
Lord, give them the courage to not
retreat from life’s battles but to faith-
fully keep their hands in Yours.
Guide us, Great Jehovah. We are pil-
grims in this land. We are weak, but
You are mighty. Guide us with Your
powerful hand.
In the time of our distress, console us
with Your merciful presence.
We pray in Your Loving Name.
Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The Senator from Iowa.
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
REMEMBERING TED STEVENS
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, later
today, I will attend the portrait unveil-
ing of my former colleague and friend,
Senator Ted Stevens, who served in the
Senate from 1968 until 2009.
This portrait is being added to the
Senate leadership portrait collection
because of Senator Stevens’ service as
the President pro tempore, a position I
now hold.
Senator Stevens was known for his
tireless work on behalf of the State of
Alaska and their citizens. He had quite
a reputation for reaching across party
lines to get the job done.
I am honored to attend today’s cere-
mony adding Senator Stevens’ portrait
to the historic walls of the U.S. Cap-
itol.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ma-
jority leader is recognized.
f
THE FIRST LADY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
first, I want to acknowledge two nota-
ble events taking place in the Capitol
today.
As we speak, the First Lady of the
United States is just down the hall for
a special event related to our Nation’s
opioid epidemic, marking the progress
that Congress and the administration
have made in recent years and focusing
our efforts on the work still ahead.
I will have more to say on the subject
tomorrow, which will mark the 1-year
anniversary of President Trump sign-
ing our landmark opioid legislation
into law.
I want to warmly welcome the First
Lady to the Senate this morning and
thank her for her continued focus on
this crisis, which affects so many of
our States. I offer these thanks not
only as the majority leader but as the
senior Senator from Kentucky, which
has been hit hard by this epidemic.
f
REMEMBERING TED STEVENS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
later today, in the old Senate Chamber,
family, friends, and former colleagues
of our late colleague, Senator Ted Ste-
vens, will gather for the unveiling of
the Senator’s leadership portrait.
Senator Stevens’ likeness will join
the storied ranks of the leadership por-
trait collection—images of majority
leaders, minority leaders, and Presi-
dents pro tem, which are proudly dis-
played around the building.
Our distinguished predecessors watch
over the corridors they walked, the
rooms in which they debated, and the
body they served.
It is fitting that Senator Stevens is
being recognized for his service as
President pro tem. As we all know, un-
like the elected party leaders, that is
not a job which you can campaign or
persuade your way into. The only way
to become President pro tem is to per-
suade your home State, over and over,
to rehire you, and Ted Stevens was
about the most dogged advocate for his
home State that anybody could pos-
sibly imagine. He was Alaska’s son and
Alaska’s champion 24 hours a day and
then some.
I look forward to honoring our
former colleague’s memory this after-
noon.
f
H.R. 4617
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, on
another matter, later today, I under-
stand the House of Representatives will
vote on H.R. 4617. This is the latest in-
stallment in Speaker PELOSI’s cam-
paign to expand government’s control
over America’s political speech.
It is a transparent attack on the
First Amendment that has united an
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:46 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.000 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6052 October 23, 2019
unlikely band of opponents across the
political spectrum. Everybody from
hardcore conservatives to the ACLU is
speaking out against this effort to
erode Americans’ constitutional rights.
The proposal would give the Federal
Election Commission unprecedented li-
cense to track and regulate Americans’
political speech on the internet and de-
cide what speech qualifies as political
in the first place.
If it were not bad enough on principle
to fill more Washington, DC, filing
cabinets with which citizens hold what
beliefs, their bill would also deputize
media companies into this effort. They
would force publications to keep exces-
sive records for any advertisement
they accept not only for political cam-
paigns but on any issue of national im-
portance.
When this regulatory burden has
been tried on a smaller scale, it has
frightened media platforms into reject-
ing political ads altogether. It is a
textbook example of policy designed to
reduce the amount of free speech in our
country. Press organizations such as
the Washington Post and the Balti-
more Sun have already sued over simi-
lar regulations on First Amendment
grounds and won in court.
House Democrats want to violate the
First Amendment and harm journalists
in order to give more control to the
FEC. That would be the same FEC that
Democrats have recently tried to shift
from a bipartisan body to a partisan
body for the first time in its history.
A different part of the House bill re-
fers to ‘‘legitimate journalistic activi-
ties.’’ I look forward to hearing what
Orwellian commission or process House
Democrats may have in mind for deter-
mining whether Washington, DC,
deems a particular journalist legiti-
mate.
These are just a few examples. Even
the ACLU—widely viewed as a left-
leaning organization that is not known
for siding with Republicans—is pub-
licly opposing the Democrats’ bill.
Here is what the ACLU said:
‘‘The SHIELD Act . . . strikes the wrong
balance, sweeping too broadly and encom-
passing more speech than necessary. . . . The
SHIELD Act goes too far . . . to the det-
riment of the public and the First Amend-
ment.’’
That is the ACLU.
Congress has real business to attend
to. House Democrats need to stop
blocking the USMCA. Senate Demo-
crats need to stop blocking defense
funding. Yet, rather than working on
these issues, we instead see Democrats
continue to fixate—fixate—on chipping
away at the First Amendment. It is a
pet project they return to time and
again. It is disturbing, especially in
light of recent blatant attempts to in-
timidate Americans into silence.
Just a few months ago, a sitting
House Democrat earned national criti-
cism when he publicly tweeted out a
list of his own constituents in San An-
tonio, TX, who had donated to Presi-
dent Trump’s campaign. He listed these
private citizens’ names along with
their employers or businesses. In this
era of political harassment and online
mobs, the implication was clear as day.
From Twitter posts to partisan mes-
saging bills, House Democrats’ mission
is the same: Chill the exercise of free
speech. Send a message to Americans
with inconvenient views that speaking
up is more trouble than it is worth.
This proposal will not do anything to
stop maligned foreign actors—some-
thing that every Member of this body
cares deeply about. As three former
FEC Chairmen recently pointed out,
foreign adversaries like Russia are not
going to stop their malign operations
for fear of an FEC fine. Let me say that
again. Adversaries like Russia are not
going to stop their malign operations
for fear of an FEC fine.
‘‘Campaign-finance law isn’t the tool
to prevent foreign meddling. . . . Ad-
versaries won’t be scared off by civil
penalties. . . . This is a job for diplo-
matic, national security, and counter-
intelligence agencies. [This legislation]
is a needless sacrifice to First Amend-
ment rights, not a serious effort to se-
cure elections.’’
That is three former Chairmen of the
Federal Election Commission. I cer-
tainly agree. It was focusing on defense
and counterintelligence, not attacking
the First Amendment, that made the
2018 elections go more smoothly than
the 2016 elections. That is why the hun-
dreds of millions of dollars Congress
has set aside for State grants have
made a big difference. That needs to re-
main our focus as we continue our ef-
forts to avoid repeating the mistakes
of 2016.
House Democrats have achieved
something remarkable here. They have
drafted legislation that is so anti-First
Amendment that it has united every-
body from former FEC Commissioners,
to the ACLU, to yours truly in opposi-
tion.
I am sorry that Speaker PELOSI
deems go-nowhere messaging bills a
better use of the House’s time than the
USMCA and the 176,000 new American
jobs that experts tell us it would cre-
ate. The American people deserve a
House of Representatives that works
with the Senate and the President to
actually make law and make progress
for the families we represent.
f
TAX REFORM
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
today Senate Democrats will push for-
ward their own resolution that seeks to
undermine part of the historic tax re-
form we passed in 2017.
Remember, back then, Washington
Democrats were downright hysterical
about our plan to let working Ameri-
cans send less of their paycheck to the
IRS. Speaker PELOSI called the tax
cuts ‘‘Armageddon.’’ She said it was
‘‘the worst bill in the history of the
United States Congress.’’ That is the
Speaker on the 2017 tax reform bill. I
guess that shows how much Democrats
hate to cut taxes. But tax reform
passed, and the results are clear. It has
increased Americans’ take-home pay
and helped generate one of the best
economic moments for working fami-
lies in a generation.
Since tax reform, 22 States, including
my State of Kentucky, have set new
record-low unemployment rates. The
national unemployment rate has set a
50-year low. But, alas, rather than ac-
knowledge that the sky hasn’t fallen,
our Democratic friends still want to
undermine tax reform—and listen to
where they have elected to start. Lis-
ten to this. Democrats’ first target is
changing the Tax Code so that working
families across the country have to
subsidize wealthy people in States like
New York, New Jersey, and California.
Here is the background. As part of
tax reform, in order to maximize mid-
dle-class relief, the deductibility of
State and local tax payments was
capped. Most middle-class taxpayers
were more than compensated for this
through other tax cuts, but for some
wealthy people who elect to live in
high-tax States, this represented a par-
tial increase.
Republicans didn’t think it was fair
that middle-class working families in
States the Obama economy left behind
had to subsidize the tax bills of rich
people in high-tax States without
limit. We didn’t eliminate the State
and local tax deduction; we just capped
it for high earners. That cap is what
Democrats want to undermine. Their
resolution would help high-tax States—
typically governed by Democrats—cre-
ate workarounds for their high-earners.
Let’s be clear about what would hap-
pen if Democrats got their real objec-
tive and repealed the SALT cap alto-
gether. According to data from the
Joint Committee on Taxation, 94 per-
cent of the benefit would flow to tax-
payers who earn more than $200,000 a
year. That is what they are advocating.
Ninety-four percent of the benefit
would flow to taxpayers who earn more
than $200,000 a year. More than half of
it would actually go to people who
make more than $1 million a year—cut-
ting taxes for the rich. Repealing the
SALT cap would give millionaires an
average tax cut of $60,000. Meanwhile,
the average tax cut for taxpayers earn-
ing between $50,000 and $100,000 would
be less than $10. There would be $60,000
tax cuts for wealthy people and $10 tax
cuts for the middle class. Apparently
that sounds like a good trade to our
Democratic colleagues. It doesn’t
sound like good trade to me.
I am sorry to break it to my Demo-
cratic colleagues, but the middle-class
Kentuckians I represent have zero in-
terest—zero interest—in cross-sub-
sidizing the tax bills of millionaires
who live in Brooklyn and the Bay Area.
It is bad enough that my Democratic
colleagues want to unwind tax reform,
but it is downright comical that their
top priority—a top priority—is helping
wealthy people in blue States find loop-
holes to pay even less. They won’t even
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:46 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.001 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6053
October 23, 2019
propose to repeal the SALT cap out-
right because they know it is bad pol-
icy and negates all of their talking
points about tax fairness. They just
want to bless a backdoor workaround.
I urge Members on both sides to use
common sense and reject Democrats’
resolution when we vote on it later
today.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S.J. RES. 59
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a joint resolution
at the desk that is due a second read-
ing.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The lead-
er is correct.
The clerk will read the joint resolu-
tion by title for the second time.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 59), expressing
the sense of Congress on the precipitous
withdrawal of United States Armed Forces
from Syria and Afghanistan, and Turkey’s
unprovoked incursion into Syria.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the joint resolution on the calendar
under the provisions of rule XIV, I ob-
ject to further proceedings.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the joint reso-
lution will be placed on the calendar.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
PROVIDING FOR CONGRESSIONAL
DISAPPROVAL UNDER CHAPTER
8 OF TITLE 5, UNITED STATES
CODE, OF THE RULE SUBMITTED
BY THE INTERNAL REVENUE
SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF THE
TREASURY, RELATING TO ‘‘CON-
TRIBUTIONS IN EXCHANGE FOR
STATE OR LOCAL TAX CREDITS’’
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of S.J. Res. 50,
which the clerk will report.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A joint resolution (S.J. Res. 50) providing
for congressional disapproval under chapter 8
of title 5, United States Code, of the rule
submitted by the Internal Revenue Service,
Department of the Treasury, relating to
‘‘Contributions in Exchange for State or
Local Tax Credits.’’
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the joint resolu-
tion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER). The majority whip.
TAX REFORM
Mr. THUNE. Mr. President, today,
Democrats are forcing a vote to repeal
the administration’s sensible rule to
disallow bogus charitable deductions
that are designed to circumvent the
SALT, or the State and local tax, de-
duction cap that was part of the 2017
tax reform bill.
Frankly, I welcome this vote and to-
day’s debate. It gives us an opportunity
to review all the benefits of the Tax
Cuts and Jobs Act.
While drafting the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act, Congress made a conscious choice
to cap the State and local tax deduc-
tion, or SALT, at $10,000. Doing so al-
lowed us to provide additional tax re-
lief to the middle class, support fami-
lies by doubling the child tax credit,
and simplify the Tax Code for filers by
nearly doubling the standard deduc-
tion.
These changes resulted in the aver-
age family of four in my home State of
South Dakota receiving a tax cut of
more than $2,000.
In response to this cap, certain high-
tax States adopted—what some would
call ‘‘creative’’ but what I would call
‘‘bogus’’—schemes to try to circumvent
the cap. These so-called charities that
these States have set up are designed
solely as an alternative method of pay-
ing State and local taxes so million-
aires can shirk their Federal tax obli-
gations. So the IRS did what the tax
law directed. It enacted sensible regu-
lations to shut down these bogus tax
avoidance schemes. But it did so in a
thoughtful manner, carefully consid-
ering more than 7,700 comments and
creating a safe harbor for certain dona-
tions to avoid unintentionally discour-
aging actual charitable giving.
It is ironic that Democrats, who uni-
formly opposed the middle-class tax
cuts in the new tax law, are now call-
ing for a tax cut for the most well off
Americans. Based on nonpartisan data
from the Joint Committee on Tax-
ation, 94 percent of the benefit from
passing this CRA would flow to tax-
payers with incomes of over $200,000.
Fifty-two percent of the benefit would
go to those with incomes of over $1
million.
In fact, repealing the SALT cap
would result in millionaires receiving
an average tax cut of nearly $60,000,
while the average tax cut for taxpayers
with incomes between $50,000 and
$100,000 would be less than $10.
If you put that into perspective, the
choice here is very clear. Today, we
have an opportunity to vote no—to
vote no—on the Democrats’ proposed
tax cut for millionaires.
RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
The Democratic Party has undergone
quite an evolution over these past 3
years. Like all political parties, the
Democratic Party has always had an
extremist fringe, with the far-left wing
of the Democratic Party rapidly be-
coming its mainstream. Democrats
have been falling all over each other to
see how far they can run to the left.
Socialism, a concept that, in America
at least, seemed to have been firmly
consigned to the ash heap of history is
now being openly embraced by the
Democratic Party. Leading Democrats
have embraced putting the government
in control of everything from Ameri-
can’s energy usage to healthcare.
It is not socialism or government-run
healthcare that I want to focus on
today. I want to talk about another
trend that has been gradually emerging
in the Democratic Party but doesn’t al-
ways get the coverage that proposals
like Medicare for All receive. It is the
growing Democratic hostility to reli-
gion, which culminated a couple of
weeks ago in a Democratic Presi-
dential candidate’s proposal to selec-
tively tax churches based on whether
he agrees with their religious beliefs.
Let me repeat that. Think about that
for a minute. A Democratic Presi-
dential candidate proposed that the
government should selectively tax
churches and synagogues and mosques
based on whether their religious beliefs
pass muster with the President. That
is, or should be, a shocking statement.
The idea of taxing churches based on
whether their religious beliefs meet
with a political party’s approval is
antithetical to the fundamental right
to freely exercise one’s religion. It is
not just antithetical, but it is uncon-
stitutional. Targeting churches for dis-
criminatory treatment based on their
theology is a violation of the First
Amendment.
It is an understatement to say that it
is deeply disturbing to see this pro-
posal emerge from a mainstream can-
didate. But what might be even more
disturbing is that members of the
Democratic Party aren’t lining up to
reject this outlandish and unconstitu-
tional proposal.
Maybe we shouldn’t be surprised.
This is not the first time a Democrat
has shown signs of regarding religious
people as second-class citizens. During
some of the judicial confirmations of
this administration, it became clear
that Democrats believed religious peo-
ple should be subjected to extra scru-
tiny.
There was the nomination of Amy
Coney Barrett during the first year of
this administration. She was an out-
standing judicial candidate who re-
ceived the American Bar Association’s
highest rating of ‘‘well qualified.’’ The
ABA’s evaluation, as the Democratic
leader once said, is ‘‘the gold standard
by which judicial candidates are
judged.’’
Yet during the confirmation process,
it became clear that some Democrats
thought she should be disqualified be-
cause she is a practicing Catholic.
‘‘The dogma lives loudly within you’’ is
a quote from the Democratic ranking
member on the Judiciary Committee,
with the implication that anyone who
takes his or her religious faith seri-
ously can’t be trusted to hold public of-
fice.
Last December, Democrats raised
questions about another judicial nomi-
nee because he is a member of a Catho-
lic charitable organization, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:46 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.003 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6054 October 23, 2019
Knights of Columbus, which partici-
pates in such disturbing activities as
serving veterans, raising money for the
needy, and providing young people with
scholarships. The Constitution is very
clear on whether being a person of
faith can disqualify you from public of-
fice. From article VI, ‘‘no religious
Test shall ever be required as a Quali-
fication to any Office or public Trust
under the United States.’’
‘‘No religious Test shall ever be re-
quired as a Qualification to any Office
or public Trust under the United
States.’’ That is a quote from article
VI of the Constitution.
Religious liberty is a foundational
part of our system of government.
There is a reason it is the very first
freedom mentioned in the Bill of
Rights. More than one of the 13 origi-
nal colonies were founded for the ex-
press purpose of securing religious free-
dom. By religious freedom, I don’t
mean the right to worship privately as
long as you don’t bring your faith into
the public square. What people were
looking for in America—what they still
look for in America—is the freedom to
live according to their religion and ac-
cording to their conscience and beliefs,
freely and publicly, without inter-
ference from the government. That is
what the First Amendment was in-
tended to protect.
I want to move away from the Con-
stitution for a minute, though. There
is no question that Democrats’ increas-
ingly hostile public attitude toward re-
ligion raises some serious questions
about constitutionality. I think that is
clear. That is not the only disturbing
aspect of it.
I am also profoundly disturbed by the
none-too-subtle implication that reli-
gious people are somehow second-class
citizens, that we may have to tolerate
them, but that we should seek to push
them out of public life. That idea is
also one that would be absolutely anti-
thetical to the Founders.
The Founders didn’t see religion as
something to be tolerated. They saw it
as an absolute good, and that isn’t just
because a number of the Founders were
men and women of faith. They didn’t
think religion was just a private good—
that it kept you in a good place with
God. No, they thought religion was
good for society. Think of the famous
passage from Washington’s Farewell
Address, which we read in the Senate,
literally, every single year in observ-
ance of Washington’s birthday.
Let me quote:
Of all the dispositions and habits which
lead to political prosperity, religion and mo-
rality are indispensable supports. In vain
would that man claim the tribute of patriot-
ism, who should labor to subvert these great
pillars of human happiness, these firmest
props of the duties of men and citizens. The
mere politician, equally with the pious man,
ought to respect and to cherish them. A vol-
ume could not trace all their connections
with private and public felicity.
Again, this is from President Wash-
ington’s Farewell Address. This is a
sentiment that occurs over and over
again during the founding—that reli-
gion is a benefit not just to individuals
privately but to the public, that it
makes men and women into good citi-
zens. It encourages them to uphold the
law, to live virtuous lives, to take their
oaths seriously, to respect the property
of others, and to moderate problematic
passions like vengeance and avarice.
That is not to say that you have to
be religious to be a good citizen, but it
does point to the truth that religion is
something that adds value to society
and that it builds men and women who
are a blessing to their neighbors and to
their country.
Americans are known for being a
generous people. I don’t think it is
much of a coincidence that Americans
are also known for being a religious
people. Again, to be clear, that doesn’t
mean you have been to be religious to
be generous, but religion encourages
generosity. Think about how much of
the charitable work in this country
would go away overnight without reli-
gion. Churches and religious organiza-
tions support food banks and homeless
shelters and crisis pregnancy centers.
They run tutoring programs and schol-
arship programs and mentoring pro-
grams. They reach out to immigrants
and refugees and to struggling parents
and struggling families. They serve
military members and first responders.
They sign up people to vote. They help
families looking to adopt. They imple-
ment recycling programs. They collect
aid for individuals caught in the path
of natural disasters. They build houses
for those without a home, and I could
go on and on and on.
I will provide just one South Dakota
example. A few months ago, I visited
LifeLight’s new youth center in the
Pettigrew Heights area of Sioux Falls.
In addition to providing spiritual op-
portunities, the center is focused on
providing a safe place where under-
privileged children can come to hang
out, play games, have a snack, and do
their homework. It is just one of the
many tremendous things being done by
churches and religious organizations in
Sioux Falls and around my State. I
doubt there is any area where good
work is being done in this country
where you won’t find religious people
helping out.
I don’t just want to see religious peo-
ple tolerated. I want to see the Demo-
cratic Party rejecting the un-American
idea that being religious somehow
makes you less qualified to participate
in the public square, and I want to see
the Democratic Party standing up to
condemn unconstitutional ideas like
that proposed by one of their Presi-
dential candidates.
Until then, I will keep fighting to en-
sure that every American’s funda-
mental right to live in accordance with
his or her religious beliefs is protected.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
TURKEY AND SYRIA
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, 3
weeks ago, a small number of U.S. Spe-
cial Forces were working with our Syr-
ian Kurdish partners to conduct oper-
ations against ISIS and hold more than
10,000 detainees, many of them hard-
ened ISIS fighters. It was a product of
a half decade of hard work by Amer-
ican and coalition forces and the Kurds
to degrade ISIS, to put them on the
run, and stabilize the postconflict re-
gion.
Today, only 3 weeks later, as Amer-
ican troops continue their withdrawal
from their bases in northern Syria at
the President’s orders, President Putin
and President Erdogan have announced
a plan to establish Russian and Turk-
ish control of a region that was once
controlled by American and Kurdish
forces. Our partners, the Syrian Kurds,
have been killed and wounded in
Erdogan’s invasion and forced to leave
their homes in droves. Most impor-
tantly, the upper hand we once held
over ISIS has been eroded.
We don’t know how many ISIS de-
tainees have escaped from detention fa-
cilities or where they have gone. There
seems to be no articulable plan on how
to get them back. In the blink of an
eye, President Trump has undone over
5 years of progress against the Islamic
State.
Three weeks after first announcing
the troop withdrawal, the President
does not seem to have a clear strategy
for securing the enduring defeat of ISIS
and fixing the mess he has created in
Syria. Secretary of State Pompeo does
not have a clear strategy. Secretary of
Defense Esper does not have a clear
strategy. Every day it seems like we
are going in a completely different di-
rection. One day, reports indicate the
administration was considering a resid-
ual force in eastern Syria; the next re-
port says the administration planned
to target ISIS from Iraq. The next
minute, reports said Iraq will not allow
our forces to do that.
What is the strategy here? America’s
security is at risk. ISIS is dangerous.
ISIS is escaping. How will the adminis-
tration continue to bring the fight to
ISIS? What will the President do to
prevent Russian and Turkish aggres-
sion and the potential slaughter of our
allies and friends, the Kurds? When will
the administration present its strategy
to Congress?
We need answers to these questions
right away, but, shockingly, the ad-
ministration’s top officials, Secretary
of State Pompeo, Secretary of Defense
Esper, have now canceled two sched-
uled briefings with the Senate, and
there is no new time on the calendar.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:46 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.005 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6055
October 23, 2019
Secretary of State Pompeo appar-
ently had time to speak to the Herit-
age Foundation yesterday, which is
four blocks away from the Capitol, but
he doesn’t have time to come to Con-
gress, not even to brief us on Syria?
Secretary Pompeo is derelict in his
duty. He has an obligation to come
here. It is not a question of time if he
spoke four blocks away at the Heritage
Foundation. He is ducking. We need an-
swers, and if they don’t have answers,
we need to have a Q and A, a dialogue,
and maybe that will push them to some
answers. It is too dangerous for Amer-
ica to sit and do nothing—to run and
hide, as Secretary Pompeo is now
doing.
Today Senate Democrats are holding
a special caucus to hear from Brett
McGurk, the former government envoy
in charge of countering ISIS under
both Presidents Obama and Trump.
While I expect Mr. McGurk’s presen-
tation to be helpful to our caucus, it
does not replace the need for the
Trump administration and its officials
to come to Congress and explain their
strategy.
At the same time, we should send a
message to the President that both
parties oppose his policy in Syria. The
House has passed such a resolution on
an overwhelming bipartisan vote, in-
cluding the Republican leaders like
Leader MCCARTHY, Representative SCA-
LISE, and Representative CHENEY.
I have asked the Senate twice now to
take up the House resolution, only to
be blocked by a single Republican
Member. I continue to believe the
quickest and most powerful way to
convince the President that he is on
the wrong track is for Congress to put
a bipartisan, joint resolution on his
desk saying so. That is what the House
resolution does, and the Senate should
take it up and pass it.
We all know it is hard to shake the
President from his thoughts and ideas,
even when they are creating such dis-
aster. His ego is enormous, but the one
thing we can do is our Republican col-
leagues joining us in a resolution that
reaches his desk. When Republican col-
leagues criticized him about Doral, he
backed off. It is the only thing that can
get him to change, and America is at
risk.
Why aren’t our Republican col-
leagues stepping forward? Do they care
more about protecting President
Trump than protecting America? I
hope not.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
USMCA AGREEMENT
Mr. DAINES. Mr. President, it has
been over 1 year since the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement was
signed by President Trump and the
leaders of Canada and Mexico. This
landmark trade agreement is expected
to create 176,000 new American jobs. It
is expected to grow American busi-
nesses all over our country and help
give a jump-start to our hard-working
farmers and ranchers. With 95 percent
of the world’s population outside of the
United States, Montana producers need
access to these global markets.
Agriculture drives our economy in
Montana. In fact, it is the No. 1 eco-
nomic driver in our State. Canada and
Mexico both are in high demand for our
products like wheat, barley, and beef.
In fact, in 2018 alone, Montana had $731
million in total exports to Canada and
Mexico.
For our producers in Montana, the
USMCA would be a positive step for-
ward in providing certainty and alle-
viating the challenges and obstacles
they faced virtually every single day
this season.
When I travel across Montana, I have
heard from folks in every corner of our
State: 4–H members, FFA members,
farmers and ranchers at local county
fairs, and producers along the highway.
They all want action on USMCA. They
all need relief. They are looking for
something certain coming out of Wash-
ington, DC, in these uncertain times.
I cannot stand by any longer as my
colleagues in the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives fail to act. Listen, we have
enough votes in the Senate to pass it.
There are enough votes in the House to
pass it. President Trump can’t wait to
sign it. Mexico is ready; Canada is
ready; the United States is ready; and
I can state that in my home State of
Montana, we are very ready. I, along
with the majority in the U.S. Senate,
am ready to get this deal done and get
it across the finish line for some of the
hardest working folks in our Nation,
our farmers and ranchers.
Hard-working small business owners
and folks on farms and ranches all over
Montana are sitting and waiting for
Speaker PELOSI to stop slow-walking
the USMCA. The House Democrats can-
not continue to hold our farmers and
ranchers hostage for any future polit-
ical gain that we are seeing right now
in the House. It has been a political
game over there. This is negatively im-
pacting the Montana way of life.
There are countless numbers of Mon-
tana families out there who are sur-
viving paycheck to paycheck. They are
living on a prayer. They are sick and
tired of politics and the partisan games
being played in Washington, DC, and,
you know what, I am too.
We were elected to come here and get
something done, not spin the wheels on
cable TV at night just talking about
other issues that aren’t moving the
ball forward on behalf of the American
people. What Montanans care about is
how they are going to put food on the
table and how they are going to make
ends meet this winter coming up. The
USMCA is more than just a trade deal,
it is an opportunity for more jobs and,
importantly, higher wages.
That is why I am here today. I am
here to encourage our Democratic col-
leagues in the House to stop playing
politics with our communities, our
jobs, and our very lives. I am calling on
the U.S. House to act, bring this impor-
tant trade deal up for a vote. Let’s
have an up-or-down vote. Let the
House Chamber speak. Let them vote.
The USMCA has the potential to
boost our Nation’s GDP by $68 billion,
plain and simple. That means more
money in the pockets of Montanans. It
is a better opportunity for our folks in
agriculture. There is more revenue for
Main Street businesses in Montana.
The USMCA will deliver much needed
trade certainty, secure intellectual
property rights, and modernize digital
trade.
I am not alone in wanting swift ac-
tion. I am honored to have support
from the Montana Chamber of Com-
merce, the Montana Farm Bureau Fed-
eration, from the Montana Grain Grow-
ers Association, from the Montana
Stockgrowers Association, and from
the Montana Pork Producers Associa-
tion. They are all with us to get the
USMCA done. The longer we stall this
deal, the further we stall economic op-
portunity in Montana and across this
Nation.
To Speaker PELOSI and to my col-
leagues in the House, the time to act is
now. Our neighbors depend on it, my
Montana farmers and ranchers depend
on it, and the entire country depends
on it.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Colorado.
COLORADO FARM TOUR
Mr. GARDNER. Mr. President, I
thank my colleague from Montana for
his comments on the USMCA.
I come to the floor today to talk
about a farm tour that I have done
every year that I have been in the Sen-
ate. This is a tradition that started
when I was in the House of Representa-
tives with the wheat growers in Colo-
rado, where we go around the Fourth
Congressional District talking about
those issues that matter to our farmers
in the wheat business. Colorado’s
Fourth Congressional District raises
the vast majority of wheat in the State
of Colorado, and about 87 percent of
that wheat gets exported.
Senator DAINES’ comments on the
USMCA and what that means for East-
ern Colorado are incredibly important.
I hope that is a bipartisan effort that
we can all get behind in the House and
the Senate, and, of course, it has to
start in the House, and we need the
House to act as quickly as possible be-
cause those wheat farmers in Eastern
Colorado need the certainty of new
markets. The cattlemen in Colorado
need the certainty of new markets and
existing markets. That is exactly what
the USMCA will do. I commend my col-
league for his words on the USMCA.
Over the last several months, I have
been participating in this annual Colo-
rado farm tour that I undertake every
year with not only my staff but pro-
ducers from across Colorado. It is in
conjunction with a number of organiza-
tions in Colorado, like the Colorado
Farm Bureau, Colorado wheat growers,
corn growers, cattlemen, and others,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:46 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.007 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6056 October 23, 2019
who all come together to show us every
aspect of Colorado agriculture, from
the production itself to the actual
processing and finishing of agricultural
products.
We drove hundreds of miles across
the State of Colorado, starting in Gree-
ley at a cheese-making plant. Almost
all of the milk that is produced in Col-
orado—Colorado being one of the high-
est milk-producing States in the coun-
try—goes into cheese that every Amer-
ican gets to enjoy. Whether it is
Domino’s pizza or Papa John’s pizza,
that cheese most likely comes from
Colorado. This is a great opportunity
on this tour to connect all four corners
of Colorado and the work that we do in
agriculture and to hear their concerns.
We ended the farm tour at the State
Fair in Pueblo.
What was particularly special about
this year’s farm tour, though, was, of
course, being joined by the Colorado
Farm Bureau, and the fact that it is
the 100th year anniversary of the Colo-
rado Farm Bureau. Congratulations to
the Colorado Farm Bureau. We will be
talking about that more over the next
several months. Congratulations on
this very historic anniversary, and
thank you so much for joining this
tour and making it happen once again.
As Members of Congress, all of us are
used to discussing policy topics, but
keeping farming and ranching at the
forefront and keeping rural America at
the forefront of those discussions is
critically important because we need
to focus specifically on those issues
facing our farming and ranching com-
munities.
In Colorado, the ag community ac-
counts for more than 170,000 jobs. It is
responsible for more than $40 billion in
economic activity. It is one of the larg-
est economic drivers in our State—a
State that has been transformed by en-
ergy jobs and high-tech aerospace jobs.
Agriculture remains one of the highest
job sectors in the State.
Even though it is so vital to our
State, we know how much of a struggle
it has been in agriculture over the last
several years. According to the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, 2019 farm income
is projected to be down 49 percent from
its peak in 2013. Over the last 6 years,
we have seen a nearly 50-percent drop
in farm income. Debt held by our farm-
ers and ranchers is at $409 billion this
year. That is up from $385 billion the
year before. There is significant worry
in the heartland about what is hap-
pening to our agricultural commu-
nities and the future of farming and
ranching in this country.
One way to immediately help to pro-
vide solutions to solve this problem for
farmers and ranchers is to make sure
that we implement the 2018 farm bill
programs as quickly and expeditiously
as we can and that we resolve out-
standing trade disputes, that we pass
the USMCA, and that we resolve the
trade dispute with China so that we
can continue to open up new markets,
develop new markets, and thrive with
existing markets.
When an industry that accounts for
nearly 11 percent of our Nation’s em-
ployment is struggling like agriculture
is, we simply can’t wait any longer to
provide help. We must act now to put
the ag community back on the path to
sustainability, so that not only current
generations of farmers and ranchers
can continue in operation but new gen-
erations of farmers and ranchers can
come back to Colorado, North Dakota,
and States across this country to make
sure they have bright futures in agri-
culture.
Even in the face of difficult times, we
saw on this tour how farmers and
ranchers are innovating and looking to
address new markets to increase their
incomes. They are opening up new mar-
kets through the Asia Reassurance Ini-
tiative Act, whether that is a trade
agreement with ASEAN or Taiwan.
Another example is clean energy op-
portunities that our farmers have em-
braced. On one of the stops during the
tour, we visited a farm in Eastern Colo-
rado near Limon, CO, to talk about
what wind production means for that
rancher. The farmer leased the land,
the area, to Xcel Energy, which is
Colorado’s largest investor-owned util-
ity, to install wind turbines, which pro-
vides them with an alternative source
of income.
Another rancher in the county talked
about how they may earn as much as
$5,000 per turbine for the wind oper-
ations on their ranch. If you think
about it, this farmer had 20 turbines on
his land—that is $5,000 times 20. That is
$100,000 in income that this farmer
would not have otherwise had. Farm
income is down 50 percent, farm debt
has increased, but this wind produc-
tion, with a very small footprint, may
be the difference between keeping in
operation this year and next year. We
have to welcome that kind of diversi-
fied agriculture opportunity.
Another example of diversified in-
come for agricultural producers is in
Springfield, CO, in the far southeastern
area of the State, where we visited a
hemp processing plant. This Chamber
has done great work when it comes to
hemp, a new value-added opportunity
for farmers and ranchers in Colorado.
When this hemp processing plant is
fully up and running, they are hoping
to employ around 50 people. We went to
this facility, and there is millions of
dollars of equipment being invested in
a small town. Employees will have a
shop, a gym, and recreational facili-
ties. They are going to build a lake
there and hire 50 employees in Spring-
field. I remember asking one of the
other county commissioners who was
on the tour with us in Baca County:
Did you ever imagine a day when one
business would bring 50 employees to
Springfield?
The answer was very quick: No, never
at all.
This as an incredible opportunity,
not only for the farmers in the area but
the community that will now benefit
from 50 good-paying jobs with benefits.
That is just one other source of rev-
enue that we can achieve.
We also had the opportunity to visit
Agriculture Research Station in
Akron, CO, where they are doing tre-
mendous research on dryland oilseeds
and new technologies. One of the
things we talked about is how we can
make it more effective to produce
dryland crops and how we can make
oilseed opportunities available for ad-
ditional value-added opportunities in
the area.
We also had opportunities on the
farm tour to talk about mental health
needs and what is happening in our
communities. On too many stops dur-
ing the farm tour, I heard about the
impact that our struggling ag economy
is having on the mental health of farm-
ers and ranchers. A 2016 Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention study
found that agricultural workers have a
higher suicide rate than any other oc-
cupation.
When we passed the farm bill in 2018,
we also included language called the
FARMERS FIRST Act, which will help
to create mental health opportunities
for those involved in agriculture and
help to make sure that we have suicide
assistance and prevention training for
mental health assistance and suicide
prevention efforts for farm advocates
to help create support groups and rees-
tablish the Farm and Ranch Stress As-
sistance Network. That needs to be
something that we all talk about back
home with our agricultural commu-
nity. Because they have provided food
and fiber for this country and, cer-
tainly, the world, we need to make sure
we are supporting them in every way.
We also talked about how we saw a
nearly 40-percent increase in admis-
sions for meth addiction in Colorado
between 2011 and 2018. While we talk a
lot about opiate addictions in this
country, it is actually meth that our
sheriffs are most concerned about in
our rural areas. While we address the
opiate epidemic, we also have to be giv-
ing and providing new tools and re-
sources to deal with the addiction
scourge of methamphetamine.
Alarmingly, a significant number of
that meth is coming into Colorado
from, basically, industrial-scale manu-
facturing facilities and sophisticated
operations in Mexico and China. We
need to make sure that we disrupt
those operations. We need to advocate
more for the High Intensity Drug Traf-
ficking Areas Program and the anti-
methamphetamine task force to help
law enforcement prevent cartels from
getting these kinds of drugs into the
country and continue to work on pro-
grams like the Substance Abuse and
Mental Health Services Administration
to focus on recovery resources and pre-
vention.
Everywhere we went on the farm
tour, we heard about the labor short-
age, whether it was the cheese-making
facility or whether it was the ranch or
the hospitals that we visited on the
farm tour. They talked about the need
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:46 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.009 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6057
October 23, 2019
for labor. We need a guest worker pro-
gram that meets the needs of labor in
this country.
Housing issues seem to be something
that we don’t talk about when it comes
to our rural areas. We talk a lot about
it when it comes to the Denvers and
the mountain communities and resort
communities. Our rural areas are fac-
ing housing shortages and needs, as
well. We introduced legislation and are
working on legislation out of this farm
tour to help focus our labor and hous-
ing shortage needs.
I have talked about trade and the op-
portunities we have with trade to open
up new markets and to resolve current
trade issues, and we need to continue
to work on that.
While the agricultural community is
currently facing very serious issues, I
want to be clear that our farmers and
ranchers are as strong as ever.
Growing up on the Eastern Plains of
Colorado and still living in the heart-
land of Colorado agriculture, I have al-
ways observed the incredible positive
impact that agriculture has on our
communities—rural communities and
urban centers as well. When the Fed-
eral Government gets out of the way of
farmers and ranchers and growers and
allows good things to happen, that is
when our rural communities grow and
thrive.
A couple of weeks ago, we had the op-
portunity to celebrate National Farm-
ers Day. It was a day to celebrate the
great community that has always been
the backbone of this Nation, but we
can never express all of our thanks to
this industry simply on 1 day of the
year.
To all of our farmers and ranchers, to
those who make our breakfast, lunch,
and dinners possible by providing abun-
dant food and fiber for this country and
this world, I am grateful for them and
look forward to continuing to work on
new solutions and better opportunities
in the years to come.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
APPROPRIATIONS
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, I
am here this morning very pleased to
be at this point where we are talking
about consideration of an appropria-
tions package that includes the fiscal
year 2020 bills for the subcommittees
on Interior and Environment; Com-
merce, Justice, and Science; Agri-
culture, Rural Development, and Food
and Drug Administration; and Trans-
portation and Housing and Urban De-
velopment; and the various related
agencies.
It may be premature to call this a re-
turn to regular order, but I think that
is kind of what it feels like. I would
note that it is October 23, well past
time that we should have finished our
appropriations work, but we are ad-
vancing. We have bills that we have
moved through the subcommittees and
the full committee, and we are now
moving packages of these to the floor.
I am pleased that we are here, where
we have an opportunity to take up
these substantive measures that the
full committee has addressed with
strong bipartisan support.
In the case of the Interior and Envi-
ronment bill, there was unanimous
support for our bill. Then, there is the
opportunity to bring the bills to the
floor for consideration, where other
Members have an opportunity to de-
bate these appropriations bills, offer
amendments, and, then, advance them
through the process.
I am pleased this morning—particu-
larly pleased—to be able to speak on
the Interior Appropriations Sub-
committee bill and to be here with my
ranking member, Senator UDALL. We
have worked through this sub-
committee account now for several
years. It has been a good partnership, a
strong partnership, with our teams
working side by side. It is not the easi-
est of bills. We get our fair share of
controversy.
In addition to taking care of all of
our public lands, we also have over-
sight of our Native peoples. We also
have oversight of the EPA. So we have
a range of subject matters that some-
times can bring us together and some-
times can cause some bumps along the
way. Yet what we have committed to
doing, I think, in working collabo-
ratively, in working together, has re-
sulted in a good, strong measure that
the Senate now sees before it.
Last year was the first time since fis-
cal year 2010—9 years now—that the In-
terior, Environment, and Related
Agencies appropriations was brought
before the full Senate. We have been in
a situation in which, for years, we have
kind of been at the tail end of the line,
the last of those spending bills to
move. Now we are debating it in the
first package, so we really feel like we
have kind of arrived here. Again, you
don’t arrive here as part of the first
package without having done a great
deal of work. You don’t do that and re-
ceive unanimous support coming out of
the committee for the second year in a
row now if you do not demonstrate this
strong commitment that both sides
have made to create an environment in
which we can work through these
issues in a bipartisan manner.
The Interior, Environment, and Re-
lated Agencies portion of this minibus
includes funding for all of the major
Federal land management agencies.
This includes the National Park Serv-
ice, the Bureau of Land Management,
the Fish and Wildlife Service, the For-
est Service, as well as the Environ-
mental Protection Agency. We also
provide funding for essential Indian
health, education, and resource man-
agement programs through the BIA
and the Indian Health Service. Then we
also provide funding and oversight for
important cultural institutions, like
the Smithsonian Institution, our Na-
tional Gallery of Art, the National En-
dowment for the Arts, and the National
Endowment for the Humanities. This
aspect of our oversight is often kind of
forgotten because it doesn’t necessarily
fit in with the public lands, with the
EPA, with the BIA, but it is an impor-
tant and an integral part of our sub-
committee’s work.
Our subcommittee’s allocation for
fiscal year 2020 is $35.8 billion. This is
$248 million more than last year, with
an additional $2.25 billion being made
available by the wildfire cap adjust-
ment, and I will speak to the wildfire
cap issue a little bit later here. Similar
to the approach that we took in fiscal
year 2019, the bill rejects the proposed
budget decreases. We make invest-
ments in our highest priorities, such as
infrastructure investments for our land
management agencies, Indian Country,
and wastewater and drinking water im-
provements.
The Department of the Interior itself
is funded at $13.7 billion. These funds
go to support energy development that
is critical to our Nation’s economy, to
recreation activities that power our
rural communities, and to conserva-
tion efforts to protect our public lands
and the wildlife that relies on them.
Funding is provided to support an all-
of-the-above energy approach, both on-
shore and offshore, that will continue
to help our country achieve energy
independence.
On the conservation front, invest-
ments in grants programs for species
protection, wetlands conservation, and
to combat wildlife trafficking are in-
cluded. We also took a keen look at
some of the invasive species that are
wreaking havoc in certain of our re-
gions, like the Asian carp, so we pro-
vide a lot of good focus there.
Americans love to love our national
parks, so this bill provides the funds
that are necessary to meet our respon-
sibility at the national park units. We
also focus on the deferred maintenance,
which is something we have talked a
lot about in committee and on the
floor. We invest $127 million for de-
ferred maintenance. We also increase
funding for historic preservation,
which is critical to preserving the sites
and the stories of our Nation.
The USGS, the U.S. Geological Sur-
vey, receives funding for important
programs that help our emergency re-
sponders during natural disasters like
earthquakes or tsunamis. We work
within this bill to provide assistance
for responses to natural hazards and
disasters as well as to inform the pub-
lic. In my State of Alaska, the support
for the Earthquake Hazards Program
helps us. As a State that is very seis-
mically prone, it helps us with warn-
ings, and it helps to enhance the earth-
quake monitoring capability. The bill
also maintains funding for mapping
initiatives that will help to gather data
to improve our maps, which enhances
the safety of activities such as avia-
tion. In certain parts of the country,
believe it or not, we do not have cur-
rent and accurate mapping. Certainly,
in my home State—and I know in other
parts of the country—the updates to
the maps have simply not been made.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:46 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.010 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6058 October 23, 2019
We also fully fund another lands mat-
ter, PILT, which is estimated at $500
million, and it maintains our commit-
ment to meeting the needs of local
communities for county roads, public
safety, and schools. I know many of us
in this Chamber hear from our con-
stituents about the significance of ade-
quate PILT funding.
The Land and Water Conservation
Fund is something that is near and
dear to many in this body. You will see
in this bill an increase to the LWCF,
which receives $465 million. This is $30
million above the enacted level. This
also includes $140 million for the NPS
State side program as well as addi-
tional funding for recreational access.
We focus on how we are able to access
our treasured lands and ensure we have
a level of conservation that is sup-
ported across the country.
In working with Senator UDALL over
these years, I think it has been impor-
tant—it has certainly been important
for me—to have had a great partner-
ship, a strong partnership when it has
come to trying to meet the needs of
those within Indian Country and hav-
ing to fund the critical services. With
this bill, I think we are making good
measure to do that. The two primary
agencies that deliver services to the In-
dian community are the Bureau of In-
dian Affairs and the Indian Health
Service. They receive a combined in-
crease of $288 million over the 2019 lev-
els. We maintain all critical program
funding with some important increases
for Indian Country.
For the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the
BIA, we maintain the substantial in-
creases we have provided over the last
2 fiscal years. We are helping on mat-
ters such as the construction, oper-
ation, and maintenance of Indian
schools. We know, unfortunately, that
in so many of the reservations in the
lower 48, our schools are simply inad-
equate. The education scores we are
seeing from our schools are not where
we need to be. Making sure we are
doing right by our Native children
around the country is so important
when it comes to education.
We also include funding for irrigation
systems. We also fully fund contract
support costs. We increase funding for
public safety and justice facilities con-
struction and programs. Certainly, as I
hear from folks in Alaska and those
around Indian Country in the lower 48,
public safety is something by which,
again, we are not doing right by those
whom we must serve in these areas.
This is an effort that I intend to con-
tinue to push in my going forward.
I would specifically like to point out
to my colleagues that for the very first
time, we include a comprehensive look
with new funding into those issues re-
lated to murdered and missing indige-
nous women. Many of us have been
shocked at what we are coming to un-
derstand about the murdered and miss-
ing of our Native women around the
country. The data we have we know is
lacking. We don’t know what we don’t
know. Thus, oftentimes it is difficult
to respond and to address resources.
The fact is that many who live in Trib-
al communities are often located in
rural areas that lack public safety, and
even though you have high rates of vio-
lence, abuse, murder, trafficking, we
simply don’t have the resources there
to help to respond to it.
I have been working with several of
my colleagues to address these chal-
lenges—Senator UDALL, Senator
HOEVEN, Senator DAINES, and so
many—to shine a light in this area. We
know it is going to take a lot of coordi-
nation and communication among law
enforcement agencies to get this right.
In this bill, we include $6.5 million for
cold case investigations, equipment,
training, background checks, and the
necessary report language to move us
in the right direction.
Attorney General Barr came to the
State of Alaska in May. In Anchorage,
he had an opportunity to sit and listen
to statewide leaders, Native leaders,
and law enforcement. He then had an
opportunity to get out of the rural
areas and into the villages. After he
left, he declared a public safety emer-
gency in the State of Alaska because of
where we sit. So we have been working
with the Attorney General and greatly
appreciate his efforts there, but we
need to do more through these appro-
priations to look specifically at these
issues as well.
For the Indian Health Service, there
are also programs we have an obliga-
tion to fund that are vital to Indian
Country. Many of these programs and
the costs associated with them have
grown since we enacted the 2019 bill.
Among these are leasing and staffing
costs that are associated with new
healthcare facilities that are operated
by the IHS or by Tribes under compact
agreements. Our bill funds these new
increases. We provide additional fund-
ing for recruitment and quality im-
provement as well as providing a $24
million increase for facilities, includ-
ing an increase for medical equipment.
The Forest Service receives invest-
ments in funding for the improved
health and management of our Na-
tion’s forests, including for recreation
assets, such as the cabins so many of us
enjoy, the trails on which we hike, and
recreation special use permitting to
allow certain businesses to operate in
our national forests in order to en-
hance the many recreational experi-
ences and opportunities.
At the beginning of my comments, I
mentioned the wildfire cap adjustment.
It was back in the 2018 omnibus that we
created the wildland fire cap adjust-
ment, and fiscal year 2020 is the first
year this is now available. The bill in-
vests $5.167 billion in wildland fire ac-
tivity, including $2.25 billion in fire cap
adjustment funding.
In my State over this past summer,
we certainly saw intense and extensive
fires. It was a recordbreaking heat year
this past summer, and we had some
pretty devastating fires. We are still
talking about the fires just last year in
California. We know the threat is real,
and we know we have to respond. So
making sure we have the capacity to
fight fire is important. In this bill, we
not only invest in fire suppression, but
we also invest in State and volunteer
fire assistance. We provide increases
for hazardous fuels reductions.
As far as the EPA budget goes, we
prioritize funding for the programs
that result in concrete actions to im-
prove the quality of the environment
across our country. The bill provides
significant increases in State and Trib-
al grant programs, which will lead to
tangible, on-the-ground cleanup and
environment benefits, which was an-
other priority that was strongly sup-
ported by many in this Chamber.
The priority that was targeted by
many in the waters phase was water in-
frastructure development. Many of the
newly authorized programs in Amer-
ica’s Water Infrastructure Act are
funded for the first time in this meas-
ure. Funding is also provided for the
Clean Water and Drinking Water State
Revolving Funds and for the WIFIA
Program to build and support critical
water infrastructure in communities in
every State. The bill also equips the
EPA with a powerful set of tools to fur-
ther the Agency’s core missions of
clean air, clean water, and clean land.
One of the issues I hear a lot about
from the folks back home, as well as
from my colleagues in the Senate, is
the issue of PFAS and PFAS contami-
nation. In this bill, we have provided
$25 million in increases to address
PFAS, including new funding for State-
led cleanup and remediation efforts.
We also focus on the research of human
health and environmental impacts and
related priority regulatory actions.
There is a $20 million increase provided
for EPA grant programs to support
States in their cleanup and remedi-
ation efforts of PFAS-contaminated
water sources as well as the water sys-
tems and the lands.
The remaining $5 million in increases
will support the EPA’s priority actions
on PFAS and supplement the research
that other agencies are currently con-
ducting on the chemicals.
So we heard the concerns of so many,
and we really worked to respond in this
measure.
Lastly, the bill includes important
increases for our cultural institutions
and our agencies. The Smithsonian In-
stitution, the Gallery of Art, and the
National Endowment for the Arts and
Humanities all receive increases in our
measure.
I think it is so important to make
sure that when we think about our
treasures—clearly our land, the clean-
liness of our water, but we also have
national treasures, and we see so much
of that reflected in the arts, whether it
is the Smithsonian, the galleries, or
what the Endowment for the Arts and
the Humanities do.
Consistent with fiscal year 2019, we
do not include new policy provisions
VerDate Sep 11 2014 23:46 Oct 23, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.012 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6059
October 23, 2019
that were not in the enacted bill. So we
worked with Chairman SHELBY, Vice
Chairman LEAHY, and the ranking
member, again, with Senator UDALL, to
assemble a package that both sides
supported in committee.
I want to reiterate the work Senator
UDALL and I put in to produce a bipar-
tisan product that invests in programs
that we care about—programs that pro-
tect our land and our people and enable
infrastructure projects to boost the
economy and help communities provide
vital basic services that many might
take for granted. We also worked hard
to shape this bill so that it reflects the
priorities of Members on both sides of
the aisle. I am proud—I am really very
proud—of the good, bipartisan work to
ensure that this Interior appropria-
tions bill directs the Federal resources
to where they are needed most, pro-
viding critical investments in commu-
nities across the Nation.
Of course, this Interior bill is just a
part of this package. We also have
Commerce-Justice-Science, Agri-
culture, and T-HUD. All of these have
significant impacts across the country.
Certainly in my home State, we are
looking at the Commerce-Justice-
Science bill to help keep our fisheries
healthy and provide assistance for pub-
lic safety programs.
In the Agriculture bill, there is fund-
ing for much needed water infrastruc-
ture in our villages, and it helps ex-
pand our ever-growing agricultural in-
dustries.
Of course T-HUD makes sure that
rural communities in my State can
still receive things like essential air
service and helps with our ferry trans-
portation system and to provide Tribal
housing.
There is so much good in all of these
measures. I would commend them to
Members’ consideration but would cer-
tainly urge passage of this very impor-
tant Appropriations bill.
I am pleased to be here with my col-
league, the good Senator from New
Mexico.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
SASSE). The Senator from New Mexico.
Mr. UDALL. Mr. President, it is
great to be here with Senator MUR-
KOWSKI.
I rise to speak in support of the fiscal
year 2020 Interior appropriations bill,
which is now before the Senate. I want
to begin by thanking my chairman and
partner in this endeavor, Senator MUR-
KOWSKI, for her working with me to
produce a very fine bill that was craft-
ed on a bipartisan basis. It is extraor-
dinary that this bill is on the floor for
the second consecutive year after many
years when we were not able to move
the bill by regular order. Much of the
credit goes to her leadership and her
commitment to working through tough
issues in a fair and a pragmatic way.
One of the reasons I am particularly
proud of moving a bipartisan bill is the
importance this bill has for my home
State of New Mexico.
This bill reflects the long tradition
we have in my State of working across
the aisle to support conservation prior-
ities. It includes a number of impor-
tant accomplishments for the State,
including language to protect the sa-
cred landscape of Chaco Canyon, along
with funding to support the Valles
Caldera National Preserve and the new
resources to clean up the PFAS con-
tamination in New Mexico and across
the country.
This bill is also an important reflec-
tion of why the work that Chairman
SHELBY and Vice Chairman LEAHY did
earlier this year to secure a 2-year
budget agreement is so important.
The Interior bill delivers roughly 2.5
percent more funding than last year
once you factor in the increase we re-
ceived under the budget agreement and
the savings we picked up from using
the first year of the wildfire cap adjust-
ment.
The funds in this bill allow this body
to make solid increases to support the
Land and Water Conservation Fund
and to protect and manage national
parks, wildlife refuges, and other pub-
lic lands. I know many hope we can do
better on the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund funding, and so do I.
While I am pleased about the increase
in this bill above the enacted level, I
will be working to improve the LWCF’s
funding when we conference with the
House. But our efforts in the short
term should not take away from the
goal we have set on a bipartisan basis
to provide permanent, mandatory, full
funding of the Land and Water Con-
servation Fund. That remains a top
priority for me, and I think we can and
should accomplish that in this Con-
gress.
The bill also makes critical invest-
ments in Indian Country. Many of
those were mentioned by Chairman
MURKOWSKI, and we believe there are
really solid things that have been done
there—investments in Indian Country,
providing a 4-percent increase for the
Indian Health Service and a 2-percent
increase for programs funded through
the Bureau of Indian Affairs and the
Bureau of Indian Education.
We provide $2.25 billion in new fire-
fighting funds using the wildfire cap
adjustment, which means that these
funds are finally, for the first time,
provided without requiring reductions
to other important programs. It also
means that the Forest Service will not
be forced to raid nonfire programs to
pay for firefighting needs without
knowing whether those funds will be
repaid.
The bill increases funding for the En-
vironmental Protection Agency by 2
percent in order to support new bipar-
tisan infrastructure priorities and to
make important investments in re-
gional cleanup programs. The EPA is
still struggling after years of budget
cuts, but I am proud that our bill in-
cludes the best EPA budget in a decade
and completely rejects the billions in
cuts proposed by the Trump adminis-
tration.
It also provides vital resources to our
counties by fully funding the payment
in lieu of taxes program—a program
that supports over $40 million per year
in local government services in New
Mexico.
This bill boosts funding for cultural
agencies, including the National En-
dowment for the Arts and Humanities,
as well as the Kennedy Center, the Na-
tional Gallery of Art, and the Smithso-
nian Institution. Specifically, I am
very proud that we were able to in-
crease the budgets of NEA and NEH by
$2 million each. These funds provide a
critical boost to local arts and human-
ities programs in small towns across
the United States—programs that cre-
ate countless jobs and ensure economic
vitality in communities like those in
New Mexico.
I am also pleased that the bill con-
tains no new funding requested by the
administration for the Interior Depart-
ment reorganization, including the ef-
forts to dismantle the Bureau of Land
Management. This bill sends a strong
message that the administration needs
to push ‘‘pause’’ and work with Mem-
bers on both sides of the aisle. It is vi-
tally important that we now have both
Chambers on record on this important
issue, and I hope the administration
hears us loud and clear.
I appreciate that the bill contains no
new poison pill riders for the second
year in a row, which is all the more no-
table given the number of difficult
issues that we confront through the
EPA and the Federal land management
agencies.
I want to thank Chairman SHELBY
and Senator MURKOWSKI for their com-
mitment to moving a clean Interior
bill.
That said, I do want to note that the
bill does continue several provisions
that I oppose, including provisions
dealing with the lead content of ammu-
nition, biomass energy policy, Clean
Water Act exemptions, and Clean Air
Act exemptions.
I also oppose a troubling provision in
the bill that weakens protections for
the sage grouse. Given the bad-faith ef-
forts by this administration to weaken
efforts to protect the sage grouse, it is
extremely shortsighted for Congress to
continue to block protections under
the Endangered Species Act for the
species when the administration has
failed to hold up its end of the bargain.
These provisions are contrary to the
spirit of the no poison pill riders agree-
ment. Thankfully, they are not in the
underlying House bill, H.R. 3055, and I
expect to have some frank conversa-
tions as part of the conference process
about the need to remove them and the
need to include a number of other im-
portant curbs on this administration
included in that legislation. So I want
to be on record that in the conference,
I will be fighting to keep the House’s
positions on several of these very im-
portant items.
I look forward to debating this bill,
considering amendments, and ulti-
mately passing it with a bipartisan
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.014 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6060 October 23, 2019
vote so that we can proceed to a con-
ference with the House.
I also want to express my personal
thanks to the majority subcommittee
staff—Emy Lesofski, Nona McCoy, and
Lucas Agnew—for working with me
and my staff. This is Emy’s first bill
serving as the clerk of the sub-
committee, and I congratulate her on
this milestone as the Senate takes up
the bill. Their work is a great credit to
Chairman MURKOWSKI and Chairman
SHELBY.
I would also like to thank my staff—
Rachael Taylor, Ryan Hunt, Melissa
Zimmerman, and Faisal Amin—for all
of their hard work to accommodate the
priorities of Senators on both sides of
the aisle.
I think one thing that Chairman
MURKOWSKI and I worked on was trying
to handle any request that came to us
from wherever in the Senate and deal
with it in a bipartisan way. So I very
much appreciate working hard with
Senator MURKOWSKI to get this bill
done and to move it on to conference
with the House and to get it into law.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Pennsylvania.
S.J. RES. 50
Mr. TOOMEY. Mr. President, I rise to
address the Congressional Review Act
measure we will be voting on later
today.
Let’s be very clear. This is a vote the
purpose of which is to overturn a very,
very important part of the tax reform
that we passed in December of 2017 that
made the Tax Code much more fair
than it was before. Specifically, I am
referring to the limitations that we put
on the ability of people to deduct State
and local taxes.
Let’s remember what our Tax Code
looked like before our tax reform.
Wealthy individuals could deduct the
full amount of any State and local tax
deductions, however high they got. And
we use the acronym ‘‘SALT’’ to refer
to these State and local tax deduc-
tions. So why do I say that is unfair?
Well, it is unfair because it subsidizes
people who choose to live in high-tax
jurisdictions. It does that because it
lowers the tax bill of somebody who
lives in a high-tax jurisdiction, like
Manhattan or San Francisco, because
they get to deduct the full amount of
the outrageously high State and local
taxes they choose to pay. The fact that
they get to deduct that big number
means the rest of us have to pay higher
rates on our income than we otherwise
would have to pay. Why should my con-
stituents in Blair County or Cambria
County or anywhere else in Pennsyl-
vania—constituents with modest in-
comes who choose local governments
that keep a modest level of service and
therefore a modest level of taxes—why
should those constituents have to pay
higher tax rates to subsidize the folks
who have multimillion-dollar condos
on the Upper West Side of Manhattan?
It is totally unfair. They certainly
should not have to do that. And have
no doubt about it—the huge benefits of
this unlimited State and local tax de-
duction that we used to have always
flowed to a handful of States that have
chosen to have very, very high taxes.
California and New York are two good
examples. Under the old regime, about
one-third of all the benefits of the
State and local tax deductions went to
just those two States—just California
and New York. They had one-third of
all the benefits.
Take New Jersey, right next door to
my State of Pennsylvania. New Jersey
has 4 million fewer people than we have
in Pennsylvania, almost one-third
fewer people, but they got more of the
benefit of the SALT deductions than
my entire State. That is because New
Jersey is a very high-tax State. Guess
what. It is a high-tax State because the
people who live there voted for politi-
cians who raise their taxes. That is ap-
parently what they want. They want to
have all of the services that go with
that. They are happy with very high
State income tax and local property
taxes. That is their decision. Look, if
you want to vote for someone who is
going to impose exorbitantly high
taxes on you, you should be free to cast
that vote. But don’t expect my con-
stituents to subsidize them.
So that was the regime we had in
place. Tax reform came along, and we
said: Do you know what we are going
to do? We are going to put a limit on
the amount of State and local taxes
that a tax filer can deduct. The limit is
$10,000. It is not trivial. It is a lot of
money. But that is the limit. If you
pay more than that in State and local
taxes, you do not get to deduct it.
In response to that, very interest-
ingly, several of these high-tax States
have designed a scam to get around the
limitation we imposed. The scam is
that they create this vehicle, and then
they have their taxpayers pay their
taxes into that vehicle and call it a
charity, call it a charitable contribu-
tion. The money then goes out of that
vehicle and goes to the government. It
is not a charitable contribution at all.
It is a transparent, obvious attempt to
circumvent the law that we passed in
2017.
The IRS came along and said: Well,
this is an obvious scam. They devel-
oped a rule that shuts down the scam.
It says: If you create this scam, this
make-believe charity, as a way to cir-
cumvent the cap on State and local de-
ductions, we are going to disallow the
deduction. So the IRS ruling shuts
down the scam and maintains the de-
duction cap, and what my Democratic
colleagues want to do right now is have
a vote to invalidate the IRS ruling—in
other words, have a vote to keep the
scam. That is what the vote is today,
to make sure we destroy the IRS ruling
and keep this scam in place.
One of the ironies of this whole de-
bate is that our Democratic colleagues
voted against our tax reform because
they said that it was too much of a tax
cut for the rich, despite the fact that,
in fact, our tax reform shifted the tax
burden from lower income taxpayers to
higher income taxpayers while saving
money for everybody.
The relative proportion of taxes paid
increased for wealthy people, decreased
for low-income people, while everyone
had some savings. That was objection-
able to my Democratic colleagues.
Now they come along, and they want
to repeal the rule that shuts down the
scam. They want to perpetuate the
scam that is a massive giveaway to the
wealthiest Americans. It is amazing.
According to the Joint Committee on
Taxation, 94 percent of the benefit—if
they had their way and prevailed on
this vote, 94 percent of the benefit
would go to people whose income is
over $200,000; 52 percent of the benefit
would go to taxpayers with income
over $1 million.
Not only is it fundamentally unfair
to ask people in some low-tax jurisdic-
tions to subsidize the taxes chosen by
people in high-tax jurisdictions, the
subsidy all flows from low- and middle-
income people to very, very wealthy
people. That is the deal: Millionaires
would receive an average tax cut of
$60,000; taxpayers with income between
$50,000 and $100,000 would receive an av-
erage tax cut of less than $10—not
$10,000—$10.
What we did when we put a limit on
the ability to deduct State and local
taxes was a big step in making our Tax
Code more fair. The States came along
and developed a scam to circumvent it.
The IRS, quite rightly, saw through
the scam and said: We are not going to
allow that scam to continue. Now my
Democratic colleagues want to tear up
the IRS rule to perpetuate the scam.
That is a very bad idea, and I hope we
will all vote against the Congressional
Review Act effort that is scheduled for
a vote later today.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Virginia.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2242
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I am
here today because, unfortunately, our
elections still remain vulnerable to for-
eign election interference.
Earlier this month, the Senate Intel-
ligence Committee, which I am proud
to serve on, released its report on Rus-
sia’s use of social media to undermine
our democracy.
The committee’s bipartisan conclu-
sion was clear. Russia attacked our de-
mocracy in 2016; their efforts on social
media are ongoing; and they will be
back in 2020. Frankly, they never left.
This echos all of the evidence we
have seen from the intelligence com-
munity and from companies like
Facebook, whose CEO, Mr. Zuckerberg,
is testifying on the other side of the
Capitol today on some of the ongoing
efforts. We have seen this evidence, as
well, from Special Counsel Mueller and
many, many others.
The alarm bells are going off, and
what are we doing? We are running out
of time to do something about it.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.015 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6061
October 23, 2019
Twice in recent weeks I have come to
the floor to make a unanimous consent
request on bipartisan legislation,
which I have introduced, called the
FIRE Act, and twice this bipartisan
legislation has been blocked by my Re-
publican colleagues. Actually, their ac-
tions earned applause from the Presi-
dent on Twitter.
Again, let me once again go forward
with what this bill does. It is pretty
simple and very straightforward. It
would say to all Presidential cam-
paigns going forward: If a foreign
power reaches out to your campaign,
offering assistance or offering dirt on a
political opponent, the appropriate re-
sponse is not to say thank you; the ap-
propriate response is to call the FBI.
When I first introduced this legisla-
tion, we were concerned about the
Mueller report’s finding that the
Trump campaign welcomed the assist-
ance of the Russian Government during
the 2016 election.
At the time, I was also deeply
alarmed by the President’s comments
in the Oval Office during the summer
that he would entertain offers of for-
eign assistance in future elections.
A lot has happened since then, which
makes this legislation more necessary
than ever. In the time since I last
spoke on the FIRE Act, the President
has used his office to seek dirt on a po-
litical opponent, Mr. Biden. It appears
he pressured the Ukrainians. In the
middle of ongoing trade negotiations,
he went on national television to call
on China to investigate Mr. Biden.
He also, during this period of time,
has used the bully pulpit to intimidate
and threaten an intelligence commu-
nity whistleblower. I am glad to see
that many of my colleagues on the
other side of the aisle have stood up for
the integrity of the whistleblower pro-
gram and the notions that whistle-
blowers are a critical part of keeping
our system on the up and up and that
whistleblowers should not be threat-
ened.
We have also heard in these past few
weeks—I am not going to get into all of
the details—a lot of contradictory and,
frankly, almost Orwellian claims about
whether the President’s asking a favor
of the Ukrainian President is evidence
of a quid pro quo. Then, just in recent
days, we have seen a series of career
diplomats coming forward, basically
trying to validate the whistleblower’s
complaints.
I know the House is working on some
of this, and our Senate Intelligence
Committee is also looking at some of
the counterintelligence concerns about
the President’s deals—about the Presi-
dent’s deals particularly with Mr.
Giuliani and his associates.
I have particular interest, as well, in
terms of what the Attorney General is
doing when he is going out, asking our
closest allies—our FVEY partners, in
the case of Australia and the United
Kingdom—to use their intelligence
services to bring us dirt on the Presi-
dent’s political opponents. That puts in
jeopardy the trust basis the Five Eyes
plan operates under.
We need, more than ever, this basic
FIRE Act bill to make it absolutely
clear that if we see foreign govern-
ments interfering, the obligation ought
to be on any Presidential campaign to
tell the FBI.
I see my colleague on the other side
of the aisle, and I know she will prob-
ably object again. I just hope my col-
leagues will think about and look back
on how history is going to judge this
body. Did we do what was necessary to
protect the integrity of our democratic
process? And how in the heck did we
allow the protection of our democratic
process to become a partisan issue? We
would never make protection of the
power grid a partisan issue. Yet, unfor-
tunately, I think we are going to see
folks on the other side of the aisle ob-
ject to this commonsense basic reform.
If there are ways to improve on this
legislation, I am wide open. I know my
colleague raised concerns about the
breadth. Let me be clear. Some of the
claims that were made last time are
not true, do not affect diplomatic ef-
forts, do not affect folks who are vis-
iting here in this country. We have
been very, very clear. This is about a
foreign government’s offer or their spy
service’s offer of assistance during a
Presidential campaign directly to that
campaign.
But if there are ways to improve on
the legislation, let’s have it at it. Let’s
offer an amendment. Let’s at least
vote. The truth is, we know what we
need to do to protect our elections.
Before I make my unanimous consent
request, I want to recognize my friends
and colleagues, Senator KLOBUCHAR
and Senator WYDEN, who, after I make
my request, will be speaking on a
broader election security bill of which
I am proud to be an original cosponsor
as well. Let me simply say that I sup-
port their efforts to make sure we have
paper ballot backups, to make sure we
have postelection audits, to make sure
if the Kremlin is paying for advertising
on Facebook, they have the same kind
of disclosure requirements as if they
advertise on FOX—commonsense bipar-
tisan proposals that, if they actually
got to the floor of the Senate, I bet we
would get 80 votes. My hope is that we
will have that opportunity.
The truth is, the only person winning
from our failure to act—and, unfortu-
nately, this person seems to be win-
ning, as well, in Syria and seems to be
winning, as well, in terms of the split
between America and Ukraine—is
Vladimir Putin.
Again, I appeal to my colleagues:
Let’s move forward on the first step,
protecting the integrity of our elec-
tions. Let’s bring forward the FIRE
Act. Let’s make absolutely clear that
if a foreign government tries to inter-
vene in a Presidential election, the ob-
ligation is to report to the FBI and not
say thank you.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Rules Committee be dis-
charged from further consideration of
S. 2242, the FIRE Act; that the Senate
proceed to its immediate consider-
ation; that the bill be read a third time
and passed; and that the motion to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table, with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mrs. BLACKBURN. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. WARNER. Mr. President, I would
allow my colleague to speak on this
item. I say to my colleague from Ten-
nessee, and others, that if there are
ways to improve this legislation, let’s
have at it. But the notion that we are
going into a Presidential election in
which our intelligence community has
said that Russia and others will be
back, and we have taken no action to
prevent that when there are common-
sense items from social media con-
straints to making clear the foreign
government shouldn’t intervene, to
having paper ballot backups, to mak-
ing sure we have appropriate campaign
disclosure, we are shirking our respon-
sibility, and I hope in the future my
colleagues will reconsider.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Minnesota.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2669
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. Mr. President, I
am proud to be here with Senator WAR-
NER and Senator WYDEN, both leaders
on this election security issue.
This is the second time I have come
to the floor this week to urge the Sen-
ate to take action on election security
legislation. It has been 1,006 days since
Russia attacked us in 2016, something
that has been confirmed by all of Presi-
dent Trump’s top intelligence agents.
In fact, former Director Coats actually
said they are getting bolder.
The next major elections are just 377
days away. We must take action now
to secure our elections.
I know Senator WYDEN will be ad-
dressing the actual hacking of our elec-
tion equipment, which is so important,
as well as other issues, but I am fo-
cused on this propaganda issue, this
disinformation campaign that we have
seen from the Russians.
The Honest Ads Act, which is part of
the bill that I will be asking for unani-
mous consent on, the SHIELD Act,
which is going to be passed by the
House today, includes a number of
measures that would close loopholes to
stop foreign spending on issue ads in
our elections. It would boost disclosure
and transparency requirements, and it
would help to stop bad actors from
using deceptive practices to mislead
voters.
All that may sound like a list of pol-
icy issues that seem very removed, but
let me make it very specific. Here is
one example of, literally, millions.
In the last election, an ad was discov-
ered that was paid for in rubles. It had
been paid for in rubles before the elec-
tion. It happened, but we did not know
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.018 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6062 October 23, 2019
about it until long after the election. It
was the face of an African-American
woman, an innocent woman, in Chi-
cago. She later called our office and
said: I don’t know where they got my
face. They put her face on a Facebook
ad that went to African-American
Facebook pages in swing States. This
is what the Russians did. Her picture
was there, and it said: Don’t wait in
line to vote for Hillary Clinton. You
can text your vote at—and it gave a
five-digit number, like 86153.
That is a crime. That is a crime.
They are suppressing the vote. They
are telling a voter to vote illegally in a
way that will not register their vote.
That is what we are talking about
here—propaganda. Yes, it hurt one side
in this 2016 election, but the next time
it could be someone else on the other
side of the aisle.
Fundamental to our democracy and
our Founding Fathers was the simple
idea that we would determine our faith
in America and that we would not let
foreign powers influence our elections.
That is what this is about. It is about
protecting our election hardware and
infrastructure, and it is also about pro-
tecting us from this disinformation
campaign and all of this really bad
stuff.
I don’t think my colleagues are inter-
ested in protecting—I hope this isn’t
their goal—the big social media compa-
nies. I hope their goal is to protect
Americans so they can determine their
own faith in an election.
With that, I ask unanimous consent
that the Senate proceed to the imme-
diate consideration of S. 2669, the Stop-
ping Harmful Interference in Elections
for a Lasting Democracy Act, other-
wise known as the SHIELD Act, which
was introduced earlier today; further,
that the bill be considered read a third
time and passed and that the motion to
reconsider be considered made and laid
upon the table with no intervening ac-
tion or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, I
object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Ms. KLOBUCHAR. That is very un-
fortunate, given how soon the elections
are and what a difference we could
make, especially with the
disinformation campaigns. I hope my
colleagues change their minds.
The Honest Ads Act is a bipartisan
bill with Senator GRAHAM, the Repub-
lican chair of the Judiciary Com-
mittee. We must act.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 2238
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I will be
making a unanimous consent request
to move the SAFE Act in just a couple
of moments. This is legislation that
Senator KLOBUCHAR and I have teamed
up on for quite some time.
It basically incorporates the three
priorities that all of the nonpartisan
election cybersecurity experts rec-
ommend: paper ballots, routine post-
election, risk-limiting audits, and Fed-
eral cyber security standards for elec-
tion systems.
I am going to make some brief re-
marks and then pose a unanimous con-
sent request.
I just find it stunning that the Re-
publican Party continues its wall-to-
wall campaign of obstruction against
election security. Because of this legis-
lative blockade, the Senate has been
AWOL when it comes to stopping for-
eign cyber attacks on our elections.
For example, I think most Americans
would be stunned to learn that there is
not a single mandatory, nationwide
election cyber security standard on the
books. For example, there are no rules
barring connecting voting machines to
the internet. I say to the Presiding Of-
ficer and colleagues that doing so is
equivalent to putting American ballot
boxes in the Kremlin. That is what
happens when you don’t have cyber se-
curity standards.
Let’s remember what happened in the
election cyber security debacle of 2016.
Russian hackers probed all 50 State
election systems. Russians successfully
hacked at least one election tech-
nology vendor, according to the
Mueller report. Russians penetrated
two Florida county election systems,
according to Florida’s Governor. That
is just what we know about.
People are always saying: Well, no
votes were changed. Nobody knows
that because you wouldn’t know it un-
less you had a real forensic analysis
conducted by cybersecurity experts
who broke the systems down, and that
hasn’t been done.
Despite all of the ways foreign hack-
ers have already made it into our elec-
tion infrastructure, Congress has re-
fused to arm State and county election
officials with the knowledge and fund-
ing they need to secure their systems.
I will just make one additional point,
and I thank my colleague for her cour-
tesy because I know everyone is on a
tight schedule. This summer, I saw for
myself how vulnerable election sys-
tems are. I went to DEF CON, which is
really the major ‘‘white hat’’ hacker
convention in Las Vegas. I went be-
cause I wanted to see how easy it was
to hack e-pollbooks, voting machines,
and other key parts of election infra-
structure. I sure wish some of my col-
leagues on the other side, including the
distinguished majority leader, could
have seen all of these young people in
the Voting Village going through a
who’s who of hackable voting machines
and see how easy it was to compromise
voting machines to alter votes, disrupt
ballot printers, and meddle with reg-
istration systems.
Teenagers in the DEF CON Voting
Village showed me an e-pollbook
hacked so completely that young peo-
ple were playing video games like
‘‘Doom’’ on it. I sure wish my col-
leagues could have been there.
I sit on the Intelligence Committee. I
am not going to get into anything clas-
sified, but I am going to close simply
by saying that, as of today, the threats
that we face in 2020 from hostile for-
eign powers, in my view, are going to
make 2016 look like small potatoes.
For that reason, I now ask unani-
mous consent that the Rules Com-
mittee be discharged from further con-
sideration of S. 2238, the Securing
America’s Federal Elections Act, oth-
erwise known as the SAFE Act; that
the Senate proceed to its immediate
consideration; that the bill be consid-
ered read a third time and passed; and
that the motion to reconsider be con-
sidered made and laid upon the table
with no intervening action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, re-
serving the right to object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President,
my mom would always say: You know,
it is not a good sign if you are doing
the same thing over and over and ex-
pecting a different result.
My colleagues have sought several
times, under the guise of election secu-
rity, to circumvent going to the Rules
Committee and trying to bring these
bills to the floor.
It is important to note that the legis-
lation they are bringing would do
something that most people, especially
people in Tennessee, tell me they do
not want to see happen. What it would
do is take away authority from your
local election commission, your State
election commission, and then vest
that authority with the Federal Gov-
ernment.
Federalizing our elections, in my
opinion, would actually make them
less secure. Is there anybody who
thinks the Federal Government is
going to do a better job of admin-
istering an election in Williamson
County, TN, where I live and where I
have served on the election commis-
sion? The answer would be ‘‘of course,
not.’’ They know that their friends and
neighbors who served on those entities
would do a better job.
I must also remind my colleagues
that every single Member—Democrat,
Republican, and Independent; every
Member of the Senate—agrees that for-
eign meddling in our Nation’s business
is a problem. For decades, foreign na-
tions have sought to meddle in our af-
fairs in the physical space. Ought we to
have expected them to try this in the
virtual space? It ought not have come
as a surprise to us.
We also know that Members are
working on this issue, and that there
has been progress that has been made
by the Intel community, by State-level
authorities, and by those who are mak-
ing certain these election systems are
secure. And guess what. They are doing
this without a Federal power grab tak-
ing place.
I fear that my friends on the other
side of the aisle still have not gotten
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.020 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6063
October 23, 2019
over that they lost in 2016. Further,
they have yet to accept that their col-
leagues in the House of Representa-
tives have turned their best hopes for
correcting this electoral disappoint-
ment into a farce.
We know that in 2016 the Russians
seized upon partisan hysteria and used
it to pit the American people against
one another. They did not affect voting
in election systems.
It is not too much to ask that my
friends in the minority cease using the
business of the Senate to continue
these requests.
I do object to the motion.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I am
going to be brief because I just think it
is so critical to respond to the com-
ments my colleague has made.
The first argument was that, on this
side of the aisle, people really aren’t
interested in election security. The
fact is, what Senator KLOBUCHAR and I
and those on our side of the aisle have
been interested in are the three prior-
ities that independent cyber security
experts agree are essential to pro-
tecting our elections: paper ballots, au-
dits, and cyber security standards. So
that ought to dispose of this issue that
somehow on this side of the aisle, peo-
ple really aren’t interested in election
security.
Second, I want it understood that
over here, we have been interested in
working in a bipartisan way. But our
ranking member, Senator KLOBUCHAR,
on the Rules Committee said that at
one point there was a markup sched-
uled on these issues, and, essentially,
the leadership on the other side of the
aisle intervened, and it was canceled.
The fact is that here we are, with
just a few months until people start
voting. They are going to vote in pri-
maries early next year. They are going
to go to the polls from sea to shining
sea in the fall of 2020. I will just say to
my colleagues that we have something
like 25 States in America that are na-
kedly vulnerable. These are the States
that are still using hackable, paperless
voting machines and States that do not
have routine, post-election audits.
As Senator WARNER, Senator KLO-
BUCHAR, and I have said, and the distin-
guished minority leader, Senator SCHU-
MER, all we are interested in is working
to deal with this issue in an objective
way, based on the facts outlined by the
experts who aren’t at all political.
I think it is very unfortunate that
there has been an objection to the pro-
posal from the distinguished Senator
from Virginia, Mr. WARNER, and the
proposal from the ranking member on
the Rules Committee, who has worked
with me on the SAFE Act, and the
SAFE Act itself because, as a result of
this action, the Senate is missing yet
another opportunity to provide an ad-
ditional measure of security for the
2020 election.
I will close with one last response in
light of a comment my colleague, our
new Senator from Tennessee, has
made. She and I have talked about
these issues, and I have appreciated it.
She said that no votes were changed—
no votes were changed in the election.
Nobody knows that. Unless you do a fo-
rensic analysis and break down the ma-
chines, you won’t know that.
I sure hope that soon we will be back
on this floor moving the proposal ad-
vanced by the Senator from Virginia
and the proposal advanced by the Sen-
ator from Minnesota and me because
these are measures proposed by inde-
pendent experts who don’t care about
Ds and Rs; they care about what is
right for America.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
HONG KONG
Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, as we
gather today here in peace and safety
in this quiet Chamber, we must remem-
ber that there is a city half a world
away that is struggling to survive—a
city that is fighting for human rights
and human liberty and a city that is a
solitary pinpoint of light on a con-
tinent of authoritarianism, a city
called Hong Kong.
The need there is urgent, and the
hour there is late, and it is time for
America to act. I know this because I
have been there. I have been there my-
self. I have seen it. I have been to Hong
Kong. I have been to the streets of
Hong Kong. I have seen the protesters
marching in support of and in defense
of their basic human rights. I have seen
them demonstrating for their basic
human liberties. I have seen them con-
fronting the police with their tactics of
brutality and oppression.
It makes me think that sometimes,
in the course of history, the fate of one
city defines the challenge of an entire
generation. Fifty years ago, that city
was Berlin. Today, that city is Hong
Kong. The situation there is critical.
Hong Kong is sliding toward becoming
a police state. Have no doubt and make
no mistake that Beijing wants to im-
pose its will on Hong Kong. It wants to
silence dissent in Hong Kong. It wants
to steamroll Hong Kong, just as it
wants to steamroll all of its neighbors
in the region, just as it wants to con-
trol the region, and just as it wants ul-
timately to control the entire inter-
national system.
We know what is at stake in this
country because we have gotten all too
familiar with Beijing’s tactics. We
have seen what Beijing has tried to do
to this country for decades now. They
have stolen our jobs. They have stolen
our technologies. They have tried to
build and are building their military on
the backs of our middle class. Their
aims are expansionist, and their aims
are domination, and their aims are not
compatible with the security or the
prosperity of this country. That is why
what is happening in Hong Kong today
is so important and the fight there is
so significant.
Will a totalitarian China and totali-
tarian Beijing be allowed to dominate
the city of Hong Kong, to silence it,
and then to turn to the region as a
whole?
You know, let’s review what is actu-
ally happening there in the streets of
Hong Kong. This didn’t start with the
people of Hong Kong; this started with
Beijing. This started with Beijing and
its puppet government and its puppet
chief executive in Hong Kong attempt-
ing to revoke the rights of
Hongkongers—the rights, by the way,
that Beijing promised to the people of
that city in 1984 and again in 1997. They
are trying to revoke those rights by
bringing in a bill for extradition of
Hong Kong citizens and Hong Kong
residents to mainland China to be tried
in China’s courts, where there is no due
process, where there are no basic guar-
anteed liberties, and where there is no
recourse. That was Beijing’s plan, and
that would have affected not just the
citizens of Hong Kong but the residents
there, including over 80,000 Americans
who are currently residents in the city.
And the people of Hong Kong said no.
On the 12th of July, just a few days
after Beijing put forward this extra-
dition bill, 2 million Hong Kong resi-
dents—2 million took to the streets in
peaceful protest. This is a city of 71⁄2
million. There were 2 million on the
streets on the 12th of July. When the
Hong Kong Government—the Beijing-
controlled government refused to back
down, the people of Hong Kong refused
to be silenced. For months now,
months on end, 20 weeks and more, the
people of Hong Kong have been taking
to the streets protesting, seeking to
vindicate their rights, and they have
been doing it in the face of escalating
opposition.
The Hong Kong Government—on or-
ders, no doubt, from Beijing—has
sought to deny the protesters permits
to gather peacefully. They have sought
to deny them the right to cover their
faces because, let’s not forget, China is
a surveillance state, and the persecu-
tion and retribution against protesters
is real, and it is constant.
Now they are talking about a poten-
tial curfew. They are shutting down
subway stations early so protesters
can’t get from one place to another.
They have used violent tactics to put
down the protests—tear gas and beat-
ings and dye blasted at protesters.
China continues to escalate—Beijing
continues to escalate the situation,
turning the screws on Hong Kong and
taking away the rights and liberties of
the people there.
Hong Kong’s demands are not out-
landish; they are asking for what they
were promised. They were promised in
1984, by the Government of Beijing—in
a duly ratified international treaty,
they were promised the right to assem-
ble and the right to peacefully gather
and protest. They were promised the
right to vote and to be able to choose
their own government. They were
promised the right to speak openly.
They were promised the right to wor-
ship. Those are the rights the people of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.021 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6064 October 23, 2019
Hong Kong seek to vindicate today,
and those are the rights Beijing is at-
tempting to strip from this city as we
stand here today in this Chamber.
The people of Hong Kong—they have
an expression. The protesters say they
are going to be like water. They say
‘‘Be water.’’ Some have actually re-
ferred to this as a water movement.
They mean ‘‘Be fluid. Be reactive. Ad-
just to the situation.’’
I just have to say, having been there
myself, having been to the streets, hav-
ing seen the protesters, having met
with them and talked with them, their
courage and their bravery under pres-
sure is really something to behold. It is
an inspiration to me, and I think it
should be an inspiration to all of us.
Their love of liberty—you never love
something more than when it is threat-
ened—their love of liberty is really ex-
traordinary.
I want to say something the Rev-
erend Chu Yiu-ming said about liberty
and democracy. He said it so beau-
tifully. These are his words:
We strive for democracy, because democ-
racy strives for freedom, equality and uni-
versal love. Political freedom is more than
loyalty to a state. [Political freedom] pro-
fesses human dignity. Every single person
living in a community possesses unique po-
tentials and unique powers, capable of mak-
ing a [unique] contribution to society.
That is extraordinary, and he is ex-
actly right. Hongkongers know it, and
that is what they are standing for, and
that is what they are fighting for.
The people of Hong Kong need our
support, they deserve our support, and
they are depending on our support.
That is why it is time for this body to
act. It is time to take up and pass the
Hong Kong Human Rights and Democ-
racy Act. The time for debate is over.
The time for delay has passed. It is now
time to stand with the people of Hong
Kong and to send a signal to the world
that the United States will stand with
freedom-loving people, that the United
States will stand up to Beijing, and
that the United States will not permit
China to dominate its neighbors and its
region and the world.
It is time for this body to act and to
act now, and it is time to do more.
That is why I will soon be introducing
further measures to help support the
people of Hong Kong. I will be calling
for the imposition of Global Magnitsky
sanctions on individuals and business
entities that abet Beijing in its sup-
pression of the freedoms of speech and
assembly that rightfully belong to the
people of Hong Kong.
I would just say to those corpora-
tions doing business in China and to
those multinational corporate entities
and organizations like the NBA that it
is time for you to take a stand as well.
It is time for you to show a little back-
bone. It is time for you to show some
independence. You may be multi-
national corporations that do business
everywhere in the world, but remember
that you are based here in this coun-
try. Remember—the NBA should—that
you are an American organization.
These companies need to remember
that they are American entities, and it
is time to show a little American inde-
pendence.
When Beijing tries to use threats of
coercion and threats of market access
to get the NBA to censure and to get
corporations like Apple to censure, it
is time for these corporations to stand
up and say: We are not going to partici-
pate, and we are not going to become
part of the Chinese Communist Party’s
propaganda arm. It is time for these
companies to remember where their
loyalties actually lie.
I have to say, for too long now and
for too many years now, we have seen
too many of these companies and these
same corporate executives—who make
money hand over fist in China—we
have seen them happily send our jobs
to China. We have seen them happily
outsource our work to China. Now they
want to import censorship into this
country from China. Well, no thank
you. It is time that they are open
about what it is they are doing, and it
is time they stand up to Beijing and
say: No further.
I want to say again that the situa-
tion in Hong Kong is urgent, and the
people of Hong Kong are looking to the
United States and to other freedom-
loving peoples around the world for
support and for strength. It is time
that we send them the message—and
call on our allies to do the same—that
we must stand with Hong Kong because
our own security and our own pros-
perity and our own ideals are at stake
there.
I think, finally, of the words of John
Quincy Adams, whom I will para-
phrase. He said: Wherever the standard
of freedom is unfurled, there will be
America’s prayers, there will be Amer-
ica’s benedictions, there will be Amer-
ica’s heart, and today, there needs to
be America’s voice.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
LANKFORD). The Senator from Cali-
fornia.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business, please.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
REMEMBERING TED STEVENS
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, the
Senate this week is honoring our
former colleague, Senator Ted Stevens,
with the unveiling of his official por-
trait. I come to the floor to say some
words about a friend and former chair-
man.
Ted Stevens’ life in public service
started early when he joined the Army
Corps in 1943. So great was his desire to
serve our country that he joined after
attending just one semester of college.
During the war, he flew dangerous,
unescorted missions in China and
India, earning two Distinguished Fly-
ing Crosses for flights behind enemy
lines. After the war, he returned to his
studies and graduated from UCLA and
Harvard Law School. Not long after
that, he moved to Alaska to practice
law, and there he began a life of service
to the State he called home for the rest
of his life.
Ted served as a district attorney and
became known for accompanying U.S.
Marshals on raids, and that was really
an early hint of his temperament and
intensity on the job. Of course, all Sen-
ators devote their careers to their
States, but few have the distinction of
working to achieve statehood. Senator
Stevens was one of them. Working in
the Department of Interior in the 1950s,
he became known as ‘‘Mr. Alaska’’ for
his focus on achieving statehood. He
worked tirelessly to assuage the con-
cerns of then-President Eisenhower to
get statehood passed through both the
House and the Senate.
When the Alaska Statehood Act fi-
nally passed, Ted returned to Alaska
and served as a representative in the
State House, becoming majority leader
after just one term. Then, in 1968, he
came to the Senate, where he would go
on to serve for 40 years.
Once here, he distinguished himself
as a fierce advocate for Alaska. He
fought relentlessly for funding to build
rural hospitals, highways, courts, and
military bases across the State he
helped create. His efforts only in-
creased when he ascended to the power-
ful chairmanship of the Appropriations
Committee. He often quipped that
being such a young State, Alaska need-
ed extra help to catch up to its elder
siblings; and help is exactly what he se-
cured. One estimate says he steered
more than $3.4 billion in Federal fund-
ing to Alaskan projects in just the last
14 years of his tenure.
Those of us who served with him on
the Appropriations Committee got to
know Ted’s Incredible Hulk tie, which
he would wear on days with especially
difficult debates. He was a fighter and
a fierce advocate for his State and his
party. When a reporter once asked
about his reputation for losing his tem-
per, Senator Stevens replied:
I didn’t lose my temper. I know right
where it is.
But he would also cross party lines
and work side by side with his appro-
priations colleagues, especially Bob
Byrd and Daniel Inouye. They would
trade the gavel between them, serving
as chair and ranking member of sub-
committees and the full committee.
Beyond Federal funding, Stevens set-
tled many longstanding issues that
faced his young State. Chief among
them was the settling of Tribal land
claims. The Alaskan Native Claims
Settlement Act would become the larg-
est land settlement claim in U.S. his-
tory. It was hailed as groundbreaking
for its involvement of Alaskan Native
communities from the outset.
Always with an eye to the future,
Ted Stevens not only supported Native
leaders in asserting land claims, but he
also supported economic development
measures in the final bill.
Personally, I remain thankful for
Ted’s support with the Ten-in-Ten Fuel
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.023 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6065
October 23, 2019
Economy Act, a bill I authored in 2007
with Senators Olympia Snowe, MARIA
CANTWELL, TOM CARPER, and others.
The bill was drafted to increase fuel
economy by 10 miles per gallon within
10 years, but it was responsible for
much more. The Obama administration
went on to use the Ten-in-Ten Act to
set rules that will increase fuel effi-
ciency to more than 50 miles per gallon
by 2025 and save consumers more than
$460 billion at the pump.
Here is how it got done. I couldn’t
get it done. It was controversial at the
time and, believe it or not, Ted Stevens
played a big role in getting this bill
passed. As ranking member of the Com-
merce Committee, he and Senator
Inouye included the language as part of
a broader energy bill that President
Bush signed into law in 2007.
So this was a big deal, and it was
controversial. Senator Stevens knew
that, but he understood the importance
of the issue, and he included the lan-
guage in one of his bills, and it could
not have passed any other way. It was
a very big event for me, and it really
sealed my respect for this Senator from
a different party, a different State; but
he cared, you could go to him, and he
helped.
I remember back then. Now our mile-
age is going up, and I think of Ted,
when I talked to him, saying: OK. We
will get it done—and he and Dan
Inouye did do that. He said: ‘‘My motto
has always been ‘To hell with politics,
just do what’s right for Alaska.’’’
I don’t think anyone who had the
pleasure of knowing Ted Stevens would
know him as anything other than a
great legislator for the State of Alaska
and a great legislator for the United
States of America.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise to
speak on the appropriations bill that is
now before the Senate. I would like,
however, to defer to the ranking mi-
nority member on the Senate Agri-
culture Appropriations Subcommittee
for his comments, and then I would re-
serve the rest of my time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
APPROPRIATIONS
Mr. MERKLEY. Mr. President, thank
you and a huge thanks to my colleague
for not just deferring to me to make
comments, which I am going to make
very brief, but also for the leadership
of the subcommittee and the bipartisan
work. It is the way the Senate should
work. Let’s just expand that spirit to
the entire Chamber, and we will make
a lot of progress.
This bill maintains funding for im-
portant rural development programs,
including housing and rural broadband,
which is essential all across America.
It provides assistance with farm owner-
ship and farm operating loans because
access to credit to farmers is critical to
stay in business, and it helps new farm-
ers come into the farming and ranching
community, including minorities,
women, and veterans.
It provides critical funding for SNAP.
In our country, no one should go hun-
gry. It assists with school meal equip-
ment grants, the Farmer’s Market Nu-
trition Program, and the Commodity
Supplemental Food Program, all rel-
evant to making sure our children and
our families have basic nutrition. It as-
sists on the international front with
Food for Peace, the McGovern-Dole
program that feeds millions of children
around the world.
I was down in Central America and
found that the average child in Guate-
mala at 9 years old is 6 inches shorter
than the average Guatemalan child
raised in the United States—stunning.
It is a huge factor and affects the en-
tire course of the mind. America is
doing incredible work around the world
in poverty-stricken countries. This
food program also increases school at-
tendance, particularly among girls.
Critical funding for the Food and
Drug Administration is part of this bill
for a whole host of reasons.
There is only one thing in this bill
that I have disagreement with, and
that is funding for the relocation of the
National Institute of Food and Agri-
culture and the Economic Research
Service. I think those organizations do
a far better job when they are here net-
working with the other key critical
policy groups and when folks coming
from Oregon and places remotely
around the country visit NIFA and
ERS at the same time as visiting other
programs.
TRIBUTE TO BOB ROSS
Mr. President, for 11 years, Bob Ross
has been a detailee from the Depart-
ment of Agriculture to our sub-
committee. That is because he is fabu-
lous, and we just couldn’t let him go
here in the U.S. Senate. Most people in
rural America haven’t heard of Bob
Ross, but millions and millions have
benefited from his work, particularly
his superb work on rural housing. He
has been invaluable to us. Few people
get a chance to leave such a mark to
make the world a better place as much
as he has.
He is on to the next chapter of his
life, retirement, and perhaps many ad-
ventures in retirement. Bob is sitting
behind me. We thank him for his years
of service and wish him all the best of
luck in the chapters to come.
I thank the chair of the Appropria-
tions Subcommittee on Agriculture. It
is a pleasure to work with him.
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I thank
the Senator from Oregon for his work
and also express appreciation for the
bipartisan approach to the appropria-
tions bill. This is regular order. This is
how we are supposed to do things.
It is not just the Ag appropriations
bill, it is the other bills we have in-
cluded in this package that includes
Commerce-Justice-Science, T-HUD, as
well as our Ag appropriations bill and
Interior.
This is the work of the Senate. This
is regular order. This is how it should
be done. So I am appreciative of the bi-
partisan approach taken not only on
our bill but on these other bills and the
fact that we now have them on the
floor. I hope it continues in terms of
regular order and bipartisanship that
enables us to advance these bills in reg-
ular order.
Then we have the other appropria-
tions bills as well. We moved all 12 of
these bills through our full Appropria-
tions Committee in a bipartisan way.
Now we need to do the same thing on
the floor and then go to conference
with the House to get this done. We
have a continuing resolution in place
until November 21, so it is imperative
that we continue this work and that we
do it in this way.
I am pleased to introduce the 2020 ap-
propriations bill for Agriculture, Rural
Development, Food and Drug Adminis-
tration, and Related Agencies. This
legislation passed out of our Appropria-
tions Committee, as I said, in the case
of this appropriations bill, with unani-
mous support out of the full Appropria-
tions Committee.
I am pleased to bring it to the floor.
The other bills we have included now in
this package had broad-based bipar-
tisan support as well, as the Presiding
Officer knows being a member of the
full committee.
I am pleased to join my colleagues on
the Subcommittees on Interior; Trans-
portation, Housing and Urban Develop-
ment; Commerce, Justice and Science.
For now, my comments will be focused
on our bill specifically, the Ag appro-
priations bill.
Right now, farmers across this coun-
try are really up against it, no ques-
tion about it. Whether you are from
North Dakota, Oklahoma, points in be-
tween—east or west or north or south—
our farmers are really up against it. In
North Dakota, we have had unbeliev-
able flooding. From snowstorms to
rainstorms—but pretty much nonstop
rain and other challenges that have
left our fields swamped.
We have a great diversity of crops,
most of which have not been harvested
because we can’t get farm equipment
out in the field in order to conduct
that harvest.
Earlier this year in May, we worked
to advance supplementals to address
the hurricanes—the other wildfires we
had out in California, the hurricanes
that hit the Southeast, and other
weather disasters. So in that supple-
mental package we passed back in
May, we included assistance that we
call WHIP+ for the Midwest farm coun-
try, anticipating not only that we
needed to address the flooding and
problems that occurred this spring but
if there were additional flooding com-
ing. Of course, that is exactly what
happened. So we worked to ensure that
there is disaster assistance legislation
passed that will help.
Now we need to advance this appro-
priations bill to make sure we continue
to support our folks not only due to the
challenges they face because of weath-
er issues but also low commodity
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.025 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6066 October 23, 2019
prices and the real challenges we face
due to trade right now. We need to
keep advancing on all these fronts. Of
course, this legislation is an important
part of that.
It includes support for our producers,
funding for ag research, housing and
business loan programs for rural Amer-
ica, domestic and international nutri-
tion programs, and food safety and
drug safety because we also fund the
FDA, the Food and Drug Administra-
tion, as part of this bill.
Again, these are very important pri-
orities for this body that we need to
take up and pass. The subcommittee
has made difficult decisions in drafting
the bill, and I am proud of the work
that has been done to this point.
It is written to our allocation of $23.1
billion, which is $58 million above the
current enacted level. We worked hard
to invest taxpayer dollars responsibly,
funding programs to provide assistance
to our farmers in rural communities
and supporting programs that provide
vital direct health and safety benefits
and safeguards for all Americans not
only through the USDA but, as I said,
the Food and Drug Administration.
Agriculture supports more than 16
million jobs nationwide and forms the
backbone of our rural communities.
Our farmers are the best in the world,
and what they do benefits every single
American every single day. We have
the highest quality, lowest cost food
supply in the history of the world, pro-
duced by our farmers and ranchers. It
benefits every single American every
single day. So we are talking about
good farm policy and good ag policy.
We are talking about something that
benefits every single American every
single day.
Again, I thank Senator MERKLEY for
the bipartisan working relationship we
have had on our committee. I think
this bill reflects a well-balanced com-
promise on a lot of the issues we had,
not only among the members but on
both sides of the aisle, and I hope my
colleagues will join me in passing this
important legislation.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Texas.
(The remarks of Mr. CORNYN per-
taining to the introduction of S. 2690
are printed in today’s RECORD under
‘‘Statements on Introduced Bills and
Joint Resolutions.’’)
TAX CUTS AND JOBS ACT
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, briefly
on another matter, we are just a couple
of months away from the 2-year anni-
versary of the passage of the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act. Because of this legisla-
tion, families across the country are
benefiting from lower income tax rates
and are able to keep more of what they
earn. We have also helped families by
doubling the standard deduction for
children, expanding the child tax cred-
it, and simplifying the Tax Code, which
is something I think we can all agree
needs to be done. For the millions of
Texans who were filled with dread sim-
ply about filing their taxes, it was a
welcomed relief.
The journey to pass the legislation
wasn’t easy, of course, and there was
no shortage—there never are—of
naysayers. Many of our Senate Demo-
cratic colleagues claimed this legisla-
tion only benefited the rich, the evi-
dence to the contrary notwithstanding.
We know that is false because of what
the facts tell us.
Let me go back for a second and ex-
plain why this congressional resolution
of disapproval we will be voting on at
about 3 o’clock is so ironic and so mis-
taken.
Prior to tax reform, without limit,
taxpayers could itemize their deduc-
tions for State and local taxes. They
got to deduct that from their Federal
income taxes, which meant, in essence,
in those high-tax jurisdictions—the cit-
ies and the States that had high local
and State taxes—taxpayers from
around the country were subsidizing
those taxpayers in those high-tax juris-
dictions.
The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act at-
tempted to deal with this unfairness by
capping this deduction, better known
now as the SALT deduction—the State
and local tax deduction—at $10,000 for
everybody across the country. Every-
body was treated the same. Everybody
was put on a level playing field. In
other words, tax reform stopped the
endless subsidy that taxpayers who
were living in my State gave to fiscal
decisions that were made by other
States and local governments. There is
no reason we should ask a taxpayer
who is living in Austin to subsidize the
financial decisions, the fiscal decisions,
made in Albany, in Sacramento, or in
any other State capitol.
Before the cap, the wealthiest Ameri-
cans were disproportionately reaping
the benefit of this no-limit deduction.
That is why the cap was included in
tax reform—in order to support the
middle class, not the top 1 percent. In
the process, we prevented the richest
people in the country from gaming the
Tax Code.
This chart, which was produced by
the Senate Committee on Finance,
courtesy of Chairman GRASSLEY, talks
about who benefits from the SALT cap
repeal. This is what we will be voting
on indirectly this afternoon.
Here, 52 percent of the benefit goes to
taxpayers with incomes of over $1 mil-
lion. Our Democratic friends like to
say they are the party of the working
man and woman, but clearly they are
working on behalf of the 52 percent of
taxpayers who have incomes of over $1
million in their seeking to repeal this
regulation that basically prevents a
tax dodge. There are 24 percent of tax-
payers with incomes between $200,000
and $1 million who will be affected and
6 percent of taxpayers who will be af-
fected who earn under $200,000. You can
see that the majority of the benefit
that our Democratic colleagues seek to
confer is on the wealthiest people in
the country.
I don’t have any ax to grind with peo-
ple who have been successful and who
have made a lot of money. They pay
their taxes, contribute their philan-
thropy, and help in innumerable ways.
This is simply a way to try to make
sure our taxpayers in Oklahoma,
Texas, and Wyoming don’t subsidize
the high tax rates in New York, Los
Angeles, or other places that have high
State and local taxes. In good con-
science, we cannot let that happen.
The fact is, since tax reform passed,
a number of States have crafted a
workaround—I call it a tax dodge—to
circumvent this $10,000 limit. In June,
the Treasury issued a regulation to
stop them—this is the tax dodge—and
required States to adhere to the limit
that Congress passed into law and that
the President signed.
The financial consequences of what
the Democratic Members of the Senate
are trying to do here are enormous.
The Joint Committee on Taxation esti-
mates that doing away with the sub-
sidy cap would cost about $700 billion
over the next 7 years, or $100 billion a
year, and almost 95 percent of the ben-
efit would go to the people who make
more than $200,000. Even according to
the liberal Tax Policy Center, one-
third of the uncapped SALT deduction
went to the top 1 percent.
If I have heard BERNIE SANDERS or
ELIZABETH WARREN or any of the
Democrats who are running for Presi-
dent rail on and on about the top 1 per-
cent and income inequality once, I
have heard it a thousand times. Yet
here they seek to undo a cap that
treats every taxpayer the same and es-
sentially require taxpayers who are in
low-tax States to subsidize those who
are in high-tax States and localities.
And 52 percent of them make over $1
million a year. A millionaire would re-
ceive a tax cut of nearly $60,000—higher
than the household incomes of many
people who live in my State.
That is what we will be voting on.
That is what the Democratic leader
from New York—a high-tax State and
city—seeks to do for his constituents,
but it is to the detriment of hard-work-
ing families in my State and in many
States around the country.
After continually hammering the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, it is actually
duplicitous to argue that it somehow
benefits the wealthy when there was
just the most modest of cuts in the
highest marginal rate. The benefit
flowed to everybody in every tax
bracket, but most of it went to the
middle class. Yet, after hammering
this side of the aisle for its somehow
benefiting the wealthy to the det-
riment of the middle class, the Demo-
crats are now working to help their
richest constituents get back to the
days of unlimited deductions.
This is unfair. It is regressive. It ben-
efits the people who need the help the
least, and it hurts the people who need
our attention and help the most. Ask-
ing Texans and all Americans to some-
how foot the bill for $700 billion so that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:54 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.026 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6067
October 23, 2019
the folks who live in these high-tax cit-
ies and States can get a $60,000 tax cut
is something I am simply unwilling to
participate in. I urge all of my col-
leagues to vote against this resolution
of disapproval.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Wyoming.
Mr. BARRASSO. Mr. President, I
echo what my colleague said about S.J.
Res. 50, a congressional resolution of
disapproval we are being asked to vote
on this afternoon. I agree with the Sen-
ator from Texas. It is a mistake. It is
wrong. I think he used the words ‘‘iron-
ic,’’ ‘‘mistaken,’’ and ‘‘duplicitous.’’ I
would call this Democratic proposal
the height of hypocrisy. That is what
we are looking at right here, and I am
planning to oppose it.
Two years ago, the Republicans
passed major tax reform for this coun-
try. What we wanted to do was to make
the Tax Code simpler, make it fairer,
and have people pay less, and that is
what we have seen. To do it, we have
also eliminated some tax deductions
for the wealthy. One was the State and
local tax deduction that was specifi-
cally aimed at the wealthy. We elimi-
nated it. That is what our goal was—to
eliminate those sorts of deductions so
that people all across the country
could see the benefits of tax reform.
Let’s be clear about who will be bene-
fiting by the Congressional Review Act
that is being proposed to be voted on
today. There will be 94 percent of the
benefits going to those with incomes
over $200,000. Those aren’t the people
who need tax relief in this country.
We made choices when passing tax
reform. We wanted to provide tax relief
for the middle class, and we wanted to
double the child tax credit. It worked.
We wanted to double the standard de-
duction, and that worked. We wanted
to lower the tax rates as well. The re-
sults are that a great majority of
American households are actually pay-
ing less in taxes today than they were
before.
We have also had this great boost to
the economy. We have more people
working and one of the lowest unem-
ployment rates we have seen. We have
seen wages and incomes grow. We have
seen the unemployment rate drop to a
50-year low. We have also seen eco-
nomic growth beat all previous pre-
dictions. That is what we have gotten
with the tax reform—the tax relief—
that the Republicans have passed and
that President Trump has signed into
law. The Republicans are going to con-
tinue to focus on keeping taxes low for
all Americans.
The best description I have heard of
this proposal is that it seems to be an
effort to give tax breaks to rich people
in blue States.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
guess if you live long enough and are
around here long enough, you get to
hear it all.
Hypocrisy is when the party of the
rich—now the party that gave $1 tril-
lion in the Trump tax bill to the larg-
est corporations, with most of it going
to the wealthiest one-tenth of 1 per-
cent—now says it is for the working
guy. Amazing. Hypocrisy is when donor
States, like my State of New Jersey,
give moocher States—those that actu-
ally receive far more than they give to
the Federal Treasury—say that some-
how we should continue to pay more.
Yet that is overwhelmingly the reality
that is going on. In fact, I find the
comments of some of my colleagues
here to be pretty ironic.
I urge the Senate to reject these new
IRS rules that are designed to block ef-
forts by homeowners across America to
avoid the Trump tax law’s harmful
caps on their State and local tax de-
ductions.
I thank Leader SCHUMER and Rank-
ing Member WYDEN for the opportunity
to exercise our authority under the
Congressional Review Act to stop these
IRS rules from taking effect.
It was 2 years ago when President
Trump and his allies rammed their cor-
porate tax bill through Congress. They
promised middle-class families thou-
sands of dollars in tax relief and $4,000
raises in their salaries. Instead, all
they got was $1.5 trillion more in debt
and an economy that was even more
rigged in favor of big corporations and
wealthy CEOs.
Of course, as bad as the tax bill is for
the whole country, it is even worse for
States like New Jersey. That is be-
cause, even after borrowing over $1.5
trillion from China, the President still
can’t pay for his deficit-exploding cor-
porate tax cuts. Where are all of my
colleagues—all of those deficit hawks—
who talked about exploding deficits
and debt? They are silent.
Even though he couldn’t have enough
of this $1.5 trillion of borrowing, what
did President Trump do? He dipped into
the wallets of New Jersey’s and other
States’ middle classes by gutting the
State and local tax deductions they
used to write off, their property taxes.
In 2016, $1.8 million, or around 40 per-
cent of New Jersey’s taxpayers, de-
ducted their property and State income
taxes from their Federal returns. That
average was about $18,000 per deduc-
tion. More than 80 percent of those who
deducted earned less than $200,000. So
to say that the Trump tax law was a
giant hit job on New Jersey’s middle
class is no exaggeration, for already
New Jersey families are paying the
price.
Earlier this month, new data from
ProPublica revealed that because of
the new $10,000 cap on property tax de-
ductions, home values in New Jersey
have taken a huge hit. In fact, home
values in Essex County, NJ, declined
more than those of any other county in
America.
And according to nj.com, of over 30
counties across the Nation suffering
the largest dip in home values, 16 of
them are in the Garden State. That is
why Governor Murphy and New Jer-
sey’s legislative leaders took action to
protect homeowners from getting ham-
mered. They adopted a program, as did
over 30 other States. And, by the way,
these States, or all these red States,
are not the ‘‘blue States’’ or wealthy
States. These are States that adopted
similar provisions before the Trump
tax bill that were getting the benefit of
a local tax credit for charitable con-
tributions to nonprofits set up by local
governments. They adopted a program
that 30-some other States have in the
books in some form.
In return, taxpayers could receive a
property credit worth up to 90 percent
of their contribution. Other States
have long used similar charitable con-
tribution programs. For example, in
Alabama, there is a 100-percent tax
credit available for contributions to
private school scholarship funds. In
Missouri, one program incentivizes do-
nations to shelters for survivors of do-
mestic abuse. In Florida, there are pro-
grams that actually go to an education
fund and to a conservation fund. I
could go through the list of these 32
States that had charity tax-credit pro-
grams across the country, which now
the IRS rules are nullifying, and which
all of those States—and many of my
Republican colleagues who represent
them—are now facing. What was com-
pletely acceptable and the IRS had no
problem with now is not acceptable
whatsoever.
The IRS long respected these pro-
grams. So I was hopeful that New Jer-
sey’s charitable contribution credits
would provide relief to homeowners
suffering under the Trump tax scam
and would be treated the same as all of
these 32 other States.
Unfortunately, as soon as New Jersey
and other States took action, the IRS
reversed course and issued new regula-
tions, hamstringing this long-accepted
type of charitable contribution pro-
gram.
These are harmful regulations for all
of the 32 States that are represented
through some of these programs, and
the Senate has an opportunity to pro-
tect all of those 32 States’ charitable
contribution programs.
Look, in an ideal world, New Jersey’s
charitable contribution credit wouldn’t
be necessary because Congress would
uphold the full state and local tax de-
duction as a bedrock principle of our
Tax Code. As a matter of fact, it is the
oldest deduction in the history of the
code, and it is a principle that I would
especially expect my Republican col-
leagues to stand up for.
Since the Federal income tax cre-
ation in 1913, the State and local tax
deduction has encouraged States to
stand on their own feet. It encourages
States to make smart investments
that, at the end of the day, make them
less reliant on Federal handouts.
In New Jersey, we know that when
we invest in public schools, we prepare
our students to succeed in high-paying
fields. In New Jersey, we know that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.029 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6068 October 23, 2019
when we invest in mass transit, we
connect workers to new jobs and oppor-
tunities. In New Jersey, we know that
when we invest in public health and
law enforcement, we all do better be-
cause our streets are safer and our fam-
ilies are healthier.
It is no coincidence that New Jersey
is one of the most economically pro-
ductive States in the Nation, to the
betterment of all Americans, especially
those in less productive States—donor
State versus moocher States.
Isn’t that a good thing? Isn’t a
State’s right to set its own tax policies
a right worth defending?
For as long I can remember, I have
heard my Republican colleagues talk
about self-reliance, about personal re-
sponsibility, about protecting not pun-
ishing success, and about States’
rights. Well, the Trump tax law was
nothing short of a massive tax on the
success of States like New Jersey and
the State rights of States like New Jer-
sey.
Likewise, I have heard Republicans
talk about States’ rights and the vir-
tues of federalism. Well, guess what.
The State and local tax deduction is a
bedrock of federalism.
Today’s CRA vote is an opportunity
for my colleagues across the aisle to
actually stand up for those principles
of self-reliance, of States’ rights, and
federalism; to walk the walk, instead
of just talking the talk, and to pre-
serve the programs of these 32 States
with charity tax credit programs that
are now all threatened of being extin-
guished by the IRS’s determination.
I want to close by sharing a con-
stituent letter I received earlier this
year about what the property tax de-
duction meant to one New Jersey fam-
ily.
This past April, Leigh, from Budd
Lake, wrote:
My husband and I just did our taxes
today—and for the first time ever—we owe
money. And not just a little, hundreds.
We own a home and for the first time we
were not able to itemize our deductions; our
deductions in fact were cut in half.
There is no incentive to us owning our
home anymore. We are an average middle
class family paying a mortgage and trying to
raise three kids. I’m tired of our family
being collateral damage in yet another polit-
ical fight.
Leigh is absolutely right. New Jersey
families shouldn’t have to foot the bill
for massive handouts for big corpora-
tions.
To add insult to injury, while the
new IRS rules crack down on New Jer-
sey’s efforts to save families like
Leigh’s money, last fall the Treasury
Department made clear that corpora-
tions—listen to this—could continue to
benefit from the same exact kind of
workaround. Corporations can con-
tinue to benefit from the same kind of
workaround.
How is that for protecting the little
guy? How is that for hypocrisy?
It is not fair. It is not right. Our con-
stituents deserve better. So we will
continue to push for a long-term solu-
tion to this problem. I have introduced
the Stop Attacking Local Taxpayers
Act, or SALT Act, to restore the full
deductibility of State and local taxes.
Under my bill, the more you pay in
property and State taxes, the more re-
lief you get. It is the exact opposite of
what the Trump tax bill says, which is
that the higher the cost of living is in
your State and the more you pay in
State and local taxes, the more you
owe the Federal Government come tax
time. It is double taxation. It makes no
sense.
The SALT Act deserves the full con-
sideration of the Senate, but in the
meantime, we should use the oppor-
tunity before us today to help hard-
working homeowners suffering from
the Trump tax law. We should help
these 32 States—overwhelmingly, most
of them, Republican—that have a tax
credit program be able to sustain that
program for the benefits of the deci-
sions they made in their States and for
the purposes they made, whether it be
education, conservation, or whatever
else, that now are nullified by the IRS
rule.
Join us, and let’s exercise our power
with the Congressional Review Act to
do what is right—to protect middle-
class families throughout the Nation
from higher property tax burdens, to
protect States and their right to deter-
mine how their taxpayers will ulti-
mately receive the benefits for making
investments in education, for making
investments in conservation, and for
making investments in a whole host of
issues, that these States, in their
rightful judgment, decided were per-
fectly fine and that were always upheld
by the IRS and are now nullified by the
Internal Revenue Service’s decision.
That is what we have an opportunity
to turn around, and I hope we will.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
PERDUE). The Senator from Iowa.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA TRADE
AGREEMENT
Mr. GRASSLEY. Mr. President, be-
fore I address the issues before the Sen-
ate right now, I would like to express
some concern I have about whether the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agree-
ment will be able to get done this year.
I come to the floor today to express
growing worry. The Democratic-con-
trolled House of Representatives looks
increasingly less likely to act this year
on the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement. That threatens passage of
the trilateral trade deal this Congress,
as next year is a Presidential election
year.
It has been about a year since the up-
dated trade agreement with Canada
and Mexico was signed by the leaders
of the three nations. It is a whole year,
and Democrats have still failed to act.
Every day that passes, Americans are
losing out on economic benefits of the
USMCA. House Democrats seem to
have no sense of urgency. For months
now, House Democrats have said they
are working on it, that they are mak-
ing progress and that they are opti-
mistic that they can get to yes.
But conspicuously absent from their
pronouncements are any mention of a
date or timeline. With every passing
month, these seem less like good-faith
assurances and more like stalling tac-
tics.
The new Congress has been seated for
more than 10 months now. How long is
it going to take before this can come
up?
Ambassador Lighthizer, more than
any other Trade Representative I can
recall, has gone above and beyond to
accommodate the other party’s policy
demands. For nearly a year now,
Lighthizer has worked with House
Democrats to find solutions on issues
of concern to them, like labor, environ-
ment, intellectual property, and en-
forcement.
I am beginning to wonder if Demo-
crats are interested in reaching a com-
promise at all. It is looking more like
they would prefer to deprive the ad-
ministration of a victory, even if it
comes at the expense of the American
people. That should not stand.
Earlier this month, I wrote a column
with Congressman KEVIN BRADY, the
ranking Republican on the House Ways
and Means Committee. We wrote that
time would tell if Democrats cared
more about undermining President
Trump than helping the American
economy and job creation as a result of
it. Today, it is looking more like the
former than the latter.
If the USMCA is not brought up for a
vote in the House very soon, Demo-
crats will have a price to pay next year
when the American people have a
chance to weigh in. There is little
Americans dislike more in politics
than zero-sum, oppose-the-other-party
politics, no matter the cost.
The USMCA would create hundreds
of thousands of jobs, protect American
industries, and provide confidence to
U.S. businesses and innovators to in-
vest right here in America.
That is what Democrats seem willing
to sacrifice by inaction on the USMCA.
But Democrats are making the wrong
political calculus. This underestimates
the intelligence of the American voter
and their ability to sniff out a phony.
President Trump has done his job. He
has renegotiated a trade deal that
nearly everyone besides a few congres-
sional Democrats can agree is better
than its predecessor we know as
NAFTA.
It is now up to the House of Rep-
resentatives to do their job and bring
this deal to a vote. If they don’t act
soon, the American people will hold
them accountable a year from now.
S.J. RES. 50
Now to the issue before the U.S. Sen-
ate—the State and local tax deduction.
This week, Democrats are using the
Congressional Review Act to force a
vote on a resolution that would effec-
tively repeal an IRS regulation aimed
at preventing millionaires and billion-
aires from exploiting a tax loophole.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.030 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6069
October 23, 2019
This loophole would allow top income
earners to save billions of dollars in
Federal taxes annually.
New York City hedge fund and pri-
vate equity managers would most as-
suredly be some of the biggest bene-
ficiaries under this loophole. At the
same time, the taxpayers with incomes
under $50,000 would see virtually no
benefit.
In this case one might think my
Democratic colleagues would be cheer-
ing on the Treasury Department and
the Internal Revenue Service for tak-
ing decisive actions and shutting down
this loophole for the wealthy. But this
doesn’t seem to be the case. Demo-
crats—and only Democrats—including
the Democratic minority leader, are
arguing in favor of allowing wealthy
taxpayers to exploit this loophole.
Moreover, predominantly Democratic
States have been promoting and be-
moaning the loss of this loophole.
The loophole I am talking about is a
concerted effort by predominantly only
Democrat States to help their wealthi-
est residents get around the $10,000 cap
on the deduction of State and local
taxes, which has come to be known by
the acronym SALT.
These efforts to get around the cap
have been called blue State SALT
workarounds. These workarounds are
essentially State-sanctioned tax shel-
ters where wealthy residents make
payments to a State or local govern-
ment-controlled fund in exchange for
tax credits they can use to wipe out
most or all of their State taxes.
These States then want the Federal
Government to ignore this sleight of
hand and recognize these payments as
fully deductible charitable contribu-
tions when they are nothing more than
State tax payments. Well, that is real-
ly too cute by half. It is cheating, and
these States are encouraging it, forcing
the rest of the country to subsidize
these tax shelters for the wealthy.
The Treasury Department and the
IRS have correctly determined that
these workarounds are contrary to the
Federal tax law and have issued sen-
sible regulations to clarify this tax
treatment. In doing so, they applied
longstanding tax principles that deny a
charity deduction to the extent the
taxpayer receives something of value
in return for their charitable donation.
It is simply common sense.
Charity is by definition something
done out of the goodness of your heart
without expecting or getting some-
thing in return. That is certainly not
the case with these workarounds.
There is no charity involved. In fact,
once taking into account both the
State tax credit and the charitable de-
duction at the Federal level, a tax-
payer could actually receive a tax ben-
efit that exceeds the dollar value of
their so-called donation. That is not
charity; that is a tax scam.
Some have attempted to justify this
tax scam by pointing to State tax cred-
it programs that existed prior to the
existence of the SALT cap, but unlike
the recently enacted programs, these
older programs were not specifically
designed to circumvent Federal tax law
when they were enacted. These pre-
existing tax credit programs were tar-
geted at giving taxpayers the option of
funding certain nontraditional govern-
mental activities, such as providing
underprivileged children scholarships
or to set aside land for conservation.
My Democratic colleagues have
painstakingly tried to defend these
scams by claiming they are efforts to
alleviate State tax burdens on the mid-
dle class; however, this argument
doesn’t even pass the laugh test. It is
undeniable that these workarounds
will overwhelmingly benefit the super-
wealthy, while the middle class will re-
ceive little or no benefit.
I was pleased to see that at least one
Senate Democrat was willing to be
honest about this last night here on
the Senate floor. Senator BENNET of
Colorado put it this way:
The vast majority of the benefits of repeal-
ing the SALT cap would go to high-income
Americans. Repeal would be extremely cost-
ly, and for that same cost, we could advance
much more worthy efforts to help working
and middle-class families all over the coun-
try.
To illustrate this point, I have here a
chart based on a nonpartisan Joint
Committee on Taxation distribution
analysis. They have made very clear
through their chart showing who would
benefit from repealing the cap on de-
ductions for State and local taxes.
While eliminating these Treasury
regulations wouldn’t repeal the SALT
cap entirely, it would effectively make
the cap toothless, as more and more
States would create workarounds. And
let’s not forget—the repeal of the cap is
their ultimate goal.
As we can see here on the chart, the
majority of the benefits from repealing
the SALT cap—52 percent—would flow
to taxpayers with incomes exceeding $1
million. Let’s think about that just for
a minute. Less than half of 1 percent of
all tax returns report income exceeding
$1 million. Yet, according to the Joint
Committee on Taxation, these tax-
payers would receive 52 percent of the
tax benefit if this resolution of dis-
approval went through. Another 42 per-
cent of the tax benefit would go to tax-
payers with incomes between $200,000
and $1 million. When combined with
those earning over $1 million, you can
see that fully 94 percent of the tax ben-
efit would go to taxpayers with in-
comes over $200,000. To put this into
perspective, only 7 percent of tax re-
turns report income exceeding this
level.
Now compare this to taxpayers with
incomes under $200,000, which is about
93 percent of all taxpayers. According
to the Joint Committee on Taxation,
this group would receive a measly 6
percent of the benefit from repealing
the cap on State tax deductions, as the
Democrats are proposing. Only a hand-
ful of taxpayers with incomes under
$200,000—or about 3 percent—would ac-
tually see any benefit. Ninety-seven
percent of these taxpayers wouldn’t see
even one penny of benefit from taking
away the SALT cap.
So, very simply, there you have it.
The same Democrats who have criti-
cized the 2017 tax bill as supposedly
benefiting only the wealthy—can you
believe it?—are now actively pushing
an agenda that would overwhelmingly
benefit the wealthy. This goes to show
how off-base Democratic criticism of
tax reform really is, as we have heard
it over the last 2 years.
Far from being a giveaway to the
wealthy, the tax reform passed in 2017
was a concerted effort to provide tax
relief for everybody. Republicans ac-
complished this tax cut for everybody
primarily by lowering tax rates across
the board, but we also did it by repeal-
ing or limiting certain regressive tax
benefits, such as the deduction for
State and local taxes, the SALT provi-
sions we are talking about. We then
used that revenue to increase benefits
that better target low- to middle-in-
come taxpayers. For example, we dou-
bled the child tax credit from $1,000 to
$2,000 and increased the refundability
of that tax credit. We also nearly dou-
bled the standard deduction, to the
benefit of many lower and middle-in-
come taxpayers. We likely couldn’t
have made those changes if we hadn’t
limited the deduction for State taxes
that mostly benefited the wealthy.
Democrats who wrongly associate
this SALT cap with a tax increase on
middle-income folks simply aren’t
looking at the facts or at tax reform as
a whole. Two years ago, Republicans
created a tax cut for an overwhelming
majority of Americans. This is true
even for taxpayers affected by the de-
duction for State taxes.
Before tax reform, many upper-mid-
dle-income taxpayers—particularly
those in the high-tax blue States—had
to pay the alternative minimum tax.
We refer to that as the AMT. For any-
one who used to pay the AMT, after
you struggled through the incredible
complexity of the AMT rules, you real-
ized an unfortunate fact: The AMT
clawed back the deduction for your
State tax payments. Therefore, many
of these taxpayers saw little or no ben-
efit from this deduction before tax re-
form.
Democrats don’t like to admit this
inconvenient truth, but it is true. They
don’t seem to let facts interfere with
their political rhetoric. So, yes, these
same taxpayers are likely now affected
by the SALT cap, but because Repub-
licans largely did away with the AMT—
at the same time, lowering everybody’s
tax rates—they still received a tax cut.
Let’s not forget that these taxpayers
no longer have to deal with the mind-
numbing complexity of the AMT. Now
a question: Do Democrats really want
middle-income families to have to go
back to the nonsense of figuring out
the alternative minimum tax every
year?
I have heard Democrats try to justify
their efforts to undermine the SALT
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.031 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6070 October 23, 2019
cap by claiming it was part of some ne-
farious plot against blue States. That
is simply not true. Yes, more taxpayers
in blue States are affected by the cap
given the high State taxes those States
impose on their residents, but the fact
is, on average, every income group in
every State saw a tax cut under the
2017 tax cut bill. This isn’t just coming
from this Senator, CHUCK GRASSLEY,
but an analysis by the liberal Institute
on Taxation and Economic Policy. In
addition, recent filing season data re-
leased by H&R Block shows that, on
average, residents of even high-tax
States received a tax cut.
We have also heard fears that the cap
will negatively affect blue State reve-
nues, as higher income taxpayers flee
to lower tax jurisdictions. But con-
cerns about such an exodus aren’t new
and didn’t start because of the cap;
they started because of sky-high taxes
in those very same States.
In November of 2017, prior to the en-
actment of this tax cut and reform bill,
the Wall Street Journal wrote about
‘‘The Great Progressive Tax Escape.’’
This article focused on IRS tax return
data between 2012 and 2015 that showed
billions of dollars in taxable income
leaving high-tax States for low-tax
States due to taxpayer migration. Last
time I checked, there was no SALT cap
between 2012 and 2015. While there is
some anecdotal evidence that taxpayer
migration might be starting to in-
crease due to the cap, it is not entirely
clear at this point.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that a Bloomberg article from
May of this year titled ‘‘Blue States
Warned of a SALT Apocalypse. It
Hasn’t Happened’’ be printed in the
RECORD.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
[May 21, 2019]
BLUE STATES WARNED OF A SALT
APOCALYPSE. IT HASN’T HAPPENED
(By Martin Z Braun)
To listen to New York Governor Andrew
Cuomo, the 2017 Republican tax overhaul
that limited state and local deductions to
$10,000 was a devastating blow. The rich
would flee, the middle class would suffer and
blue state budgets would bleed.
Perhaps this will come to pass over time,
but so far, there are almost no signs of it.
New York, in fact, saw revenue rise $3.7
billion in April from a year earlier, thanks
to a shift in timing of taxpayer payments, a
stock market that rallied through much of
2018 and a decade-long economic expansion
that’s pushed national unemployment to a
50-year low. Similar windfalls arrived in New
Jersey, California and Illinois—states that,
like New York, had warned of dire con-
sequences from the law.
And it turns out that tax refunds across
the U.S. in 2019—those once-a-year checks
from Uncle Sam that people use to pay cred-
it card debt from Christmas or buy a wash-
ing machine—were roughly the same size as
a year earlier. In all, about 64% of American
households paid less in individual income tax
for 2018 than they would have had the Tax
Cut and Jobs Act not become law, according
to the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center.
‘‘Any comment that says this is an eco-
nomic civil war that would gut the middle
class is overblown,’’ said Kim Rueben, the di-
rector of the State and Local Finance Initia-
tive at the Tax Policy Center. ‘‘If there’s
going to be any effect of the SALT limit on
the ability of some states to have progres-
sive taxes it’s too early to know that yet.’’
TAXABLE INCOME
In some ways, the $10,000 limit on state and
local tax deductions—SALT—is saving states
money by lowering their borrowing costs.
That’s because investors seeking to reduce
their tax bill are plowing a record-setting
amount of cash into municipal bonds, driv-
ing interest rates lower. The extra yield that
investors demand to compensate for the risk
of holding Illinois general-obligation bonds,
for instance, has fallen to the lowest since
May 2015, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.
States are also benefiting from a broader
tax base because the law eliminated some ex-
emptions and limited deductions, like mort-
gage interest. Since states that levy income
taxes use federal adjusted gross income or
taxable income as the base, they have more
income to tax.
Still, the nerves of Democratic governors
and their budget officers frayed in December
when income tax collections plunged by
more than 30 percent from the prior Decem-
ber. Cuomo was quick to call the tax law
‘‘politically diabolical’’ and an act of ‘‘eco-
nomic civil war’’ against the middle class.
Then April came.
New York collected $3.4 billion more in
personal income tax revenue last month
than a year earlier, a 57% increase, accord-
ing to Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli. Cali-
fornia took in $19.2 billion in April, exceed-
ing Governor Gavin Newsom’s estimate by $4
billion.
New Jersey had a record April with tax
collections up 57%, allowing it to boost fore-
casts for the year by $377 million and trig-
gering a political battle over how to spend
the windfall. Illinois individual and cor-
porate tax revenue was $1.5 billion more than
projected, allowing Governor J.B. Pritzker
to scrap a plan to put off pension payments.
TIMING CHANGE
April personal income tax collections in 28
states and Washington increased by $16.3 bil-
lion, or 36.2% year-over-year to $61.4 billion,
Bank of America Corp. said.
‘‘SALT caps do not appear to be a broad
system risk to state credit quality at this
point,’’ S&P Global Ratings said recently.
A big reason for the sharp bounce-back
after December’s deep revenue declines in
New York and other high-tax states: The
SALT limits caused some people to change
when they paid their taxes. Wealthy tax-
payers in December 2017 accelerated big tax
payments to take advantage of the unlimited
state and local tax deduction before it ex-
pired. Then, with the SALT deduction
capped, that incentive evaporated and tax-
payers waited until this April to pay their
2018 taxes.
Also, some individuals failed to adjust
their W-4s after the passage of the tax law.
So people who underwithheld received more
in their paychecks since then but had to pay
more tax in April or received lower refunds.
TRENDING INLINE
Still, there are some indications that resi-
dents in high-tax states are fretting about
the law. Thirteen percent of house-hunters
in both New York and California said they
have started looking for homes in states
with lower taxes, according to a recent sur-
vey by brokerage Redfin Corp.
In Westchester County, where a typical
property tax bill for a single family home is
more than $17,000, the average sales price de-
clined 7.6% between the first quarter of 2018
and the same quarter this year. Sales prices
for luxury homes (average price $2 million)
plummeted 22% during the same period, ac-
cording to appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and
brokerage Douglas Elliman Real Estate.
Almost half of income taxes paid to Cali-
fornia, New York and New Jersey are from
the wealthiest 1% of earners. If they were to
move in large enough numbers, those states
could be in trouble. New York, New Jersey,
Connecticut and Maryland sued the Trump
administration last year to invalidate the
$10,000 cap, saying that it unfairly targets
them. States have sought to pass loopholes
around the limit and there’s a push in Con-
gress to reverse it.
But migration rates in high tax states
most affected by SALT are below pre-reces-
sion levels, and generally in-line with U.S
trends, Moody’s Investors Service said in
April. Jobs, housing and the weather influ-
ence migration more than taxes, according
to Moody’s analyst Marcia Van Wagner.
‘‘Armageddon hasn’t resulted from the
changes to SALT, but it still may be too
early to measure its impact,’’ said Matt Dal-
ton, chief executive officer of Rye Brook,
New York-based Belle Haven Investments,
which manages $9 billion of municipal bonds.
‘‘You see more mansions listed in New York.
Manhattan real estate sales just had their
worst quarter in a decade.’’
Mr. GRASSLEY. As this article high-
lights, revenue for blue States this tax
season were up, not down.
The ratings agency Moody’s released
a report in April saying that there
were no discernible signs that individ-
uals were fleeing high-tax States as a
result of the SALT cap. However, even
if taxpayer migration were to occur as
a result of the cap, the answer to the
problem isn’t repealing the SALT cap;
it is for States to look in their own
backyard at their own tax-and-spend
policy.
The truth is, these State politicians
aren’t concerned about their own tax-
payers. What they are really worried
about is their continued ability to
gouge those taxpayers with ever-in-
creasing State and local taxes, which
used to be subsidized by taxpayers from
other States through the Federal Tax
Code because there was no SALT cap.
In closing, I want to turn back to
this very chart, the same one I dis-
cussed earlier. For Democrats still on
the fence as to whether to vote to re-
peal the IRS regulations on the SALT
work-arounds, you ought to study this
chart very closely.
I ask a question to the other side:
Could you, with a straight face, argue
that a vote to protect these work-
arounds is not a vote to provide a mas-
sive tax cut for the wealthy? This
chart shows it is helping the wealthy.
For Democrats who intend to vote
for this tax scam anyway, I don’t want
to hear any more long-winded speeches
about how the tax bill of 2017 benefited
the wealthy. The fact is, after tax re-
form, the wealthy now shoulder a larg-
er share of Federal tax burden than
they did under the prior law.
This was made possible by reforms to
regressive tax expenditures, such as
our capping the SALT deduction. What
is more, these reforms allow us to tar-
get more tax relief to lower and mid-
dle-income taxpayers.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.033 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6071
October 23, 2019
State work-arounds through the
SALT cap are nothing more than
State-sanctioned tax shelters. By vot-
ing to undermine that cap, Democrats
are voting to enrich the wealthy tax-
payers whom they persistently have
vilified as not paying enough. More-
over, they put the tax relief provided
to the middle class in jeopardy.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oregon.
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, I want to
make sure the Senate and the country
understand what this debate is all
about.
Senate Republicans have been writ-
ing letters to the Department of Treas-
ury saying that the Treasury SALT
rule hurts their State charities. Yet
they have been unwilling—at least
based on what I am told—to be part of
an effort to fix this and to support
those charities. That is what we would
be doing in our effort today to overturn
the Treasury Department’s flawed—
deeply flawed—SALT regulations.
My view is that these regulations il-
lustrate essentially what was wrong
with the Republicans’ 2017 tax law.
This was a law that was half-baked and
rushed to shovel hundreds of billions of
dollars to those at the top of the eco-
nomic pyramid in our country. Then
$1.5 trillion was borrowed so that Don-
ald Trump and his Republican allies
could find a way to cover this tax cut
for cronies and donors.
Then, because they still needed rev-
enue, Republicans deliberately tar-
geted middle-class homeowners in
States like New Jersey, New York,
Maryland, and Oregon for tax in-
creases.
For some communities in Oregon, it
is not uncommon for property tax bills
alone for middle-class folks to exceed
$10,000. But when our Republican col-
leagues took this flawed approach on
the SALT issue, they didn’t want to
listen to experts. So the Trump Treas-
ury Department stepped in, and with-
out any clear authority to do so, the
Treasury Department reversed a long-
standing IRS provision that had al-
lowed taxpayers a full deduction for
charitable contributions to State tax
credit programs.
In essence, the Treasury Department
created a new rule that extended the
$10,000 cap on State and local tax de-
ductions to also include charitable con-
tributions to State tax credit pro-
grams.
To make matters worse, because Re-
publican Senators began to see what an
absurd approach this was, Secretary
Mnuchin put together another carve-
out for Republican interests, trying to
figure out how to manage this flawed
regulation. In effect, businesses using
these same workarounds to fund pri-
vate school voucher programs would be
exempt from the regulation. Middle-
class families pay more; businesses pay
less. That is the Republican way.
My view is that the Treasury Depart-
ment shouldn’t be putting its thumb on
the scale on behalf of Republicans, and
it certainly shouldn’t be using what
amounts to a phony regulatory jus-
tification to fix this extraordinarily
poorly drafted law.
While Donald Trump certainly in-
tended for these regulations to hurt
middle-class families in some parts of
the country in Democratic States and
protect Republican interests, the bad
news for my Republican colleagues—
and this is why so many Republican
Senators are writing the Treasury De-
partment, talking about why their
State charities are getting hammered.
The regulations produced by the Treas-
ury Department are overly broad, and
they hurt the majority of States by ef-
fectively eliminating the benefit of
those State charitable tax credit pro-
grams. These include credits that sup-
port priorities like conservation, child
care, charitable giving, and access to
higher education.
This is particularly striking, given
that the Trump tax law was already es-
timated to slash overall charitable giv-
ing by as much as $20 million a year.
Now on top of that, the regulations
that I oppose and feel so strongly about
coming from the Treasury Department
threaten more than 100 charitable
State tax credit programs in 33 States.
My Republican colleagues’ constitu-
ents will be hurt by these regulations,
just like my constituents at home. We
are talking about childcare centers in
Colorado and Missouri; foster care or-
ganizations in Arizona; historic preser-
vation groups in Kansas; charities in
Iowa, Kentucky, and Mississippi; con-
servation groups in Arkansas, Iowa,
Florida, North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, and Tennessee; rural hospitals in
Georgia, the home State of the Pre-
siding Officer; universities in Indiana,
Idaho, Montana, and North Dakota;
and volunteer responders in Nebraska.
As today’s debate proceeds, you are
going to hear about these comments
against these regulations that were
submitted to the Trump administra-
tion. There is a rural hospital in Geor-
gia that was able to upgrade its heart
monitors, a childcare center in Colo-
rado that helps parents remain in the
workforce, and a conservation group
that has preserved more than 10,000
acres of land in Florida’s gulf coast.
In wrapping up, I just hope my Re-
publican colleagues will put their con-
stituents first by shielding them from
these unintended consequences of los-
ing their charitable tax credits and
supporting this resolution offered by
the leader, Senator SCHUMER, myself,
and other colleagues.
Senate Republicans have a choice.
They can keep writing letters to the
Treasury Department, complaining
about the regulations that hammer
their State charities, or they can join
us in voting to reverse this policy. I
just hope that Senators move to this
vote, and they take the option that I
think is the only one you can explain
to the folks at home in a townhall
meeting. I have had more than 950 of
them. I am going to have some more
very shortly. There, folks have a
chance to really see what your prior-
ities are.
The question here is, Are your prior-
ities with folks at home, with these
State charities that I have empha-
sized—everything from conservation to
healthcare, to children? Are you going
to support the State charities doing
that important work or are you going
to continue to support the Department
of the Treasury with their incredibly
flawed regulations to hammer these
State charities?
I hope Senators from all sides—from
those 33 States that I have just ticked
off—will vote to protect those charities
and join me, Senator SCHUMER, and a
host of other colleagues in voting to
get rid of the Treasury Department’s
rule and stand with us on the CRA.
With that, I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA AGREEMENT
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I come to
the floor frustrated—frustrated by the
fact that it has been 327 days since
President Trump signed the USMCA,
and the House has done nothing to take
it up.
It is not because the House hasn’t
had time. They have found time to do
a lot of things, like continue on their
partisan expedition toward impeaching
the President. They passed a bill with-
out a pay raise for our troops, spent a
lot of ‘‘energy’’ on the Green New Deal,
and one Member of the House took the
time to show the world she was fright-
ened by her garbage disposal.
The question is, What is preventing
Congress from getting the USMCA
done?
From Humboldt County all the way
to Hamburg, IA, at my townhall meet-
ings or during a visit to a small busi-
ness or manufacturing plants and ev-
erywhere in between, I have been hear-
ing one thing consistently and across
the board: Iowans want the USMCA
now.
These hard-working folks know the
impact the USMCA will have on Iowa’s
economy and the U.S. economy as a
whole. There is no reason Iowans
should be waiting in limbo for this
agreement to be ratified.
This trade agreement is a win for the
American people, plain and simple.
Mexico has already ratified the deal,
and Canada is well on their way. Our
trade partners are ready. The United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement is
about modernizing a trade deal with
two of our closest allies that would
grow more than 175,000 jobs across this
country.
NAFTA was ratified in 1994. That was
3 years before Wi-Fi became available
to the public, 5 years before USB drives
were invented, 12 years before the
launch of Facebook and Twitter, and 16
years before computer tablets were on
sale. None of us are living with 1994
technology, so why should we be living
with a 1994 trade policy?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.035 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6072 October 23, 2019
President Trump understands the
need to modernize trade with two of
our closest allies, and that is why he
negotiated a great trade deal with Mex-
ico and Canada—the USMCA. Passing
the USMCA will allow us to compete in
today’s 21st century economy. It will
provide folks back home in Iowa with
some certainty—certainty in a time
where prices have been low and mar-
kets have been eroded from other trade
wars.
Iowans want and need USMCA. Can-
ada and Mexico are our States’ top two
trading partners. In 2018 alone, we ex-
ported $6.6 billion worth of products to
our neighbors to the north and to the
south. Trade with Canada and Mexico
directly increases the value of Iowan
exports like beef, adding $70 in value to
each head that comes from the State.
In case you didn’t know it, Mexico is
the No. 1 consumer of Iowa corn. I was
up in Northwest Iowa a couple of weeks
ago visiting with one Iowa corn farmer,
and he said that if we were able to get
the USMCA deal done, it would have a
direct impact—positive—on his farm.
It is not just our farmers who will
benefit from the USMCA; it is also our
businesses and our manufacturers. I
was visiting with some business leaders
at a roundtable in Des Moines, and
time and again they told me how im-
portant it is that we get this trade deal
done and in place.
All of this leaves me scratching my
head, wondering when the House is
going to do what Americans are de-
manding. When will they stop obstruct-
ing the good work done by our Presi-
dent to get a deal in place?
House Democrats need to do their job
so Iowa farmers, manufacturers, and
business owners can do theirs. Now is
the time to pass the USMCA.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Arizona.
Ms. MCSALLY. Mr. President, I come
to the floor to speak in support of the
USMCA, and I appreciate all of my
other colleagues who are speaking out
as well.
Almost a year has passed since Presi-
dent Trump signed the U.S.-Mexico-
Canada Agreement and notified Con-
gress of the administration’s intention
to enter into the deal. Legislation to
implement the agreement must origi-
nate and be approved first in the U.S.
House of Representatives and then the
U.S. Senate, where it will pass with a
strong bipartisan vote, including mine.
This modernization of NAFTA mat-
ters for Arizona businesses, hard-work-
ing citizens, and families. Mexico has
already ratified USMCA, and Canada is
in the process of doing so. Congress
needs to pass USMCA without any fur-
ther delay.
Simply put, USMCA is a win for Ari-
zona. Trade with Mexico and Canada is
key to Arizona jobs and opportunities.
Almost 50 percent of all Arizona ex-
ports go to Mexico and Canada, and
more than 228,000 Arizona jobs rely on
this trade. In 2018, Arizona and Mexico
engaged in $16.6 billion worth of cross-
border commerce.
Exports to Canada and Mexico sup-
port Arizona jobs across a broad vari-
ety of industries. In 2018, Arizona com-
panies exported $2.3 billion worth of
computer and electrical products, $1.4
billion in appliances, $928 million in
transportation equipment, and $796
million in machinery to Canada and
Mexico. Arizona miners exported $1 bil-
lion in minerals and ores, and Arizona
farmers exported almost $600 million in
agricultural goods. One out of five Ari-
zona manufacturers export to Canada
and Mexico, and most of those are
small and medium-sized businesses. It
is not too hard to see how much Ari-
zona communities, farmers, ranchers,
manufacturers, and business owners
stand to gain from Congress finalizing
the USMCA.
A few weeks ago, I was honored to
host Vice President PENCE in the
Grand Canyon State. One of our stops
took us to Caterpillar’s proving
grounds in Green Valley, AZ, where the
company tests their impressive ma-
chinery and trains operators on new
equipment.
With roughly 660 full-time employees
in our State, Caterpillar knows what a
critical role cross-border commerce—
and the passage of USMCA—is for Ari-
zona. Caterpillar recycles 150 million
tons of scraps a year to create new
products. This kind of innovation
should be promoted, not penalized.
USMCA encourages this kind of inno-
vation by specifically prohibiting re-
strictions on remanufactured goods. In
turn, companies like Caterpillar are
not penalized but encouraged to be
thoughtful in their environmental foot-
print.
I made many other visits to local
businesses this year and heard straight
from Arizonans about why we need to
get this deal passed and now. The
USMCA opens doors for Arizona to con-
tinue leading in the aerospace, finan-
cial services, film and digital media,
and bioscience sectors. It enhances in-
tellectual property protections and will
benefit Arizona’s emerging automotive
sector by requiring at least 75 percent
of a car to be built with North Amer-
ican parts in order for it to be sold
duty-free. Arizona’s farmers and ranch-
ers will have new opportunities to ex-
port dairy, eggs, wheat, chicken, and
turkey products to Canada.
Earlier this month, Speaker PELOSI
said about USMCA that her Demo-
cratic caucus in the House was ‘‘on a
path to yes.’’ Well, with less than two
dozen legislative days remaining in
2019, I sure hope that is true, and I
would encourage them to get to yes
now.
The USMCA is good for our country,
and too much time has passed without
any House action. During these divided
times, this is a proposal that should
bring both sides of the aisle together.
It is good for America, and it is good
for Arizona.
USMCA is a clear win for my con-
stituents in Arizona. Arizonans in
every corner of our great State need to
contact their Representative in the
House and tell them to encourage
Speaker PELOSI to bring this bill to the
floor immediately. Let’s pass USMCA
now.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
Mrs. BLACKBURN. Mr. President, as
our colleagues can hear, we are on the
floor talking about the USMCA and the
need to get this agreement passed. It
really is frustrating. I feel as if we have
come to the floor, time and again, to
encourage our friends in the House, and
I guess we are all but begging them to
take a pause from their political agen-
da and take one vote—just one vote
that is going to make a tremendous
amount of difference in the lives of
businesses, of our auto manufacturers,
our farmers, our chemical producers,
and workers.
Our friends across the aisle like to
say they are all for the workers. Well,
if you are all for the workers, let me
tell you something, there are 12 mil-
lion—get that—12 million workers who
are directly impacted by the benefits
that would come from the USMCA, and
this is across every single industrial
sector.
As I have been about Tennessee, what
I have heard from so many is a simple
question: When are you going to pass
this? How long is it going to take? We
have heard that you have people in lo-
gistics, people who are in farming, and
people who are in every single part of
the economy who are saying: Why
can’t you get this done?
We all know there is support that we
hear about—bipartisan support—wide
bipartisan support in the other Cham-
ber and, indeed, wide bipartisan sup-
port here in the Senate, but for some
reason, they just can’t seem to find the
time to schedule the bill and call the
vote.
America is waiting on them to take
this vote. There are 120,000 small and
midsize American businesses that will
be able to continue exporting their
goods to customers in Canada and Mex-
ico. Do you know what is significant?
These businesses, small and midsize
businesses, are located in every single
one of our States.
The updated customs and trade rules
are certainly going to make sure that
even startups are able to participate in
this cross-border economy. I have
talked to so many new-start businesses
that are coming through our univer-
sities and our entrepreneur centers,
and they say: We want to make certain
that we have access to markets around
the globe.
Isn’t this great? They are not just
thinking locally or regionally. Some of
these talented young Americans, what
are they doing? They are thinking
globally. They are planning ahead for
decades of productivity. This is going
to ease regulations for our dairy and
beef and pork farmers who are in Ten-
nessee.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.037 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6073
October 23, 2019
Indeed, I was out in the past couple
of weeks and talked with a farmer who
is a cattle farmer. He came to one of
our meetings, and I got around to ques-
tions and answers. The very first ques-
tion was, When is this going to be
done? When is it going to be done? Why
is it taking so long? There was agree-
ment between Mexico, Canada, and the
United States months ago. Why can’t
this get a vote?
These are real problems for real peo-
ple who are working real jobs and are
very dedicated and are working dili-
gently. The intellectual property provi-
sions that are in this bill are so signifi-
cant for our singers, our songwriters,
and our musicians who call Nashville
home, and they want to see this take
place.
I have to tell you, I know that all of
these issues I have discussed might not
matter to those who are always inter-
ested in the 24-hour news cycle and
winning the shiny object debate of the
day, but I will tell you this: This mat-
ters to Tennesseans because Ten-
nesseans exported $13.7 billion worth of
transportation equipment, electronics,
machinery, chemicals, fabricated
metal, appliances, paper, plastics, rub-
ber, and other goods to Canada and
Mexico in 2017—a $13.7 billion export
community to our neighbors to the
north and south.
Tennessee businesses and workers
have waited long enough, and they
want to see the House take action and
the vote be completed and the USMCA
become a reality.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. ROM-
NEY). The Senator from Ohio.
Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, I ap-
preciate the comments from my col-
league from Tennessee about the im-
portance of this agreement in her
State, and I can tell you it is also im-
portant to a State a little further
north called Ohio. Our No. 1 trading
partner, by far, is Canada and No. 2 is
Mexico, and we want this agreement.
I hear about it all the time I am out
talking to our farmers. They are con-
cerned about the weather. They are
concerned about what is going on with
the China market. They are concerned
about low prices. They see this as an
opportunity. They see this as kind of
the light at the end of the tunnel.
If we can get the USMCA done, that
expands markets for us and, therefore,
increases our prices and gives us a
chance. It is the same situation with a
lot of manufacturers. It is amazing how
many of them depend on Mexico and
Canada to be able to sell their prod-
ucts. This is a big deal in Ohio and a
big deal for our country. So I am here
today to try to urge the House of Rep-
resentatives to go ahead and move on
this and then to urge the Senate to
take it up right away. The Trump ad-
ministration negotiated a good agree-
ment. It deserves a vote.
I am a former trade lawyer—a recov-
ering one—and I am also a former
member of the Ways and Means Com-
mittee and a former U.S. Trade Rep-
resentative, and now I am on the Fi-
nance Committee, where we deal with
trade. The bottom line is that, in all of
those years working with trade, it is a
complicated area. It is a politically dif-
ficult area. But the bottom line is that
we are about 5 percent of the world’s
population in America, and yet we
have 25 percent of the economy. The
way we do well is to sell more of our
stuff to the 95 percent of the people
who are outside of our borders.
It should be fair. We should have a
level playing field. That is the kind of
context in which I look at the USMCA.
Does it meet these criteria, where we
can sell more of our stuff and we have
a more level playing field? Yes, it does.
That is exactly what this agreement
does. It is a good agreement, and it de-
serves to have a vote. If it has a vote,
it will pass because logic, I think, will
prevail.
As crazy as this town is these days
and as partisan as things are, the logic
of this is inescapable, which is that you
have the USMCA, a good agreement,
and then you have the status quo,
which is NAFTA, which is not as good
in any respect. If you vote no on
USMCA, you are effectively voting yes
for the status quo. I don’t think that
will happen. I think it will pass if we
can get it to the floor for a vote.
Taken together, our neighbors, Can-
ada and Mexico, make up the most im-
portant foreign markets for U.S. prod-
ucts, and not just for Ohio. In fact, ac-
cording to the recent data we have,
one-third of all American exports in
2019 this year have already gone to
Mexico or Canada, well ahead of any
other foreign markets. So trade with
Mexico and Canada is now responsible
for 12 million jobs nationally. Every
single State represented here has jobs
related to this.
In Ohio, again, our No. 1 and No. 2
trade partners are Canada and Mexico,
with 39 percent of our exports going to
Canada alone. That is twice the na-
tional average, by the way. So we are
particularly focused on Canada and
Mexico, which represent $28 billion in
trade total.
What I am hearing from farmers,
manufacturers, and service providers is
that this is really important for us. So
we have to be sure that, because this
relationship is so important, it is built
on a solid foundation. The NAFTA
agreement which it is built on is now
25 years old. It is outdated. It has not
kept up with the times, and it has to be
improved upon. That is what USMCA
does. It basically says that we are in
the 21st century, and we have to make
changes to this agreement.
NAFTA doesn’t have things in it that
one would expect in a 21st century
agreement.
Start with the digital economy. So
much of our economy now operates
over the internet. Yet there is nothing
in the current agreement, NAFTA,
that protects this trade like our mod-
ern agreements do.
Another aspect is labor and environ-
mental standards, which are weak and
not enforceable in the NAFTA agree-
ment but are in the USMCA. That is a
big change in and of itself.
This is not just a name change. This
is a fundamental change in the way in
which we relate to our neighbors to the
south and north.
This handy-dandy chart I put to-
gether shows us some of the differences
between the two agreements. The first
one has to do with economic impact.
The independent International Trade
Commission has done a study on this.
They are required by law to do it. They
say that the new USMCA is going to
create 176,000 new jobs. That is the
green check under USMCA. That is a
big difference right there. If we want to
create more jobs, by the way, here are
176,000 new jobs, and 20,000 of those jobs
are in the auto industry. That is very
important to our country and particu-
larly important to States like mine.
Second, businesses in Ohio and
around the country rely on internet
sales that we talked about earlier.
Internet sales and rules for the inter-
net are unchanged in NAFTA. Frankly,
there is no chapter in NAFTA that
deals with commerce over the internet.
It is unbelievable. It turns out that the
USMCA does, and that is important be-
cause small businesses that rely on ac-
cess to Canada and Mexico through
internet sales are going to have an eas-
ing of their customs burdens for small-
value products. They will have data lo-
calization protections. They will have
a prohibition on Mexico and Canada re-
quiring that there be localization of
the data in those countries. Finally,
this prohibits tariffs on data, which we
don’t have now. These are all impor-
tant key elements in the agreement to
keep our internet economy moving. So
under the rules for the internet econ-
omy, there is a green check for the
USMCA, and NAFTA doesn’t have it.
Let’s talk about the next subject,
which is enforceable labor and environ-
mental standards. In the agreement we
have now, the NAFTA agreement,
there are no labor or environmental
standards that are enforceable—none.
Whereas, in the new USMCA, standards
are actually enforceable. There are
consequences if they don’t abide by
them. This is part of the leveling of the
playing field. Think about it. In Mex-
ico, one of their great advantages has
been lower labor costs and labor condi-
tions—the inability to organize and so
on. This changes that now that we have
labor standards. By the way, Mexico
has already made changes to their
labor laws because of the agreement we
have with them under the USMCA,
which, by the way, was negotiated with
these two countries and submitted
back on September 30 of last year. It
has been over a year. So it is about
time to move it. Again, the USMCA
has enforceable environmental and
labor standards, and NAFTA does not.
There are some other provisions that
are interesting that lead to why this is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.039 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6074 October 23, 2019
good for the economy. The Inter-
national Trade Commission, or the
ITC, also says that this agreement will
increase the GDP of our country, which
is the economic growth of our country,
and, significantly, in fact, more than
the Trans-Pacific Partnership did. Re-
member that the TPP is an agreement
that a lot of Democrats have spoken
very favorably of because of its impact
on the economy. The USMCA actually
increases our economy more than the
Trans-Pacific Partnership would have.
Another issue that is unusual but is
in this agreement and is helpful to our
manufacturing in Ohio and around the
country is that 70 percent of the steel
used in manufacturing vehicles has to
be made in the United States, Canada,
or Mexico. So this is a new standard
that does not exist in NAFTA at all.
This means more steel jobs in America
and more heavy manufacturing jobs in
this country. So we have a check on
USMCA, yes, with 70 percent of the
steel. In NAFTA, there is nothing with
regard to how much steel has to be
coming from North America.
It also states that, with regard to the
wages in Canada, Mexico, and the
United States, there would be a min-
imum wage of $16 per hour for about 40
to 45 percent of this manufacturing we
are talking about. So any vehicle made
in Mexico or anywhere else in America
has to be produced by workers making
16 bucks an hour or more. This is again
about leveling the playing field, and,
frankly, this is the kind of provision
that we would see in a provision nego-
tiated by a Democratic administration,
not a Republican administration. My
Democrat friends have been calling for
this for years. It is in the USMCA
agreement, and it is good for us be-
cause it will result in more jobs coming
to the United States of America, where
we have not just higher labor standards
but higher wages. So 40 to 45 percent of
the vehicles must be made by workers
earning $16 an hour. Check the box for
yes in USMCA and no in NAFTA.
It is another example of how this
agreement is one that addresses a lot
of the concerns the Democrats have
raised over the years. When I was U.S.
Trade Representative, we talked a lot
about these issues. We talked a lot
about them in the Finance Committee.
They are in this agreement.
My hope would be that Speaker
PELOSI and the Democrats in the House
would take this into account and at
least allow this agreement to be voted
on by the full House. If that happens, I
can’t believe that logic wouldn’t pre-
vail, that NAFTA versus USMCA
wouldn’t result in our passing USMCA.
All of these things are going to help.
The one element that I think has
gotten the most attention in farm
country is the fact that the dairy pro-
tections in Canada have been changed
so we have a chance to send our dairy
products to Canada from Ohio and
other dairy States. It is more than
that. It also affects commodities—
wheat, soybeans, and corn—and our
proteins: beef, poultry, and pork. This
is really going to help our farmers.
That is why 1,000 farm groups around
the country have supported this agree-
ment.
Again, with what is going on with
China, with the smaller markets, with
the difficult weather we have had, and
the fact of low prices for commodity
crops—all are real problems—this is a
godsend. It is really needed for our
farmers.
A lot of Democrats are telling me:
ROB, this is just like the NAFTA agree-
ment in so many respects.
It is really not. It is a different
agreement. The truth of the matter is
that this agreement is going to catch
us up to the 21st century with regard to
our important trade relationship with
our two neighbors to the north and
south. It is about improved market ac-
cess for manufacturing and a level
playing field for workers and farmers.
It is about being sure that we have the
ability in the modern digital economy
to get a fair shake. Put these two
agreements side-by-side, and this is a
much-needed upgrade. It has to get a
vote, and, if it does, I think it will
pass.
With all the improvements we talked
about today, this is not just an exer-
cise in rebranding NAFTA. This is
about a new agreement that is really a
big difference, and it is a binary choice.
Are you for this new agreement, which
is better in every respect, or are you
for the status quo, which is NAFTA?
My hope is that the House will take
this to the floor, and, if they do, I
think it will pass. It will then come to
the Senate, and I am confident that in
the Senate we will have the support to
pass this on a bipartisan basis.
What I am most confident in is the
fact that American workers, farmers,
and service providers are going to have
the chance to improve their economic
opportunities because this agreement
is going to be good for all of them.
There is a lot of politics going on
right now, and I get that. But, folks,
this is not even an election year. Let’s
finish it up this year before we get into
the 2020 election year. Let’s be sure
that before Thanksgiving, we have the
agreement passed in the House and
sent to the Senate to take a look at it.
It is too important. We need to keep
the American people first and put poli-
tics second and get this done.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, we have
been talking about the USMCA and the
Senator from Ohio crammed into just a
few moments quite a bit of facts. We
are late in time, so I am going to try to
abbreviate my remarks.
The Senator from Ohio taught me
something a few years ago that is an
undisputed fact: We sell twice as many
goods to countries where we have trade
agreements than we do with countries
where we don’t. This is an opportunity
to expand on an already great success
story in terms of our trade with Can-
ada.
What do we see now in trade with
Canada and Mexico? We see 12 million
American jobs, more than $500 billion
worth of exports, and the USMCA
would enhance and improve that. It is
good for large manufacturing. It is
good for small manufacturing. It is
good for small business. The tech in-
dustry benefits from the USMCA. As
the Senator of Tennessee pointed out,
the creative industry—those people in
Nashville and in Hollywood—will ben-
efit also, in terms of our ability to pro-
tect our intellectual property. Farm-
ers, ranchers, and agribusiness will all
benefit.
We strengthen our position with re-
gard to China. This is not an agree-
ment with China, but we will be in a
stronger position to compete with
China because of this.
I urge the Speaker of the House of
Representatives to bring this to a vote
in the other body. There is one person
on the face of the Earth who can bring
this bill, and that is the Speaker of the
House of Representatives. She needs to
do it, and if she does, we will see a rare
opportunity for bipartisanship in the
U.S. Congress. The House, controlled
by Democrats, will pass the USMCA be-
cause they know it is good for jobs and
they know it is good for families and
working people. The Senate will pass it
on an overwhelmingly bipartisan basis,
and that ought to be refreshing.
I want to do something that I seldom
do. I am going to quote the Washington
Post. I don’t get a chance to do that
very often. The Washington Post has
strongly endorsed USMCA. The edi-
torial board wrote recently: ‘‘USMCA
would be a real improvement over the
status quo,’’ and it went on to urge
Democrats, including many who have
already said they support the agree-
ment, to bring the USMCA up without
delay.
This is an opportunity for us to move
this economy forward. This is an op-
portunity for us to join with Canada
and Mexico, which have already indi-
cated their support for this treaty, and
an opportunity for bipartisanship,
which needs to break out more in this
building.
So I join my colleagues. I am glad to
rise with them in support of urging the
Speaker to bring this bill to the floor,
and I urge quick adoption in the House
and Senate.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mrs. HYDE-SMITH. Mr. President,
the American people elected President
Trump based in part on his promise to
negotiate better trade deals with for-
eign nations—first among them, our
largest trading partners, Canada and
Mexico.
The President and his administration
wasted no time in working with these
two neighbors to rewrite the North
American Free Trade Agreement to re-
flect today’s economic reality. Those
talks produced the United States-
Mexico-Canada Agreement, or USMCA,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.040 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6075
October 23, 2019
which the President unveiled more
than 1 year ago.
When NAFTA was written more than
a quarter of a century ago, the internet
was in its infancy and few could have
foreseen the increasingly globalized
and digital economy we have today.
USMCA takes us into the 21st century,
updating antiquated rules to prohibit
the theft of trade secrets, reward
American innovators, and improve
cross-border e-commerce, while also
providing increased market access for
American businesses and benefits for
American workers in more traditional
sectors like agriculture and manufac-
turing.
Market access is very important to
agriculture and to our Nation’s econ-
omy in general. Ninety-five percent of
the world’s population lives outside of
these United States. Without good
trade agreements that give us free ac-
cess to the world’s marketplace, we
cannot prosper in agriculture or any
other business that depends on exports.
The USMCA will result in a fairer deal
for U.S. businesses and consumers.
Today the American people should
ask why it has taken more than a year
for the House and Senate to take up,
debate, and pass an agreement that
will boost the American economy and
job creation.
Manufacturers, farmers, and other
businesses in my State of Mississippi
certainly want to know why we have
not done that. The truth is, House
Democrats have delayed taking action
because they want first to deny Presi-
dent Trump a win for as long as pos-
sible and, secondly, to secure last-
minute favors for Big Labor.
It is ironic that these same Demo-
crats and big labor groups now oppose
USMCA because of environmental pro-
tections or labor rights. The truth is,
they are largely responsible for the
original NAFTA, which they now claim
incentivized a mass exodus of U.S.
companies to Mexico and decimated
our manufacturing sector.
Unfortunately, Democrats’ inexcus-
able foot-dragging is just hurting
American consumers and businesses.
For years, Mississippi has worked ag-
gressively to increase the market pene-
tration of its manufactured goods and
agricultural products in foreign mar-
kets. My State exported $11.8 billion in
goods in 2018—a 61-percent increase
over the past decade. Foreign trade ac-
counts for almost 10 percent of Mis-
sissippi’s GDP. More than 50,000 work-
ers and large manufacturers, medium
and small businesses, and farms played
a role in producing these goods for use
around the world but primarily to Can-
ada and Mexico, my State’s largest
trade partners.
The bottom line is, the USMCA rep-
resents an important new tool for Mis-
sissippi to expand its ability to sell
more of what we produce to consumers
abroad. There is no good reason for the
House to have held up this 21st century
trade agreement, and it is time to fi-
nally take a vote, send it to the Sen-
ate, and get it done.
We all are benefiting from the
strongest U.S. economy and lowest job-
less rate in decades. Congress needs to
do its job to help maintain and
strengthen this economic growth.
USMCA will create more certainty for
businesses and increase business con-
fidence, which improves the state of
the world’s economy.
Let’s pass the United States-Mexico-
Canada Agreement and spend more
time on accomplishing as much as we
can on issues that will actually make a
difference in the lives of the American
people.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from North Dakota.
Mr. HOEVEN. Mr. President, I rise to
support the USMCA—the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement—
along with my colleagues. You heard a
number of them already. You will hear
more. It is compelling.
It is time to act. We are ready to go.
This legislation has to start in the
House under fast track. We need the
House to move forward. There is no
question that the bipartisan support is
there. Bipartisan support is here in the
Senate, and bipartisan support is there
in the House as well. It is just a matter
of bringing the legislation to the floor
and getting it passed.
The benefits of this agreement are
very clear. It will increase exports, ex-
pand consumer choice, raise wages, and
boost innovation throughout North
America and especially here in the
United States. An analysis by the U.S.
National Trade Commission found that
USMCA will raise GDP by nearly $63
billion and create 176,000 jobs in the
United States. It is clear that we need
to move forward.
The agreement will secure and ex-
pand market access for our ag products
for an ag State like mine. It will grow
our manufacturing base for manufac-
turing States like Ohio, whose good
Senator is here to my right. It will pro-
vide important modernizations for our
technology sector for States like the
Presiding Officer’s State. It is cer-
tainly a high-tech State.
It will solidify the United States as
the global energy leader. We are now,
as you know, exporting energy in a big-
ger way than we ever have before. This
just builds on that momentum. These
are all significant wins for our States
individually and for this country as a
whole.
As I said, ag is certainly a big issue
for us in North Dakota. The USMCA
really makes an important difference
and a helpful difference for us in agri-
culture. For the last 50 years, our coun-
try has had a trade surplus. Our farm-
ers and ranchers can outcompete any-
one in the world. They produce the
highest quality, lowest cost food sup-
ply in the world, and we have a positive
balance of trade in agriculture. We
need these types of trade agreements in
place to continue that positive balance
in our agriculture trade. In my State,
for example, we shipped $4.5 billion of
agriculture products around the globe
in 2017, making us the ninth largest ex-
porter of agriculture goods among the
50 States. Our farmers and ranchers de-
pend on being able to do that. What we
are seeing right now are low com-
modity prices in our country, which is
making it very difficult for our farmers
and ranchers. The best way to work out
of that is with trade agreements that
allow us to sell more globally.
According to the ITC, when fully im-
plemented, USMCA will increase food
and exports to Canada and Mexico by
$2.2 billion. This agreement secures ex-
isting market access, makes ag trade
fair, increases access to the Canadian
market, supports innovation in agri-
culture and more, which is why it is so
critical that we pass this legislation as
soon as we can.
By maintaining all zero-tariff provi-
sions on ag products, USMCA will se-
cure crucial market access in Canada
and Mexico for our farmers and ranch-
ers. Canada and Mexico are critical
markets for U.S. ag products. To give
you some examples, Mexico is the No. 1
buyer of U.S. corn and DDGS, distillers
dried grains with solubles; and Canada
is the No. 2 buyer of U.S. ethanol. Ad-
ditionally, Mexico is the No. 2 buyer of
U.S. soybean meal, oil, and whole
beans. Canada is the No. 4 buyer of soy-
bean meal and the No. 7 buyer of soy-
bean oil.
Again, you are talking about two
very large markets for ag products, for
manufacturing products, and for tech-
nology—two incredibly important part-
ners. I can go on.
Again, I want to be respectful of my
colleagues on the floor. This is one of
those cases where it is clear. This is ab-
solutely beneficial to our country. The
point is, it is a bipartisan issue. I
think, whether you talk to Members of
the Senate or to Members of the House,
they will tell you this is a bipartisan
issue. This is a trade agreement that is
good for our country and good for two
very strong allies and neighbors. Obvi-
ously, Canada and Mexico are two very
large trading partners.
We have been on the floor before ask-
ing for the House to advance this legis-
lation. If we could start the legislation
here, we would. We would pass it right
now, and we would pass it with a bipar-
tisan vote, but it requires the House to
get started. I hope that all of our col-
leagues will visit with their counter-
parts from their respective States in
the House and urge that this bill be
brought to the floor, passed in the
House, and delivered to the Senate so
we can pass it for the President to sign
and put it into effect for Americans
across this great country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. BLUNT. Mr. President, this is a
classic example of everything has been
said but not everybody has said it yet.
One of the great traditions of the Sen-
ate is to be sure everybody says it. We
are going to say it now, and we will
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.042 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6076 October 23, 2019
continue to say it until the House fi-
nally has that vote.
It has been pointed out that this
agreement was signed well over a year
ago. It has been pointed out that our
two biggest trading partners are Mex-
ico and Canada, in that order. It has
been pointed out that there is lots of
focus on agriculture. Every State is an
agriculture State. Every State has that
as a significant part of their economy.
Nobody in the world does that part of
the economy more efficiently or more
effectively than we do. So that is im-
portant. It is important to realize that
lots of other things are in trade, as
well, but agriculture has to be men-
tioned a lot until we get this done.
Whether I was at the Missouri State
Fair in August or the roundtable meet-
ings I was at in our State in October,
cost comes up—$88 billion is the agri-
cultural economy in Missouri. We are
about the same amount. I think Sen-
ator HOEVEN said his State is in the top
10. Ours is too. We export about $4 bil-
lion worth of ag products. We also ex-
port pickup trucks and airplanes and
lots of technology from our State. We
export our fair share of beer cans and
other things that go all over the world.
We are going to continue to make that
happen.
Opening markets make a big dif-
ference. It also makes a big difference
in how you look at the world. If you
have strong trading relationships, you
are pretty careful with how you deal
with all those other relationships. We
need to do that. We need to have this
vote. The votes are in the House. The
votes are in the Senate. It is up to the
Speaker to bring this up.
I think the U.S. Trade Representa-
tive is working as hard with Democrats
in the House as he could possibly be ex-
pected to do to maybe look at those
last few things that might make this a
better deal.
Senator PORTMAN did a great job
talking about why the choice here is if
you want to continue to have NAFTA—
which has been great for all three part-
ners, Canada, Mexico, and us—or do
you want to have USMCA, which in
area after area has the 20-year update
it needs.
We need to get on with this. We need
to get on with the activities of the day.
REMEMBERING TED STEVENS
Mr. President, I am going to start off
by saying one of the things we are
going to do today is accept the official
portrait of Ted Stevens, President pro
tempore of the Senate—the highest of-
fice that the Senate can possibly give
to anybody. It is the highest office in
the Senate.
He was the chairman one time of the
Commerce Committee, chairman of the
appropriating committee, and a guy
who flew those tough planes in the
toughest areas in World War II.
He was a person who always did his
best to try to figure out the Senate and
then be sure that the Senate worked
for America and the Senate worked for
Alaska. When it came to both of those
things, it was hard to beat Ted Ste-
vens’ best. He knew how to make this
place work.
He would be disappointed in the dys-
function we see right now, but he
would be optimistic that in the great-
est country in the world, we will figure
this out. All of us who had a chance to
serve with him—I had a great relation-
ship with him when I was a House
Member. I learned a lot. I think of him
often. I miss the way he represented
his State and our country so uniquely
and so dynamically and so effectively.
I look forward to not only the rec-
ognition here on the floor that he will
receive today but the permanent rec-
ognition he will receive as we today
hang his portrait in the U.S. Capitol.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Ms. MURKOWSKI. Mr. President, as
the Senator from Missouri has stated,
this is a significant day. This is a very
special day in the Congress, as later
this afternoon we are going to gather
to pay tribute to a truly great Senator,
the late Senator Ted Stevens from
Alaska. His official portrait will be un-
veiled shortly by the U.S. Senate Com-
mission on Art. It will be part of the
U.S. Senate Leadership Portrait Col-
lection, which honors past Presidents
pro tempore and past leaders. Like all
of the family, the friends, the col-
leagues, and the former staff who have
gathered for this occasion, I am so very
pleased that he will be memorialized
forever here in the U.S. Capitol and
will be watching over all of us.
There are only 38 Members who are
currently in the Senate who served
with Ted, but I think it is important
that all of us—and really every Amer-
ican—know who he was and why he so
clearly deserves this honor.
Ted was a public servant. He was the
ultimate public servant. He dedicated
his life to public service. He spent more
than six decades fighting for our State
and the country he loved. His service
began during World War II, when he
flew as a pilot in the Army Air Corps.
He flew missions behind enemy lines in
China in support of the Flying Tigers.
The stories we have heard over the
years are truly legendary of his efforts
in the war.
After the military, Ted helped Alas-
ka to achieve its dream of statehood.
He was basically Secretary Seaton’s
point man at the Department of the In-
terior during the Eisenhower adminis-
tration. Think about what that means
to have the opportunity to shape state-
hood for your State and then to go on
and serve your State at this level as he
did for some 40 years.
He went on to become one of the
longest serving Republican Senators of
all time. In this Chamber, he rep-
resented Alaska with great dignity,
with great distinction over the course
of 40 exceptional years. He was truly a
public servant.
Really, from the very beginning, Ted
was one of those special kinds of guys.
After being appointed to the Senate in
1968, he established himself as a leader
among leaders. Over the course of his
time in the Senate, he chaired the Se-
lect Committee on Ethics; Rules and
Administration; Governmental Affairs;
Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation, as well as the Committee on
Appropriations. From 1977 to 1985, his
colleagues chose him to be the Assist-
ant Republican Leader. He led the Sen-
ate’s Arms Control Observer Group for
15 years, and he served as the President
pro tempore, the senior member of the
Senate’s majority party, from 2003 to
2007—so leadership across all levels.
As one might expect, Ted was a force
to be reckoned with. He made sure
Alaska’s voice was heard and was heard
in every debate. As such, he secured an
incredible number of legislative vic-
tories that shaped both the State of
Alaska and our Nation.
He helped to settle most of Alaska’s
Native land claims, returning 44 mil-
lion acres of land to First Alaskans and
establishing a new model that empow-
ered our Native peoples to create new
economic opportunities. Ted was in-
strumental in securing the passage of a
bill that enabled the construction of
our 800-mile-long Trans-Alaska Pipe-
line, which, to this day, remains the
backbone of our State’s economy and is
a critical part of our Nation’s energy
security supply.
Ted was a guy who worked very, very
hard but who also loved to fish. He
loved to be outside. His focusing on
fishing led him to be very concerned
about what he saw as being the over-
fishing by foreign fleets, which was
taking place just miles off of Alaska’s
shores. So he worked across the aisle
with Senator Warren Magnuson to pro-
tect and sustain our fisheries into the
future. The Magnuson-Stevens law has
been repeatedly reauthorized and, to
this day, still bears their names.
It really is impossible to overstate
the beneficial impact that Ted had on
Alaska. Now, keep in mind he came to
the Senate in 1968—less than a decade
after Alaska had become a State. So he
knew as well as anyone how tough
those early years of statehood were. He
knew probably as well as anyone how
difficult life was for so many Alaskans,
particularly in the rural parts of our
State and, more than anyone else, he
helped to change that.
Ted was an appropriator for a long
time. He was legendary in that role. He
once convinced the entire Committee
on Appropriations to go to Alaska for 2
weeks to see Alaska’s needs firsthand.
The Federal funding he secured year
after year allowed many Alaskans to
gain access to very basic infrastruc-
ture. We are talking water and sewer—
things that most Americans would
take for granted. He also worked to
help develop Alaska so we would have a
telemedicine network that would work.
He helped to facilitate bypass mail and
Essential Air Service for our rural
communities—programs and benefits
that continue to this day.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6077
October 23, 2019
There is absolutely no doubt that the
people of Alaska are better off because
of Ted Stevens. Many around the State
still lovingly refer to Ted as ‘‘Uncle
Ted.’’ We are happier, and we are clear-
ly healthier. We are a safer and more
prosperous State because of his con-
tributions. Yet the same is true for
every American because Ted’s accom-
plishments did not end with the State
of Alaska. He was a patriot. He was
firmly committed to our national de-
fense and the security of our country.
He had great admiration for those who
answered the call to serve in uniform,
as he had. He traveled the world to
visit with our troops and hear directly
from them.
He was a longtime leader on the Ap-
propriations Subcommittee on Depart-
ment of Defense. He and Dan Inouye
would kind of share the chairmanship,
one between the other practically.
Throughout his Senate tenure, he
fought tirelessly to make sure our
military had the best equipment, bet-
ter pay, and the needed care it sought.
He was a defender of those who de-
fended us.
Ted was an avid surfer when he was
young, and he recognized the impor-
tance of sports in our daily lives. I can
remember a story that has gone around
for so many years; that of having to
put his eldest daughter, Sue, on a boy’s
softball team because we didn’t have a
girls’ league in Alaska at the time. So
he championed title IX of the Edu-
cation Amendments Act, which pro-
vides equal opportunity for women to
participate in sports. He also authored
the Amateur Sports Act, which created
the U.S. Olympic Committee, and
worked to ensure funding for physical
education programs—programs, again,
that had that fingerprint of Ted Ste-
vens from so many years prior.
I can go on and on about Ted’s ac-
complishments. His legislative accom-
plishments are considerable and far too
many to speak to here today, things
like his work to ban damaging high
seas drift nets to the funding he se-
cured to advance AIDS and breast can-
cer research. He was involved in so
much.
In recognizing that other colleagues
wish to speak of Senator Stevens as
well, I, instead, will speak very briefly
about what I feel made him so effective
and really so beloved—because he was
beloved, maybe feared a little bit but
beloved.
The first thing to understand is that
Ted had a pretty simple motto. It was
not very complicated.
He said:
To hell with politics. Just do what is right
for Alaska.
He lived by that every day that he
served here. He would work with any-
one who was willing to do right by the
State of Alaska no matter who one
was, where one came from, or which
side of the aisle one was on. I men-
tioned Senator Inouye and the rela-
tionship that Ted had with him on the
Subcommittee on Department of De-
fense and on the Committee on Appro-
priations. They formed a very close re-
lationship. They had a lot in common.
Obviously, they were both veterans,
and they were both from young, off-
shore States. Yet they looked out for
one another. They had one another’s
backs. On committees, as I mentioned,
they would be chairman and vice chair-
man and would trade off but would
work with one another. In later years,
it was not uncommon to find them
both smoking cigars out on the pro
tempore’s balcony in the early eve-
nings, talking about what had hap-
pened that day or what was going to
happen the next day.
Another thing that folks should
know about Ted is that he was defi-
nitely a fighter. I am told that News-
week described him as a ‘‘scrapper’’
when he first arrived in the Senate,
and it certainly proved to be an apt de-
scription throughout his tenure. Yet
Ted was, again, pretty clear: If Alas-
ka’s interests were at stake, he was out
there to defend them.
There were times he would put on his
Incredible Hulk tie and channel the big
guy’s persona. When that happened, ev-
eryone knew to look out because Ted
was going to the mat for Alaska on
that day. Look out. Some suggested
that Ted had a bit of a temper.
A Senator is chuckling back there. I
hear that.
I think Ted knew that a little bit of
a temper could actually serve him
pretty well, and he would usually have
a cute, little gleam in his eye when he
would say, ‘‘I never lose my temper. I
know exactly where I left it.’’
Ted was one of those guys who was
great to his people, but when some-
thing needed to be said—when it need-
ed to be direct and to the point—he was
not going to shy away from it. That
was another part of what really made
him a legend around here.
I think those who are listening and
those who know me know I have an im-
mense, great affection for Ted and that
this day and the recognition he is re-
ceiving has great personal meaning. I
had the extraordinary fortune to know
Ted Stevens for almost my entire life.
At one point, he was my boss. I was a
high school intern. My first oppor-
tunity to really be out of Alaska on my
own was when I was an intern here for
Senator Ted. Later, of course, he was
my colleague in the Senate, where he
mentored me and partnered with me to
help serve Alaska. Above all that, he
was a true friend—truly a friend—and I
miss him dearly.
I am reminded of him all the time. I
have his old office in the Hart Building.
I have pictures and mementos that re-
mind me of Ted. Every time I go back
home to the State, I think of him. It is
not just because, when I land, it reads
‘‘Ted Stevens Anchorage International
Airport.’’ It is also when I go out to the
communities and see a road or a bridge
or a community that is no longer uti-
lizing a honey bucket system because
of the work that Ted did. When you go
home, when you visit in Alaska, you
see firsthand the impact he had. You
see it everywhere. I often say that Ted
built Alaska and that Ted was Alaska.
So you can see why we named him the
‘‘Alaskan of the 20th Century’’ and why
we remain so grateful for all that he
has done for us.
I am happy there is now going to be
a place in the Capitol where I can visit
Ted, talk to him, and think about what
he might have said and about the coun-
sel he might have provided for our
State and our Nation. I do hope his
portrait will be a reminder to those of
us who serve here that we can work to-
gether even on the hardest of days and
that, if we do, we can achieve great
things for the American people, which
sometimes might just require us to
say: To hell with politics. Just do what
is right.
I am honored and privileged to be
here with so many Alaskans, including
Catherine, Ted’s wife, as well as many
of his children and grandchildren. I
know they are overwhelmed by the
number of friends and colleagues and
staff who are here to celebrate Ted’s
life and legacy.
In channeling here, I think Ted is
looking down on all of this and is
thinking: Enough already. This is too
much. You all have to get back to work
because, after all, we have appropria-
tions bills on the floor.
With that, I yield to the fine Senator
from Mississippi.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Mississippi.
Mr. WICKER. Mr. President, I will
speak for only a few moments, and
then the distinguished junior Senator
from Alaska will close this part of the
debate.
The senior Senator from Alaska men-
tioned that only 38 of us have actually
served with Senator Ted Stevens. Of
that group, I am the junior-most in
rank, and I know that because I was
the junior-most Member of this body
more than a decade ago when I rose on
this floor to pay tribute to this great
Senator from Alaska, Ted Stevens, on
his last day in office.
I did not speak from my desk, as you
can imagine. I didn’t have a very
prominent desk at the time. I chose in-
stead to stand as close as I could di-
rectly behind Senator Stevens. I sup-
pose I wanted to have his back, at least
figuratively, for one last time. And I
wanted to make sure I could see his
wife Catherine in the gallery, as I may
have done just a few moments ago, be-
cause she meant so much and still
means so much to all of us and to my
wife Gayle and me.
What we learned from Ted Stevens
guides our work today. I was honored
to serve alongside him for just a few
years. I was anguished when he had to
leave us in 2008, and together with all
of us, I mourned his death in 2010.
Seniority is earned when the people
of our States see fit to return us time
and again to Washington to do their
business. Respect is earned when we
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.046 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6078 October 23, 2019
engage in the long fight to fulfill our
oaths and to support and defend the
Constitution.
Ted Stevens earned both seniority
and respect for 40 years. When he was
elected as the third Senator ever from
the Land of the Midnight Sun, he had
already served his country brilliantly,
as has been mentioned, as a brave pilot
in World War II for the Flying Tigers
and as a key leader in putting that 49th
star on the American flag.
The portrait being unveiled in the
Old Senate Chamber today, where so
many great debates took place, is a fit-
ting homage to Ted Stevens. As the
senior Senator has mentioned, the
seemingly gruff exterior depicted was a
facade over one of the most genuine
and patriotic people ever to walk these
halls.
He went to work every day to defend
Americans and to make good on the
promise of the country he so deeply
loved. He belongs in the place of honor
where his portrait will be displayed.
Members who served with Ted Stevens
will look on that portrait and remem-
ber that.
I hope our more recent colleagues
who have joined since Ted Stevens left
will come to know what a giant he was.
As chairman of the Commerce Com-
mittee, a committee Ted Stevens once
led, I went to Alaska with the junior
Senator from Alaska this summer to
learn, among other things, from coast-
guardsmen keeping our Nation safe in
the Far North. But I saw a lot of that
State, and there is a lot to see.
Despite its geographic size, Alaska is
in many respects a small town. Like
my home State of Mississippi, every-
one knows just about everyone else,
and virtually every Alaskan knew Ted
Stevens. They knew what he did for
them. They knew what he did for this
country.
I could see his legacy this summer.
The evidence of his leadership is every-
where in so many ways. He helped turn
America’s last frontier into a thriving
community for Alaskans and Ameri-
cans and a place of wonder and adven-
ture for any of us who will visit there.
While he was at it, he performed
small acts of kindness that I will never
forget and heroic acts of statesmanship
almost every day in his chosen homes—
this closed Chamber and that wide
open State.
I can’t wait to see the portrait. I
can’t wait to tell him hello and, once
again, to look him right in the eye.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alabama.
Mr. SHELBY. Mr. President, we are
taking about somebody today who was
actually a mentor for me right here in
the U.S. Senate—Ted Stevens.
I believe it was 33 years ago when I
first met him—33 years ago—and I was
in the House, and I was coming to the
Senate. He was a power in the Senate
then. He was a worker. He was in-
volved. He was involved not only in
what happened in Alaska, where he was
a champion of his own State—and
should have been—but also in the
world. He wanted to make sure that
America had a defense second to no-
body; that we were powerful, but we
were peaceful.
I had the occasion to serve for years
and years on the Appropriations Com-
mittee and on the Subcommittee on
Defense with him. I hadn’t been on the
committee long, and Senator Byrd was
chairman of the committee, and Sen-
ator Hatfield from Oregon had been,
and he tasked me with a lot of things
that probably as a freshman—you
know, second-year, third-year guy
here—I probably was appalled but
pleased—maybe not appalled, but
pleased—what he would do. He told me
one day: Senator SHELBY, you are
going to be chairman of this com-
mittee. I looked around, and I said: Oh,
it will be years. I will never be that.
But Ted Stevens was a Senator’s Sen-
ator. He was involved, as I said, in just
about everything in the Senate—the
Rules Committee, the Commerce Com-
mittee, Appropriations, and Defense.
I will never forget his experience, his
wise suggestions to me that probably
helped me on my way. I traveled with
him around the world because we had
serious meetings on the Defense appro-
priations bill.
All I can say is that we are going to
unveil a portrait of Ted Stevens here in
the Senate later today, and it is a fit-
ting tribute to a great Senator rep-
resenting the State of Alaska but a
U.S. Senator representing us all, Ted
Stevens.
Ted, I will never forget you. We miss
you. You left an indelible imprint on
the U.S. Senate. I am glad I got to
meet you and work with you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Alaska.
Mr. SULLIVAN. Mr. President, I
want to add my voice in recognizing
what an important day it is here.
I want to thank the Senators from
Alabama and Mississippi and, of
course, my good friend Senator MUR-
KOWSKI. Many other Senators—the Sen-
ators from California, Iowa—all came
to the floor already today to talk
about this great American, this great
Alaskan.
I try to come to the floor about once
a week, and I do a speech that I call
the ‘‘Alaskan of the Week’’ to talk
about an Alaskan who has done great
stuff for our State, their community,
the country.
But as Senator MURKOWSKI just men-
tioned in her remarks, I am literally
able now to talk about the Alaskan of
the Century. That is right. The State
of Alaska legislature voted that Ted
Stevens was the Alaskan of the Cen-
tury for reasons we are all talking
about today. So I just want to add a
few more words about this legendary
U.S. Senator, whose portrait we are un-
veiling today.
Let me say it is more than fitting
that we have a portrait of Senator Ste-
vens in the Halls of Congress. It is a
small tribute compared to the mag-
nitude of his contributions to our coun-
try and to our State. Yet, in so many
ways, it is proper and fitting because
his spirit certainly remains in this
body. It is an example of leadership and
public service that you hear and I hear
and I know Senator MURKOWSKI hears
all the time—how so many of my col-
leagues still talk about Senator Ste-
vens and what he meant, just like my
good friend the Senator from Alabama
and so many others.
So I will just give a little more color
to this great man’s life. He was born in
Indiana in 1923. When he was a young
boy, the Great Depression hit. Senator
Stevens supported his family by selling
newspapers on the street, and after the
untimely death of his father, he moved
to California to live with an aunt and
uncle, where he learned to kind of relax
and to surf. The surf board that he
learned to surf on stayed with him in
his office until the end.
As was already mentioned, he was, of
course, a part of America’s ‘‘greatest
generation’’—a pilot, 14th Army Air
Corps, flying supplies to General Chen-
nault’s Fighting Tigers over ‘‘the
Hump’’—India, China, Burma—very
dangerous missions. In 1953, armed
with a law degree from Harvard, he
made his way to then the Territory of
Alaska, where he found, in his words,
‘‘the passion of my career, the Alaskan
dream.’’
So what was this dream of Ted Ste-
vens? A dream of an Alaska with prom-
ises of the 21st century ‘‘springing up
from the Arctic,’’ he said—an Alaska
where our Federal Government works
with us, not against us, to achieve our
destiny to develop our resources and
our economy for the benefit of all Alas-
kans but also for the benefit of all
Americans; an Alaska that lives up to
the potential the Congress of the
United States saw when it voted to
allow Alaska to become the 49th State.
Senator Stevens worked tirelessly for
these dreams, and in the last speech he
gave on this floor of the U.S. Senate,
he recounted some of his successes.
He said: ‘‘Where there was nothing
but tundra and forest, today there are
now airports, roads, ports, water and
sewer systems, hospitals, clinics, com-
munications networks, research labs,
and much, much more.’’
He went on to say: ‘‘Alaska was not
Seward’s folly and is no longer an im-
poverished territory. Alaska is a great
State and an essential contributor to
our Nation’s energy security and na-
tional defense.’’
In that speech, he said that he was
proud to have had a role—a role—in
that transformation of Alaska.
Now, I think we are all realizing that
in that speech Senator Stevens was
being very humble. He didn’t have just
a role; he played the lead role. Indeed,
everywhere any Alaskan goes across
the State—as Senator MURKOWSKI has
already stated—you see signs of his
hard work, his dedication to the Alas-
kan dream and the critical role he
played in transforming our great State.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.050 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6079
October 23, 2019
But I think many of us—and we have
already heard it being talked about
today—also see his hard work in the
friendships and example he set here in
the U.S. Senate, friendships not based
on party labels but on a commitment
to service.
As I mentioned, Members of this
body, like Senator SHELBY, still ap-
proach me on a regular basis, saying
what an impact Senator Stevens had.
His friendships were of course leg-
endary: Scoop Jackson; Henry Magnu-
son; PAT ROBERTS; John Warner; Sen-
ator SHELBY; Senator LEAHY; Senator
Biden, who, as Vice President, traveled
to Anchorage to speak at Ted Stevens’
funeral; and, of course, as Senator
MURKOWSKI mentioned, his famous, en-
during friendship with Hawaii’s Daniel
Inouye.
Senator MURKOWSKI also mentioned
his famous motto: ‘‘To hell with poli-
tics, just do what’s right for Alaska.’’
As a matter of fact, I happen to be
wearing a very special pair of cufflinks
that once belonged to Ted Stevens.
That very motto is on these cufflinks.
When we are doing important stuff, I
will wear these on the floor to remind
me—and I think all of us—of what is
important not just for our States but
for our country.
As was already noted, it wasn’t just
Alaska that he focused on and achieved
so many great results for; it was our
Nation. Whether national security,
strengthening our military, taking
care of our veterans through improved
pay and benefits, as Senator MUR-
KOWSKI mentioned, modernizing our
fishing industry, our telecommuni-
cations industry, being known as the
title IX—the ‘‘Father’’ of that impor-
tant legislation, making sure young
girls have the opportunity to play
sports—if you are an American and you
have daughters—I have three—and
they are playing sports right now,
guess who had so much to do with that.
The late great Senator Stevens. He was
also in many ways the Senator who
cared more about the Olympics and fo-
cused on them more than any other
Senator.
One other thing about Senator Ste-
vens. No matter how far he rose—and
we are hearing about the high levels he
attained in the Senate—he never forgot
what was most important: serving the
people of Alaska. When our constitu-
ents traveled thousands of miles to
come to DC, he always made time for
them. Thousands of Alaskans have
notes from him—congratulatory let-
ters, condolence letters, and letters of
appreciation.
At his standing-room-only funeral in
Anchorage, where I had the honor of
serving as an honorary pallbearer,
someone asked for a show of hands
from the audience—hundreds and hun-
dreds of people—how many had re-
ceived a letter from Senator Ted Ste-
vens. Nearly every person at that serv-
ice raised their hand.
Of course, he treated his staff like
family. If you worked for Senator Ste-
vens—as my wife, Julie, did—you were
always part of that family and you
could always expect loyalty from him
the rest of your life.
These principles—relentless focus on
Alaska, fighting the Feds if you must,
working across the aisle for the better-
ment of Alaska and America, main-
taining a strong military and national
defense, and deep reverence for our vet-
erans and fellow Alaskans—are a key
part of the Stevens legacy.
I am deeply honored to serve in the
Senate seat Senator Stevens held for
over 40 years and to literally sit at the
same desk—right here, this desk—he
used in the Senate. More important, I
try to live by and serve my constitu-
ents according to these principles and
the example he set for Alaska and
America. But here is something else
that is really so remarkable about Ted
Stevens. I said I try to serve in that ex-
ample, but, as you are hearing on the
Senate floor, so many other Senators
have said that and believe that too.
That is really remarkable and shows
how much influence he still has in this
body to this day.
Like most Senators, I try to get
home every weekend. Senator MUR-
KOWSKI and I just have a little farther
to go than most—well, actually, a lot
farther than most. Our State recently
dedicated a wonderful statue of Ted
Stevens in the Ted Stevens Inter-
national Airport. It is life-size. He is
sitting on a bench with an inviting
smile, cowboy boots on, and his brief-
case nearby. It is right in the middle of
the airport in Anchorage. I often walk
by it, touch it, and quietly say: How
are we doing? It gives me inspiration
and strength and peace to do that.
With the unveiling of the official por-
trait of Ted Stevens today and its
placement permanently in the halls of
the U.S. Senate, I will have another
image of this great Alaskan and this
great American from which to draw in-
spiration, but I think so many other
Senators will as well.
So congratulations, especially to the
family of Ted Stevens: Catherine, his
wonderful wife; his children: Ben, Wal-
ter, Ted Junior, Susan, Lily, and Beth,
who is with us in spirit, as are so many
other Alaskans and others who had
such deep respect for Senator Stevens;
and to his wonderful grandchildren,
many of whom Julie and I have known
and watched grow up with pride since
they were born.
S.J. RES. 50
Mr. VAN HOLLEN. Mr. President, I
support the resolution that the Senate
is voting on today to disapprove of new
rules from the Trump administration
to diminish the value of tax credits of-
fered by State and local governments.
From the very beginning, I have been
against the 2017 tax bill that became
law. At a time of skyrocketing eco-
nomic inequality, this tax law has
given the largest tax cuts to the
wealthiest people and biggest corpora-
tions. But in Maryland, 376,000 families
are paying higher taxes according to
our Bureau of Revenue Estimates, due
in large part to the tax law’s $10,000
limit on the state and local tax deduc-
tion. According to the IRS, 46 percent
of households in Maryland claimed the
State and local tax deduction prior to
the new tax law, which is the largest
share of any state in the country. The
average State and local tax deduction
in Maryland was roughly $13,000—well
over the $10,000 limit. Everything in
the Maryland State budget, such as
education, transportation, and state
Medicaid funding, is now more burden-
some for Maryland taxpayers to fi-
nance.
To make matters worse for working
Marylanders, on June 13, 2019, the
Treasury Department issued a regula-
tion against tax credits offered by
State and local governments for chari-
table giving. This misguided regulation
reduces a taxpayer’s Federal deduction
for charitable donations by the amount
of any tax credit the taxpayer receives
for their donation from State or local
governments. The effects of this regu-
lation go well beyond programs re-
cently established by some States at-
tempting to mitigate the damage of
the new tax law. These rules will be
deeply detrimental to longstanding tax
credit programs throughout the Na-
tion. In Maryland, this will affect tax
credit programs for affordable housing,
conservation, and community endow-
ment funds.
Ultimately, allowing this regulation
to take effect will make it even more
difficult for State and local commu-
nities to fund our schools, emergency
responders, health care, roads, and
other critical services. That is unac-
ceptable, which is why I support the
Congressional Review Act resolution to
overturn the Treasury Department’s
June 2019 regulation.
Mr. SULLIVAN. I yield the floor.
VOTE ON S.J. RES. 50
The joint resolution was ordered to
be engrossed for a third reading and
was read the third time.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The joint
resolution having been read the third
time, the question is, Shall the joint
resolution pass?
Mr. ALEXANDER. Mr. President, I
ask for the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senator is
necessarily absent: the Senator from
Georgia (Mr. ISAKSON).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Vermont (Mr. SAND-
ERS), the Senator from Massachusetts
(Ms. WARREN), and the Senator from
Rhode Island (Mr. WHITEHOUSE) are
necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. COT-
TON). Are there any other Senators in
the Chamber desiring to vote?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.051 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6080 October 23, 2019
The result was announced—yeas 43,
nays 52, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 331 Leg.]
YEAS—43
Baldwin
Blumenthal
Booker
Brown
Cantwell
Cardin
Carper
Casey
Coons
Cortez Masto
Duckworth
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Hassan
Heinrich
Hirono
Jones
Kaine
King
Klobuchar
Leahy
Manchin
Markey
Menendez
Merkley
Murphy
Murray
Paul
Peters
Reed
Rosen
Schatz
Schumer
Shaheen
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Tester
Udall
Van Hollen
Warner
Wyden
NAYS—52
Alexander
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cassidy
Collins
Cornyn
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Gardner
Graham
Grassley
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Johnson
Kennedy
Lankford
Lee
McConnell
McSally
Moran
Murkowski
Perdue
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sullivan
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Wicker
Young
NOT VOTING—5
Harris
Isakson
Sanders
Warren
Whitehouse
The joint resolution was rejected.
f
COMMERCE, JUSTICE, SCIENCE,
AGRICULTURE, RURAL DEVELOP-
MENT, FOOD AND DRUG ADMIN-
ISTRATION, INTERIOR, ENVIRON-
MENT, MILITARY CONSTRUC-
TION, VETERANS AFFAIRS,
TRANSPORTATION, AND HOUSING
AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT AP-
PROPRIATIONS ACT, 2020—Re-
sumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of H.R. 3055, which
the clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
A bill (H.R. 3055) making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Jus-
tice, Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes.
Pending:
Shelby amendment No. 948, in the nature
of a substitute.
McConnell (for Shelby) amendment No.
950, to make a technical correction.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maryland.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—S. 1834
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I think
everyone in this Chamber would agree
that free and fair elections are the bed-
rock of our democracy. We know it has
been under attack. We know, from the
Mueller report, that Russia, in 2016,
used a systematic and comprehensive
attack on our free election system to
try to undermine our democracy.
That attack occurred in the State of
Maryland. Let me just quote, if I
might, from the Washington Post arti-
cle that said:
Maryland was never in play in 2016. The
Russians targeted it anyway.
The article states:
Russia’s Twitter campaign to influence the
2016 presidential election in Maryland began
in June 2015, 17 months before Election Day,
when the St. Petersburg-based Internet Re-
search Agency opened an account it called
@BaltimoreOnline and began tweeting about
local news events.
Yet, the IRA, the Russian troll factory
that U.S. prosecutors blame for the massive
disinformation efforts during the 2016 cam-
paign, devoted enormous attention and prep-
aration to its Maryland operation, all in a
likely effort, experts say, to widen racial di-
visions and demoralize African American
voters.
That is what happened in 2016. Our
intelligence community tells us that
Russia is active today trying to influ-
ence our 2020 elections, and they are
using technology to try to undermine
our free election system. We must do
more to protect our system.
It was for that reason and many oth-
ers that I introduced S. 1834, the Decep-
tive Practices and Voter Intimidation
Prevention Act of 2019. It is cospon-
sored by Senator KLOBUCHAR, Senator
LEAHY, Senator FEINSTEIN, and others.
This bill is an effort to try to protect
us from this type of international in-
terference in our elections, as well as
local efforts that are aimed at trying
to intimidate voters targeted at minor-
ity voters. That should have no place
in American politics.
This bill did pass the House of Rep-
resentatives in March of this year in
H.R. 1.
Very quickly, let me tell you what
this bill does. It prohibits individuals
from knowingly deceiving others about
the time, place, eligibility, or proce-
dures for participating in a Federal
election; addresses new digital chal-
lenges that pose a threat to citizens ex-
ercising their right to vote, particu-
larly the use of digital platforms to
disseminate false information regard-
ing Federal elections; and combating
voter intimidation, especially efforts
aimed at suppressing voter rights.
I would hope every Member of this
Chamber would support these efforts.
Unfortunately, the majority leader has
failed to bring any of these issues to
the floor or give us any time to take up
legislation in order to protect our free
election system. Time is running out.
The election primaries will start early
next year. We need to take action now.
That is why I am going to make this
unanimous consent request. I hope we
can agree to it.
I ask unanimous consent that the Ju-
diciary Committee be discharged from
further consideration of S. 1834, the De-
ceptive Practices and Voter Intimida-
tion Prevention Act of 2019; that the
Senate proceed to its immediate con-
sideration; that the bill be read a third
time and passed; and that the motions
to reconsider be considered made and
laid upon the table with no intervening
action or debate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from North Dakota.
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, reserv-
ing the right to object, I don’t disagree
with everything that is in the Sen-
ator’s bill—far from it. I agree with
much of it, but it does have several
critical flaws, and it is not ready for
prime time.
In most, if not all, States, it is al-
ready illegal to prevent or try to pre-
vent lawful voters from trying to reg-
ister to vote. We all agree that every
qualified voter should have an oppor-
tunity to register for an election. But
this proposal is written so broadly that
it would prevent election officials from
rejecting the registration of an illegal
immigrant. It could prevent poll work-
ers from stopping a 16-year-old from
voting in an election. In other words,
this would seemingly make it illegal
for voting registration officials to ac-
tually do their job.
I assume it is not intentional, but it
is obviously a big problem. Other sec-
tions of the bill create significant First
Amendment concerns. It would create
criminal penalties for political speech
that misstates endorsements a can-
didate has received. Nobody approves
of lying, but there are enormous prob-
lems when the Federal Government
starts sending people to jail for what
they say. Even the ACLU opposes my
colleague’s bill because this bill is so
anti-First Amendment.
Just a few days ago, Secretary Hil-
lary Clinton claimed that a former
third-party candidate was a Russian
asset and that a Democratic Presi-
dential candidate she doesn’t like is
Russia’s preferred candidate in the up-
coming election. Should Mrs. Clinton
have violated Federal law because she
perhaps misstated a political endorse-
ment as a way of making a political
point? We don’t want to start down the
road where the Federal Government
referees free speech.
I believe there is an appetite on both
sides of the aisle for making good pol-
icy that honors the principle behind
my colleague’s bill, but this version
has enormous problems, is nowhere
near ready to pass by unanimous con-
sent, and I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
The Senator from Maryland.
Mr. CARDIN. Mr. President, I regret
that my colleague has raised the objec-
tion. Let me point out that this bill
has been pending in previous Con-
gresses. We have gone through all of
the challenges my friend has already
talked about. There are real problems
that are occurring in our States.
We had billboards in minority com-
munities highlighting voter fraud in an
effort to intimidate African-American
voters. We have seen information sent
out with wrong dates of elections. We
have seen robocalls pretending to be
from a particular campaign when they
are from the opposite campaign in an
effort to intimidate voters from par-
ticipating.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.003 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6081
October 23, 2019
We can always find reasons why we
shouldn’t consider legislation, but the
truth of the matter is that we have
given the OK in our system for some to
say it is all right to try to intimidate
voters from voting—something I would
hope this Congress would want to go on
record to say it should have no place in
America, particularly when it is tar-
geted at minority communities in an
effort to reduce their numbers.
I regret my colleague has objected,
and I hope that we will have a chance
to take up election security legisla-
tion.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
UNITED STATES-MEXICO-CANADA TRADE
AGREEMENT
Mr. CRAMER. Mr. President, it has
been a year since the United States,
Mexico, and Canada agreed to the U.S.-
Mexico-Canada Trade Agreement, the
replacement for NAFTA and the mod-
ernization for the NAFTA agreement
that has been so important to all three
of our countries. In fact, we are coming
up on 1 year since it was signed by
leaders of all three countries. In fact,
the country of Mexico has ratified the
USMCA. Canada is waiting for the
United States to take the next step so
they, too, can ratify this very impor-
tant trade agreement.
This agreement between the three
countries on the North American con-
tinent is estimated to add $68.2 billion
to the U.S. economy and create 176,000
new jobs. The USMCA would also in-
crease exports to Canada by 5.9 per-
cent, to a total of $19.1 billion, and
shipments to Mexico by 6.7 percent, or
$14.2 billion. Imports from Canada and
Mexico would rise by 4.8 and 3.8 per-
cent, respectively.
But the ratification process has to
begin with the Democrats in the House
under the trade promotion authority
with which this deal was struck. The
Democrats leading the House seem to
be more focused on taking away one
person’s job than creating 176,000 new
ones here in the United States. It is
time for Speaker PELOSI to act on
something that is nearly unanimously
agreed to.
While not every person agrees to it, I
don’t think there is any question that
if she would bring up the USMCA for a
vote in the House, it would pass. We
know that when it comes over to the
Senate, it will pass here for many good
reasons—for the reasons I already stat-
ed, for economic reasons and job cre-
ation reasons.
But I also want to add that passage
of the USMCA is important to negotia-
tions with other countries. Having
Mexico, Canada, and the United States
in one accord adds leverage to the
President’s negotiations with China,
especially now that we have a bilateral
trade deal with Japan that President
Trump has negotiated so effectively,
and when working with other neigh-
bors and allies on other bilateral trade
agreements. All of this adds to leverage
in negotiating with China.
I want to speak for a couple of min-
utes about the specifics to my State of
North Dakota. We are a border State
with Manitoba and Saskatchewan in
Canada, and our northern border is by
far our biggest trading partner. In 2017,
my State of North Dakota exported
$5.8 billion worth of goods to the global
marketplace. Those exports contrib-
uted to 28,000 jobs. Of that $5.8 billion,
we exported $4.9 billion of goods to
Canada. That is 84 percent of North Da-
kota’s exports that go to our northern
neighbor, Canada. When adding Mexico
into that equation, that is 88 percent of
the value of North Dakota’s exported
goods and services going to USMCA
countries.
Farmers and manufacturers can be
very pleased with the renegotiated
terms that will now benefit them di-
rectly with a commitment from Can-
ada to reduce trade distorting policies
and improve transparency, something
that we have a little issue with in the
original NAFTA.
In addition, the new agreement
assures nondiscriminatory treatment
for agricultural products standards—a
major win for our farmers. Specifically
for North Dakota, I spoke directly with
President Trump concerning the biased
Canada grain grading issue and wrote a
line he actually used in a speech.
I worked closely with U.S. Trade
Representative Lighthizer and chief ag-
riculture negotiator Doud to ensure
that our grain growers were relieved of
the unfair practice of grading North
Dakota grain as sub-par feed. This is
estimated to double U.S. exports of
grain to Canada.
North Dakota grain growers deserve
better, and they will now be recognized
properly if we can get the House of
Representatives to bring the USMCA
up for a vote.
Our manufacturing workforce will be
pleased with the automotive and ma-
chinery provisions that are included in
this deal. Going forward, vehicles are
mandated to have 75 percent of North
American content to be imported with-
out tariffs, compared to 62.5 percent.
Also, at least 40 percent of a vehicle el-
igible for duty-free importing must
have been built by workers earning at
least $16 an hour. This is a big win for
labor. This wage requirement will en-
sure that the market is not being
flooded by cheap labor, particularly
from south of the border.
Renegotiating and reorganizing
NAFTA into the USMCA was an essen-
tial move for our State, given the eco-
nomic relationship and mutual reli-
ance North Dakota and Canada share
as neighbors. I applaud President
Trump for securing his promise to ap-
prove a superior deal for our State and
our country. It is my sincere hope that
the House and Senate will act to ratify
this agreement as soon as possible in
order to cement this win for our coun-
try.
We must demand that Speaker
PELOSI set petty partisan politics
aside, even if just for a day, to bring
this important ratification up to the
House so it can be passed and sent to
the Senate so we can be on our way to
a new, improved, modern U.S.-Mexico-
Canada Trade Agreement.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mrs.
BLACKBURN). Without objection, it is so
ordered.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I un-
derstand that several of our colleagues
today have been on the Senate floor
calling for an immediate vote on the
President’s new North American Free
Trade Agreement.
Setting aside the fact that there have
not yet been the hearings or the mark-
ups necessary to allow that to happen,
it would be a major mistake for the
Trump administration to seek a vote
on a trade deal until it is a good deal.
While the new North American Free
Trade Agreement includes some im-
provements to the existing agreement,
there is still work to be done to get the
best deal for American workers and
consumers.
Updating NAFTA, for example,
means confronting the areas where
older trade agreements continually
have fallen short: fighting to protect
labor rights in the interests of working
families, preventing a race to the bot-
tom when it comes to the environment,
and making sure there are vigorous en-
forcements of our trade agreements so
that other countries can’t treat a trade
deal as an empty document that gives
them yet more time and more opportu-
nities to rip off American jobs.
I do have real concerns about the
current trade enforcement because the
new NAFTA carries over too much of
the weak enforcement system of the
old NAFTA. It is too easy on trade
cheats, and it is not good enough for
American workers, particularly on the
issue of protecting our working fami-
lies and labor rights.
Now, I and our colleague Senator
BROWN have proposed several addi-
tional tools to address specific chal-
lenges in Mexico. It is my view, in hav-
ing talked to trade officials and in hav-
ing gathered information elsewhere,
that by all accounts, there has been
good progress on this front. Addition-
ally, one of the bigger challenges that
has to be confronted is that of identi-
fying the hundreds of thousands of
sham labor contracts in Mexico that
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.055 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6082 October 23, 2019
have exploited workers there and
harmed workers here in our country.
Mexico must remain on track to get
those contracts renegotiated on behalf
of the interests of our workers.
To my colleagues who say this deal
must be passed in the name of cer-
tainty, I want to make a point that, I
think, is very important. During this
overhaul, the original North American
Free Trade Agreement remains in
place. Workers, farmers, ranchers, and
businesses should not have to go to bed
at night fearing that economic uncer-
tainty is going to rob them of their
livelihoods. The uncertainty arises
only when the President acts out and
makes impulsive threats regarding our
trade relationships. When the Presi-
dent threatened new tariffs on Mexico
this June over immigration policy,
that created far more uncertainty than
our taking the time that would be nec-
essary to get this deal right. American
workers and farmers have already been
hurt by the President’s impulses. More
are going to get hurt if Trump threat-
ens and produces chaos, causing the
Congress to accept a bad deal on the
North American Free Trade Agree-
ment.
Passing a trade deal that would allow
the President to unilaterally change
trade rules and jerk around entire in-
dustries would be a substantial mis-
take and would be one that would
produce still more uncertainty. That is
not how you get trade done right.
Based on that, I do have some real con-
cerns about how the administration
wants NAFTA 2.0 to be implemented.
I am just going to close by men-
tioning a fact or two about my State.
In my State, trade and global com-
merce are priority business. One in five
jobs in Oregon depends on inter-
national trade, and the trade jobs often
pay better than do the nontrade jobs
because they reflect a level of added
value. When I am asked at a town
meeting what my views are on trade, I
always say: Let’s grow it in Oregon.
Let’s make it in Oregon. Let’s add
value to it in Oregon and then ship it
around the world. I don’t take a back
seat to anybody in talking about the
importance of trade, particularly in my
State.
I sat and listened to a number of my
colleagues who talked about their
views and that we ought to just have
an immediate vote, that we just should
vote now. I don’t know what they
thought with respect to hearings and
markups and the kinds of things that
are required. They just said that we
have to move now. As the ranking
Democrat on the Committee on Fi-
nance, I just want to make it clear
that you go when a trade deal is a good
deal. There are issues still to be re-
solved on that matter, and I am inter-
ested in working with both sides in
good faith in order to get a good deal.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The legislative clerk proceeded to
call the roll.
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS
Mr. WARNER. Madam President, I
am here today because protections for
Americans with preexisting medical
conditions are under attack from this
administration. For the last 3 years,
this President has used every tool at
his disposal to try to undermine the
ACA. He tried to repeal it twice
through Congress. When that failed,
the administration joined a lawsuit
that would strike down the ACA with
no plan to replace it.
The truth is, this administration is,
unfortunately, actively working to de-
stabilize the insurance market. One
way the administration is attempting
to undermine the ACA is with the so-
called ‘‘short-term plans,’’ which I
would refer to—and, frankly, I think
most Americans if they saw the cri-
teria in these plans would not call
them short-term plans—and I would
call them junk plans. Thanks to this
administration, these junk plans allow
insurance companies to once again dis-
criminate against Americans with pre-
existing conditions.
Make no mistake, these plans are a
threat to the stability of the insurance
market and to every American with a
preexisting condition. That is why I
have introduced a resolution that will
force an up-or-down vote on the admin-
istration’s rule that pushes more of
these junk plans on unsuspecting con-
sumers and, consequently, signifi-
cantly increases costs for other Ameri-
cans.
I fear some Members of this body
have forgotten what it was like before
the Affordable Care Act, when an unex-
pected surgery or a diagnosis of a
chronic illness could mean a one-way
ticket out of the middle class.
Unfortunately, this is not a hypo-
thetical. Recently, one of my constitu-
ents, a man named Jesse, received a
$230,000 medical bill for his back sur-
gery. Unbeknownst to him, he had pur-
chased a plan that he thought would
cover this, but this plan, unfortu-
nately, was a junk plan that considered
his back injury as preexisting.
Jesse is one of the more than 3 mil-
lion Virginians with a preexisting med-
ical condition.
I have three daughters. Two of my
three daughters have preexisting med-
ical conditions that would not be cov-
ered under these junk plans.
Today I want to share some of those
stories to remind my colleagues of
what real people will face if we allow
the administration to continue disman-
tling these protections that folks count
on.
Recently I got an email from Linda
in Warren County, VA. She is a cancer
survivor with multiple preexisting con-
ditions. She wrote:
Due to the housing fallout in 2008, we lost
our healthcare coverage and I could no
longer get health coverage because of my
cancer diagnosis.
Mindy from Henrico, around Rich-
mond, is also a cancer survivor. She
writes:
Even though my cancer is in partial remis-
sion, I remain on treatment for fear of the
cancer returning again. As I prepare for re-
tirement, it scares me to think that this
cancer would be considered a pre-existing
condition and I could be denied healthcare or
would be required to pay through the nose
for insurance.
Sharon in Norfolk told me about her
struggle with behavioral health issues.
She wrote:
I am a functioning member of society,
however that will not last long if I lose this
access to medical help. I went off my medi-
cations in 2000 as I couldn’t afford a doctor
and medication . . . and it was a very thin
line between me and homelessness.
Justine from Loudon County is wor-
ried that she could lose coverage for
her diabetes care. Here is her message
for the Members of this body:
What if you or a loved one was diagnosed
with a ‘‘pre-existing condition?’’ How would
you feel about being denied health coverage?
It is a good question that Justine
asks, and that we should all ask our-
selves. As a father, as I mentioned, I
have dealt with the scary reality of
having a child with juvenile diabetes
and a child with asthma, but I am also
an extraordinarily lucky individual,
and I knew that because of the insur-
ance and because I had the resources,
they would be taken care of. That is
not the case for many of the 3 million
Virginians who have preexisting condi-
tions or the countless tens of millions
of Americans.
Katherine in Blacksburg, VA, told
me about her daughter who was diag-
nosed at age 3 with juvenile diabetes.
She wrote:
Until there is a cure for diabetes, I cannot
imagine how costly it would be for her to
stay alive and manage her health if there are
limitations on coverage for people with pre-
existing conditions.
Katherine’s daughter deserves access
to healthcare just as much as my
daughter does.
I got a letter from a pharmacist in
Abingdon, in far southwest Virginia,
named Michael. He treats diabetics
every day, and he also knows what it is
like because he has lived with the dis-
ease for 38 years.
He writes:
Without insulin we will die. . . . If cov-
erage for pre-existing conditions goes away,
you will see a large decline in the health of
type 1 diabetics, and more dependence upon
Medicaid.
This is not only somebody who has
dealt with diabetes for 38 years, but he
is also a knowledgeable consumer. He
is a pharmacist.
I have too many of these stories to
share them all today, and I see my
friend, the Senator from Washington
State. She and other of my colleagues
will be coming to the floor today and
over the next few days until we have a
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.058 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6083
October 23, 2019
chance to vote on this CRA, to share
stories as well of what we will do to
Virginians, Washingtonians, Ten-
nesseans, and Americans all across this
Nation if we go back to a time when we
did not protect people with preexisting
conditions.
One or two more quick stories. James
from Danville, VA, told me about his 10
separate preexisting conditions. Lynn
from Lynchburg is on three separate
medications due to a brain tumor. She
could die if her insurance coverage
didn’t cover those medications, and the
list goes on.
In closing, when we talk about pre-
existing conditions, we are talking
about people’s lives. That is why we
must pass the resolution I have intro-
duced to reverse the administration’s
harmful rule changes and defend pro-
tections for folks with preexisting con-
ditions.
I think virtually every one of my col-
leagues on both sides of the aisle have
said they absolutely want to protect
folks with preexisting conditions. Even
for folks who otherwise completely
don’t agree with the ACA, that is the
one part of the ACA that folks have
agreed upon.
Well, next week we are going to have
a chance to move past talk, to move
past statements, to actually go on the
record with an up-or-down vote, to go
on the record to say that we are going
to protect provisions of the ACA that
made sure that folks with preexisting
conditions weren’t discriminated
against, or we will go on the record
saying: No, what the administration is
doing is all right.
These short-term or junk plans sound
good until you realize you are not get-
ting the kind of coverage that you
thought you were buying. We will have
that decision point come next week.
I ask my colleagues across the aisle
who believe and say they support pro-
tections for folks with preexisting con-
ditions, well, they will have a chance
to go on the record next week. I hope
they will. I hope we will pass over-
whelmingly this CRA and make sure
that protections for folks with pre-
existing conditions are maintained.
I can’t think of an issue that is more
important to so many families all
across Virginia, and, for that matter,
all across the country.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Madam President, I
want to thank the Senator from Vir-
ginia for bringing forward this CRA
that we will be voting on that will
allow us to affirmatively from the Sen-
ate say: We want to protect people
with preexisting conditions and people
from these junk plans that really take
away the protections that are so im-
portant and that every family counts
on. So I really appreciate that from the
Senator.
When it comes to healthcare, fami-
lies across our country have repeatedly
seen President Trump and Republicans
say one thing and do the exact oppo-
site. Despite proclaiming themselves
somewhere along the line as the ‘‘party
of healthcare,’’ despite making empty
promises to fight for families and peo-
ple with preexisting conditions, the
cornerstone of Republicans’ healthcare
policy has been to attack the care fam-
ilies really rely on with their mas-
sively harmful TrumpCare proposals—
the junk plans that you just heard
about—and waivers that chip away at
patient protections, and, of course,
that partisan lawsuit which the court
could rule on any day.
Let’s make it clear. If Republicans
get their way in court, they are going
to throw the lives of patients across
the country into chaos and uncertainty
by striking down those protections for
preexisting conditions by stripping
away health insurance from tens of
millions of people covered through
Medicaid expansion or the exchanges.
It will get rid of the lifetime and an-
nual caps that are on patients’ out-of-
pocket costs, while bringing back caps
on their benefits, even for those who
are insured through their own employ-
ers—so this applies to everyone—and
ending essential health benefits that
require insurers to cover things like
prescription drugs or maternity care,
mental healthcare, emergency care,
and a lot more.
While Republicans have been advanc-
ing their attacks on families’
healthcare, they have also been block-
ing commonsense solutions that Demo-
crats are out here pushing for—like
legislation to bring down drug prices
through impactful steps like Medicare
negotiation or making coverage more
affordable for our working families and
protecting patients with preexisting
conditions from the Republicans’ reck-
less lawsuit.
Now, Democrats in the House have
also passed legislation to restore fund-
ing that President Trump cut, to help
people find the right care for them-
selves, to reverse President Trump’s
harmful junk insurance rule, and to ac-
tually defend patients from that par-
tisan lawsuit that Republicans are
pushing to upend healthcare as we
know it.
Now, what have Leader MCCONNELL
and Senate Republicans done with
those solutions that have come over
here from the House? Well, they have
buried each and every one of them in a
legislative graveyard, while brazenly
and inaccurately claiming they care
about fighting for patients or pro-
tecting preexisting conditions.
I am here to say today that Repub-
licans’ transparent healthcare charade
is coming to an end. Soon, as you
heard, Democrats will force a vote on
legislation that Senator MCCONNELL
cannot bury in their legislative grave-
yard, meaning every Senator here is
going to have to go on the record as to
where they really stand on
healthcare—whether they stand with
families or with President Trump and
his schemes that take power away from
patients and give it back to the insur-
ance companies.
Our legislation will reverse a step
that President Trump took to warp a
tool meant to encourage innovation
into one that encourages States to
eliminate protections for patients with
preexisting conditions, increases costs,
and promotes those harmful junk in-
surance plans that can charge vulner-
able patients more and cover less.
President Trump’s junk plans can
flout protections for preexisting condi-
tions, meaning that they can discrimi-
nate against patients—patients like
Lily. She is a high school student from
Gig Harbor, WA, and has cystic fibro-
sis; or Julie, who is a four-time cancer
survivor from Mercer Island; or Javi,
who is a college student in Seattle with
mental health needs; and millions of
other patients across the country with
preexisting conditions.
Letting President Trump expand the
use of these junk plans will leave pa-
tients with higher premiums, higher
out-of-pocket costs, and fewer afford-
able options to get the healthcare that
they need, and President Trump’s rule
could even be used to cut financial help
for patients who need it the most and
take benefits away from the sickest pa-
tients, even if they don’t buy that junk
insurance.
This is absolutely unacceptable and
exactly why the vote Democrats are
going to be forcing is so important.
These patients across the country and
in my State deserve to know that we
have their backs, that we are fighting
against President Trump’s efforts to
undermine their healthcare, not cheer-
ing him on and blocking efforts to stop
them.
Democrats are going to be out here a
lot to talk about this because we know
families in the country care about this
a lot. We are going to be putting pres-
sure on Republicans to do the right
thing—the thing patients and families
sent them here to do. If they don’t, if
they continue their relentless attacks
on family healthcare, if Republicans
continue to side with President Trump
and his efforts to take protections
away from patients and give that
power back to the insurance compa-
nies, we are not going to give up.
Democrats are not going to let up. We
will double down. We are going to
make sure that families know which
party is offering solutions to protect
their care and which one is blocking
them, which party is trying to repair
the damage President Trump has
caused and which party is trying to
cause even more harm, which party is
fighting for their healthcare and which
one is fighting against it. We are going
to be out here day after day to keep
pushing Republicans to do the right
thing, to stand up for patients and fam-
ilies even if it means standing against
President Trump.
Madam President, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.060 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6084 October 23, 2019
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. WYDEN. Madam President, our
colleagues, Senator WARNER and Sen-
ator MURRAY, have come to the floor
over the course of the day to speak
about the importance of protecting
Americans who have preexisting health
conditions, and I want to see if I can
put this in a bit of context so that peo-
ple understand why those of us on this
side feel so strongly, why I think Sen-
ator WARNER and Senator MURRAY
were spot-on, and I want to put it in
the context of the way I came up.
When I got out of law school, I set up
a legal aid program for senior citizens.
I was codirector of the Oregon Gray
Panthers, and I saw what it meant
when the big insurance companies
could just clobber those people with
preexisting health conditions. They
would just throw all kinds of extra
costs on them, heap extra expenses,
and pretty much beat the stuffing out
of anybody who had a preexisting
health condition. We tried as hard as
we could to push back. This was all be-
fore I was in public life.
At the time, I said: If I ever have the
opportunity in the Congress, I am
going to make this priority business to
make sure that everybody in America
could go to bed at night knowing that
they wouldn’t be wiped out in the
morning if they have a preexisting con-
dition.
So in the course of the whole debate
about the Affordable Care Act, I pro-
duced a piece of legislation called the
Healthy Americans Act. Seven Demo-
crats and seven Republicans were co-
sponsors. Some of the Republican co-
sponsors are still serving in the U.S.
Senate today.
What we had in it was airtight, loop-
hole-free protection for anybody with a
preexisting condition. We were thrilled
that, by and large, our provision from
the Healthy Americans Act became the
provision in the Affordable Care Act
that ensured that there would be a new
generation of consumer protection and
security for the millions of Americans
who had these preexisting conditions.
Now, as my colleagues have said,
there is a very real threat to that pro-
tection that is now in the Affordable
Care Act that really does provide air-
tight, loophole-free protection for
those with preexisting conditions. I
just want to make sure that we get on
the record, for those who are following
the debate, what it means if you roll
back these protections for those with
preexisting conditions.
In a sentence, what it means is
America goes back to the days—those
days when I was codirector of the Gray
Panthers—when healthcare was for the
healthy and the wealthy. That is what
you have if you allow discrimination
against those with a preexisting condi-
tion. If you are healthy, you don’t have
an issue with preexisting conditions. If
you are wealthy, you don’t have an
issue with preexisting conditions. But
if you are not healthy and you are not
wealthy and you get rid of these pro-
tections, you are in a world of hurt.
That is what we are looking at should
the Republicans prevail.
The Republican’s official position is
ironclad: Preexisting consumer protec-
tions ought to be pretty much thrown
in the trash can. I am going to spend a
few minutes outlining the examples of
why that is the case.
First, we saw the TrumpCare disaster
of 2017. The Republicans tried to repeal
the Affordable Care Act with its pro-
tection for preexisting conditions.
They failed, and preexisting conditions
lived to fight another day. Enough said
there.
Second, my colleagues have chosen
to stand idly by while Republican-led
States and the President tried to ma-
neuver through the courts to toss out
the entire Affordable Care Act overall
with the protection for people with pre-
existing conditions. The so-called
Texas lawsuit relies on an argument
that wouldn’t hold up in law class 101
on the Constitution. But thanks to a
cadre of ideological judges, it does
seem that this case may make its way
to the Supreme Court.
I do want to be clear for those who
are following this. Republican Mem-
bers of this body are not just some
kind of innocent bystander when it
comes to this court case. They could, if
they wanted to, join Democrats to take
steps that would prevent this lawsuit
from going forward, and, again, we can
have protections for people with pre-
existing conditions. Instead, all the ar-
guments are about why the Repub-
licans just can’t be involved and a lot
of excuses and deflection.
Third, the so-called ‘‘fix-it’’ bills that
my Republican colleagues have offered
to—what they claim—‘‘protect’’ pre-
existing conditions are just so full of
disclaimers that they look as if they
might have been written by one of
those insurance company lawyers from
the old days who was only interested in
finding ways in which the insurance
company could win and the consumer
would lose. Any healthcare legislation
that doesn’t provide an ironclad guar-
antee of health coverage, no matter
your health status, age, or gender,
amounts to a huge loophole that leaves
hard-working, middle-class people emp-
tyhanded when they need health cov-
erage the most. If insurance companies
can make coverage for your preexisting
conditions so expensive that it is
unaffordable, it is no different than
being denied coverage in the first
place.
Next, the Trump administration has
given the States the green light to use
taxpayer dollars to push junk plans
that aren’t worth the paper they are
written on. I will have more to say
about that in the days ahead, but not
only does this approach amount to fed-
erally funded fraud, this is a gross
misreading of current law that is going
to disproportionately hurt vulnerable
Americans with preexisting conditions
who need comprehensive healthcare.
Under these rules, unscrupulous in-
surance companies can charge people
more if they have a preexisting condi-
tion, deny benefits for specific types of
treatment, or even deny coverage alto-
gether. This rule change is—and we are
going to talk some more about it—a
grotesque perversion of the provision I
authored in the Affordable Care Act
that would let States build on the
strong protections in the law but not
go out and, basically, completely un-
dermine them.
Despite this parade of grim tidings,
next Friday, November 1, is the begin-
ning of open enrollment for individual,
private health insurance coverage on
healthcare.gov, so there is a little bit
of encouraging news. Even as the
Trump administration has done every-
thing they can to fuel the fires of un-
certainty for people about where
healthcare is going to be and what is
going to be available, millions of fami-
lies are going to be able to shop for
plans that provide them with health
coverage. That is because, yesterday,
Americans got the news that the aver-
age premium for the so-called ‘‘bench-
mark plan’’ for the individual market—
part of the Affordable Care Act—is
going down by 4 percent. Make no mis-
take, this reduction is in spite of all of
the things the President has done to
make it harder to get affordable cov-
erage under the Affordable Care Act.
Attributing this reduction to the Presi-
dent is about as believable as saying
that Trump University is going to
make a comeback any day now.
In fact, one insurer who posted a pre-
mium decrease last year crunched the
numbers and said that they could have
reduced premiums by over 22 percent if
it weren’t for congressional Repub-
licans and sabotage by the Trump ad-
ministration.
Americans should still sign up for
health coverage if they need it before
the deadline on December 15, even if
the President hasn’t done you or your
family any favors on healthcare.
One last point on healthcare: While
Americans are looking for affordable
healthcare plans on healthcare.gov,
there are going to be a lot of scam art-
ists on the prowl outside of the official
website. These hucksters are going to
be trying to pawn what are called junk
plans onto unsuspecting families. The
junk plans might sound attractive.
They always seem to be advertising
promotional materials that say: ‘‘Low
premiums! Affordable coverage!’’ But I
just want to make clear that if you or
a loved one gets sick, chances are the
fine print says that the carrier of this
junk plan will not cover what you
need. So despite the low premium, the
real bill comes due right when you
need your coverage the most.
I am also struck by how similar these
junk plans are that are being offered
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.062 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6085
October 23, 2019
now by these rip-off insurers—how
similar they are to another part of
what we dealt with when I was co-
director of the Gray Panthers, legal aid
for senior citizens. Back then, we saw
that fast-talking insurance salespeople
would sell older people 10, 15, some-
times even 20 private policies that were
supposed to supplement their Medi-
care, and a lot of them weren’t worth
the paper they were written on. If you
had one, often, the others wouldn’t
offer you coverage because they would
say that you already had coverage.
Finally, we outlawed that. We wrote
a law that streamlined the Medigap
market, and it basically is still the law
today.
With respect to the law on pre-
existing conditions, I hope we can pro-
tect that. We shouldn’t be creating new
problems for patients and consumers.
And, particularly, when we make
progress, such as we did with the Af-
fordable Care Act so that we now have
in it airtight, loophole-free protections
for those with preexisting conditions,
we certainly shouldn’t turn back the
clock to the days when healthcare was
for the healthy and wealthy.
I am going to have more to say about
these junk plans and how they have
really unsavory, historical roots, par-
ticularly when the equivalent was sold
to the elderly. These junk plans are
now just a backdoor to denying care to
Americans with preexisting conditions,
and people ought to know about the
dangers. People deserve to know
whether their elected officials are
going to fight to protect their rights or
whether they are going to let a bunch
of con artists weaken the core protec-
tions for preexisting conditions that
Senators WARNER and MURRAY talked
about today that are so important to
keeping families healthy.
I urge my Republican colleagues to
change course and stand with Demo-
crats in defense of the law and real pro-
tection for vulnerable patients, against
discrimination if they have a pre-
existing condition.
With that, I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
CRAMER).
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
HEALTHCARE
Ms. STABENOW. Mr. President, I
think you have heard me say before on
the floor that healthcare is personal—
not political. I think it is for all of us
and our families.
Healthcare affects everybody, wheth-
er they are Republican or Democrat,
urban or rural, cheer for the Wash-
ington Nationals—go Nats—or the
Houston Astros or my Detroit Tigers
that didn’t make it this year.
When people tell me their healthcare
stories, I can assure you they don’t
start with their political affiliation or
with anything else. They start with
what is happening with them and their
family. That is because, when it comes
to their health and the health of their
families, none of those other things
matter. People in Michigan simply
want to know that if they or their
loved ones get hurt or sick, they are
going to be able to go to the doctor and
that they are going to be able to get
the healthcare they need.
Unfortunately, Michigan families
have reason to be concerned right now.
Any day now, the Fifth Circuit Court
of Appeals will rule on the Texas v.
United States case. Everything is at
stake—everything—including coverage
for 17 million people through the Med-
icaid expansion. People earning min-
imum wage will not have to pick be-
tween having healthcare and not work-
ing or working, not getting healthcare
or not working, getting healthcare—
now they can work and get
healthcare—or the ability for children
to remain on their parent’s health in-
surance plans until age 26, coverage for
preventive services like cancer
screenings and flu shots, and protec-
tions for people with preexisting condi-
tions.
Misty, who runs a consulting com-
pany in Leslie, MI, knows all about
preexisting conditions. She was diag-
nosed with breast cancer at age 52. Her
diagnosis came entirely out of the blue,
3 days after her husband lost his job.
She said:
We were the lucky ones. He found another
job 3 months later before our COBRA ran
out.
She added this:
Insurance loss and job loss at the same
time as a cancer diagnosis are stresses that
I wonder if any of those people who are look-
ing to get rid of coverage for people with pre-
existing conditions have ever thought they
would have to confront. I doubt it.
It is estimated that about half of
Michigan families includes someone
with a preexisting condition—about
half—everything from heart disease,
asthma, to breast cancer. Nationwide,
we are talking about 130 million people
who could lose their ability to have
health insurance if healthcare reform
is overturned. Think about that—130
million people.
There is another side effect of over-
turning healthcare reform. Prescrip-
tion drug costs could skyrocket. Now,
43 million seniors enrolled in Medicare
Part D prescription drug plans are sav-
ing money thanks to healthcare reform
and thanks to the Affordable Care Act,
which helped close the prescription
drug doughnut hole—what we call the
gap in coverage where you are able to
get coverage. Then the coverage is not
there for a certain amount of time, and
then you can get it once your drug
costs get at a higher level.
In fact, healthcare reform saved more
than 11.8 million Medicare bene-
ficiaries almost $27 billion on their pre-
scription drugs—almost $27 billion on
the cost of their medicine. Instead of
attacking healthcare reform, we should
be working hard to reduce the ridicu-
lous cost of medicine, as I have talked
about many times on the floor of the
Senate.
In 2017 alone, the average price of
brand-name drugs that seniors often
take, just in 2017 alone, rose four times
the rate of inflation—four times the
rate of inflation according to the
AARP. That is one of the reasons why
72 percent of seniors in a recent poll
said they are concerned about the cost
of their medicine, whether they are
going to be able to get the lifesaving
medicine they need and that the doctor
is prescribing for them.
It is absolutely shameful that people
in America, one of the richest coun-
tries in the world, are going without
medicine they need to survive. How is
that happening? How are we allowing
that to happen? I have always believed
that healthcare is a basic human right,
and, yes, that includes medications.
We need to do something about this.
We know the No. 1 thing we can do to
lower prices is to let Medicare nego-
tiate. Let Medicare negotiate. The fact
is, when Medicare Part D was passed,
the language that the drug companies
got into the bill—specific language—to
ban negotiation slipped into the middle
of that bill.
We originally were excited about it
because we thought it was going to
help get Medicare prescription drug
coverage, and then, of course, the lob-
bying force—the largest lobbying force
in DC—prescription drug companies
snuck in some language to make sure
we couldn’t have the bargaining power
of Medicare insurance to lower prices.
So it is real simple. We want to do
something that can lower prices. Let
Medicare negotiate. Just let them ne-
gotiate like every other insurance
company. We know it works because
the VA does it for veterans. We know it
works. The VA is allowed to negotiate
the price of prescription drugs, and,
surprise, surprise, it saves money. It
saves 40 percent compared to Medicare.
Medicare could have saved $14.4 billion
on just 50 drugs if it paid the same
price as the VA—$14.4 billion if they
paid the same price for seniors and peo-
ple with disabilities as our veterans are
able to receive.
So what is stopping us? Well, we
can’t get the bill passed to take off the
prohibition. I offered it in the Senate
Finance Committee. Unfortunately,
not one Republican colleague voted for
it. We are going to bring it up again on
the floor. We are going to bring it up
every opportunity we have to make it
clear that we, as Democrats, know—we
know the best way to bring down pre-
scription drug prices. Let Medicare ne-
gotiate. Just let them negotiate.
We know the reason we can’t ever get
a vote on this. In 2018, there were 1,451
lobbyists for the pharmaceutical and
health product industry. That is al-
most 15 for every Member of the Sen-
ate. Think about that. There are 100
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00035 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.068 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6086 October 23, 2019
Members, and there are almost 15 phar-
maceutical lobbyists for every 1 Sen-
ator, and they are doing everything
they can. Their job is to stop competi-
tion, keep prices high, and they have
done a very good job of it. It is wrong
for people, but they have done a very
good job of what they were assigned to
do.
As I mentioned before, back in 2003,
when Medicare Part D was signed into
law, they blocked Medicare from har-
nessing the bargaining power of 43 mil-
lion American seniors to bring down
the cost of their prescription medi-
cines. Now, 16 years later, pharma-
ceutical companies are still doing ev-
erything they can to put their com-
pany profits before people.
It is time—it is past time to help peo-
ple afford their prescription medica-
tions and protect people with pre-
existing conditions. People in America,
right now, shouldn’t be worried about a
court case in the Fifth Circuit and
what is going to happen and what that
will mean for their family and their
healthcare.
We could do something about that
right now—today. We could do some-
thing right now if people wanted to.
Let me remind you that it has now
been 167 days since the House passed
legislation protecting people with pre-
existing conditions. It has been 167
days ago the U.S. House of Representa-
tives passed a bill and sent it over to
the Senate, and we have not been al-
lowed to vote on that. It has not been
brought up for a vote. It needs to come
up for a vote. It needs to be taken out
of the legislative graveyard and walked
to the floor of the U.S. Senate so we
can vote to really protect people with
preexisting health conditions.
Misty and other cancer survivors
across Michigan and across the country
shouldn’t have to wait a day longer.
This isn’t about politics. It is about
saving lives.
Misty closed her letter to me with
this: ‘‘If [these elected officials] are
truly as concerned about life as many
of them claim to be, they need to be
concerned about my life and the life of
millions of others with cancer.’’
Here is my question for the majority
leader: What are you waiting for? It is
time for us to act. Healthcare is per-
sonal. It should not be political on the
floor of the U.S. Senate. It is time to
act in protecting people with pre-
existing conditions and lowering the
cost of prescription drugs.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the order
for the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDER OF BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the provisions of rule XXII,
the cloture motion on Executive Cal-
endar No. 457 ripen at 12 noon on
Thursday, October 24; further, that if
cloture is invoked, at 1:45 p.m., the
Senate vote on the nomination with no
intervening action or debate; that if
confirmed, the motion to reconsider be
considered made and laid upon the
table; and that the President be imme-
diately notified of the Senate’s action.
I further ask that the mandatory
quorum call be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that the Sen-
ate be in a period of morning business,
with Senators permitted to speak
therein for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
NOMINATION OF JUSTIN WALKER
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, we have
seen too many Trump judicial nomi-
nees in recent years who don’t know
their way around a courtroom. I sus-
pect some of these nominees never
even made it through a ‘‘Law and
Order’’ episode.
The majority leader is now rushing a
floor vote on Justin Walker, nominated
to be a district court judge in Ken-
tucky. Mr. Walker was just reported
out of committee last week. The Walk-
er nomination is leapfrogging a dozen
other judicial nominees who have been
on the calendar longer.
The American Bar Association,
which does peer review evaluations of
nominees, concluded that—Mr. Walker
is not qualified to be a Federal trial
judge. This is the eighth Trump judi-
cial nominee to be rated ‘‘not quali-
fied’’ by the ABA.
Mr. Walker is 37 years old and has
been out of law school for only 10
years. He has never tried a case as lead
or cocounsel, whether civil or criminal.
He has only conducted a single deposi-
tion.
The ABA said that with Walker, ‘‘it
was challenging to determine how
much of his ten years since graduation
from law school has been spent in the
practice of law.’’
I find it hard to believe that there is
a shortage of experienced, qualified at-
torneys or State court judges in Ken-
tucky who could hit the ground run-
ning as a Federal trial judge. In fact,
there is an experienced Kentucky State
court judge sitting on the Senate Exec-
utive Calendar right now—David Tapp,
whose nomination to the Court of Fed-
eral Claims I supported in the Judici-
ary Committee. Why can’t we get dis-
trict court nominees who actually
know what they are doing in the court-
room, like Judge Tapp?
Rather than gaining actual court-
room experience, Mr. Walker has spent
much of his time in recent years mak-
ing media appearances. In 2018 alone,
he appeared on TV or radio 127 times.
That is not what we need on the Fed-
eral bench.
I will oppose the Walker nomination.
He simply lacks the litigation and trial
experience to serve as a district court
judge.
f
ARMS SALES NOTIFICATION
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, section
36(b) of the Arms Export Control Act
requires that Congress receive prior no-
tification of certain proposed arms
sales as defined by that statute. Upon
such notification, the Congress has 30
calendar days during which the sale
may be reviewed. The provision stipu-
lates that, in the Senate, the notifica-
tion of proposed sales shall be sent to
the chairman of the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee.
In keeping with the committee’s in-
tention to see that relevant informa-
tion is available to the full Senate, I
ask unanimous consent to have printed
in the RECORD the notifications which
have been received. If the cover letter
references a classified annex, then such
annex is available to all Senators in
the office of the Foreign Relations
Committee, room SD–423.
There being no objection, the mate-
rial was ordered to be printed in the
RECORD, as follows:
DEFENSE SECURITY
COOPERATION AGENCY,
Arlington, VA.
Hon. JAMES E. RISCH,
Chairman, Committee on Foreign Relations,
U.S. Senate, Washington, DC.
DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN: Pursuant to the re-
porting requirements of Section 36(b)(1) of
the Arms Export Control Act, as amended,
we are forwarding herewith Transmittal No.
19–61 concerning the Navy’s proposed Let-
ter(s) of Offer and Acceptance to the Govern-
ment of Bahrain for defense articles and
services estimated to cost $150 million. After
this letter is delivered to your office, we plan
to issue a news release to notify the public of
this proposed sale.
Sincerely,
CHARLES W. HOOPER,
Lieutenant General, USA, Director.
Enclosures.
TRANSMITTAL NO. 19–61
Notice of Proposed Issuance of Letter of
Offer Pursuant to Section 36(b)(1) of the
Arms Export Control Act, as amended
(i) Prospective Purchaser: Government of
Bahrain.
(ii) Total Estimated Value:
Major Defense Equipment * $0 million.
Other $150 million.
Total $150 million.
(iii) Description and Quantity or Quan-
tities of Articles or Services under Consider-
ation for Purchase:
Major Defense Equipment (MDE): None.
Non-MDE: Refurbishment of the Oliver
Hazard Perry Class ship, ex ROBERT G.
BRADLEY (FFG 49), spares, support, train-
ing, publications, and other related elements
of logistics and program support.
(iv) Military Department: Navy (BA–P–
SAT).
(v) Prior Related Cases, if any: BA–P–GAL
and BA–P–GAV.
(vi) Sales Commission, Fee, etc., Paid, Of-
fered, or Agreed to be Paid: None.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00036 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.064 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6087
October 23, 2019
(vii) Sensitivity of Technology Contained
in the Defense Article or Defense Services
Proposed to be Sold: None.
(viii) Date Report Delivered to Congress:
October 22, 2019.
* As defined in Section 47(6) of the Arms
Export Control Act.
POLICY JUSTIFICATION
Bahrain—Refurbishment of the Oliver Haz-
ard Perry Class Ship, Ex ROBERT G.
BRADLEY (FFG 49)
The Government of Bahrain has requested
refurbishment of the Oliver Hazard Perry
Class ship, ex ROBERT G. BRADLEY (FFG
49), spares, support, training, publications,
and other related elements of logistics and
program support. The estimated cost is $150
million.
This proposed sale will support the foreign
policy and national security of the United
States by helping to improve the security of
an important ally which is a force for polit-
ical stability and economic progress in the
Middle East. This sale is consistent with
U.S. initiatives to provide key allies in the
region with systems that will enhance inter-
operability with U.S. forces and increase se-
curity.
The proposed sale will refurbish and sup-
port the grant transfer of the Oliver Hazard
Perry Class ship, ROBERT G. BRADLEY
(FFG 49), which was authorized for transfer
under Public Law 115–232, Section 1020. Bah-
rain already operates another Oliver Hazard
Perry Class ship. Bahrain will have no dif-
ficulty absorbing these defense articles and
services into its armed forces.
The proposed sale will not alter the basic
military balance in the region.
The principal contractor supporting the re-
furbishment has not yet been selected for
this potential sale. There are no known off-
set agreements proposed in connection with
this potential sale.
Implementation of this proposed sale will
not require the assignment of any U.S. Gov-
ernment or contractor representatives to
Bahrain.
There will be no adverse impact on U.S. de-
fense readiness as a result of this proposed
sale.
f
REMEMBERING TED STEVENS
Mr. ROBERTS. Mr. President, today
I wish to pay tribute to my dear friend
and colleague, the former senator from
Alaska, Ted Stevens. He was an incom-
parable and one of kind senator.
With Ted, they broke the mold.
To me, he was my friend, mentor,
and a person that comes along your
pathway of life who changes every-
thing.
In all my years in the House, I sel-
dom sheathed my sword with appropri-
ators who were always rustling our
mandatory and authorized money. Our
cause was just, but seldom successful.
It did not take Ted and Danny Inouye
long to convince me not only to sheath
my sword but give it to them. I had
been in the Senate for just a few
months when Ted cornered me on the
Senate floor, jabbed me in my shoulder
and said, ‘‘You’re coming with me to
North Korea. Don’t argue with me,
Dole says you are Mr. Agriculture. You
don’t have to say anything, just nod
your head.’’
He was trying to arrange a third-
party grain sale to alleviate constant
famines in North Korea. He and Danny
almost pulled it off.
If you wanted to get things done, it
was a good idea to listen to Uncle Ted.
His advice: ‘‘Get to really know people.
Don’t pay attention to partisan dia-
tribes, socialize and gain their trust.’’
By following his advice, it is amazing
what you can get done. I still apply
those lessons today; it works: 87 votes
for a farm bill that the President just
signed last year.
Example may be better than advice,
but when the two join hands they make
a team that is hard to beat and that
would be Ted Stevens and his friend—if
not brother—Danny Inouye. Either one
could be chairman, and the result
would be the same in behalf of our
military and national security.
We who have the public trust know
we are only as good as our staff, and
Ted had the best, many of whom are in
the audience.
As the Senator toting the bucket for
our beloved Marine Corps, I mention
one: Sid Ashworth.
Back in the day, the Commandant
would trust me to follow up after meet-
ing with Ted. We all knew the Air
Force got top dollar; then the Army,
Navy, and maybe we got retread tires
and bailing wire.
Sid said, ‘‘Take in three requests.
Make the first so big, he’ll say, ‘You
know we can’t afford that.’ Then with
number two, make that difficult to un-
derstand and fill it with acronyms, and
he’ll shut you down. Finally for your
third request: take your number one
ask and plead your case, ‘What am I
going to tell the Commandant? At
least give me this.’ ’’
And it would work. Then I would call
the Commandant and casually say,
‘‘Sir, we’re okay, we got our top ask.’’
Thanks, Sid.
My relationship with Ted was simple,
I did what he asked. On a CODEL, very
late at night, we were watching ‘‘Band
of Brothers’’—again; it was Ted’s favor-
ite. All lights were off, it was past mid-
night, everyone fast asleep. I was sit-
ting next to Ted whose eyes were
closed, so I got up quietly and at-
tempted to turn the TV off. Ted said in
a very loud voice, ‘‘Leave it on, this
next part is the best part.’’ I sat down.
‘‘Temper is a valuable possession,
don’t lose it,’’ Ted Stevens. Our Tues-
day policy lunch often included discus-
sions of appropriations bills versus pol-
icy and ideology. One day, Ted had
enough and shouted, ‘‘When are you
people going to understand, without
Democrat votes, we cannot pass appro-
priations bills!’’
He left the room, slammed the door
so hard that Mike Mansfield’s portrait
almost fell to the floor.
I waited about a minute, followed
him down to his Appropriations office.
I strode in and said, ‘‘Why in the hell
did you do that?’’
He said, ‘‘You don’t understand, I’m
not angry, I just use my anger as a
tool.’’
Nevertheless, when he donned his
‘‘Hulk Tie’’ colleagues steered clear.
Ted Stevens had a wonderful perspec-
tive on life. A successful person can lay
a firm foundation with bricks that oth-
ers have thrown at him. Even the long-
est day will have an end, and it did.
The Alaskan of the Century was vindi-
cated.
With this grand portrait, he returns
to the Senate, and he will remain here
for decades to come.
In just 7 months, Ted and Danny will
be honored again at the dedication of
the Dwight David Eisenhower Memo-
rial, Ted’s favorite President.
They led the charge to create the me-
morial. The dedication will be on May
8, 2020, and the memorial will be an-
other part of Ted Stevens’ legacy.
It was a privilege to know and serve
with him and to share his friendship.
Alaska and our country are better and
stronger thanks to his duty and devo-
tion.
We will never see the likes of Ted
Stevens again. However, he still lives
within all of our hearts, and we thank
the Lord for enabling us to live in his
space and time.
I yield the floor.
f
CONFIRMATION OF EUGENE
SCALIA
Mr. BOOKER. Mr. President, I want
to express my disapproval of the con-
firmation of Eugene Scalia as Sec-
retary of Labor. America’s workers are
the backbone of our economy, and the
Secretary of Labor should be entrusted
to strengthen worker protections, sup-
port unions, and play a crucial role in
ensuring a just economy. Instead, Eu-
gene Scalia has repeatedly dem-
onstrated that he prioritizes the well-
being of corporate interests over those
of workers. Throughout his career as a
corporate lawyer, he fought against
unions, worker safety regulations, and
consumer protections rules. For those
reasons, I do not believe Eugene Scalia
is fit to serve as Secretary of Labor.
My grandfather was one of the first
Black members of United Auto Work-
ers at Ford Motor Company, and
through him, I learned the importance
of worker rights that collective bar-
gaining provides. Through collective
action, unions are able to provide
workers with livable wages, safe work-
ing conditions, and access to benefits
like healthcare coverage and retire-
ment savings. Not only has Eugene
Scalia represented companies in arbi-
trations against collective bargaining
agreements, but he identifies it as one
of his most significant career mo-
ments. The Secretary of Labor should
be doing everything in their power to
make it easier—not harder—for work-
ing people to join unions.
Eugene Scalia also represented the
Chamber of Commerce in working to
overturn the fiduciary rule, a common-
sense step towards protecting the re-
tirement security of countless working
families. Employers trying to design a
quality plan for their workers, workers
starting to save, and retirees trying to
avoid spending down their nest egg too
quickly deserve access to quality ad-
vice, without fear that financial bias is
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00037 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.006 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6088 October 23, 2019
clouding their broker’s judgment. Un-
fortunately, that access to quality, un-
biased advice was ultimately over-
turned, in part thanks to the efforts of
Eugene Scalia.
More Federal oversight and stricter
safeguards are necessary to prevent the
exploitation and discrimination of
working people; yet Eugene Scalia has
dedicated his career to fighting against
the existing safeguards. He argued that
more than 30 women alleging sexual
harassment and retaliation should
have their claims thrown out, defended
a company that refused to hire a
woman because she had dreadlocks,
and fought against corporate whistle-
blowers. He has also worked to under-
mine the rights and protections pro-
vided by the Americans with Disabil-
ities Act, stating that workers with
disabilities should not be provided
workplace accommodations.
When I go back to my home in New-
ark, I see many working families strug-
gling to make ends meet, sometimes
while working two to three jobs. They
often face underemployment, wage
stagnation, wage theft, and a variety of
other tactics meant to keep wages
down and suppress worker rights. They
deserve a Secretary of Labor that will
fight for them. The Trump administra-
tion and the previous Secretary of
Labor have been relentless in their ef-
forts to roll back workers’ rights, at-
tack unions, and undermine civil lib-
erties. Unfortunately, I do not have
any reason to believe that Secretary
Scalia will be any different. This is
why I must express my deep concern
and opposition to his nomination and
confirmation as Secretary of Labor.
f
ADDITIONAL STATEMENTS
TRIBUTE TO DR. EDWARD C.
MONAHAN
∑ Mr. BLUMENTHAL. Mr. President,
today I wish to recognize Dr. Edward C.
Monahan, a professor at the University
of Connecticut and longtime director
of Connecticut Sea Grant.
Throughout his two decade tenure as
director, Dr. Monahan positively trans-
formed Connecticut Sea Grant, which
is an integral part of a national net-
work of programs that strive to protect
and enhance our coastal and marine
ecosystems through outreach, edu-
cation, research, and technology. His
remarkable work and visionary leader-
ship secured vital funding for initia-
tives that improved the water quality
in the Long Island Sound and helped
establish a full-fledged Sea Grant Col-
lege Program in our State.
Dr. Monahan demonstrated his excel-
lent qualities as a leader through his
decisive problem solving and readiness
to find and implement solutions to
critically important issues. A notable
example came in 1999, when the Long
Island Sound faced lobster die-off, an
unprecedented disaster for the sound’s
resources. He responded immediately
by awarding development funds for
pathobiologists to investigate the
cause. The issue turned out far more
complicated than initially expected,
but Dr. Monahan smartly worked to al-
locate $3 million in Federal disaster re-
lief funds to investigate the source.
Over 3 years, 65 researchers at 30 insti-
tutions too part in 21 lobster research
projects. This research helped uncover
essential information for lobster biolo-
gists and led to changes in State and
local pesticide usage for mosquito con-
trol.
One of the other landmarks of Dr.
Monahan’s directorship was his expan-
sion of Sea Grant’s international col-
laboration. Recognizing the advantages
of overseas partnerships, Dr. Monahan
worked with universities and govern-
ment agencies to forge new connec-
tions that would support the exchange
of innovative marine education, re-
search, and technology. Impressively,
he launched the Irish-American Aqua-
culture Initiative. This initiative
launched a formal collaboration be-
tween Northeast United States Sea
Grant programs and universities in the
Republic of Ireland and Northern Ire-
land. Dr. Monahan also helped to estab-
lish relationships with Sea Grant ac-
tivities in Mexico, Chile, China, and
Germany, which set a new standard for
international cooperation.
Among his many accomplishments as
director of Connecticut Sea Grant, Dr.
Monahan also served on the Sea Grant
Association, a nonprofit that organizes
events at the national level and advo-
cates for better understanding, use,
and conservation of natural resources.
Thanks to his outstanding efforts, Sea
Grant has developed into an even more
successful program. In recognition of
his immense and ongoing contribu-
tions, the Sea Grant Association
awarded Dr. Monahan its prestigious
President’s Award in 2000 and 2001,
along with its Distinguished Service
Award in 2005.
I applaud his lifetime of dogged com-
mitment to Connecticut’s coastal and
marine health and hope my colleagues
will join me in thanking Dr. Monahan
for his extraordinary contributions to
the marine sciences.∑
f
100TH ANNIVERSARY OF
KETTERING UNIVERSITY
∑ Mr. PETERS. Mr. President, I rise
today to recognize the 100th anniver-
sary of Kettering University. Located
in the heart of Flint, MI, Kettering
University provides world-class edu-
cation and has helped propel students
into careers that sit on the forefront of
innovation.
In 1919, in the infancy of what would
become the automotive stronghold
within Southeast Michigan, Kettering
University began as the School of
Automobile Trades, eventually re-
named the Flint Institute of Tech-
nology, under the direction of Mr. Al-
bert Sobey, who trained mechanics and
engineers for Buick.
The General Motors Corporation
would then take over administering
the institute, establishing the General
Motors Institute, GMI. The institute
continued to train not only engineers
and mechanics but also managers and
administrative staff. This training was
highly successful, and in 1945, GMI
added a fifth-year thesis requirement
and became a degree-granting college.
Due to innovation through the 1950s
and 1960s, GMI continued to evolve
with the inclusion of majors such as
electrical engineering and added over
70 new courses. Presidents Guy R.
Cowing and Harold P. Rodes—who up-
dated labs, equipment, and began build-
ing the campus as we know it today—
added buildings such as the Campus
Center and Thompson Residence Hall.
In the early 1980s, GM divested itself,
which led to GMI becoming a private,
nonproft university, but it was not
until 1998 that the institution changed
its name a final time to honor one of
the founders of the institution, Charles
Kettering, who was an early and strong
proponent of professional cooperative
education. Kettering University con-
tinued to grow and develop as tech-
nologies and advancements changed
throughout the late 1980s and 1990s.
Today, Kettering University offers a
variety of programs in addition to en-
gineering related programs which in-
clude pre-med, bioinformatics, engi-
neering, physics, and the expansion of
their business program, including a
master of business administration de-
gree. Kettering University continues to
evolve to meet the needs of a tech-
nology-infused and rapidly changing
society, whether in the automotive in-
dustry or in science and business. This
includes new projects such as the GM
Mobility Research Center and ventures
into autonomous vehicles as well as ar-
tificial intelligence.
In addition to their academic initia-
tives, Kettering University has consist-
ently given back to the Flint commu-
nity through service and community
engagement. Kettering helped estab-
lish the University Avenue Corridor
Coalition to beautify and draw invest-
ment to the area. Students continue to
give back through community service,
whether it is helping to clean up a yard
or engineering a solution to aid the
greater community. During the height
of the Flint water crisis, when the
community was in dire need of assist-
ance, a group of Kettering’s engineer-
ing students took action and developed
an adapter to allow water filters to be
accommodated to all types of faucets.
Kettering University has become a
hub of modernization and inventive-
ness, proven by their ranking as fourth
in the country in producing alumni
who hold patents. Kettering’s alumni
have become leaders in a variety of
fields and lead notable organizations
such as Henry Juszkiewicz, who is the
former chairman and CEO of Gibson
Guitar, James McCaslin, former Presi-
dent and COO of Harley-Davidson
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:52 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00038 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.008 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6089
October 23, 2019
Motor Company, and Mary Barra, cur-
rent chairman and CEO of General Mo-
tors Corporation. Kettering’s graduates
have reshaped industries and continue
to do so today.
Throughout its 100-year history, Ket-
tering University has fostered an envi-
ronment of innovation, ingenuity, and
community. The university is deeply
rooted in the city of Flint and has been
an indispensable partner in the city’s
development and renewal. I ask my col-
leagues to join me in recognizing this
important milestone in the history of
Kettering University as it celebrates
its centennial.∑
f
RECOGNIZING THE AREA
PROGRESS COUNCIL OF WARREN
COUNTY
∑ Mr. PORTMAN. Mr. President, today
I wish to recognize the Area Progress
Council of Warren, County, Ohio, in
honor of their 50th anniversary.
The Area Progress Council, a non-
profit, nonpartisan organization, was
formally incorporated 50 years ago on
September 30, 1969. The mission was
and continues to be to plan and pro-
mote positive growth and development
of Warren County, OH. It works with
local, State, and Federal governments
to promote representation of commu-
nity interests, facilitates programs to
promote current and future leaders,
and supports initiatives to promote a
positive and proactive climate for eco-
nomic growth.
For example, Project Excellence En-
dowment, established in 1987, seeks to
annually identify, recognize, and re-
ward excellent public educators in
Warren County. In addition, Leader-
ship Warren County was developed in
2000 to create a dynamic network of in-
formed decision-makers whose in-
creased awareness and commitment to
serve will energize its citizens to shape
the county’s future.
APC has supported and collaborated
with many organizations, including:
Little Miami Conservatory (1967); War-
ren County Park District (1970); United
Way of Warren County (1970); County
Planner (1972); Warren County Career
Center (1976); Ralph J. Stolle Country-
side YMCA (1976); Warren County Big
Brothers Big Sisters (1978); Well-head
and Aquifer Protection (1992–1994); Wid-
ening (1994–1999); Warren County Col-
lege Task Force (2001–2003); establish-
ment of Sinclair Mason Campus (2007);
and Rachel A Hutzel Observatory
project located at Camp Joy (2011).
Ongoing efforts include organizing
the Annual Warren County Economic
Outlook Breakfast, since 1983; hosting
the State of the County, since 1990; and
organizing the Columbus Excursion,
since 2000, where a group of educators
and business men and women travel to
Columbus to meet with the directors of
the Ohio Department of Education in
the morning and State legislators in
the afternoon.
I congratulate the Area Progress
Council of Warren County on their 50th
anniversary and thank them for the
work they do for Ohioans.∑
f
MESSAGES FROM THE HOUSE
At 9:58 a.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, without amendment:
S. 693. An act to amend title 36, United
States Code, to require that the POW/MIA
flag be displayed on all days that the flag of
the United States is displayed on certain
Federal property.
The message also announced that the
House has passed the following bills, in
which it requests the concurrence of
the Senate:
H.R. 598. An act to support the independ-
ence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity
of Georgia, and for other purposes.
H.R. 724. An act to revise section 48 of title
18, United States Code, and for other pur-
poses .
H.R. 835. An act to impose criminal sanc-
tions on certain persons involved in inter-
national doping fraud conspiracies, to pro-
vide restitution for victims of such conspir-
acies, and to require sharing of information
with the United States Anti-Doping Agency
to assist its fight against doping, and for
other purposes.
H.R. 1123. An act to amend title 28, United
States Code, to modify the composition of
the eastern judicial district of Arkansas, and
for other purposes.
H.R. 2426. An act to amend title 17, United
States Code, to establish an alternative dis-
pute resolution program for copyright small
claims, and for other purposes.
The message further announced that
the House has agreed to the following
concurrent resolution, in which it re-
quests the concurrence of the Senate:
H. Con. Res. 32. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress regarding the
execution-style murders of United States
citizens Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi in
the Republic of Serbia in July 1999.
The message also announced that
pursuant to 14 U.S.C. 1903(b), and the
order of the House of January 3, 2019,
the Speaker appoints the following
Member on the part of the House of
Representatives to the Board of Visi-
tors to the United States Coast Guard
Academy: Mr. CUNNINGHAM of South
Carolina.
At 12:43 p.m., a message from the
House of Representatives, delivered by
Mr. Novotny, one of its reading clerks,
announced that the House has passed
the following bill, in which it requests
the concurrence of the Senate:
H.R. 2513. An act to ensure that persons
who form corporations or limited liability
companies in the United States disclose the
beneficial owners of those corporations or
limited liability companies, in order to pre-
vent wrongdoers from exploiting United
States corporations and limited liability
companies for criminal gain, to assist law
enforcement in detecting, preventing, and
punishing terrorism, money laundering, and
other misconduct involving United States
corporations and limited liability compa-
nies, and for other purposes.
MEASURES REFERRED
The following bills were read the first
and the second times by unanimous
consent, and referred as indicated:
H.R. 598. An act to support the independ-
ence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity
of Georgia, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
H.R. 724. An act to revise section 48 of title
18, United States Code, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
H.R. 835. An act to impose criminal sanc-
tions on certain persons involved in inter-
national doping fraud conspiracies, to pro-
vide restitution for victims of such conspir-
acies, and to require sharing of information
with the United States Anti-Doping Agency
to assist its fight against doping, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
H.R. 1123. An act to amend title 28, United
States Code, to modify the composition of
the eastern judicial district of Arkansas, and
for other purposes; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
H.R. 2513. An act to ensure that persons
who form corporations or limited liability
companies in the United States disclose the
beneficial owners of those corporations or
limited liability companies, in order to pre-
vent wrongdoers from exploiting United
States corporations and limited liability
companies for criminal gain, to assist law
enforcement in detecting, preventing, and
punishing terrorism, money laundering, and
other misconduct involving United States
corporations and limited liability compa-
nies, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
The following concurrent resolution
was read, and referred as indicated:
H. Con. Res. 32. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress regarding the
execution-style murders of United States
citizens Ylli, Agron, and Mehmet Bytyqi in
the Republic of Serbia in July 1999; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following joint resolution was
read the second time, and placed on the
calendar:
S.J. Res. 59. Joint resolution expressing
the sense of Congress on the precipitous
withdrawal of United States Armed Forces
from Syria and Afghanistan, and Turkey’s
unprovoked incursion into Syria.
The following bill was read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and placed on the calendar:
H.R. 2426. An act to amend title 17, United
States Code, to establish an alternative dis-
pute resolution program for copyright small
claims, and for other purposes.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–2992. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, Office of General Counsel, De-
partment of Transportation, transmitting,
pursuant to law, a report relative to a va-
cancy for the position of Administrator, Na-
tional Highway Traffic Safety Administra-
tion, Department of Transportation, received
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00039 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.024 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6090 October 23, 2019
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 17, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2993. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Regulatory Management Division,
Environmental Protection Agency, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘The Safer Affordable Fuel-Efficient
(SAFE) Vehicles Rule Part One: One Na-
tional Program’’ ((RIN2127–AL76) (FRL No.
10000–45–OAR)) received during adjournment
of the Senate in the Office of the President
of the Senate on September 27, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–2994. A communication from the Fed-
eral Register Liaison Officer, Alcohol and
Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department
of the Treasury, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Establish-
ment of the Eastern Connecticut Highlands
Viticultural Area’’ (RIN1513–AC41) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 22, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2995. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries Off the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Pot Catcher/
Processers in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Is-
lands Management Area’’ (RIN0648–XY029)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2996. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Re-
lease of Groundfish Reserves in the Bering
Sea and Aleutian Islands’’ (RIN0648–XF292)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2997. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries Off the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Reallocation of Pacific Cod in
the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Manage-
ment Area’’ (RIN0648–XG591) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Oc-
tober 15, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–2998. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries Off the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Hook-and-line
Catcher/Processors in the Central Regu-
latory Area of the Gulf of Alaska’’ (RIN0648–
XG869) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 15, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–2999. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries Off the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Pacific Cod by Catcher Vessels
Greater Than or Equal to 60 Feet Length
Overall Using Pot Gear in the Bering Sea
and Aleutian Islands Management Area’’
(RIN0648–XY038) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 15, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–3000. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Snapper-Grouper Fishery of the South At-
lantic; 2019 Recreational Accountability
Measure and Closure for South Atlantic Red
Grouper’’ (RIN0648–XS012) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 15, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3001. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Snapper-Grouper Fishery of the South At-
lantic; 2019 Recreational Accountability
Measure and Closure for the South Atlantic
Other Jacks Complex’’ (RIN0648–XS013) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3002. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Caribbean, Gulf of Mexico,
and South Atlantic; Coastal Migratory Pe-
lagic Resources of the Gulf of Mexico and At-
lantic Region; Commercial Closure for Span-
ish Mackerel’’ (RIN0648–XG588) received in
the Office of the President of the Senate on
October 15, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3003. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Summer Flounder Fishery; Quota
Transfers from NC to VA and ME to CT’’
(RIN0648–XX012) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 15, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–3004. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘International Fisheries; Western and Cen-
tral Pacific Fisheries for Highly Migratory
Species; Closure of Purse Seine Fishery in
the ELAPS in 2019’’ (RIN0648–PIR–A001) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3005. A communication from the Direc-
tor of the Office of Sustainable Fisheries,
National Marine Fisheries Service, Depart-
ment of Commerce, transmitting, pursuant
to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Fish-
eries Off the Exclusive Economic Zone Off
Alaska; Pacific Ocean Perch in the Bering
Sea Subarea of the Bering Sea and Aleutian
Islands Management Area’’ (RIN0648–XY039)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on October 15, 2019; to the Committee
on Commerce , Science, and Transportation.
EC–3006. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Magnuson-Stevens Act Provision; Fisheries
off West Coast States; Pacific Coast Ground-
fish Fishery; Annual Specifications and Man-
agement Measures for the 2019 Tribal and
Non-Tribal Fisheries for Pacific Whiting,
and Requirement to Consider Chinook Salm-
on Bycatch Before Reapportioning Tribal
Whiting’’ (RIN0648–BI67) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 15, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3007. A communication from the Dep-
uty Assistant Administrator for Regulatory
Programs, National Marine Fisheries Serv-
ice, Department of Commerce, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Fisheries Off the Exclusive Economic Zone
Off Alaska; Gulf of Alaska; Final 2019 and
2020 Harvest Specifications for Groundfish’’
(RIN0648–XG471) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on October 15, 2019;
to the Committee on Commerce, Science,
and Transportation.
EC–3008. A communication from the Acting
Deputy Assistant Administrator for Regu-
latory Programs, National Marine Fisheries
Service, Department of Commerce, transmit-
ting, pursuant to law, the report of a rule en-
titled ‘‘Fisheries of the Northeastern United
States; Northeast Multispecies Fishery;
Fishing Year 2019 Recreational Management
Measures’’ (RIN0648–BI69) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 15, 2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3009. A communication from the Acting
Director of the Office of Sustainable Fish-
eries, National Marine Fisheries Service, De-
partment of Commerce, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘At-
lantic Highly Migratory Species; Commer-
cial Aggregated Large Coastal Shark and
Hammerhead Shark Management Group in
the Atlantic Region; Retention Limit Ad-
justment’’ (RIN0648–XT024) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Oc-
tober 22, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3010. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0441))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 18, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3011. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0497))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 18, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3012. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Airbus SAS Airplanes’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0194))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 18, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3013. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2018–0495)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 18, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3014. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; The Boeing Company Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0715)) received during adjournment of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00040 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.013 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6091
October 23, 2019
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 18, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3015. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Rolls Royce Deutschland
Ltd & Co KG (Type Certificate Previously
Held by Rolls-Royce plc) Turbofan Engines’’
((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–2019–0693))
received during adjournment of the Senate
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on October 18, 2019; to the Committee on
Commerce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3016. A communication from the Man-
agement and Program Analyst, Federal
Aviation Administration, Department of
Transportation, transmitting, pursuant to
law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Airworthi-
ness Directives; Various Transport Air-
planes’’ ((RIN2120–AA64) (Docket No. FAA–
2019–0444)) received during adjournment of
the Senate in the Office of the President of
the Senate on October 18, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3017. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Allegheny River, Mile 0 to
Mile 0.25, Pittsburgh, PA’’ ((RIN1625–AA00)
(Docket No. USCG–2019–0806)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Oc-
tober 17, 2019; to the Committee on Com-
merce, Science, and Transportation.
EC–3018. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; San Jacinto River,
Channelview, TX’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0818)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 17,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3019. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone for Fireworks Display; Pa-
tapsco River, Inner Harbor, Baltimore, MD’’
((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–2019–
0571)) received in the Office of the President
of the Senate on October 17, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Commerce, Science, and Transpor-
tation.
EC–3020. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Safety Zone; Manasquan Inlet, Manasquan,
NJ’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket No. USCG–
2019–0799)) received in the Office of the Presi-
dent of the Senate on October 17, 2019; to the
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation.
EC–3021. A communication from the Attor-
ney-Advisor, U.S. Coast Guard, Department
of Homeland Security, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Spe-
cial Local Regulation; Gulf of Mexico, Fort
Myers Beach, FL’’ ((RIN1625–AA00) (Docket
No. USCG–2019–0602)) received in the Office of
the President of the Senate on October 17,
2019; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
EC–3022. A communication from the Sec-
retary of the Treasury, transmitting, pursu-
ant to law, a six-month periodic report on
the national emergency with respect to Iran
that was declared in Executive Order 12170
on November 14, 1979; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–3023. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Revisions to Prohibi-
tions and Restrictions on Proprietary Trad-
ing and Certain Interests in, and Relation-
ships with, Hedge Funds and Private Equity
Funds’’ (RIN3235–AM10) received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Octo-
ber 22, 2019; to the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs.
EC–3024. A communication from the Board
Members of the Railroad Retirement Board,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the Board’s
2019 Annual Report; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
f
PETITIONS AND MEMORIALS
The following petitions and memo-
rials were laid before the Senate and
were referred or ordered to lie on the
table as indicated:
POM–148. A resolution adopted by the City
Council of Hialeah, Florida urging reevalua-
tion of an application for permanent resident
status by the United States Citizenship and
Immigration Services (USCIS); to the Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.
POM–149. A petition from a citizen of the
State of Texas relative to federal courts; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
f
REPORTS OF COMMITTEES
The following reports of committees
were submitted:
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with an
amendment:
S. 1751. A bill to amend the Reclamation
Project Act of 1939 to authorize pumped stor-
age hydropower development utilizing mul-
tiple Bureau of Reclamation reservoirs
(Rept. No. 116–140).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with
amendments:
S. 1821. A bill to amend the Energy Inde-
pendence and Security Act of 2007 to provide
for research on, and the development and de-
ployment of, marine energy, and for other
purposes (Rept. No. 116–141).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
S. 1931. A bill to require the Administrator
of the Western Area Power Administration
to establish a pilot project to provide in-
creased transparency for customers, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–142).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, with
amendments:
S. 2137. A bill to promote energy savings in
residential buildings and industry, and for
other purposes (Rept. No. 116–143).
By Ms. MURKOWSKI, from the Committee
on Energy and Natural Resources, without
amendment:
S. 2333. A bill to provide for enhanced en-
ergy grid security (Rept. No. 116–144).
H.R. 1420. A bill to amend the Energy Inde-
pendence and Security Act of 2007 to pro-
mote energy efficiency via information and
computing technologies, and for other pur-
poses (Rept. No. 116–145).
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself, Ms.
BALDWIN, Mr. BLUMENTHAL, Mr.
BOOKER, Mr. CARDIN, Ms. HIRONO,
Mrs. MURRAY, Mr. REED, Ms. SMITH,
Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. WARNER, Mr.
WYDEN, and Mr. KING):
S. 2669. A bill to amend the Federal Elec-
tion Campaign Act of 1971 to clarify the obli-
gation to report acts of foreign election in-
fluence and require implementation of com-
pliance and reporting systems by Federal
campaigns to detect and report such acts,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
Rules and Administration.
By Ms. SMITH (for herself, Ms. ROSEN,
and Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 2670. A bill to award career pathways in-
novation grants to local educational agen-
cies and consortia of local educational agen-
cies, to provide technical assistance within
the Office of Career, Technical, and Adult
Education to administer the grants and sup-
port the local educational agencies with the
preparation of grant applications and man-
agement of grant funds, to amend the Higher
Education Act of 1965 to support community
college and industry partnerships, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself, Ms.
HIRONO, Ms. HARRIS, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Ms. KLOBUCHAR, and
Mr. DURBIN):
S. 2671. A bill to build safer, thriving com-
munities, and save lives by investing in ef-
fective violence reduction initiatives; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. HAWLEY (for himself and Mrs.
BLACKBURN):
S. 2672. A bill to require that the head-
quarters of certain Federal agencies and per-
manent duty stations of employees of cer-
tain Federal agencies be relocated in order
to provide an opportunity to build needed in-
frastructure in certain areas and to share
the benefits of Federal employment with
economically distressed regions; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself, Ms.
MCSALLY, Ms. HIRONO, and Mrs. CAP-
ITO):
S. 2673. A bill to amend title 10, United
States Code, to provide for eating disorders
treatment for members and certain former
members of the uniformed services, and de-
pendents of such members, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mrs. CAPITO (for herself and Mr.
CARDIN):
S. 2674. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking
Water Act to establish a grant program for
improving infrastructure asset management
by small public water systems, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Environment
and Public Works.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2675. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to carry out ac-
tivities relating to neglected diseases of pov-
erty; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. MENENDEZ:
S. 2676. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to provide a credit for em-
ployer-provided job training, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. SMITH:
S. 2677. A bill to amend the Older Ameri-
cans Act of 1965 to address social isolation
and loneliness, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. 2678. A bill to promote economic secu-
rity and workplace accountability for the
workers of air carriers, and their subcontrac-
tors, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:17 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00041 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.015 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6092 October 23, 2019
By Ms. DUCKWORTH (for herself and
Mr. ISAKSON):
S. 2679. A bill to facilitate the automatic
acquisition of citizenship for lawful perma-
nent resident children of military and Fed-
eral Government personnel residing abroad,
and for other purposes; to the Committee on
the Judiciary.
By Mr. RUBIO (for himself and Mr.
BLUMENTHAL):
S. 2680. A bill to impose sanctions with re-
spect to foreign support for Palestinian ter-
rorism, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. MARKEY (for himself and Mrs.
CAPITO):
S. 2681. A bill to promote and ensure deliv-
ery of high-quality special education and re-
lated services to students with visual disabil-
ities or who are deaf or hard of hearing or
deaf-blind through instructional methodolo-
gies meeting their unique learning needs, to
enhance accountability for the provision of
such services, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
By Mr. JOHNSON (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina, and Mr. BRAUN):
S. 2682. A bill to amend the SOAR Act; to
the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
By Mr. BURR (for himself and Mr. VAN
HOLLEN):
S. 2683. A bill to establish a task force to
assist States in implementing hiring require-
ments for child care staff members to im-
prove child safety; to the Committee on
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2684. A bill to require Community Devel-
opment Block Grant and Surface Transpor-
tation Block Grant recipients to develop a
strategy to support inclusive zoning policies,
to allow for a credit to support housing af-
fordability, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Finance.
By Mr. REED (for himself and Mr. VAN
HOLLEN):
S. 2685. A bill to amend the Fair Credit Re-
porting Act to require that a consumer au-
thorize the release of certain information; to
the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
By Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
COONS):
S. 2686. A bill to improve reporting of the
distribution of controlled substances, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
By Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
WICKER):
S. 2687. A bill to amend the Safe Drinking
Water Act and the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act to establish pilot programs to
assist low-income households in maintaining
access to sanitation services and drinking
water, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Environment and Public Works.
By Mr. CASSIDY (for himself and Mr.
WHITEHOUSE):
S. 2688. A bill to amend the Energy Policy
Act of 2005 to establish an Office of Tech-
nology Transitions, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. BOOKER:
S. 2689. A bill to prohibit the use of biomet-
ric recognition technology and biometric
analytics in certain federally assisted rental
dwelling units, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban
Affairs.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms.
MCSALLY, Ms. ERNST, Mr. TILLIS,
Mrs. CAPITO, and Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina):
S. 2690. A bill to reduce mass violence,
strengthen mental health collaboration in
communities, improve school safety, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on the Ju-
diciary.
f
SUBMISSION OF CONCURRENT AND
SENATE RESOLUTIONS
The following concurrent resolutions
and Senate resolutions were read, and
referred (or acted upon), as indicated:
By Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr.
WHITEHOUSE, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. JONES,
Mr. CRUZ, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. TILLIS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. COONS,
Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. CASEY):
S. Res. 374. A resolution expressing support
for the designation of October 23, 2019, as a
national day of remembrance of the tragic
terrorist bombing of the United States Ma-
rine Corps barracks in Beirut, Lebanon, in
1983; to the Committee on Armed Services.
By Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN):
S. Res. 375. A resolution recognizing the
75th anniversary of the Warsaw Uprising; to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY):
S. Con. Res. 28. A concurrent resolution
congratulating the Portland Trail Blazers on
the 50th anniversary of their inaugural sea-
son; to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 299
At the request of Ms. COLLINS, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 299, a bill to amend title
VII of the Public Health Service Act to
reauthorize programs that support
interprofessional geriatric education
and training to develop a geriatric-ca-
pable workforce, improving health out-
comes for a growing and diverse aging
American population and their fami-
lies, and for other purposes.
S. 430
At the request of Mr. CRAPO, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
SINEMA) was added as a cosponsor of S.
430, a bill to extend the Secure Rural
Schools and Community Self-Deter-
mination Act of 2000.
S. 509
At the request of Mr. MURPHY, the
name of the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
ISAKSON) was added as a cosponsor of S.
509, a bill to require the Secretary of
the Treasury to mint coins in com-
memoration of the United States Coast
Guard.
S. 518
At the request of Ms. CANTWELL, the
name of the Senator from Iowa (Ms.
ERNST) was added as a cosponsor of S.
518, a bill to amend title XVIII of the
Social Security Act to provide for
Medicare coverage of certain
lymphedema compression treatment
items as items of durable medical
equipment.
S. 605
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
names of the Senator from Arizona
(Ms. SINEMA) and the Senator from
Iowa (Ms. ERNST) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 605, a bill to assist States
in carrying out projects to expand the
child care workforce and child care fa-
cilities in the States, and for other pur-
poses.
S. 685
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Illinois (Mr. DUR-
BIN) was added as a cosponsor of S. 685,
a bill to amend the Inspector General
Act of 1978 relative to the powers of the
Department of Justice Inspector Gen-
eral.
S. 877
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
names of the Senator from Virginia
(Mr. WARNER), the Senator from Michi-
gan (Mr. PETERS), the Senator from
Vermont (Mr. SANDERS), the Senator
from Maine (Mr. KING), the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. SINEMA), the Sen-
ator from Minnesota (Ms. SMITH), the
Senator from Nevada (Ms. ROSEN), the
Senator from California (Ms. HARRIS),
the Senator from Connecticut (Mr.
MURPHY), the Senator from Vermont
(Mr. LEAHY), the Senator from Mary-
land (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) and the Senator
from Maryland (Mr. CARDIN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 877, a bill to
prohibit the sale of shark fins, and for
other purposes.
S. 1126
At the request of Mrs. CAPITO, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of S.
1126, a bill to provide better care for
Americans living with Alzheimer’s dis-
ease and related dementias and their
caregivers, while accelerating progress
toward prevention strategies, disease
modifying treatments, and, ultimately,
a cure.
S. 1253
At the request of Mrs. FEINSTEIN, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1253, a bill to apply re-
quirements relating to delivery sales of
cigarettes to delivery sales of elec-
tronic nicotine delivery systems, and
for other purposes.
S. 1273
At the request of Mr. KENNEDY, the
name of the Senator from Mississippi
(Mrs. HYDE-SMITH) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1273, a bill to amend title
17, United States Code, to establish an
alternative dispute resolution program
for copyright small claims, and for
other purposes.
S. 1282
At the request of Mr. CRUZ, the name
of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 1282, a bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to repeal certain
rules related to the determination of
unrelated business taxable income.
S. 1300
At the request of Mr. BLUNT, the
names of the Senator from New Mexico
(Mr. UDALL), the Senator from South
Carolina (Mr. GRAHAM), the Senator
from Wyoming (Mr. BARRASSO), the
Senator from North Carolina (Mr.
BURR) and the Senator from Montana
(Mr. DAINES) were added as cosponsors
VerDate Sep 11 2014 15:32 Jan 08, 2020 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00042 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\OCTOBER\S23OC9.REC S23OC9
sradovich
on
DSKJLST7X2PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6093
October 23, 2019
of S. 1300, a bill to require the Sec-
retary of the Treasury to mint a coin
in commemoration of the opening of
the National Law Enforcement Mu-
seum in the District of Columbia, and
for other purposes.
S. 1414
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1414, a bill to provide
bankruptcy relief for student bor-
rowers.
S. 1421
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1421, a bill to award a
Congressional Gold Medal to the 23d
Headquarters Special Troops and the
3133d Signal Service Company in rec-
ognition of their unique and distin-
guished service as a ‘‘Ghost Army’’
that conducted deception operations in
Europe during World War II.
S. 1524
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from California
(Ms. HARRIS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1524, a bill to provide for the over-
all health and well-being of young peo-
ple, including the promotion of lifelong
sexual health and healthy relation-
ships, and for other purposes.
S. 1757
At the request of Ms. ERNST, the
names of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. CRAMER), the Senator from
New Hampshire (Ms. HASSAN) and the
Senator from Texas (Mr. CORNYN) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1757, a bill to
award a Congressional Gold Medal, col-
lectively, to the United States Army
Rangers Veterans of World War II in
recognition of their extraordinary serv-
ice during World War II.
S. 1831
At the request of Mr. MARKEY, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. CARPER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 1831, a bill to amend chapter 44 of
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit
the distribution of 3D printer plans for
the printing of firearms, and for other
purposes.
S. 1835
At the request of Mr. CASEY, the
name of the Senator from New Hamp-
shire (Ms. HASSAN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1835, a bill to reauthorize
the Assistive Technology Act of 1998,
and for other purposes.
S. 1838
At the request of Mr. RUBIO, the
names of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) and the Senator
from West Virginia (Mrs. CAPITO) were
added as cosponsors of S. 1838, a bill to
amend the Hong Kong Policy Act of
1992, and for other purposes.
S. 1992
At the request of Mr. BARRASSO, the
name of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 1992, a bill to amend the
FAST Act to repeal a rescission of
funds.
S. 2085
At the request of Ms. ROSEN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2085, a bill to authorize the Sec-
retary of Education to award grants to
eligible entities to carry out edu-
cational programs about the Holo-
caust, and for other purposes.
S. 2132
At the request of Mr. LANKFORD, the
name of the Senator from Florida (Mr.
RUBIO) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2132, a bill to promote security and pro-
vide justice for United States victims
of international terrorism.
S. 2158
At the request of Ms. HASSAN, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2158, a bill to improve certain programs
of the Department of Health and
Human Services with respect to heri-
table disorders.
S. 2160
At the request of Mr. SCOTT of South
Carolina, the name of the Senator from
Maryland (Mr. VAN HOLLEN) was added
as a cosponsor of S. 2160, a bill to re-
quire carbon monoxide alarms in cer-
tain federally assisted housing, and for
other purposes.
S. 2216
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Kansas (Mr.
MORAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2216, a bill to require the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to formally recognize
caregivers of veterans, notify veterans
and caregivers of clinical determina-
tions relating to eligibility for care-
giver programs, and temporarily ex-
tend benefits for veterans who are de-
termined ineligible for the family care-
giver program, and for other purposes.
S. 2240
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from Rhode Island
(Mr. WHITEHOUSE) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2240, a bill to promote
digital citizenship and media literacy.
S. 2467
At the request of Mr. BOOKER, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2467, a bill to establish a program to
award grants to entities that provide
transportation connectors from criti-
cally underserved urban communities
and rural communities to green spaces.
S. 2485
At the request of Mr. PETERS, the
name of the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. MURPHY) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2485, a bill to prohibit Federal
agencies from using Government funds
to pay for expenses at lodging estab-
lishments that are owned by or employ
certain public officials or their rel-
atives.
S. 2491
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Nevada (Ms.
ROSEN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
2491, a bill to terminate certain rules
issued by the Secretary of the Interior
and the Secretary of Commerce relat-
ing to endangered and threatened spe-
cies, and for other purposes.
S. 2593
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2593, a bill to amend title 31,
United States Code, to provide for
automatic continuing resolutions.
S. 2639
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 2639, a bill to restore in-
tegrity to America’s Election.
S. 2641
At the request of Mr. RISCH, the
name of the Senator from Delaware
(Mr. COONS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2641, a bill to promote United
States national security and prevent
the resurgence of ISIS, and for other
purposes.
S. 2655
At the request of Ms. BALDWIN, the
name of the Senator from Illinois (Ms.
DUCKWORTH) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 2655, a bill to amend title IV of
the Higher Education Act of 1965 in
order to increase the amount of finan-
cial support available for working stu-
dents.
S.J. RES. 56
At the request of Mr. DURBIN, the
name of the Senator from Montana
(Mr. TESTER) was added as a cosponsor
of S.J. Res. 56, a joint resolution pro-
viding for congressional disapproval
under chapter 8 of title 5, United
States Code, of the rule submitted by
the Department of Education relating
to ‘‘Borrower Defense Institutional Ac-
countability’’.
S.J. RES. 59
At the request of Mr. MCCONNELL,
the names of the Senator from Okla-
homa (Mr. LANKFORD), the Senator
from Pennsylvania (Mr. TOOMEY), the
Senator from Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN),
the Senator from Iowa (Ms. ERNST), the
Senator from Nebraska (Mrs. FISCHER)
and the Senator from Kansas (Mr. ROB-
ERTS) were added as cosponsors of S.J.
Res. 59, a joint resolution expressing
the sense of Congress on the precipi-
tous withdrawal of United States
Armed Forces from Syria and Afghani-
stan, and Turkey’s unprovoked incur-
sion into Syria.
S. RES. 292
At the request of Mr. CARDIN, the
name of the Senator from Pennsyl-
vania (Mr. CASEY) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. Res. 292, a resolution call-
ing on the Government of Cameroon
and armed separatist groups to respect
the human rights of all Cameroonian
citizens, to end all violence, and to pur-
sue an inclusive dialogue to resolve the
conflict in the Northwest and South-
west regions.
S. RES. 303
At the request of Mr. HAWLEY, the
names of the Senator from Georgia
(Mr. ISAKSON) and the Senator from
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00043 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.021 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6094 October 23, 2019
Pennsylvania (Mr. CASEY) were added
as cosponsors of S. Res. 303, a resolu-
tion calling upon the leadership of the
Government of the Democratic Peo-
ple’s Republic of Korea to dismantle its
kwan-li-so political prison labor camp
system, and for other purposes.
AMENDMENT NO. 949
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Mr.
KING) was added as a cosponsor of
amendment No. 949 intended to be pro-
posed to H.R. 3055, a bill making appro-
priations for the Departments of Com-
merce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, and for other
purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mr. REED (for himself and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN):
S. 2685. A bill to amend the Fair
Credit Reporting Act to require that a
consumer authorize the release of cer-
tain information; to the Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs.
Mr. REED. Today, I am joined by
Senator VAN HOLLEN in reintroducing
the Consumer Credit Control Act,
which gives consumers greater control
over when and how their consumer re-
ports are shared by consumer reporting
agencies.
Our current consumer reporting sys-
tem is backwards. Consumer reporting
agencies collect extensive amounts of
personal information on consumers,
often without their knowledge, in order
to compile consumer reports. These re-
ports are then shared with financial in-
stitutions and others, typically with-
out consent.
Following Equifax’s failure in 2017 to
secure troves of valuable personally
identifiable information it collected on
over 145 million Americans, it was evi-
dent that this system had to change.
Indeed, the National Consumer Law
Center’s Chi Chi Wu stated in her Octo-
ber 2017 testimony before the House Fi-
nancial Services Committee that the
Equifax breach ‘‘means half of the US
population and nearly three-quarters of
the consumers with active credit re-
ports are now at risk of identity theft
due to one of the worst—if not the
worst—breaches of consumer data in
American history. These Americans
are at risk of having false new credit
accounts. phony tax returns, and even
spurious medical bills incurred in their
good names.’’ To make matters worse.
the risks of identity fraud may not dis-
sipate over time. As Ed Mierzwinski.
U.S. PIRG’s federal Consumer Program
Director. explains ‘‘unlike credit card
numbers. your Social Security Number
and Date of Birth don’t change and
may even grow more valuable over
time, like gold in a bank vault. Much
worse, they are the keys to ‘‘new ac-
count identity theft.’ ’’
The Consumer Credit Control Act at-
tempts to address these concerns and
fix the current upside down system.
Our legislation, at no cost to the con-
sumer, seeks to give Americans greater
control over when and how their con-
sumer reports are released when apply-
ing for new credit, a loan, or insurance.
It also would require consumer report-
ing agencies to verify a consumer’s
identity and secure the consumer’s per-
mission before releasing consumer re-
ports in instances that are particularly
vulnerable to identity theft and fraud.
Additionally. our legislation compels
every consumer reporting agency to
take appropriate steps to prevent un-
authorized access to the consumer re-
ports and personal information they
maintain. These changes are designed
to make it tougher for criminals to
fraudulently open new credit or insur-
ance accounts in other peoples names.
I urge our colleagues to cosponsor
this commonsense legislative effort,
and I thank Senator VAN HOLLEN, the
National Consumer Law Center (on be-
half of its low-income clients), U.S.
PIRG, Americans for Financial Re-
form, the Center for Digital Democ-
racy, Consumer Action, the Consumer
Federation of America, Consumer Re-
ports, Demos, the NAACP, the National
Association of Consumer Advocates,
the National Fair Housing Alliance,
Public Citizen, Tennessee Citizen Ac-
tion, and the Woodstock Institute for
their support.
By Mr. CORNYN (for himself, Ms.
MCSALLY, Ms. ERNST, Mr.
TILLIS, Mrs. CAPITO, and Mr.
SCOTT of South Carolina):
S. 2690. A bill to reduce mass vio-
lence, strengthen mental health col-
laboration in communities, improve
school safety, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, 2
months ago, Texans were mourning the
loss of 22 of our people killed in a
senseless attack in El Paso, TX. Little
did we know that we were just days
away from another violent attack, this
time in Midland and Odessa, which
took seven lives.
Visiting these communities in the
wake of these tragedies is tough—
something I have, unfortunately, had
experience with following the 2017
shooting in Sutherland Springs and,
again, in 2018 in Santa Fe High School.
There are no words to bring comfort to
the families and the friends and the
community members who were shaken
to their very core by these sudden and
unwarranted acts of violence.
But as I visited with the families and
offered my condolences following each
of these attacks, there was one com-
mon refrain, one common request:
Please do something. Now, if I knew of
a way to introduce and pass legislation
that could stop these types of criminal
acts from occurring, I guarantee we
could pass it with 100 percent of the
Senate and 435 Members of the House,
and the President would sign it. But
that, unfortunately, is not the human
condition. Unfortunately, there is no
quick fix, no simple answer. Instead,
we are left to look at the factors that
led to these attacks and to try to do
something to prevent the sequence of
events from playing out again in the
future.
Following the shooting in Sutherland
Springs, we quickly learned some dis-
turbing facts about the shooter and
how he obtained his weapons. He had a
history of violence and a criminal con-
viction that should have prevented him
from ever purchasing a firearm. But
this information was never uploaded
into the background check system run
by the FBI. As a result, the shooter
was able to purchase four firearms,
three of which were used in the attack.
He shouldn’t have been able to do that.
Every time something like this hap-
pens, it is only natural to say: What if?
What if those convictions had been
uploaded? What if he wasn’t able to
purchase those firearms? Could we
have stopped this terrible loss of life?
My goal then, as it is now, is to do
everything I can to make sure those
questions don’t have to be asked again.
Ten days after the Sutherland
Springs shooting, I introduced a piece
of legislation called Fix NICS—Fix the
National Instant Criminal Background
Check System—to fill the gaps in our
background check system and ensure
that government agencies submit rel-
evant evidence. We worked hard on it
over a long period of time, and it
passed with more than 70 Senate bipar-
tisan cosponsors.
What is the result of the Fix NICS
bill we passed in the wake of Suther-
land Springs? We now know that the
Federal Government has increased its
record submissions to the background
check system by 400 percent—a 400-per-
cent increase in the background check
system. That means if somebody is dis-
honorably discharged from the mili-
tary, if somebody has been convicted of
domestic violence, violated a protec-
tive order, or convicted of any felony,
the background check system is much
more likely to have that derogatory in-
formation in it, and the seller will not
sell that firearm. Because of this legis-
lation, our Federal background data-
bases are becoming stronger and better
by the day and preventing more crimi-
nals from getting their hands on deadly
weapons that are already prohibited by
existing law.
But it is time once again to revisit
the way we might reduce the loss of
life, the way we might be able to re-
duce these mass violence episodes from
occurring in our country in the future.
Today, I am introducing the Restoring,
Enhancing, Strengthening, and Pro-
moting Our Nation’s Safety Efforts—or
the RESPONSE Act, as we call it. Just
as Fix NICS did, this bill addresses spe-
cific problems to try to prevent at-
tacks and make our communities safer.
First, this legislation takes aim at
unlicensed firearms dealers who are
breaking the existing law. Shortly
after the Midland-Odessa shooting, we
learned that the shooter failed a back-
ground check when he attempted to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00044 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.023 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6095
October 23, 2019
buy a gun from a licensed dealer. He
then managed to circumvent the proc-
ess by purchasing his weapon from
somebody who appears to have been in
the business of manufacturing and sell-
ing guns but who is not a registered
firearms dealer. By not registering as a
dealer, the seller was able to skirt the
legal requirement and sell a weapon to
the shooter without conducting the
necessary background check.
So to prevent unlicensed dealers from
continuing to break the law, the RE-
SPONSE Act creates a nationwide task
force to investigate and prosecute
those individuals. The task force will
focus on those who are illegally selling
firearms, as well as those attempting
to buy firearms who provide false
statements as part of the background
check.
While preventing unlicensed dealers
from selling weapons without appro-
priate background checks is an impor-
tant way to reduce violence, it is only
one factor. I think we have to admit
there isn’t one single solution. It is
multifactorial. There are multiple
things we can and should do.
The second major piece of this legis-
lation improves the quality and avail-
ability of mental health care. I asked
the Odessa police chief following the
shooting in Midland-Odessa: What is it
you think we might have been able to
do? He said: Well, we need better access
to mental health diagnoses and treat-
ment.
We clearly need to do more to iden-
tify and support struggling individuals
who could pose a danger to themselves
and to others. We know for a fact that
the majority of gun deaths are sui-
cides, self-inflicted. While mental ill-
ness is not the prevailing cause of mass
violence, enhanced mental health re-
sources, I believe, are critical to saving
lives. The RESPONSE Act includes a
range of measures, such as expanding
mental health crisis intervention
teams, improving coordination be-
tween mental health providers and law
enforcement, and bolstering the mental
health workforce.
Importantly, this bill expands some-
thing called assisted outpatient treat-
ment programs, or AOTs. This is some-
thing we passed as part of the 21st Cen-
tury Cures Act, my Mental Health and
Safe Communities Act to help focus on,
as a priority, pilot projects of these as-
sisted outpatient treatment programs.
Here we seek to expand them further
based on the proven success. AOTs, or
assisted outpatient treatment, provide
families of individuals with mental ill-
ness an opportunity to get treatment
for their loved one in their community
rather than in an institution. Making
mental health resources more acces-
sible will serve our most vulnerable
friends and neighbors in countless ways
and, I believe, make our communities
safer.
Third, the RESPONSE Act seeks to
increase the safety of our students. I
have heard from countless parents—no
doubt, the Presiding Officer has too—
that parents literally are in fear of
sending their children to school, not
knowing whether they may be victim-
ized by one of these senseless attacks,
especially in the aftermath of Santa Fe
and Parkland High School. Parents are
rightfully concerned about sending
their kids to school, and they should
not have to live with that.
The RESPONSE Act includes provi-
sions to help identify students whose
behavior indicates a threat of violence
and then provide the student with the
appropriate services they may need not
to be a danger to themselves or others.
By promoting best practices within our
schools, as well as internet safety poli-
cies, we can help protect both students
and school faculty and provide parents
with a little peace of mind.
Finally, because so often these shoot-
ers advertise on social media or cry out
for attention to law enforcement or
other people ahead of time, this legis-
lation includes provisions to ensure
law enforcement can receive timely in-
formation about potential threats
made online. Online providers and plat-
forms have the ability to share infor-
mation with law enforcement today
during emergencies. And in the fight
against child abuse, the RESPONSE
Act would expand the scope of informa-
tion they can share to include informa-
tion about potential acts of mass vio-
lence or self-harm or hate crimes or
acts of domestic terrorism.
The RESPONSE Act has been en-
dorsed already by a number of law en-
forcement and mental health organiza-
tions, including the National Council
for Behavioral Health, National Alli-
ance on Mental Illness, the National
District Attorneys Association, Fra-
ternal Order of Police, and a number of
others.
I am glad to say it also has received
support already—even though we are
only introducing it today—from a num-
ber of our colleagues here: Senators
MCSALLY, TILLIS, ERNST, CAPITO, and
Senator TIM SCOTT. I hope we can work
together to build a big bipartisan list
of cosponsors as other Senators have
the opportunity to review this legisla-
tion—again, using the Fix NICS bill as
a model of how we can build consensus
and get something done that will save
lives.
There is no quick fix, as I said, but
there are commonsense measures we
can take to reduce mass violence and
protect the American people. As Tex-
ans continue to grieve in the aftermath
of these attacks, I am committed to
upholding my promise that I made to
their families and friends to do some-
thing—to do what we can to prevent
more communities from facing this
sort of heartbreak.
SUBMITTED RESOLUTIONS
SENATE RESOLUTION 374—EX-
PRESSING SUPPORT FOR THE
DESIGNATION OF OCTOBER 23,
2019, AS A NATIONAL DAY OF RE-
MEMBRANCE OF THE TRAGIC
TERRORIST BOMBING OF THE
UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS
BARRACKS IN BEIRUT, LEBANON,
IN 1983
Mr. COTTON (for himself, Mr. WHITE-
HOUSE, Mr. CORNYN, Mr. JONES, Mr.
CRUZ, Ms. ROSEN, Mr. TILLIS, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, Mr. ISAKSON, Mr. COONS,
Mr. RUBIO, and Mr. CASEY) submitted
the following resolution; which was re-
ferred to the Committee on Armed
Services:
S. RES. 374
Whereas, in 1982, the United States de-
ployed members of the Armed Forces to Leb-
anon as part of a multinational peace-
keeping force;
Whereas, early on the morning of October
23, 1983, a truck packed with explosives deto-
nated outside of a building at Beirut Inter-
national Airport that served as quarters for
several hundred members of the Armed
Forces deployed as part of the peacekeeping
force;
Whereas 241 members of the Armed Forces
were killed in the blast;
Whereas the members of the Armed Forces
killed included 220 Marines, members of the
Battalion Landing Team, 1st Battalion, 8th
Marines Regiment, which made October 23,
1983, the deadliest day for the Marine Corps
since the Battle of Iwo Jima in February and
March 1945 during World War II;
Whereas, in addition to the Marine Corps
casualties, 18 Navy sailors and 3 Army sol-
diers were killed, and more than 100 other
members of the Armed Forces were injured;
Whereas members of the Armed Forces
from 39 States and Puerto Rico died while
serving in Beirut, Lebanon, from 1982 to 1984;
Whereas, on the same day as the bombing
of the Marine Corps barracks, another sui-
cide bomber killed 58 French paratroopers
housed at another building in Beirut; and
Whereas it is fitting and proper to recog-
nize the events of October 23, 1983, and the
members of the Armed Forces of the United
States who died in Beirut on that day
through the establishment of a national day
of remembrance on October 23, 2019: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) supports the designation of a national
day of remembrance on October 23, 2019, for
members of the Armed Forces of the United
States who were killed or injured by the ter-
rorist attack on the United States Marine
Corps barracks in Beirut, Lebanon, on Octo-
ber 23, 1983; and
(2) encourages the people of the United
States to support and participate in appro-
priate ceremonies, programs, and other ac-
tivities in observance of such a national day
of remembrance.
f
SENATE RESOLUTION 375—RECOG-
NIZING THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY
OF THE WARSAW UPRISING
Mr. PORTMAN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN) submitted the following resolu-
tion; which was referred to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Relations:
S. RES. 375
Whereas October 2, 2019, marks the 75th an-
niversary of the tragic conclusion to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00045 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G23OC6.048 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6096 October 23, 2019
Warsaw Uprising, a landmark event during
World War II, in which brave citizens of Po-
land revolted against the German Nazi occu-
pation of the city of Warsaw in the face of
daunting and seemingly insurmountable
odds;
Whereas the Warsaw Uprising, which was
part of a nationwide resistance against the
German Nazi occupation of Poland and
lasted for 63 days, was started by the Polish
Home Army, the underground resistance ef-
fort that included many young and brave in-
dividuals;
Whereas the Warsaw Uprising occurred
just over a year after the Warsaw Ghetto Up-
rising in April 1943, which was the single
largest act of Jewish resistance against
forces of Nazi Germany;
Whereas, after the Warsaw Ghetto Upris-
ing, the remaining Jewish Poles from War-
saw were sent to Treblinka, the killing cen-
ter and labor camp, and murdered;
Whereas, beginning August 1, 1944, the Pol-
ish Home Army fought against the German
Nazi occupation of Warsaw, using mostly
homemade weapons and far outnumbered by
the overwhelming German Nazi force, at a
cost of approximately 200,000 citizens of Po-
land killed, wounded, or missing;
Whereas Adolf Hitler ordered the annihila-
tion of the city of Warsaw and the extermi-
nation of its citizens as punishment for the
uprising, decimating 80 percent of Warsaw
with no regard for the lives of the citizens of
Warsaw or for the rich heritage of historic
architecture in Warsaw;
Whereas a Soviet-led army halted its
march toward the city of Berlin at the banks
of the Vistula River on the specific orders of
Stalin to allow the German Nazis to deci-
mate the Poles;
Whereas, throughout the Warsaw Uprising,
many people fled the city of Warsaw, re-
mained in hiding, or were wounded or killed,
and the surviving population of Warsaw,
which once totaled more than 1,300,000 peo-
ple, was then sent to prisoner of war camps
and endured harsh conditions;
Whereas, after World War II, thousands of
Polish refugees fled from Poland due to per-
secution and came to the United States for
safety, security, and new opportunities;
Whereas the deep, rich history and tradi-
tions of immigrants from Poland who settled
in the United States, particularly in the
States of Ohio, New York, Pennsylvania,
Michigan, Illinois, and Wisconsin, have unde-
niably shaped the social fabric and founda-
tion of the United States;
Whereas, in the 20th century, Cleveland,
Ohio; Buffalo, New York; Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Detroit,
Michigan; and Chicago, Illinois; served as the
major epicenters for immigrants and work-
ers from Poland whose remarkable contribu-
tions to industry led to the incorporation of
new towns and the subsequent growth of
those towns;
Whereas the heroic actions of the Polish
underground resistance during World War II
and the brave citizenry of Poland provide a
valuable lesson in perseverance and patriot-
ism;
Whereas the legacy of the Warsaw Uprising
serves as one of the most poignant reminders
of the human cost of the Allied war effort
during World War II to defeat Adolf Hitler
and the German Nazis; and
Whereas the bravery demonstrated by the
citizens of Poland during the Warsaw Upris-
ing continues to inspire people throughout
the world who are subjected to tyranny and
oppression and who join the fight for free-
dom, democracy, and the pursuit of liberty:
Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Senate—
(1) recognizes the 75th anniversary of the
Warsaw Uprising;
(2) commends the bravery, heroism, and
patriotism of the individuals who fought as
part of the Polish Home Army in order to
liberate Poland from German Nazi occupa-
tion; and
(3) honors the memory of the soldiers and
civilians whose lives were lost during the
fighting, and the individuals who suffered in
concentration camps and death camps during
World War II and the Holocaust.
f
SENATE CONCURRENT RESOLU-
TION 28—CONGRATULATING THE
PORTLAND TRAIL BLAZERS ON
THE 50TH ANNIVERSARY OF
THEIR INAUGURAL SEASON
Mr. WYDEN (for himself and Mr.
MERKLEY) submitted the following con-
current resolution; which was referred
to the Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation:
S. CON. RES. 28
Whereas the Portland Trail Blazers have
proudly and energetically represented Or-
egon’s pioneering spirit on the national bas-
ketball stage since 1970;
Whereas the signature phrase ‘‘Rip City’’,
coined by long-time announcer Bill
Schonely, has come to represent the city of
Portland and Trail Blazers fans throughout
Oregon;
Whereas dedicated administrators Harry
Glickman and Larry Weinberg worked be-
hind the scenes to establish a sustainable
and beloved franchise;
Whereas the Blazers, as they are known,
won their first National Basketball Associa-
tion title in 1977;
Whereas Bill Walton, colorful personality
and backbone of the franchise, was named
the Most Valuable Player for the NBA Finals
that year, and won the NBA League MVP
Award in 1978;
Whereas the Blazers and their fans own the
longest ever streak of consecutive sold-out
NBA games, at 814 games;
Whereas history-making players including
Geoff Petrie, Clyde Drexler, Terry Porter,
and Arvydas Sabonis powered the Blazers
through the first quarter century of their ex-
istence;
Whereas 21 consecutive playoff appear-
ances (1983 to 2003) by the Blazers ranks 2nd
all-time in NBA history;
Whereas Blazers Brandon Roy and Rasheed
Wallace represented Oregon nationally as
All-Stars in 2008 and 2001, respectively, dem-
onstrating that the talent of the Blazers had
not waned;
Whereas Damian Lillard and Brandon Roy
blazed into their NBA careers with Rookie of
the Year honors in 2012 and 2006, respec-
tively, representing Portland as a hub for
dedicated basketball stars;
Whereas Damian Lillard and his out-
standing teammates have lifted this fran-
chise back into the realm of deep playoff
runs, including last year’s strong showing in
the Western Conference Finals;
Whereas the owner and benefactor of the
Blazers for 30 years, Paul Allen, is deeply
missed after his death on October 18, 2018;
and
Whereas the Portland Trail Blazers have
brought Oregonians together for 50 years,
each year generating as much excitement,
hope, and promise as the first year: Now,
therefore, be it
Resolved by the Senate (the House of Rep-
resentatives concurring), That Congress—
(1) recognizes the Portland Trail Blazers
for embarking upon their 50th season;
(2) congratulates all players, administra-
tors, and fans of the Portland Trail Blazers
for half a century of dedication to the sport
and franchise;
(3) joins Oregonians and Blazers fans every-
where to celebrate Rip City’s 50th anniver-
sary; and
(4) directs the Clerk of the Senate to
produce copies of this resolution for the
Portland Trail Blazers team members, staff,
and management.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 967. Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
making appropriations for the Departments
of Commerce and Justice, Science, and Re-
lated Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 968. Ms. ROSEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 969. Ms. ROSEN (for herself and Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 970. Ms. ROSEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 971. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 972. Ms. ERNST (for herself and Mr.
GRASSLEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 973. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 974. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 975. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 976. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 977. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 978. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 979. Mr. MURPHY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 980. Mr. MURPHY submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.030 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6097
October 23, 2019
SA 981. Mr. BENNET (for himself, Mr.
KING, Mr. PETERS, and Mr. WARNER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 982. Mr. BENNET submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 983. Mr. GARDNER (for himself and Mr.
DAINES) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 984. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 985. Mr. CARDIN (for himself and Mr.
VAN HOLLEN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 986. Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 987. Mr. MERKLEY (for himself, Mr.
BENNET, and Mr. WYDEN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 988. Ms. ERNST submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 989. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 990. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 991. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 992. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 993. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 994. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 995. Mr. BOOKER submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 996. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. RISCH, and Mr.
MANCHIN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 997. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
CRAPO, and Mr. KING) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 998. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 999. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. CRAPO, and Mr. MERKLEY) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1000. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. CRAPO, and Mr. MERKLEY) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1001. Mr. WYDEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1002. Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
REED) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1003. Ms. CANTWELL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1004. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1005. Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and
Mr. REED) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1006. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1007. Ms. ROSEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1008. Ms. ROSEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1009. Ms. ROSEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1010. Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. RISCH, and Mr. WARNER) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1011. Mr. JONES submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1012. Mr. KAINE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1013. Mr. PETERS (for himself, Mr.
PORTMAN, and Mr. DURBIN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1014. Mr. CASSIDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1015. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1016. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1017. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1018. Mr. DAINES submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1019. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1020. Ms. MURKOWSKI submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1021. Mr. SCOTT, of South Carolina (for
himself, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr. CRAMER, Ms.
CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr.
PERDUE, and Mr. JONES) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1022. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1023. Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mrs. MURRAY, and Mrs. SHAHEEN)
submitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1024. Ms. SMITH (for herself and Mrs.
SHAHEEN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1025. Ms. SINEMA submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1026. Mr. BENNET submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1027. Mr. BENNET submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1028. Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
CRAMER, and Ms. SMITH) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1029. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms.
DUCKWORTH) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1030. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Ms.
MURKOWSKI) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment SA 948
proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1031. Ms. ROSEN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.031 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6098 October 23, 2019
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1032. Ms. BALDWIN (for herself and Mr.
MORAN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1033. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and Mr.
BURR) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1034. Mr. BARRASSO (for himself, Mr.
CARPER, Mrs. CAPITO, and Mr. CARDIN) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be pro-
posed to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which
was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1035. Mr. BOOKER (for himself and Mr.
JONES) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1036. Ms. SMITH submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1037. Ms. HIRONO submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1038. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
INHOFE) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1039. Mr. KAINE submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1040. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1041. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1042. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1043. Mr. BROWN (for himself and Mr.
JONES) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1044. Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. KAINE, Mr.
WARNER, and Mr. CARDIN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by her
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1045. Mr. HEINRICH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1046. Mr. HEINRICH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1047. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself and Mr.
COONS) submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 proposed
by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1048. Mrs. GILLIBRAND submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1049. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1050. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1051. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1052. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1053. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1054. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1055. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1056. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1057. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1058. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1059. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1060. Mr. CARDIN submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill
H.R. 3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 1061. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1062. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed by
her to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1063. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for herself
and Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment SA
948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, supra; which was ordered to lie on the
table.
SA 1064. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY
to the bill H.R. 3055, supra; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 1065. Mr. INHOFE (for himself and Mr.
BROWN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 1066. Mr. DURBIN (for himself and Mr.
BROWN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill H.R. 3055,
supra; which was ordered to lie on the table.
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 967. Ms. ROSEN (for herself and
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
PROHIBITION OF USE OF FUNDS TO DIVERT
FUNDS FROM THE SOUTHERN NEVADA PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT ACT SPECIAL ACCOUNT
SEC. 4llll. None of the funds made
available by this Act may be used to rescind
or divert funds from the special account es-
tablished under section 4(e)(1)(C) of the
Southern Nevada Public Land Management
Act of 1998 (Public Law 105–263; 111 Stat. 2345)
for any purpose not authorized under that
Act.
SA 968. Ms. ROSEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount made
available for the Neighborhood Reinvest-
ment Corporation under the heading ‘‘PAY-
MENT TO THE NEIGHBORHOOD REINVESTMENT
CORPORATION’’ under the heading ‘‘NEIGHBOR-
HOOD REINVESTMENT CORPORATION’’ under
title III of this division shall be increased by
$2,000,000.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount made available for the
Office of Administration under the heading
‘‘ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICES’’ under
the heading ‘‘MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRA-
TION’’ under this title shall be decreased by
$2,000,000.
SA 969. Ms. ROSEN (for herself and
Ms. CORTEZ MASTO) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 230, line 17, strike ‘‘$1,357,182,000’’
and insert ‘‘$1,358,182,000 (of which $4,088,000
shall be for activities under section 5(d)(2) of
the Lake Tahoe Restoration Act (Public Law
106–506; 114 Stat. 2353; 130 Stat. 1786))’’.
On page 263, line 9, strike ‘‘$136,244,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$135,244,000’’.
SA 970. Ms. ROSEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00048 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.033 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6099
October 23, 2019
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 124, line 14, strike ‘‘$331,114,000’’
and insert ‘‘$330,114,000’’.
On page 168, line 17, strike ‘‘$34,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$35,000,000’’.
SA 971. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 310, lines 12 and 13, strike ‘‘and
conducting an international program as au-
thorized, $317,964,000’’ and insert
‘‘$314,964,000’’.
SA 972. Ms. ERNST (for herself and
Mr. GRASSLEY) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. Section 8(o) of the United
States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o))
is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(21) PORTABILITY OF VOUCHERS.—
‘‘(A) DEFINITIONS.—In this paragraph—
‘‘(i) the term ‘covered public housing agen-
cy’ means a public housing agency that, in a
given fiscal year, utilizes less than 95 of the
budget authority available to the public
housing agency;
‘‘(ii) the term ‘initial public housing agen-
cy’ has the meaning given the term ‘initial
PHA’ in section 982.4 of title 24, Code of Fed-
eral Regulations, or any successor regula-
tion; and
‘‘(iii) the term ‘portable family’ means a
family holding a voucher under this sub-
section that seeks to rent a dwelling unit
outside of the jurisdiction of the initial pub-
lic housing agency.
‘‘(B) REQUIREMENT.—A covered public hous-
ing agency that has jurisdiction over the
area in which a portable family is seeking to
use the voucher received from an initial pub-
lic housing agency—
‘‘(i) shall be required absorb and receive
the portable family by the end of the cal-
endar year in which the portable family
seeks to use the voucher;
‘‘(ii) shall make assistance payments to
the portable family under an annual con-
tributions contract entered into between the
covered public housing agency and the Sec-
retary; and
‘‘(iii) may not bill the initial public hous-
ing agency for those assistance payments.’’.
SA 973. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll (a) Except as provided in sub-
section (b), none of the funds appropriated
under this Act or any other Act may be used
to—
(1) purchase, acquire, or distribute extra-
neous promotional items, including blan-
kets, buttons, clothing, coloring books, cups,
fidget spinners, hats, holiday ornaments, jar
grip openers, keychains, koozies, magnets,
neckties, novelties, snuggies, stickers, stress
balls, stuffed animals, tchotchkes,
thermoses, tote bags, trading cards, or writ-
ing utensils; or
(2) manufacture or use a mascot or cos-
tumed character to promote an agency, pro-
gram, or agenda.
(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) shall
not apply to the use of funds for—
(1) an item presented as an honorary or in-
formal recognition award; or
(2) an item—
(A) used for recruitment for enlistment or
employment with the Armed Forces;
(B) used for recruitment for employment
with the Federal Government; or
(C) distributed for diplomatic purposes, in-
cluding gifts for foreign leaders.
SA 974. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. (a) Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Direc-
tor of the Office of Management and Budget
shall submit to Congress and post on the
website of the Office of Management and
Budget a report on each project funded by an
agency that is appropriated funds under this
Act—
(1) that is more than 5 years behind sched-
ule; or
(2) for which the amount spent on the
project is not less than $1,000,000,000 more
than the original cost estimate for the
project.
(b) Each report submitted and posted under
subsection (a) shall include, for each project
included in the report—
(1) a brief description of the project, in-
cluding—
(A) the purpose of the project;
(B) each location in which the project is
carried out;
(C) the year in which the project was initi-
ated;
(D) the Federal share of the total cost of
the project; and
(E) each primary contractor, subcon-
tractor, grant recipient, and subgrantee re-
cipient of the project;
(2) an explanation of any change to the
original scope of the project, including by
the addition or narrowing of the initial re-
quirements of the project;
(3) the original expected date for comple-
tion of the project;
(4) the current expected date for comple-
tion of the project;
(5) the original cost estimate for the
project, as adjusted to reflect increases in
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Con-
sumers, as published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics;
(6) the current cost estimate for the
project, as adjusted to reflect increases in
the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Con-
sumers, as published by the Bureau of Labor
Statistics;
(7) an explanation for a delay in comple-
tion or increase in the original cost estimate
for the project; and
(8) the amount of and rationale for any
award, incentive fee, or other type of bonus,
if any, awarded for the project.
SA 975. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 4ll. When issuing statements, press
releases, requests for proposals, bid solicita-
tions and other documents describing
projects or programs funded in whole or in
part with Federal money, all grantees re-
ceiving Federal funds included in this Act,
including State and local governments and
recipients of Federal research grants, shall
clearly state—
(1) the percentage of the total costs of the
program or project which will be financed
with Federal money;
(2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for
the project or program; and
(3) percentage and dollar amount of the
total costs of the project or program that
will be financed by non-governmental
sources.
SA 976. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. Notwithstanding section 2, none
of the funds appropriated or otherwise made
available under any division of the Act may
be used by a Federal agency to purchase in-
formation technology items produced by a
Chinese-owned company for which a Federal
agency has issued a warning about known
cybersecurity risks.
SA 977. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 345, strike lines 13 through 15.
SA 978. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:53 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00049 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.036 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6100 October 23, 2019
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In section 419 of division D, strike ‘‘this
Act’’ and insert ‘‘this division or divisions B,
C, or D of this Act’’.
SA 979. Mr. MURPHY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 231, line 15, strike ‘‘$58,770,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$67,270,000’’.
On page 231, line 20, strike the period at
the end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That
$10,000,000 of the amount made available
under this heading shall be available for
grants under the Highlands Conservation Act
(Public Law 108–421; 118 Stat. 2375).’’.
On page 263, line 9, strike ‘‘$136,244,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$127,744,000’’.
SA 980. Mr. MURPHY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 231, line 15, strike ‘‘$58,770,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$67,270,000’’.
On page 231, line 20, strike the period at
the end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That
$10,000,000 of the amount made available
under this heading shall be available for
grants under the Highlands Conservation Act
(Public Law 108–421; 118 Stat. 2375).’’.
On page 263, line 9, strike ‘‘$136,244,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$127,744,000’’.
SA 981. Mr. BENNET (for himself,
Mr. KING, Mr. PETERS, and Mr. WAR-
NER) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. FINANCING OF SALES OF AGRICUL-
TURAL COMMODITIES TO CUBA.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law (other than section 908
of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export
Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7207), as
amended by subsection (c)), a person subject
to the jurisdiction of the United States may
provide payment or financing terms for sales
of agricultural commodities to Cuba or an
individual or entity in Cuba.
(b) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY.—The term
‘‘agricultural commodity’’ has the meaning
given that term in section 102 of the Agricul-
tural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
(2) FINANCING.—The term ‘‘financing’’ in-
cludes any loan or extension of credit.
(c) CONFORMING AMENDMENT.—Section 908
of the Trade Sanctions Reform and Export
Enhancement Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7207) is
amended—
(1) in the section heading, by striking ‘‘AND
FINANCING’’;
(2) by striking subsection (b);
(3) in subsection (a)—
(A) by striking ‘‘PROHIBITION’’ and all that
follows through ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwith-
standing’’ and inserting ‘‘IN GENERAL.—Not-
withstanding’’; and
(B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3)
as subsections (b) and (c), respectively, and
by moving those subsections, as so redesig-
nated, 2 ems to the left; and
(4) by striking ‘‘paragraph (1)’’ each place
it appears and inserting ‘‘subsection (a)’’.
SA 982. Mr. BENNET submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title I of division C, insert
the following:
Subtitle B—Colorado Outdoor Recreation
and Economy
SEC. 131. SHORT TITLE.
This subtitle may be cited as the ‘‘Colo-
rado Outdoor Recreation and Economy Act’’.
SEC. 132. DEFINITION OF STATE.
In this subtitle, the term ‘‘State’’ means
the State of Colorado.
PART I—CONTINENTAL DIVIDE
SEC. 141. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) COVERED AREA.—The term ‘‘covered
area’’ means any area designated as wilder-
ness by the amendments to section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) made by
section 142(a).
(2) HISTORIC LANDSCAPE.—The term ‘‘His-
toric Landscape’’ means the Camp Hale Na-
tional Historic Landscape designated by sec-
tion 147(a).
(3) RECREATION MANAGEMENT AREA.—The
term ‘‘Recreation Management Area’’ means
the Tenmile Recreation Management Area
designated by section 144(a).
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(5) WILDLIFE CONSERVATION AREA.—The
term ‘‘Wildlife Conservation Area’’ means, as
applicable—
(A) the Porcupine Gulch Wildlife Conserva-
tion Area designated by section 145(a); and
(B) the Williams Fork Mountains Wildlife
Conservation Area designated by section
146(a).
SEC. 142. COLORADO WILDERNESS ADDITIONS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Section 2(a) of the Colo-
rado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132
note; Public Law 103–77) is amended—
(1) in paragraph (18), by striking ‘‘1993,’’
and inserting ‘‘1993, and certain Federal land
within the White River National Forest that
comprises approximately 6,896 acres, as gen-
erally depicted as ‘Proposed Ptarmigan Peak
Wilderness Additions’ on the map entitled
‘Proposed Ptarmigan Peak Wilderness Addi-
tions’ and dated June 24, 2019,’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(23) HOLY CROSS WILDERNESS ADDITION.—
Certain Federal land within the White River
National Forest that comprises approxi-
mately 3,866 acres, as generally depicted as
‘Proposed Megan Dickie Wilderness Addi-
tion’ on the map entitled ‘Holy Cross Wilder-
ness Addition Proposal’ and dated June 24,
2019, which shall be incorporated into, and
managed as part of, the Holy Cross Wilder-
ness designated by section 102(a)(5) of Public
Law 96–560 (94 Stat. 3266).
‘‘(24) HOOSIER RIDGE WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land within the White River Na-
tional Forest that comprises approximately
5,235 acres, as generally depicted as ‘Pro-
posed Hoosier Ridge Wilderness’ on the map
entitled ‘Tenmile Proposal’ and dated June
24, 2019, which shall be known as the ‘Hoosier
Ridge Wilderness’.
‘‘(25) TENMILE WILDERNESS.—Certain Fed-
eral land within the White River National
Forest that comprises approximately 7,624
acres, as generally depicted as ‘Proposed
Tenmile Wilderness’ on the map entitled
‘Tenmile Proposal’ and dated June 24, 2019,
which shall be known as the ‘Tenmile Wil-
derness’.
‘‘(26) EAGLES NEST WILDERNESS ADDITIONS.—
Certain Federal land within the White River
National Forest that comprises approxi-
mately 9,670 acres, as generally depicted as
‘Proposed Freeman Creek Wilderness Addi-
tion’ and ‘Proposed Spraddle Creek Wilder-
ness Addition’ on the map entitled ‘Eagles
Nest Wilderness Additions Proposal’ and
dated June 24, 2019, which shall be incor-
porated into, and managed as part of, the Ea-
gles Nest Wilderness designated by Public
Law 94–352 (90 Stat. 870).’’.
(b) APPLICABLE LAW.—Any reference in the
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) to the
effective date of that Act shall be considered
to be a reference to the date of enactment of
this Act for purposes of administering a cov-
ered area.
(c) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—In ac-
cordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilder-
ness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the Secretary
may carry out any activity in a covered area
that the Secretary determines to be nec-
essary for the control of fire, insects, and
diseases, subject to such terms and condi-
tions as the Secretary determines to be ap-
propriate.
(d) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock on a
covered area, if established before the date of
enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to
continue subject to such reasonable regula-
tions as are considered to be necessary by
the Secretary, in accordance with—
(1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A
of the report of the Committee on Interior
and Insular Affairs of the House of Rep-
resentatives accompanying H.R. 2570 of the
101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405).
(e) COORDINATION.—For purposes of admin-
istering the Federal land designated as wil-
derness by paragraph (26) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by subsection (a)(2)), the Secretary shall, as
determined to be appropriate for the protec-
tion of watersheds, coordinate the activities
of the Secretary in response to fires and
flooding events with interested State and
local agencies, including operations using
aircraft or mechanized equipment.
SEC. 143. WILLIAMS FORK MOUNTAINS WILDER-
NESS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—In furtherance of the
purposes of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131
et seq.), certain Federal land in the White
River National Forest in the State, com-
prising approximately 8,036 acres and gen-
erally depicted as ‘‘Proposed Williams Fork
Mountains Wilderness’’ on the map entitled
‘‘Williams Fork Mountains Proposal’’ and
dated June 24, 2019, is designated as a poten-
tial wilderness area.
(b) MANAGEMENT.—Subject to valid exist-
ing rights and except as provided in sub-
section (d), the potential wilderness area
designated by subsection (a) shall be man-
aged in accordance with—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:11 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00050 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.037 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6101
October 23, 2019
(1) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et
seq.); and
(2) this section.
(c) LIVESTOCK USE OF VACANT ALLOT-
MENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, in
accordance with applicable laws (including
regulations), the Secretary shall publish a
determination regarding whether to author-
ize livestock grazing or other use by live-
stock on the vacant allotments known as—
(A) the ‘‘Big Hole Allotment’’; and
(B) the ‘‘Blue Ridge Allotment’’.
(2) MODIFICATION OF ALLOTMENTS.—In pub-
lishing a determination pursuant to para-
graph (1), the Secretary may modify or com-
bine the vacant allotments referred to in
that paragraph.
(3) PERMIT OR OTHER AUTHORIZATION.—Not
later than 1 year after the date on which a
determination of the Secretary to authorize
livestock grazing or other use by livestock is
published under paragraph (1), if applicable,
the Secretary shall grant a permit or other
authorization for that livestock grazing or
other use in accordance with applicable laws
(including regulations).
(d) RANGE IMPROVEMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—If the Secretary permits
livestock grazing or other use by livestock
on the potential wilderness area under sub-
section (c), the Secretary, or a third party
authorized by the Secretary, may use any
motorized or mechanized transport or equip-
ment for purposes of constructing or reha-
bilitating such range improvements as are
necessary to obtain appropriate livestock
management objectives (including habitat
and watershed restoration).
(2) TERMINATION OF AUTHORITY.—The au-
thority provided by this subsection termi-
nates on the date that is 2 years after the
date on which the Secretary publishes a posi-
tive determination under subsection (c)(3).
(e) DESIGNATION AS WILDERNESS.—
(1) DESIGNATION.—The potential wilderness
area designated by subsection (a) shall be
designated as wilderness, to be known as the
‘‘Williams Fork Mountains Wilderness’’—
(A) effective not earlier than the date that
is 180 days after the date of enactment this
Act; and
(B) on the earliest of—
(i) the date on which the Secretary pub-
lishes in the Federal Register a notice that
the construction or rehabilitation of range
improvements under subsection (d) is com-
plete;
(ii) the date described in subsection (d)(2);
and
(iii) the effective date of a determination
of the Secretary not to authorize livestock
grazing or other use by livestock under sub-
section (c)(1).
(2) ADMINISTRATION.—Subject to valid ex-
isting rights, the Secretary shall manage the
Williams Fork Mountains Wilderness in ac-
cordance with—
(A) the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77); and
(B) this part.
SEC. 144. TENMILE RECREATION MANAGEMENT
AREA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 17,122 acres of Fed-
eral land in the White River National Forest
in the State, as generally depicted as ‘‘Pro-
posed Tenmile Recreation Management
Area’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Tenmile Pro-
posal’’ and dated June 24, 2019, are des-
ignated as the ‘‘Tenmile Recreation Manage-
ment Area’’.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Recre-
ation Management Area are to conserve, pro-
tect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoy-
ment of present and future generations the
recreational, scenic, watershed, habitat, and
ecological resources of the Recreation Man-
agement Area.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Recreation Management Area—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances—
(i) the purposes of the Recreation Manage-
ment Area described in subsection (b); and
(ii) recreation opportunities, including
mountain biking, hiking, fishing, horseback
riding, snowshoeing, climbing, skiing, camp-
ing, and hunting; and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) any other applicable laws (including
regulations); and
(iii) this section.
(2) USES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall only
allow such uses of the Recreation Manage-
ment Area as the Secretary determines
would further the purposes described in sub-
section (b).
(B) VEHICLES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (iii), the use of motorized vehicles in
the Recreation Management Area shall be
limited to the roads, vehicle classes, and pe-
riods authorized for motorized vehicle use on
the date of enactment of this Act.
(ii) NEW OR TEMPORARY ROADS.—Except as
provided in clause (iii), no new or temporary
road shall be constructed in the Recreation
Management Area.
(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—Nothing in clause (i) or
(ii) prevents the Secretary from—
(I) rerouting or closing an existing road or
trail to protect natural resources from deg-
radation, as the Secretary determines to be
appropriate;
(II) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles for administrative purposes or roadside
camping;
(III) constructing temporary roads or per-
mitting the use of motorized vehicles to
carry out pre- or post-fire watershed protec-
tion projects;
(IV) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles to carry out any activity described in
subsection (d), (e)(1), or (f); or
(V) responding to an emergency.
(C) COMMERCIAL TIMBER.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), no
project shall be carried out in the Recreation
Management Area for the purpose of har-
vesting commercial timber.
(ii) LIMITATION.—Nothing in clause (i) pre-
vents the Secretary from harvesting or sell-
ing a merchantable product that is a byprod-
uct of an activity authorized under this sec-
tion.
(d) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—The Sec-
retary may carry out any activity, in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations), that the Secretary determines to
be necessary to prevent, control, or mitigate
fire, insects, or disease in the Recreation
Management Area, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Secretary determines to be
appropriate.
(e) WATER.—
(1) EFFECT ON WATER MANAGEMENT INFRA-
STRUCTURE.—Nothing in this section affects
the construction, repair, reconstruction, re-
placement, operation, maintenance, or ren-
ovation within the Recreation Management
Area of—
(A) water management infrastructure in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act; or
(B) any future infrastructure necessary for
the development or exercise of water rights
decreed before the date of enactment of this
Act.
(2) APPLICABLE LAW.—Section 3(e) of the
James Peak Wilderness and Protection Area
Act (Public Law 107–216; 116 Stat. 1058) shall
apply to the Recreation Management Area.
(f) REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.—
Nothing in this section precludes the Sec-
retary from authorizing, in accordance with
applicable laws (including regulations), the
use or leasing of Federal land within the
Recreation Management Area for—
(1) a regional transportation project, in-
cluding—
(A) highway widening or realignment; and
(B) construction of multimodal transpor-
tation systems; or
(2) any infrastructure, activity, or safety
measure associated with the implementation
or use of a facility constructed under para-
graph (1).
(g) APPLICABLE LAW.—Nothing in this sec-
tion affects the designation of the Federal
land within the Recreation Management
Area for purposes of—
(1) section 138 of title 23, United States
Code; or
(2) section 303 of title 49, United States
Code.
(h) PERMITS.—Nothing in this section al-
ters or limits—
(1) any permit held by a ski area or other
entity; or
(2) the acceptance, review, or implementa-
tion of associated activities or facilities pro-
posed or authorized by law or permit outside
the boundaries of the Recreation Manage-
ment Area.
SEC. 145. PORCUPINE GULCH WILDLIFE CON-
SERVATION AREA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 8,287 acres of Fed-
eral land located in the White River National
Forest, as generally depicted as ‘‘Proposed
Porcupine Gulch Wildlife Conservation
Area’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Porcupine Gulch
Wildlife Conservation Area Proposal’’ and
dated June 24, 2019, are designated as the
‘‘Porcupine Gulch Wildlife Conservation
Area’’ (referred to in this section as the
‘‘Wildlife Conservation Area’’).
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Wild-
life Conservation Area are—
(1) to conserve and protect a wildlife mi-
gration corridor over Interstate 70; and
(2) to conserve, protect, and enhance for
the benefit and enjoyment of present and fu-
ture generations the wildlife, scenic,
roadless, watershed, and ecological resources
of the Wildlife Conservation Area.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Wildlife Conservation Area—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes described in sub-
section (b); and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) any other applicable laws (including
regulations); and
(iii) this section.
(2) USES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall only
allow such uses of the Wildlife Conservation
Area as the Secretary determines would fur-
ther the purposes described in subsection (b).
(B) RECREATION.—The Secretary may per-
mit such recreational activities in the Wild-
life Conservation Area that the Secretary de-
termines are consistent with the purposes
described in subsection (b).
(C) MOTORIZED VEHICLES AND MECHANIZED
TRANSPORT; NEW OR TEMPORARY ROADS.—
(i) MOTORIZED VEHICLES AND MECHANIZED
TRANSPORT.—Except as provided in clause
(iii), the use of motorized vehicles and
mechanized transport in the Wildlife Con-
servation Area shall be prohibited.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00051 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.049 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6102 October 23, 2019
(ii) NEW OR TEMPORARY ROADS.—Except as
provided in clause (iii) and subsection (e), no
new or temporary road shall be constructed
within the Wildlife Conservation Area.
(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—Nothing in clause (i) or
(ii) prevents the Secretary from—
(I) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles or mechanized transport for administra-
tive purposes;
(II) constructing temporary roads or per-
mitting the use of motorized vehicles or
mechanized transport to carry out pre- or
post-fire watershed protection projects;
(III) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles or mechanized transport to carry out ac-
tivities described in subsection (d) or (e); or
(IV) responding to an emergency.
(D) COMMERCIAL TIMBER.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), no
project shall be carried out in the Wildlife
Conservation Area for the purpose of har-
vesting commercial timber.
(ii) LIMITATION.—Nothing in clause (i) pre-
vents the Secretary from harvesting or sell-
ing a merchantable product that is a byprod-
uct of an activity authorized under this sec-
tion.
(d) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—The Sec-
retary may carry out any activity, in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations), that the Secretary determines to
be necessary to prevent, control, or mitigate
fire, insects, or disease in the Wildlife Con-
servation Area, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Secretary determines to be
appropriate.
(e) REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.—
Nothing in this section or section 150(e) pre-
cludes the Secretary from authorizing, in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations), the use or leasing of Federal land
within the Wildlife Conservation Area for—
(1) a regional transportation project, in-
cluding—
(A) highway widening or realignment; and
(B) construction of multimodal transpor-
tation systems; or
(2) any infrastructure, activity, or safety
measure associated with the implementation
or use of a facility constructed under para-
graph (1).
(f) APPLICABLE LAW.—Nothing in this sec-
tion affects the designation of the Federal
land within the Wildlife Conservation Area
for purposes of—
(1) section 138 of title 23, United States
Code; or
(2) section 303 of title 49, United States
Code.
(g) WATER.—Section 3(e) of the James Peak
Wilderness and Protection Area Act (Public
Law 107–216; 116 Stat. 1058) shall apply to the
Wildlife Conservation Area.
SEC. 146. WILLIAMS FORK MOUNTAINS WILDLIFE
CONSERVATION AREA.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 3,528 acres of Fed-
eral land in the White River National Forest
in the State, as generally depicted as ‘‘Pro-
posed Williams Fork Mountains Wildlife
Conservation Area’’ on the map entitled
‘‘Williams Fork Mountains Proposal’’ and
dated June 24, 2019, are designated as the
‘‘Williams Fork Mountains Wildlife Con-
servation Area’’ (referred to in this section
as the ‘‘Wildlife Conservation Area’’).
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the Wild-
life Conservation Area are to conserve, pro-
tect, and enhance for the benefit and enjoy-
ment of present and future generations the
wildlife, scenic, roadless, watershed, rec-
reational, and ecological resources of the
Wildlife Conservation Area.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Wildlife Conservation Area—
(A) in a manner that conserves, protects,
and enhances the purposes described in sub-
section (b); and
(B) in accordance with—
(i) the Forest and Rangeland Renewable
Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1600
et seq.);
(ii) any other applicable laws (including
regulations); and
(iii) this section.
(2) USES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall only
allow such uses of the Wildlife Conservation
Area as the Secretary determines would fur-
ther the purposes described in subsection (b).
(B) MOTORIZED VEHICLES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Except as provided in
clause (iii), the use of motorized vehicles in
the Wildlife Conservation Area shall be lim-
ited to designated roads and trails.
(ii) NEW OR TEMPORARY ROADS.—Except as
provided in clause (iii), no new or temporary
road shall be constructed in the Wildlife
Conservation Area.
(iii) EXCEPTIONS.—Nothing in clause (i) or
(ii) prevents the Secretary from—
(I) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles for administrative purposes;
(II) authorizing the use of motorized vehi-
cles to carry out activities described in sub-
section (d); or
(III) responding to an emergency.
(C) BICYCLES.—The use of bicycles in the
Wildlife Conservation Area shall be limited
to designated roads and trails.
(D) COMMERCIAL TIMBER.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—Subject to clause (ii), no
project shall be carried out in the Wildlife
Conservation Area for the purpose of har-
vesting commercial timber.
(ii) LIMITATION.—Nothing in clause (i) pre-
vents the Secretary from harvesting or sell-
ing a merchantable product that is a byprod-
uct of an activity authorized under this sec-
tion.
(E) GRAZING.—The laws (including regula-
tions) and policies followed by the Secretary
in issuing and administering grazing permits
or leases on land under the jurisdiction of
the Secretary shall continue to apply with
regard to the land in the Wildlife Conserva-
tion Area, consistent with the purposes de-
scribed in subsection (b).
(d) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—The Sec-
retary may carry out any activity, in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations), that the Secretary determines to
be necessary to prevent, control, or mitigate
fire, insects, or disease in the Wildlife Con-
servation Area, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Secretary determines to be
appropriate.
(e) REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION PROJECTS.—
Nothing in this section or section 150(e) pre-
cludes the Secretary from authorizing, in ac-
cordance with applicable laws (including reg-
ulations), the use or leasing of Federal land
within the Wildlife Conservation Area for—
(1) a regional transportation project, in-
cluding—
(A) highway widening or realignment; and
(B) construction of multimodal transpor-
tation systems; or
(2) any infrastructure, activity, or safety
measure associated with the implementation
or use of a facility constructed under para-
graph (1).
(f) WATER.—Section 3(e) of the James Peak
Wilderness and Protection Area Act (Public
Law 107–216; 116 Stat. 1058) shall apply to the
Wildlife Conservation Area.
SEC. 147. CAMP HALE NATIONAL HISTORIC LAND-
SCAPE.
(a) DESIGNATION.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the approximately 28,676 acres of Fed-
eral land in the White River National Forest
in the State, as generally depicted as ‘‘Pro-
posed Camp Hale National Historic Land-
scape’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Camp Hale Na-
tional Historic Landscape Proposal’’ and
dated June 24, 2019, are designated as the
‘‘Camp Hale National Historic Landscape’’.
(b) PURPOSES.—The purposes of the His-
toric Landscape are—
(1) to provide for—
(A) the interpretation of historic events,
activities, structures, and artifacts of the
Historic Landscape, including with respect
to the role of the Historic Landscape in
local, national, and world history;
(B) the historic preservation of the His-
toric Landscape, consistent with—
(i) the designation of the Historic Land-
scape as a national historic site; and
(ii) the other purposes of the Historic
Landscape;
(C) recreational opportunities, with an em-
phasis on the activities related to the his-
toric use of the Historic Landscape, includ-
ing skiing, snowshoeing, snowmobiling, hik-
ing, horseback riding, climbing, other road-
and trail-based activities, and other outdoor
activities; and
(D) the continued environmental remedi-
ation and removal of unexploded ordnance at
the Camp Hale Formerly Used Defense Site
and the Camp Hale historic cantonment
area; and
(2) to conserve, protect, restore, and en-
hance for the benefit and enjoyment of
present and future generations the scenic,
watershed, and ecological resources of the
Historic Landscape.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Historic Landscape in accordance
with—
(A) the purposes of the Historic Landscape
described in subsection (b); and
(B) any other applicable laws (including
regulations).
(2) MANAGEMENT PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 5 years
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall prepare a management plan
for the Historic Landscape.
(B) CONTENTS.—The management plan pre-
pared under subparagraph (A) shall include
plans for—
(i) improving the interpretation of historic
events, activities, structures, and artifacts
of the Historic Landscape, including with re-
spect to the role of the Historic Landscape in
local, national, and world history;
(ii) conducting historic preservation ac-
tivities;
(iii) managing recreational opportunities,
including the use and stewardship of—
(I) the road and trail systems; and
(II) dispersed recreation resources;
(iv) the conservation, protection, restora-
tion, or enhancement of the scenic, water-
shed, and ecological resources of the Historic
Landscape, including conducting the restora-
tion and enhancement project under sub-
section (d); and
(v) environmental remediation and, con-
sistent with subsection (e)(2), the removal of
unexploded ordnance.
(3) EXPLOSIVE HAZARDS.—The Secretary
shall provide to the Secretary of the Army a
notification of any unexploded ordnance (as
defined in section 101(e) of title 10, United
States Code) that is discovered in the His-
toric Landscape.
(d) CAMP HALE RESTORATION AND ENHANCE-
MENT PROJECT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall con-
duct a restoration and enhancement project
in the Historic Landscape—
(A) to improve aquatic, riparian, and wet-
land conditions in and along the Eagle River
and tributaries of the Eagle River;
(B) to maintain or improve recreation and
interpretive opportunities and facilities; and
(C) to conserve historic values in the Camp
Hale area.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00052 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.049 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6103
October 23, 2019
(2) COORDINATION.—In carrying out the
project described in paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall coordinate with—
(A) the Corps of Engineers;
(B) the Camp Hale-Eagle River Headwaters
Collaborative Group;
(C) the National Forest Foundation;
(D) the Colorado Department of Public
Health and Environment;
(E) the Colorado State Historic Preserva-
tion Office;
(F) units of local government; and
(G) other interested organizations and
members of the public.
(e) ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army shall continue to carry out the
projects and activities of the Department of
the Army in existence on the date of enact-
ment of this Act relating to cleanup of—
(A) the Camp Hale Formerly Used Defense
Site; or
(B) the Camp Hale historic cantonment
area.
(2) REMOVAL OF UNEXPLODED ORDNANCE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary of the
Army may remove unexploded ordnance (as
defined in section 101(e) of title 10, United
States Code) from the Historic Landscape, as
the Secretary of the Army determines to be
appropriate in accordance with applicable
law (including regulations).
(B) ACTION ON RECEIPT OF NOTICE.—On re-
ceipt from the Secretary of a notification of
unexploded ordnance under subsection (c)(3),
the Secretary of the Army may remove the
unexploded ordnance in accordance with—
(i) the program for environmental restora-
tion of formerly used defense sites under sec-
tion 2701 of title 10, United States Code;
(ii) the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.); and
(iii) any other applicable provision of law
(including regulations).
(3) EFFECT OF SUBSECTION.—Nothing in this
subsection modifies any obligation in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act re-
lating to environmental remediation or re-
moval of any unexploded ordnance located in
or around the Camp Hale historic canton-
ment area, the Camp Hale Formerly Used
Defense Site, or the Historic Landscape, in-
cluding such an obligation under—
(A) the program for environmental restora-
tion of formerly used defense sites under sec-
tion 2701 of title 10, United States Code;
(B) the Comprehensive Environmental Re-
sponse, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.); or
(C) any other applicable provision of law
(including regulations).
(f) INTERAGENCY AGREEMENT.—The Sec-
retary and the Secretary of the Army shall
enter into an agreement—
(1) to specify—
(A) the activities of the Secretary relating
to the management of the Historic Land-
scape; and
(B) the activities of the Secretary of the
Army relating to environmental remediation
and the removal of unexploded ordnance in
accordance with subsection (e) and other ap-
plicable laws (including regulations); and
(2) to require the Secretary to provide to
the Secretary of the Army, by not later than
1 year after the date of enactment of this
Act and periodically thereafter, as appro-
priate, a management plan for the Historic
Landscape for purposes of the removal ac-
tivities described in subsection (e).
(g) EFFECT.—Nothing in this section—
(1) affects the jurisdiction of the State over
any water law, water right, or adjudication
or administration relating to any water re-
source;
(2) affects any water right in existence on
or after the date of enactment of this Act, or
the exercise of such a water right, includ-
ing—
(A) a water right under an interstate water
compact (including full development of any
apportionment made in accordance with
such a compact);
(B) a water right decreed within, above,
below, or through the Historic Landscape;
(C) a water right held by the United
States;
(D) the management or operation of any
reservoir, including the storage, manage-
ment, release, or transportation of water;
and
(E) the construction or operation of such
infrastructure as is determined to be nec-
essary by an individual or entity holding
water rights to develop and place to bene-
ficial use those rights, subject to applicable
Federal, State, and local law (including reg-
ulations);
(3) constitutes an express or implied res-
ervation by the United States of any re-
served or appropriative water right;
(4) alters or limits—
(A) a permit held by a ski area;
(B) the implementation of activities gov-
erned by a ski area permit; or
(C) the authority of the Secretary to mod-
ify or expand an existing ski area permit;
(5) prevents the Secretary from closing
portions of the Historic Landscape for public
safety, environmental remediation, or other
use in accordance with applicable laws; or
(6) affects—
(A) any special use permit in effect on the
date of enactment of this Act; or
(B) the renewal of a permit described in
subparagraph (A).
(h) FUNDING.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF ACCOUNT.—There is
established in the general fund of the Treas-
ury a special account, to be known as the
‘‘Camp Hale Historic Preservation and Res-
toration Fund’’.
(2) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
There is authorized to be appropriated to the
Camp Hale Historic Preservation and Res-
toration Fund $10,000,000, to be available to
the Secretary until expended, for activities
relating to historic interpretation, preserva-
tion, and restoration carried out in and
around the Historic Landscape.
SEC. 148. WHITE RIVER NATIONAL FOREST
BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The boundary of the
White River National Forest is modified to
include the approximately 120 acres com-
prised of the SW 1⁄4, the SE 1⁄4, and the NE 1⁄4
of the SE 1⁄4 of sec. 1, T. 2 S., R. 80 W., 6th
Principal Meridian, in Summit County in
the State.
(b) LAND AND WATER CONSERVATION
FUND.—For purposes of section 200306 of title
54, United States Code, the boundaries of the
White River National Forest, as modified
under subsection (a), shall be considered to
be the boundaries of the White River Na-
tional Forest as in existence on January 1,
1965.
SEC. 149. ROCKY MOUNTAIN NATIONAL PARK PO-
TENTIAL WILDERNESS BOUNDARY
ADJUSTMENT.
(a) PURPOSE.—The purpose of this section
is to provide for the ongoing maintenance
and use of portions of the Trail River Ranch
and the associated property located within
Rocky Mountain National Park in Grand
County in the State.
(b) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—Section
1952(b) of the Omnibus Public Land Manage-
ment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111–11; 123 Stat.
1070) is amended by adding at the end the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(3) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The bound-
ary of the Potential Wilderness is modified
to exclude the area comprising approxi-
mately 15.5 acres of land identified as ‘Poten-
tial Wilderness to Non-wilderness’ on the
map entitled ‘Rocky Mountain National
Park Proposed Wilderness Area Amendment’
and dated January 16, 2018.’’.
SEC. 150. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
(a) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
part affects the jurisdiction or responsibility
of the State with respect to fish and wildlife
in the State.
(b) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part or an
amendment made by this part establishes a
protective perimeter or buffer zone around—
(A) a covered area;
(B) a wilderness area or potential wilder-
ness area designated by section 143;
(C) the Recreation Management Area;
(D) a Wildlife Conservation Area; or
(E) the Historic Landscape.
(2) OUTSIDE ACTIVITIES.—The fact that a
nonwilderness activity or use on land outside
of a covered area can be seen or heard from
within the covered area shall not preclude
the activity or use outside the boundary of
the covered area.
(c) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall file maps and legal descrip-
tions of each area described in subsection
(b)(1) with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—Each map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall have
the same force and effect as if included in
this part, except that the Secretary may cor-
rect any typographical errors in the maps
and legal descriptions.
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the
Forest Service.
(d) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire any land or interest in land within the
boundaries of an area described in subsection
(b)(1) only through exchange, donation, or
purchase from a willing seller.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—Any land or interest in
land acquired under paragraph (1) shall be in-
corporated into, and administered as a part
of, the wilderness area, Recreation Manage-
ment Area, Wildlife Conservation Area, or
Historic Landscape, as applicable, in which
the land or interest in land is located.
(e) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid rights
in existence on the date of enactment of this
Act, the areas described in subsection (b)(1)
are withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, and disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under min-
ing laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(f) MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.—Nothing in
this part or an amendment made by this part
restricts or precludes—
(1) any low-level overflight of military air-
craft over any area subject to this part or an
amendment made by this part, including
military overflights that can be seen, heard,
or detected within such an area;
(2) flight testing or evaluation over an area
described in paragraph (1); or
(3) the use or establishment of—
(A) any new unit of special use airspace
over an area described in paragraph (1); or
(B) any military flight training or trans-
portation over such an area.
PART II—SAN JUAN MOUNTAINS
SEC. 151. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00053 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.049 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6104 October 23, 2019
(1) COVERED LAND.—The term ‘‘covered
land’’ means—
(A) land designated as wilderness under
paragraphs (27) through (29) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 152); and
(B) a Special Management Area.
(2) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of Agriculture.
(3) SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.—The term
‘‘Special Management Area’’ means each of—
(A) the Sheep Mountain Special Manage-
ment Area designated by section 153(a)(1);
and
(B) the Liberty Bell East Special Manage-
ment Area designated by section 153(a)(2).
SEC. 152. ADDITIONS TO NATIONAL WILDERNESS
PRESERVATION SYSTEM.
Section 2(a) of the Colorado Wilderness Act
of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–
77) (as amended by section 142(a)(2)) is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(27) LIZARD HEAD WILDERNESS ADDITION.—
Certain Federal land in the Grand Mesa,
Uncompahgre, and Gunnison National For-
ests comprising approximately 3,141 acres, as
generally depicted on the map entitled ‘Pro-
posed Wilson, Sunshine, Black Face and San
Bernardo Additions to the Lizard Head Wil-
derness’ and dated September 6, 2018, which
is incorporated in, and shall be administered
as part of, the Lizard Head Wilderness.
‘‘(28) MOUNT SNEFFELS WILDERNESS ADDI-
TIONS.—
‘‘(A) LIBERTY BELL AND LAST DOLLAR ADDI-
TIONS.—Certain Federal land in the Grand
Mesa, Uncompahgre, and Gunnison National
Forests comprising approximately 7,235
acres, as generally depicted on the map enti-
tled ‘Proposed Liberty Bell and Last Dollar
Additions to the Mt. Sneffels Wilderness,
Liberty Bell East Special Management Area’
and dated September 6, 2018, which is incor-
porated in, and shall be administered as part
of, the Mount Sneffels Wilderness.
‘‘(B) WHITEHOUSE ADDITIONS.—Certain Fed-
eral land in the Grand Mesa, Uncompahgre,
and Gunnison National Forests comprising
approximately 12,465 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Proposed White-
house Additions to the Mt. Sneffels Wilder-
ness’ and dated September 6, 2018, which is
incorporated in, and shall be administered as
part of, the Mount Sneffels Wilderness.
‘‘(29) MCKENNA PEAK WILDERNESS.—Certain
Federal land in the State of Colorado com-
prising approximately 8,884 acres of Bureau
of Land Management land, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘Proposed McKen-
na Peak Wilderness Area’ and dated Sep-
tember 18, 2018, to be known as the ‘McKenna
Peak Wilderness’.’’.
SEC. 153. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.
(a) DESIGNATION.—
(1) SHEEP MOUNTAIN SPECIAL MANAGEMENT
AREA.—The Federal land in the Grand Mesa,
Uncompahgre, and Gunnison and San Juan
National Forests in the State comprising ap-
proximately 21,663 acres, as generally de-
picted on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Sheep
Mountain Special Management Area’’ and
dated September 19, 2018, is designated as the
‘‘Sheep Mountain Special Management
Area’’.
(2) LIBERTY BELL EAST SPECIAL MANAGE-
MENT AREA.—The Federal land in the Grand
Mesa, Uncompahgre, and Gunnison National
Forests in the State comprising approxi-
mately 792 acres, as generally depicted on
the map entitled ‘‘Proposed Liberty Bell and
Last Dollar Additions to the Mt. Sneffels
Wilderness, Liberty Bell East Special Man-
agement Area’’ and dated September 6, 2018,
is designated as the ‘‘Liberty Bell East Spe-
cial Management Area’’.
(b) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the Special
Management Areas is to conserve and pro-
tect for the benefit and enjoyment of present
and future generations the geological, cul-
tural, archaeological, paleontological, nat-
ural, scientific, recreational, wilderness,
wildlife, riparian, historical, educational,
and scenic resources of the Special Manage-
ment Areas.
(c) MANAGEMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall man-
age the Special Management Areas in a man-
ner that—
(A) conserves, protects, and enhances the
resources and values of the Special Manage-
ment Areas described in subsection (b);
(B) subject to paragraph (3), maintains or
improves the wilderness character of the
Special Management Areas and the suit-
ability of the Special Management Areas for
potential inclusion in the National Wilder-
ness Preservation System; and
(C) is in accordance with—
(i) the National Forest Management Act of
1976 (16 U.S.C. 1600 et seq.);
(ii) this part; and
(iii) any other applicable laws.
(2) PROHIBITIONS.—The following shall be
prohibited in the Special Management Areas:
(A) Permanent roads.
(B) Except as necessary to meet the min-
imum requirements for the administration
of the Federal land, to provide access for
abandoned mine cleanup, and to protect pub-
lic health and safety—
(i) the use of motor vehicles, motorized
equipment, or mechanical transport (other
than as provided in paragraph (3)); and
(ii) the establishment of temporary roads.
(3) AUTHORIZED ACTIVITIES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may allow
any activities (including helicopter access
for recreation and maintenance and the com-
petitive running event permitted since 1992)
that have been authorized by permit or li-
cense as of the date of enactment of this Act
to continue within the Special Management
Areas, subject to such terms and conditions
as the Secretary may require.
(B) PERMITTING.—The designation of the
Special Management Areas by subsection (a)
shall not affect the issuance of permits relat-
ing to the activities covered under subpara-
graph (A) after the date of enactment of this
Act.
(C) BICYCLES.—The Secretary may permit
the use of bicycles in—
(i) the portion of the Sheep Mountain Spe-
cial Management Area identified as ‘‘Ophir
Valley Area’’ on the map entitled ‘‘Proposed
Sheep Mountain Special Management Area’’
and dated September 19, 2018; and
(ii) the portion of the Liberty Bell East
Special Management Area identified as ‘‘Lib-
erty Bell Corridor’’ on the map entitled
‘‘Proposed Liberty Bell and Last Dollar Ad-
ditions to the Mt. Sneffels Wilderness, Lib-
erty Bell East Special Management Area’’
and dated September 6, 2018.
(d) APPLICABLE LAW.—Water and water
rights in the Special Management Areas
shall be administered in accordance with
section 8 of the Colorado Wilderness Act of
1993 (Public Law 103–77; 107 Stat. 762), except
that, for purposes of this subtitle—
(1) any reference contained in that section
to ‘‘the lands designated as wilderness by
this Act’’, ‘‘the Piedra, Roubideau, and
Tabeguache areas identified in section 9 of
this Act, or the Bowen Gulch Protection
Area or the Fossil Ridge Recreation Manage-
ment Area identified in sections 5 and 6 of
this Act’’, or ‘‘the areas described in sections
2, 5, 6, and 9 of this Act’’ shall be considered
to be a reference to ‘‘the Special Manage-
ment Areas’’; and
(2) any reference contained in that section
to ‘‘this Act’’ shall be considered to be a ref-
erence to ‘‘the Colorado Outdoor Recreation
and Economy Act’’.
SEC. 154. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY
AREAS.
(a) DOMINGUEZ CANYON WILDERNESS STUDY
AREA.—Subtitle E of title II of Public Law
111–11 is amended—
(1) by redesignating section 2408 (16 U.S.C.
460zzz–7) as section 2409; and
(2) by inserting after section 2407 (16 U.S.C.
460zzz–6) the following:
‘‘SEC. 2408. RELEASE.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Congress finds that, for
the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)), the portions of the
Dominguez Canyon Wilderness Study Area
not designated as wilderness by this subtitle
have been adequately studied for wilderness
designation.
‘‘(b) RELEASE.—Any public land referred to
in subsection (a) that is not designated as
wilderness by this subtitle—
‘‘(1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
‘‘(2) shall be managed in accordance with
this subtitle and any other applicable laws.’’.
(b) MCKENNA PEAK WILDERNESS STUDY
AREA.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Congress finds that, for
the purposes of section 603(c) of the Federal
Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43
U.S.C. 1782(c)), the portions of the McKenna
Peak Wilderness Study Area in San Miguel
County in the State not designated as wil-
derness by paragraph (29) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 152) have been adequately studied
for wilderness designation.
(2) RELEASE.—Any public land referred to
in paragraph (1) that is not designated as
wilderness by paragraph (29) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 152)—
(A) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of
the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c)); and
(B) shall be managed in accordance with
applicable laws.
SEC. 155. ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS.
(a) FISH AND WILDLIFE.—Nothing in this
part affects the jurisdiction or responsibility
of the State with respect to fish and wildlife
in the State.
(b) NO BUFFER ZONES.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part es-
tablishes a protective perimeter or buffer
zone around covered land.
(2) ACTIVITIES OUTSIDE WILDERNESS.—The
fact that a nonwilderness activity or use on
land outside of the covered land can be seen
or heard from within covered land shall not
preclude the activity or use outside the
boundary of the covered land.
(c) MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—As soon as practicable
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary or the Secretary of the Interior, as
appropriate, shall file a map and a legal de-
scription of each wilderness area designated
by paragraphs (27) through (29) of section 2(a)
of the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 152) and the Special Management
Areas with—
(A) the Committee on Natural Resources of
the House of Representatives; and
(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural
Resources of the Senate.
(2) FORCE OF LAW.—Each map and legal de-
scription filed under paragraph (1) shall have
the same force and effect as if included in
this part, except that the Secretary or the
Secretary of the Interior, as appropriate,
may correct any typographical errors in the
maps and legal descriptions.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00054 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.049 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6105
October 23, 2019
(3) PUBLIC AVAILABILITY.—Each map and
legal description filed under paragraph (1)
shall be on file and available for public in-
spection in the appropriate offices of the Bu-
reau of Land Management and the Forest
Service.
(d) ACQUISITION OF LAND.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary or the Sec-
retary of the Interior, as appropriate, may
acquire any land or interest in land within
the boundaries of a Special Management
Area or the wilderness designated under
paragraphs (27) through (29) of section 2(a) of
the Colorado Wilderness Act of 1993 (16
U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–77) (as added
by section 152) only through exchange, dona-
tion, or purchase from a willing seller.
(2) MANAGEMENT.—Any land or interest in
land acquired under paragraph (1) shall be in-
corporated into, and administered as a part
of, the wilderness or Special Management
Area in which the land or interest in land is
located.
(e) GRAZING.—The grazing of livestock on
covered land, if established before the date of
enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to
continue subject to such reasonable regula-
tions as are considered to be necessary by
the Secretary with jurisdiction over the cov-
ered land, in accordance with—
(1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16
U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
(2) the applicable guidelines set forth in
Appendix A of the report of the Committee
on Interior and Insular Affairs of the House
of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570
of the 101st Congress (H. Rept. 101–405) or
H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress (H. Rept. 96–
617).
(f) FIRE, INSECTS, AND DISEASES.—In ac-
cordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilder-
ness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)), the Secretary
with jurisdiction over a wilderness area des-
ignated by paragraphs (27) through (29) of
section 2(a) of the Colorado Wilderness Act
of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 103–
77) (as added by section 152) may carry out
any activity in the wilderness area that the
Secretary determines to be necessary for the
control of fire, insects, and diseases, subject
to such terms and conditions as the Sec-
retary determines to be appropriate.
(g) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid rights
in existence on the date of enactment of this
Act, the covered land and the approximately
6,590 acres generally depicted on the map en-
titled ‘‘Proposed Naturita Canyon Mineral
Withdrawal Area’’ and dated September 6,
2018, is withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, and disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under min-
ing laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
PART III—THOMPSON DIVIDE
SEC. 161. PURPOSES.
The purposes of this part are—
(1) subject to valid existing rights, to with-
draw certain Federal land in the Thompson
Divide area from mineral and other disposal
laws; and
(2) to promote the capture of fugitive
methane emissions that would otherwise be
emitted into the atmosphere—
(A) to reduce methane gas emissions; and
(B) to provide—
(i) new renewable electricity supplies and
other beneficial uses of fugitive methane
emissions; and
(ii) increased royalties for taxpayers.
SEC. 162. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) FUGITIVE METHANE EMISSIONS.—The
term ‘‘fugitive methane emissions’’ means
methane gas from those Federal lands in
Garfield, Gunnison, Delta, or Pitkin County
in the State, as generally depicted on the
pilot program map as ‘‘Fugitive Coal Mine
Methane Use Pilot Program Area’’, that
would leak or be vented into the atmosphere
from an active, inactive, or abandoned un-
derground coal mine.
(2) PILOT PROGRAM.—The term ‘‘pilot pro-
gram’’ means the Greater Thompson Divide
Fugitive Coal Mine Methane Use Pilot Pro-
gram established by section 165(a)(1).
(3) PILOT PROGRAM MAP.—The term ‘‘pilot
program map’’ means the map entitled
‘‘Greater Thompson Divide Fugitive Coal
Mine Methane Use Pilot Program Area’’ and
dated June 17, 2019.
(4) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Interior.
(5) THOMPSON DIVIDE LEASE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Thompson Di-
vide lease’’ means any oil or gas lease in ef-
fect on the date of enactment of this Act
within the Thompson Divide Withdrawal and
Protection Area.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Thompson Di-
vide lease’’ does not include any oil or gas
lease that—
(i) is associated with a Wolf Creek Storage
Field development right; or
(ii) before the date of enactment of this
Act, has expired, been cancelled, or other-
wise terminated.
(6) THOMPSON DIVIDE MAP.—The term
‘‘Thompson Divide map’’ means the map en-
titled ‘‘Greater Thompson Divide Area Map’’
and dated June 13, 2019.
(7) THOMPSON DIVIDE WITHDRAWAL AND PRO-
TECTION AREA.—The term ‘‘Thompson Divide
Withdrawal and Protection Area’’ means the
Federal land and minerals generally depicted
on the Thompson Divide map as the
‘‘Thompson Divide Withdrawal and Protec-
tion Area’’.
(8) WOLF CREEK STORAGE FIELD DEVELOP-
MENT RIGHT.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘Wolf Creek
Storage Field development right’’ means a
development right for any of the Federal
mineral leases numbered COC 007496, COC
007497, COC 007498, COC 007499, COC 007500,
COC 007538, COC 008128, COC 015373, COC
0128018, COC 051645, and COC 051646, and gen-
erally depicted on the Thompson Divide map
as ‘‘Wolf Creek Storage Agreement’’.
(B) EXCLUSIONS.—The term ‘‘Wolf Creek
Storage Field development right’’ does not
include any storage right or related activity
within the area described in subparagraph
(A).
SEC. 163. THOMPSON DIVIDE WITHDRAWAL AND
PROTECTION AREA.
(a) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, the Thompson Divide Withdrawal and
Protection Area is withdrawn from—
(1) entry, appropriation, and disposal under
the public land laws;
(2) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(3) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(b) SURVEYS.—The exact acreage and legal
description of the Thompson Divide With-
drawal and Protection Area shall be deter-
mined by surveys approved by the Secretary,
in consultation with the Secretary of Agri-
culture.
SEC. 164. THOMPSON DIVIDE LEASE EXCHANGE.
(a) IN GENERAL.—In exchange for the relin-
quishment by a leaseholder of all Thompson
Divide leases of the leaseholder, the Sec-
retary may issue to the leaseholder credits
for any bid, royalty, or rental payment due
under any Federal oil or gas lease on Federal
land in the State, in accordance with sub-
section (b).
(b) AMOUNT OF CREDITS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to paragraph (2),
the amount of the credits issued to a lease-
holder of a Thompson Divide lease relin-
quished under subsection (a) shall—
(A) be equal to the sum of—
(i) the amount of the bonus bids paid for
the applicable Thompson Divide leases;
(ii) the amount of any rental paid for the
applicable Thompson Divide leases as of the
date on which the leaseholder submits to the
Secretary a notice of the decision to relin-
quish the applicable Thompson Divide leases;
and
(iii) the amount of any expenses incurred
by the leaseholder of the applicable Thomp-
son Divide leases in the preparation of any
drilling permit, sundry notice, or other re-
lated submission in support of the develop-
ment of the applicable Thompson Divide
leases as of January 28, 2019, including any
expenses relating to the preparation of any
analysis under the National Environmental
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); and
(B) require the approval of the Secretary.
(2) EXCLUSION.—The amount of a credit
issued under subsection (a) shall not include
any expenses paid by the leaseholder of a
Thompson Divide lease for legal fees or re-
lated expenses for legal work with respect to
a Thompson Divide lease.
(c) CANCELLATION.—Effective on relinquish-
ment under this section, and without any ad-
ditional action by the Secretary, a Thomp-
son Divide lease—
(1) shall be permanently cancelled; and
(2) shall not be reissued.
(d) CONDITIONS.—
(1) APPLICABLE LAW.—Except as otherwise
provided in this section, each exchange
under this section shall be conducted in ac-
cordance with—
(A) this subtitle; and
(B) other applicable laws (including regula-
tions).
(2) ACCEPTANCE OF CREDITS.—The Secretary
shall accept credits issued under subsection
(a) in the same manner as cash for the pay-
ments described in that subsection.
(3) APPLICABILITY.—The use of a credit
issued under subsection (a) shall be subject
to the laws (including regulations) applica-
ble to the payments described in that sub-
section, to the extent that the laws are con-
sistent with this section.
(4) TREATMENT OF CREDITS.—All amounts in
the form of credits issued under subsection
(a) accepted by the Secretary shall be con-
sidered to be amounts received for the pur-
poses of—
(A) section 35 of the Mineral Leasing Act
(30 U.S.C. 191); and
(B) section 20 of the Geothermal Steam Act
of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 1019).
(e) WOLF CREEK STORAGE FIELD DEVELOP-
MENT RIGHTS.—
(1) CONVEYANCE TO SECRETARY.—As a condi-
tion precedent to the relinquishment of a
Thompson Divide lease, any leaseholder with
a Wolf Creek Storage Field development
right shall permanently relinquish, transfer,
and otherwise convey to the Secretary, in a
form acceptable to the Secretary, all Wolf
Creek Storage Field development rights of
the leaseholder.
(2) LIMITATION OF TRANSFER.—An interest
acquired by the Secretary under paragraph
(1)—
(A) shall be held in perpetuity; and
(B) shall not be—
(i) transferred;
(ii) reissued; or
(iii) otherwise used for mineral extraction.
SEC. 165. GREATER THOMPSON DIVIDE FUGITIVE
COAL MINE METHANE USE PILOT
PROGRAM.
(a) FUGITIVE COAL MINE METHANE USE
PILOT PROGRAM.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT.—There is established
in the Bureau of Land Management a pilot
program, to be known as the ‘‘Greater
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00055 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.049 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6106 October 23, 2019
Thompson Divide Fugitive Coal Mine Meth-
ane Use Pilot Program’’.
(2) PURPOSE.—The purpose of the pilot pro-
gram is to promote the capture, beneficial
use, mitigation, and sequestration of fugitive
methane emissions—
(A) to reduce methane emissions;
(B) to promote economic development;
(C) to produce bid and royalty revenues;
(D) to improve air quality; and
(E) to improve public safety.
(3) PLAN.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall develop a plan—
(i) to complete an inventory of fugitive
methane emissions in accordance with sub-
section (b);
(ii) to provide for the leasing of fugitive
methane emissions in accordance with sub-
section (c); and
(iii) to provide for the capping or destruc-
tion of fugitive methane emissions in accord-
ance with subsection (d).
(B) COORDINATION.—In developing the plan
under this paragraph, the Secretary shall co-
ordinate with—
(i) the State;
(ii) Garfield, Gunnison, Delta, and Pitkin
Counties in the State;
(iii) lessees of Federal coal within the
counties referred to in clause (ii);
(iv) interested institutions of higher edu-
cation in the State; and
(v) interested members of the public.
(b) FUGITIVE METHANE EMISSION INVEN-
TORY.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, the Sec-
retary shall complete an inventory of fugi-
tive methane emissions.
(2) CONDUCT.—The Secretary may conduct
the inventory under paragraph (1) through,
or in collaboration with—
(A) the Bureau of Land Management;
(B) the United States Geological Survey;
(C) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(D) the United States Forest Service;
(E) State departments or agencies;
(F) Garfield, Gunnison, Delta, or Pitkin
County in the State;
(G) the Garfield County Federal Mineral
Lease District;
(H) institutions of higher education in the
State;
(I) lessees of Federal coal within a county
referred to in subparagraph (F);
(J) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration;
(K) the National Center for Atmospheric
Research; or
(L) other interested entities, including
members of the public.
(3) CONTENTS.—The inventory under para-
graph (1) shall include—
(A) the general location and geographic co-
ordinates of each vent, seep, or other source
producing significant fugitive methane emis-
sions;
(B) an estimate of the volume and con-
centration of fugitive methane emissions
from each source of significant fugitive
methane emissions including details of
measurements taken and the basis for that
emissions estimate;
(C) an estimate of the total volume of fugi-
tive methane emissions each year;
(D) relevant data and other information
available from—
(i) the Environmental Protection Agency;
(ii) the Mine Safety and Health Adminis-
tration;
(iii) the Colorado Department of Natural
Resources;
(iv) the Colorado Public Utility Commis-
sion;
(v) the Colorado Department of Health and
Environment; and
(vi) the Office of Surface Mining Reclama-
tion and Enforcement; and
(E) such other information as may be use-
ful in advancing the purposes of the pilot
program.
(4) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION; DISCLOSURE.—
(A) PUBLIC PARTICIPATION.—The Secretary
shall provide opportunities for public par-
ticipation in the inventory under this sub-
section.
(B) AVAILABILITY.—The Secretary shall
make the inventory under this subsection
publicly available.
(C) DISCLOSURE.—Nothing in this sub-
section requires the Secretary to publicly re-
lease information that—
(i) poses a threat to public safety;
(ii) is confidential business information; or
(iii) is otherwise protected from public dis-
closure.
(5) USE.—The Secretary shall use the in-
ventory in carrying out—
(A) the leasing program under subsection
(c); and
(B) the capping or destruction of fugitive
methane emissions under subsection (d).
(c) FUGITIVE METHANE EMISSION LEASING
PROGRAM.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights and in accordance with this section,
not later than 1 year after the date of com-
pletion of the inventory required under sub-
section (b), the Secretary shall carry out a
program to encourage the use and destruc-
tion of fugitive methane emissions.
(2) FUGITIVE METHANE EMISSIONS FROM COAL
MINES SUBJECT TO LEASE.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall au-
thorize the holder of a valid existing Federal
coal lease for a mine that is producing fugi-
tive methane emissions to capture for use, or
destroy by flaring, the fugitive methane
emissions.
(B) CONDITIONS.—The authority under sub-
paragraph (A) shall be—
(i) subject to valid existing rights; and
(ii) subject to such terms and conditions as
the Secretary may require.
(C) LIMITATIONS.—The program carried out
under paragraph (1) shall only include fugi-
tive methane emissions that can be captured
for use, or destroyed by flaring, in a manner
that does not—
(i) endanger the safety of any coal mine
worker; or
(ii) unreasonably interfere with any ongo-
ing operation at a coal mine.
(D) COOPERATION.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall work
cooperatively with the holders of valid exist-
ing Federal coal leases for mines that
produce fugitive methane emissions to en-
courage—
(I) the capture of fugitive methane emis-
sions for beneficial use, such as generating
electrical power, producing usable heat,
transporting the methane to market, or
transforming the fugitive methane emissions
into a different marketable material; or
(II) if the beneficial use of the fugitive
methane emissions is not feasible, the de-
struction of the fugitive methane emissions
by flaring.
(ii) GUIDANCE.—In furtherance of the pur-
poses of this paragraph, not later than 1 year
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary shall issue guidance for the imple-
mentation of Federal authorities and pro-
grams to encourage the capture for use, or
destruction by flaring, of fugitive methane
emissions while minimizing impacts on nat-
ural resources or other public interest val-
ues.
(E) ROYALTIES.—The Secretary shall deter-
mine whether any fugitive methane emis-
sions used or destroyed pursuant to this
paragraph are subject to the payment of a
royalty under applicable law.
(3) FUGITIVE METHANE EMISSIONS FROM
ABANDONED COAL MINES.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Except as otherwise pro-
vided in this section, notwithstanding sec-
tion 163, subject to valid existing rights, and
in accordance with section 21 of the Mineral
Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 241) and any other ap-
plicable law, the Secretary shall—
(i) authorize the capture for use, or de-
struction by flaring, of fugitive methane
emissions from abandoned coal mines on
Federal land; and
(ii) make available for leasing such fugi-
tive methane emissions from abandoned coal
mines on Federal land as the Secretary con-
siders to be in the public interest.
(B) SOURCE.—To the maximum extent prac-
ticable, the Secretary shall offer for lease
each significant vent, seep, or other source
of fugitive methane emissions from aban-
doned coal mines.
(C) BID QUALIFICATIONS.—A bid to lease fu-
gitive methane emissions under this para-
graph shall specify whether the prospective
lessee intends—
(i) to capture the fugitive methane emis-
sions for beneficial use, such as generating
electrical power, producing usable heat,
transporting the methane to market, or
transforming the fugitive methane emissions
into a different marketable material;
(ii) to destroy the fugitive methane emis-
sions by flaring; or
(iii) to employ a specific combination of—
(I) capturing the fugitive methane emis-
sions for beneficial use; and
(II) destroying the fugitive methane emis-
sion by flaring.
(D) PRIORITY.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—If there is more than 1
qualified bid for a lease under this para-
graph, the Secretary shall select the bid that
the Secretary determines is likely to most
significantly advance the public interest.
(ii) CONSIDERATIONS.—In determining the
public interest under clause (i), the Sec-
retary shall take into consideration—
(I) the size of the overall decrease in the
time-integrated radiative forcing of the fugi-
tive methane emissions;
(II) the impacts to other natural resource
values, including wildlife, water, and air; and
(III) other public interest values, including
scenic, economic, recreation, and cultural
values.
(E) LEASE FORM.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall de-
velop and provide to prospective bidders a
lease form for leases issued under this para-
graph.
(ii) DUE DILIGENCE.—The lease form devel-
oped under clause (i) shall include terms and
conditions requiring the leased fugitive
methane emissions to be put to beneficial
use or flared by not later than 1 year after
the date of issuance of the lease.
(F) ROYALTY RATE.—The Secretary shall
develop a minimum bid and royalty rate for
leases under this paragraph to advance the
purposes of this section, to the maximum ex-
tent practicable.
(d) SEQUESTRATION.—If, by not later than 4
years after the date of enactment of this
Act, any significant fugitive methane emis-
sions from abandoned coal mines on Federal
land are not leased under subsection (c)(3),
the Secretary shall, in accordance with ap-
plicable law, take all reasonable measures—
(1) to cap those fugitive methane emissions
at the source in any case in which the cap
will result in the long-term sequestration of
all or a significant portion of the fugitive
methane emissions; or
(2) if sequestration under paragraph (1) is
not feasible, destroy the fugitive methane
emissions by flaring.
(e) REPORT TO CONGRESS.—Not later than 4
years after the date of enactment of this Act
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00056 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.049 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6107
October 23, 2019
the Secretary shall submit to the Committee
on Natural Resources of the House of Rep-
resentatives and the Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources of the Senate a report
detailing—
(1) the economic and environmental im-
pacts of the pilot program, including infor-
mation on increased royalties and estimates
of avoided greenhouse gas emissions; and
(2) any recommendations by the Secretary
on whether the pilot program could be ex-
panded geographically to include other sig-
nificant sources of fugitive methane emis-
sions from coal mines.
SEC. 166. EFFECT.
Except as expressly provided in this part,
nothing in this part—
(1) expands, diminishes, or impairs any
valid existing mineral leases, mineral inter-
est, or other property rights wholly or par-
tially within the Thompson Divide With-
drawal and Protection Area, including access
to the leases, interests, rights, or land in ac-
cordance with applicable Federal, State, and
local laws (including regulations);
(2) prevents the capture of methane from
any active, inactive, or abandoned coal mine
covered by this part, in accordance with ap-
plicable laws; or
(3) prevents access to, or the development
of, any new or existing coal mine or lease in
Delta or Gunnison County in the State.
PART IV—CURECANTI NATIONAL
RECREATION AREA
SEC. 171. DEFINITIONS.
In this part:
(1) MAP.—The term ‘‘map’’ means the map
entitled ‘‘Curecanti National Recreation
Area, Proposed Boundary’’, numbered 616/
100,485C, and dated August 11, 2016.
(2) NATIONAL RECREATION AREA.—The term
‘‘National Recreation Area’’ means the
Curecanti National Recreation Area estab-
lished by section 172(a).
(3) SECRETARY.—The term ‘‘Secretary’’
means the Secretary of the Interior.
SEC. 172. CURECANTI NATIONAL RECREATION
AREA.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT.—Effective beginning
on the earlier of the date on which the Sec-
retary approves a request under subsection
(c)(2)(B)(i)(I) and the date that is 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act, there shall
be established as a unit of the National Park
System the Curecanti National Recreation
Area, in accordance with this subtitle, con-
sisting of approximately 50,667 acres of land
in the State, as generally depicted on the
map as ‘‘Curecanti National Recreation Area
Proposed Boundary’’.
(b) AVAILABILITY OF MAP.—The map shall
be on file and available for public inspection
in the appropriate offices of the National
Park Service.
(c) ADMINISTRATION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall ad-
minister the National Recreation Area in ac-
cordance with—
(A) this part; and
(B) the laws (including regulations) gen-
erally applicable to units of the National
Park System, including section 100101(a),
chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752,
100753, and 102101 of title 54, United States
Code.
(2) DAM, POWERPLANT, AND RESERVOIR MAN-
AGEMENT AND OPERATIONS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part af-
fects or interferes with the authority of the
Secretary—
(i) to operate the Uncompahgre Valley
Reclamation Project under the reclamation
laws;
(ii) to operate the Wayne N. Aspinall Unit
of the Colorado River Storage Project under
the Act of April 11, 1956 (commonly known as
the ‘‘Colorado River Storage Project Act’’)
(43 U.S.C. 620 et seq.); or
(iii) under the Federal Water Project
Recreation Act (16 U.S.C. 460l–12 et seq.).
(B) RECLAMATION LAND.—
(i) SUBMISSION OF REQUEST TO RETAIN AD-
MINISTRATIVE JURISDICTION.—If, before the
date that is 1 year after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, the Commissioner of Rec-
lamation submits to the Secretary a request
for the Commissioner of Reclamation to re-
tain administrative jurisdiction over the
minimum quantity of land within the land
identified on the map as ‘‘Lands withdrawn
or acquired for Bureau of Reclamation
projects’’ that the Commissioner of Rec-
lamation identifies as necessary for the ef-
fective operation of Bureau of Reclamation
water facilities, the Secretary may—
(I) approve, approve with modifications, or
disapprove the request; and
(II) if the request is approved under sub-
clause (I), make any modifications to the
map that are necessary to reflect that the
Commissioner of Reclamation retains man-
agement authority over the minimum quan-
tity of land required to fulfill the reclama-
tion mission.
(ii) TRANSFER OF LAND.—
(I) IN GENERAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the land identified on the map as
‘‘Lands withdrawn or acquired for Bureau of
Reclamation projects’’, as modified pursuant
to clause (i)(II), if applicable, shall be trans-
ferred from the Commissioner of Reclama-
tion to the Director of the National Park
Service by not later than the date that is 1
year after the date of enactment of this Act.
(II) ACCESS TO TRANSFERRED LAND.—
(aa) IN GENERAL.—Subject to item (bb), the
Commissioner of Reclamation shall retain
access to the land transferred to the Director
of the National Park Service under subclause
(I) for reclamation purposes, including for
the operation, maintenance, and expansion
or replacement of facilities.
(bb) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
terms of the access authorized under item
(aa) shall be determined by a memorandum
of understanding entered into between the
Commissioner of Reclamation and the Direc-
tor of the National Park Service not later
than 1 year after the date of enactment of
this Act.
(3) MANAGEMENT AGREEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may enter
into management agreements, or modify
management agreements in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, relating to the
authority of the Director of the National
Park Service, the Commissioner of Reclama-
tion, the Director of the Bureau of Land
Management, or the Chief of the Forest
Service to manage Federal land within or ad-
jacent to the boundary of the National
Recreation Area.
(B) STATE LAND.—The Secretary may enter
into cooperative management agreements
for any land administered by the State that
is within or adjacent to the National Recre-
ation Area, in accordance with the coopera-
tive management authority under section
101703 of title 54, United States Code.
(4) RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.—
(A) AUTHORIZATION.—Except as provided in
subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall allow
boating, boating-related activities, hunting,
and fishing in the National Recreation Area
in accordance with applicable Federal and
State laws.
(B) CLOSURES; DESIGNATED ZONES.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary, acting
through the Superintendent of the National
Recreation Area, may designate zones in
which, and establish periods during which,
no boating, hunting, or fishing shall be per-
mitted in the National Recreation Area
under subparagraph (A) for reasons of public
safety, administration, or compliance with
applicable laws.
(ii) CONSULTATION REQUIRED.—Except in
the case of an emergency, any closure pro-
posed by the Secretary under clause (i) shall
not take effect until after the date on which
the Superintendent of the National Recre-
ation Area consults with—
(I) the appropriate State agency respon-
sible for hunting and fishing activities; and
(II) the Board of County Commissioners in
each county in which the zone is proposed to
be designated.
(5) LANDOWNER ASSISTANCE.—On the writ-
ten request of an individual that owns pri-
vate land located not more than 3 miles from
the boundary of the National Recreation
Area, the Secretary may work in partnership
with the individual to enhance the long-term
conservation of natural, cultural, rec-
reational, and scenic resources in and around
the National Recreation Area—
(A) by acquiring all or a portion of the pri-
vate land or interests in private land located
not more than 3 miles from the boundary of
the National Recreation Area by purchase,
exchange, or donation, in accordance with
section 173;
(B) by providing technical assistance to
the individual, including cooperative assist-
ance;
(C) through available grant programs; and
(D) by supporting conservation easement
opportunities.
(6) WITHDRAWAL.—Subject to valid existing
rights, all Federal land within the National
Recreation Area is withdrawn from—
(A) entry, appropriation, and disposal
under the public land laws;
(B) location, entry, and patent under the
mining laws; and
(C) operation of the mineral leasing, min-
eral materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
(7) GRAZING.—
(A) STATE LAND SUBJECT TO A STATE GRAZ-
ING LEASE.—
(i) IN GENERAL.—If State land acquired
under this part is subject to a State grazing
lease in effect on the date of acquisition, the
Secretary shall allow the grazing to continue
for the remainder of the term of the lease,
subject to the related terms and conditions
of user agreements, including permitted
stocking rates, grazing fee levels, access
rights, and ownership and use of range im-
provements.
(ii) ACCESS.—A lessee of State land may
continue its use of established routes within
the National Recreation Area to access State
land for purposes of administering the lease
if the use was permitted before the date of
enactment of this Act, subject to such terms
and conditions as the Secretary may require.
(B) STATE AND PRIVATE LAND.—The Sec-
retary may, in accordance with applicable
laws, authorize grazing on land acquired
from the State or private landowners under
section 173, if grazing was established before
the date of acquisition.
(C) PRIVATE LAND.—On private land ac-
quired under section 173 for the National
Recreation Area on which authorized grazing
is occurring before the date of enactment of
this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with
the lessee, may allow the continuation and
renewal of grazing on the land based on the
terms of acquisition or by agreement be-
tween the Secretary and the lessee, subject
to applicable law (including regulations).
(D) FEDERAL LAND.—The Secretary shall—
(i) allow, consistent with the grazing
leases, uses, and practices in effect as of the
date of enactment of this Act, the continu-
ation and renewal of grazing on Federal land
located within the boundary of the National
Recreation Area on which grazing is allowed
before the date of enactment of this Act, un-
less the Secretary determines that grazing
on the Federal land would present unaccept-
able impacts (as defined in section 1.4.7.1 of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00057 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.049 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6108 October 23, 2019
the National Park Service document entitled
‘‘Management Policies 2006: The Guide to
Managing the National Park System’’) to
the natural, cultural, recreational, and sce-
nic resource values and the character of the
land within the National Recreation Area;
and
(ii) retain all authorities to manage graz-
ing in the National Recreation Area.
(E) TERMINATION OF LEASES.—Within the
National Recreation Area, the Secretary
may—
(i) accept the voluntary termination of a
lease or permit for grazing; or
(ii) in the case of a lease or permit vacated
for a period of 3 or more years, terminate the
lease or permit.
(8) WATER RIGHTS.—Nothing in this part—
(A) affects any use or allocation in exist-
ence on the date of enactment of this Act of
any water, water right, or interest in water;
(B) affects any vested absolute or decreed
conditional water right in existence on the
date of enactment of this Act, including any
water right held by the United States;
(C) affects any interstate water compact in
existence on the date of enactment of this
Act;
(D) authorizes or imposes any new reserved
Federal water right; or
(E) shall be considered to be a relinquish-
ment or reduction of any water right re-
served or appropriated by the United States
in the State on or before the date of enact-
ment of this Act.
(9) FISHING EASEMENTS.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Nothing in this part di-
minishes or alters the fish and wildlife pro-
gram for the Aspinall Unit developed under
section 8 of the Act of April 11, 1956 (com-
monly known as the ‘‘Colorado River Stor-
age Project Act’’) (70 Stat. 110, chapter 203;
43 U.S.C. 620g), by the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service, the Bureau of Reclamation,
and the Colorado Division of Wildlife (includ-
ing any successor in interest to that divi-
sion) that provides for the acquisition of
public access fishing easements as mitiga-
tion for the Aspinall Unit (referred to in this
paragraph as the ‘‘program’’).
(B) ACQUISITION OF FISHING EASEMENTS.—
The Secretary shall continue to fulfill the
obligation of the Secretary under the pro-
gram to acquire 26 miles of class 1 public
fishing easements to provide to sportsmen
access for fishing within the Upper Gunnison
Basin upstream of the Aspinall Unit, subject
to the condition that no existing fishing ac-
cess downstream of the Aspinall Unit shall
be counted toward the minimum mileage re-
quirement under the program.
(C) PLAN.—Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
shall—
(i) develop a plan for fulfilling the obliga-
tion of the Secretary described in subpara-
graph (B); and
(ii) submit to Congress a report that—
(I) includes the plan developed under
clause (i); and
(II) describes any progress made in the ac-
quisition of public access fishing easements
as mitigation for the Aspinall Unit under the
program.
SEC. 173. ACQUISITION OF LAND; BOUNDARY
MANAGEMENT.
(a) ACQUISITION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary may ac-
quire any land or interest in land within the
boundary of the National Recreation Area.
(2) MANNER OF ACQUISITION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Subject to subparagraph
(B), land described in paragraph (1) may be
acquired under this subsection by—
(i) donation;
(ii) purchase from willing sellers with do-
nated or appropriated funds;
(iii) transfer from another Federal agency;
or
(iv) exchange.
(B) STATE LAND.—Land or interests in land
owned by the State or a political subdivision
of the State may only be acquired by pur-
chase, donation, or exchange.
(b) TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDIC-
TION.—
(1) FOREST SERVICE LAND.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the approximately 2,560 acres of
land identified on the map as ‘‘U.S. Forest
Service proposed transfer to the National
Park Service’’ is transferred to the Sec-
retary, to be administered by the Director of
the National Park Service as part of the Na-
tional Recreation Area.
(B) BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT.—The boundary
of the Gunnison National Forest shall be ad-
justed to exclude the land transferred to the
Secretary under subparagraph (A).
(2) BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND.—
Administrative jurisdiction over the ap-
proximately 5,040 acres of land identified on
the map as ‘‘Bureau of Land Management
proposed transfer to National Park Service’’
is transferred from the Director of the Bu-
reau of Land Management to the Director of
the National Park Service, to be adminis-
tered as part of the National Recreation
Area.
(3) WITHDRAWAL.—Administrative jurisdic-
tion over the land identified on the map as
‘‘Proposed for transfer to the Bureau of Land
Management, subject to the revocation of
Bureau of Reclamation withdrawal’’ shall be
transferred to the Director of the Bureau of
Land Management on relinquishment of the
land by the Bureau of Reclamation and rev-
ocation by the Bureau of Land Management
of any withdrawal as may be necessary.
(c) POTENTIAL LAND EXCHANGE.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—The withdrawal for rec-
lamation purposes of the land identified on
the map as ‘‘Potential exchange lands’’ shall
be relinquished by the Commissioner of Rec-
lamation and revoked by the Director of the
Bureau of Land Management and the land
shall be transferred to the National Park
Service.
(2) EXCHANGE; INCLUSION IN NATIONAL
RECREATION AREA.—On transfer of the land
described in paragraph (1), the transferred
land—
(A) may be exchanged by the Secretary for
private land described in section 172(c)(5)—
(i) subject to a conservation easement re-
maining on the transferred land, to protect
the scenic resources of the transferred land;
and
(ii) in accordance with the laws (including
regulations) and policies governing National
Park Service land exchanges; and
(B) if not exchanged under subparagraph
(A), shall be added to, and managed as a part
of, the National Recreation Area.
(d) ADDITION TO NATIONAL RECREATION
AREA.—Any land within the boundary of the
National Recreation Area that is acquired by
the United States shall be added to, and
managed as a part of, the National Recre-
ation Area.
SEC. 174. GENERAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.
Not later than 3 years after the date on
which funds are made available to carry out
this part, the Director of the National Park
Service, in consultation with the Commis-
sioner of Reclamation, shall prepare a gen-
eral management plan for the National
Recreation Area in accordance with section
100502 of title 54, United States Code.
SEC. 175. BOUNDARY SURVEY.
The Secretary, acting through the Director
of the National Park Service, shall prepare a
boundary survey and legal description of the
National Recreation Area.
SA 983. Mr. GARDNER (for himself
and Mr. DAINES) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 63, line 12, strike ‘‘$335,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$338,000,000’’.
On page 65, line 5, strike ‘‘$12,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$15,000,000’’.
SA 984. Ms. HIRONO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. STUDY ON THE IMPACTS OF THE IM-
PORTATION OF ORCHIDS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to
Congress a report that describes the eco-
nomic and environmental impacts of import-
ing orchids in growing media.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include—
(1) a description of—
(A) the economic impact of importing or-
chids in growing media on a State-by-State
basis, with data collected from local growers;
and
(B) any incidents of pests detected on or-
chids imported with growing media; and
(2) an analysis from the Administrator of
the Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service with respect to the additional re-
sources that are necessary to prevent and
mitigate the introduction of pests resulting
from importing orchids in growing media.
SA 985. Mr. CARDIN (for himself and
Mr. VAN HOLLEN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 289, line 15, strike ‘‘$2,623,582,000’’
and insert ‘‘$2,632,582,000’’.
On page 289, strike lines 21 and 22 and in-
sert ‘‘$480,741,000 shall be for Geographic Pro-
grams specified in the report accompanying
this Act, except that $85,000,000 shall be for
the Chesapeake Bay Program (as defined in
section 117(a) of the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1267(a)), of which
$9,000,000 shall be for nutrient and sediment
removal grants, $9,000,000 shall be for small
watershed grants to control polluted runoff
from urban, suburban, and agricultural
lands, and $6,000,000 shall be for State-based
implementation in the most effective ba-
sins.’’.
SA 986. Mr. CARDIN (for himself, Mr.
VAN HOLLEN, and Mr. BLUMENTHAL)
submitted an amendment intended to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00058 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.049 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6109
October 23, 2019
be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. ll. FAIR TREATMENT UNDER THE ESSEN-
TIAL AIR SERVICE PROGRAM.
The Secretary of Transportation shall re-
institute Essential Air Service for fiscal year
2020 at any airport that received a subsidy
under the Essential Air Service program in
fiscal year 2019 and that has supplied data to
the Secretary that demonstrate an average
enplanements per day and a subsidy amount
per passenger for fiscal year 2019 that meet
the requirements of the Essential Air Serv-
ice program (taking into account subsection
(d) of section 426 of the FAA Modernization
and Reform Act of 2012, as added by section
458 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018
(49. U.S.C. 41731 note)).
SA 987. Mr. MERKLEY (for himself,
Mr. BENNET, and Mr. WYDEN) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 263, line 9, strike ‘‘$136,244,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$96,244,000’’.
On page 310, line 25, strike ‘‘$40,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$80,000,000’’.
SA 988. Ms. ERNST submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division A, in-
sert the following:
SEC. lll. (a) In this section—
(1) the term ‘‘Federal employee’’ has the
meaning given the term ‘‘employee’’ in sec-
tion 2105 of title 5, United States Code, with-
out regard to whether the employee is ex-
empted from the application of some or all of
such title 5;
(2) the term ‘‘sexual assault offense’’
means a criminal offense under Federal law
or the law of a State that includes as an ele-
ment of the offense that the defendant en-
gaged in a nonconsensual sexual act upon an-
other person; and
(3) the term ‘‘sustained complaint involv-
ing sexual assault’’ means an administrative
or judicial determination that an employer
engaged in an unlawful employment practice
under title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964
(42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq.) that included, as part
of the course of conduct constituting the un-
lawful employment practice, that an em-
ployee of the employer engaged in a non-
consensual sexual act upon another person.
(b) None of the funds made available by
this Act may be used to pay the basic pay, or
to increase the basic pay, of a Federal em-
ployee who—
(1) has been convicted of a sexual assault
offense; or
(2) is the individual who engaged in a non-
consensual sexual act upon another person
that was part of the course of conduct con-
stituting the applicable unlawful employ-
ment practice in a sustained complaint in-
volving sexual assault that has become final.
SA 989. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 28, line 12, strike ‘‘$15,000,000 shall
be available’’ and insert ‘‘$25,000,000 shall be
transferred from the Asset Forfeiture Fund’’.
SA 990. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Beginning on page 58, strike line 25 and all
that follows through page 59, line 1, and in-
sert the following:
Act;
(18) $10,000,000 for a competitive grant pilot
program for qualified nonprofit organiza-
tions to provide legal representation to im-
migrants arriving at the southwest border
seeking asylum and other forms of legal pro-
tection in the United States; and
(19) $67,000,000 for grants to be adminis-
tered
SA 991. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill H.R. 3055, making ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REPORT CONCERNING THE EFFECTS
OF STATE LEGALIZED MARIJUANA
PROGRAMS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—The Attorney General
shall—
(1) to complete a study, not later than 18
months after the date of enactment of this
Act, on the effects of State legalized mari-
juana programs on criminal justice in the re-
spective States; and
(2) upon the completion of the initial study
pursuant to paragraph (1), to prepare or up-
date a report on the results of such study
and submit such report to the Congress.
(b) STUDY CONSIDERATIONS.—The study pur-
suant to subsection (a)(1) shall consider the
effects of State legalized marijuana pro-
grams with respect to criminal justice, in-
cluding the following:
(1) The rates of marijuana-related arrests
for possession, cultivation, and distribution,
and of these arrests, the percentages that in-
volved a secondary charge unrelated to mari-
juana possession, cultivation, or distribu-
tion, including—
(A) the rates of such arrests at the Federal
level, including the number of Federal pris-
oners so arrested, disaggregated by sex, age,
race, and ethnicity of the prisoners; and
(B) the rates of such arrests at the State
level, including the number of State pris-
oners so arrested, disaggregated by sex, age,
race, and ethnicity.
(2) The rates of arrests and citations at the
Federal and State levels related to teenage
use of marijuana.
(3) The rates of arrests at the Federal and
State levels for unlawful driving under the
influence of a substance, and the rates of
such arrests involving marijuana.
(4) The rates of marijuana-related prosecu-
tions, court filings, and imprisonments.
(5) The total monetary amounts expended
for marijuana-related enforcement, arrests,
court filings and proceedings, and imprison-
ment before and after legalization, including
Federal expenditures disaggregated accord-
ing to whether the laws being enforced were
Federal or State laws.
(6) The total number and rate of defend-
ants in Federal criminal prosecutions assert-
ing as a defense that their conduct was in
compliance with applicable State law legal-
izing marijuana usage, and the effects of
such assertions.
(c) REPORT CONTENTS.—The report pursu-
ant to subsection (a)(2) shall—
(1) address both State programs that have
legalized marijuana for medicinal use and
those that have legalized marijuana for adult
non-medicinal use and to the extent prac-
ticable distinguish between such programs
and their effects;
(2) include a national assessment of aver-
age trends across States with such programs
in relation to the effects on economy, public
health, criminal justice, and employment in
the respective States, including with respect
to the items listed in subsection (b); and
(3) describe—
(A) any barriers that impeded the ability
to complete or update aspects of the study
required by subsection (a)(1) and how such
barriers can be overcome for purposes of fu-
ture studies; and
(B) any gaps in the data sought for the
study required by subsection (a)(1) and how
these gaps can be eliminated or otherwise
addressed for purposes of future studies.
(d) BEST PRACTICES FOR DATA COLLECTION
BY STATES.—Best practices developed pursu-
ant to this section shall consist of best prac-
tices for the collection by States of the in-
formation described in the items listed in
subsection (b), including best practices for
improving—
(1) data collection;
(2) analytical capacity;
(3) research integrity; and
(4) the comparability of data across States.
SA 992. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
by him to the bill H.R. 3055, making ap-
propriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. The chief immigration judge
may not impose production quotas or case
completion deadlines in evaluating the per-
formance of immigration judges.
SA 993. Mr. MENENDEZ submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00059 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.039 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6110 October 23, 2019
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. lll. (a) The matter under the head-
ing ‘‘Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms
and Explosives—Salaries and Expenses’’ in
title I of division B of the Consolidated and
Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012
(18 U.S.C. 923 note; Public Law 112–55; 125
Stat. 609–610) is amended by striking the 6th
proviso.
(b) The 6th proviso under the heading ‘‘Bu-
reau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Ex-
plosives—Salaries and Expenses’’ in title II
of division B of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2010 (18 U.S.C. 923 note; Public
Law 111–117; 123 Stat. 3128–3129) is amended
by striking ‘‘beginning in fiscal year 2010 and
thereafter’’ and inserting ‘‘in fiscal year
2010’’.
(c) The 6th proviso under the heading ‘‘Bu-
reau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Ex-
plosives—Salaries and Expenses’’ in title II
of division B of the Omnibus Appropriations
Act, 2009 (18 U.S.C. 923 note; Public Law 111–
8; 123 Stat. 574–576) is amended by striking
‘‘beginning in fiscal year 2009 and there-
after’’ and inserting ‘‘in fiscal year 2009’’.
(d) The 6th proviso under the heading ‘‘Bu-
reau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Ex-
plosives—Salaries and Expenses’’ in title II
of division B of the Consolidated Appropria-
tions Act, 2008 (18 U.S.C. 923 note; Public
Law 110–161; 121 Stat. 1903–1904) is amended
by striking ‘‘beginning in fiscal year 2008 and
thereafter’’ and inserting ‘‘in fiscal year
2008’’.
(e) The 6th proviso under the heading ‘‘Bu-
reau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Ex-
plosives—Salaries and Expenses’’ in title I of
the Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and
Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006
(18 U.S.C. 923 note; Public Law 109–108; 119
Stat. 2295–2296) is amended by striking ‘‘with
respect to any fiscal year’’.
(f) The 6th proviso under the heading in
title I of division B of the Consolidated Ap-
propriations Act, 2005 (18 U.S.C. 923 note;
Public Law 108–447; 118 Stat. 2859–2860) is
amended by striking ‘‘with respect to any
fiscal year’’.
(g) The matter under the heading ‘‘Bureau
of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explo-
sives—Salaries and Expenses’’ in title I of di-
vision B of the Consolidated and Further
Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012 (18
U.S.C. 923 note; Public Law 112–55; 125 Stat.
609–610) is amended by striking the 7th pro-
viso.
(h) Section 511 of the Consolidated and
Further Continuing Appropriations Act, 2012
(18 U.S.C. 922 note; Public Law 112–55; 125
Stat. 632) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘for—’’ and all that follows
through ‘‘(1)’’; and
(2) by striking the semicolon and all that
follows and inserting a period.
SA 994. Mr. MERKLEY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. There is appropriated $2,000,000
to the Director of the United States Geologi-
cal Survey to coordinate with the Director of
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service
and other Federal, State, Tribal, and local
agencies, research universities, nonprofit or-
ganizations, and other partners to determine
the science needs and develop an action plan
for a multiyear integrated program to as-
sess, monitor, and conserve saline lake eco-
systems in Great Basin States and the wild-
life that depend on those ecosystems, and to
begin implementation of that program.
SA 995. Mr. BOOKER submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act with respect to
any fiscal year may be used to include any
information regarding United States citizen-
ship in a tabulation of population reported
or transmitted by the Secretary of Com-
merce under the last sentence of section
141(c) of title 13, United States Code.
SA 996. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. MERKLEY, Mr. RISCH, and
Mr. MANCHIN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 113 of division C and insert
the following:
PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES, SECURE RURAL
SCHOOLS
SEC. 113. (a) Section 6906 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended, in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘fiscal year
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘fiscal year 2020’’.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
law, for fiscal year 2019—
(1) each eligible State, eligible county, and
other eligible unit of local government shall
be entitled to payment under the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-Deter-
mination Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.),
subject to paragraph (3);
(2) $282,000,000 shall be made available to
the Secretary of Agriculture and the Sec-
retary of the Interior for obligation and ex-
penditure in accordance with that Act, sub-
ject to paragraph (3); and
(3) for purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2),
the full funding amount for fiscal year 2019
shall be the full funding amount for fiscal
year 2017.
SA 997. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. MERKLEY, Ms. COLLINS, Mr.
CRAPO, and Mr. KING) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 365, between lines 18 and 19, insert
the following:
DEFINITION OF RENEWABLE BIOMASS UNDER
RENEWABLE FUEL PROGRAM
SEC. ll. Section 211(o)(1)(I) of the Clean
Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7545(o)(1)(I)) is amended—
(1) by redesignating clauses (iii) through
(vii) as clauses (v) through (ix), respectively;
and
(2) by striking clause (ii) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(ii) Trees and tree residue from non-Fed-
eral land, including land belonging to an In-
dian tribe or an Indian individual that is
held in trust by the United States or subject
to a restriction against alienation imposed
by the United States.
‘‘(iii) Any secondary, residual materials
generated from forest products manufac-
turing, including, but not limited to, saw-
dust, wood chips, shavings, bark, sanderdust,
and trimmings, regardless of whether the
source of primary materials is derived from
Federal or non-Federal land.
‘‘(iv) Biomass materials obtained from
Federal land that—
‘‘(I) are not harvested from old growth
stands, unless the old growth stand is part of
a science-based ecological restoration
project authorized by the Secretary of Agri-
culture or the Secretary of the Interior, as
applicable, that meets applicable protection
and old growth enhancement objectives, as
determined by the applicable Secretary;
‘‘(II) are slash, precommercial thinnings,
or derived from ecological restoration activi-
ties;
‘‘(III) are harvested in a manner consistent
with applicable Federal laws (including regu-
lations) and land management plans; and
‘‘(IV) are derived within—
‘‘(aa) the wildland-urban interface (as de-
fined in section 101 of the Healthy Forests
Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C. 6511)) from
acreage included within a community wild-
fire protection plan (as so defined);
‘‘(bb) a priority area on Federal land, as
identified by the Secretary of Agriculture or
the Secretary of the Interior, as applicable,
in need of—
‘‘(AA) ecological restoration;
‘‘(BB) an authorized hazardous fuels reduc-
tion project under section 102 of the Healthy
Forests Restoration Act of 2003 (16 U.S.C.
6512); or
‘‘(CC) a project carried out under section
602(d) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 6591a(d)); or
‘‘(cc) an area identified as a priority area
for wildfire threat in a State-wide assess-
ment and State-wide strategy developed in
accordance with section 2A of the Coopera-
tive Forestry Assistance Act of 1978 (16
U.S.C. 2101a).’’.
SA 998. Mr. WYDEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion E, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act may be used by the Sec-
retary of Housing and Urban Development to
finalize, implement, administer, or enforce
the proposed rule entitled ‘‘HUD’s Implemen-
tation of the Fair Housing Act’s Disparate
Impact Standard’’ (84 Fed. Reg. 42854 (August
19, 2019)).
SA 999. Mr. WYDEN (for himself, Mr.
RISCH, Mr. CRAPO, and Mr. MERKLEY)
submitted an amendment intended to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00060 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.040 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6111
October 23, 2019
be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
SEC. 1ll. EXTENSION OF SECURE RURAL
SCHOOLS AND COMMUNITY SELF-
DETERMINATION ACT OF 2000.
(a) DEFINITION OF FULL FUNDING AMOUNT.—
Section 3(11) of the Secure Rural Schools and
Community Self-Determination Act of 2000
(16 U.S.C. 7102(11)) is amended by striking
subparagraphs (D) and (E) and inserting the
following:
‘‘(D) for fiscal year 2017, the amount that is
equal to 95 percent of the full funding
amount for fiscal year 2015;
‘‘(E) for fiscal year 2018, the amount that is
equal to 95 percent of the full funding
amount for fiscal year 2017; and
‘‘(F) for fiscal year 2019 and each fiscal
year thereafter, the amount that is equal to
the full funding amount for fiscal year
2017.’’.
(b) SECURE PAYMENTS FOR STATES AND
COUNTIES CONTAINING FEDERAL LAND.—
(1) SECURE PAYMENTS.—Section 101 of the
Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-
Determination Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 7111) is
amended, in subsections (a) and (b), by strik-
ing ‘‘and 2018’’ each place it appears and in-
serting ‘‘2018, 2019, and 2020’’.
(2) PAYMENTS TO STATES AND COUNTIES.—
(A) ELECTION TO RECEIVE PAYMENT
AMOUNT.—Section 102(b) of the Secure Rural
Schools and Community Self-Determination
Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 7112(b)) is amended—
(i) in paragraph (1)(D)—
(I) in the subparagraph heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘FOR FISCAL YEARS 2017 AND 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘FOR EACH OF FISCAL YEARS 2017
THROUGH 2020’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘for fiscal years 2017 or
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘for each of fiscal years
2017 through 2020’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (2), in subparagraphs (A)
and (B), by striking ‘‘for fiscal years 2017 and
2018’’ each place it appears and inserting ‘‘for
each of fiscal years 2017 through 2020’’.
(B) EXPENDITURE RULES FOR ELIGIBLE COUN-
TIES.—Section 102(d) of the Secure Rural
Schools and Community Self-Determination
Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 7112(d)) is amended—
(i) in paragraph (1)(F)—
(I) in the subparagraph heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘FOR FISCAL YEARS 2017 AND 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘FOR EACH OF FISCAL YEARS 2017
THROUGH 2020’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘for fiscal years 2017 and
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘for each of fiscal years
2017 through 2020’’; and
(ii) in paragraph (3)(D)—
(I) in the subparagraph heading, by strik-
ing ‘‘FOR FISCAL YEARS 2017 AND 2018’’ and in-
serting ‘‘FOR EACH OF FISCAL YEARS 2017
THROUGH 2020’’; and
(II) by striking ‘‘for fiscal years 2017 and
2018’’ and inserting ‘‘for each of fiscal years
2017 through 2020’’.
(C) DISTRIBUTION OF PAYMENTS TO ELIGIBLE
COUNTIES.—Section 103(d)(2) of the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-Deter-
mination Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 7113(d)(2)) is
amended by striking ‘‘through and for fiscal
years 2017 and 2018’’ and inserting ‘‘through
2015 and for each of fiscal years 2017 through
2020’’.
(c) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT
SPECIAL PROJECTS ON FEDERAL LAND.—Sec-
tion 208 of the Secure Rural Schools and
Community Self-Determination Act of 2000
(16 U.S.C. 7128) is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘2022’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘2021’’ and
inserting ‘‘2023’’.
(d) EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO EXPEND
COUNTY FUNDS.—Section 304 of the Secure
Rural Schools and Community Self-Deter-
mination Act of 2000 (16 U.S.C. 7144) is
amended—
(1) in subsection (a), by striking ‘‘2020’’ and
inserting ‘‘2022’’; and
(2) in subsection (b), by striking ‘‘2021’’ and
inserting ‘‘2023’’.
SA 1000. Mr. WYDEN (for himself,
Mr. RISCH, Mr. CRAPO, and Mr.
MERKLEY) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
Strike section 113 of division C and insert
the following:
PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES (PILT)
SEC. 113. Section 6906 of title 31, United
States Code, is amended, in the matter pre-
ceding paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘fiscal year
2019’’ and inserting ‘‘each of fiscal years 2019
through 2029’’.
SA 1001. Mr. WYDEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion E, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. (a) In the case of a contract for
project-based assistance that terminates, if
the Secretary does not transfer the assist-
ance under section 210, the Secretary shall
transfer the assistance to 1 or more other
multifamily housing projects in accordance
with the conditions under section 210(c), ef-
fective—
(1) as of the date of termination of the con-
tract; or
(2) if the Secretary is unable to comply
with those conditions by the date on which
the contract terminates, as soon as prac-
ticable after that date.
(b) The Secretary shall maintain a publicly
available list of multifamily housing
projects that are eligible for project-based
assistance for purposes of transfers under
subsection (a).
(c) In this section, the terms ‘‘multifamily
housing project’’ and ‘‘project-based assist-
ance’’ have the meanings given those terms
in section 210(d).
SA 1002. Ms. COLLINS (for herself
and Mr. REED) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 489, line 17, strike ‘‘$2,761,00,000’’
and insert ‘‘$2,761,000,000’’.
SA 1003. Ms. CANTWELL submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS RELATING TO
ROADLESS MANAGEMENT IN THE TONGASS NA-
TIONAL FOREST
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to finalize the draft
environmental impact statement described
in the notice of the Forest Service entitled
‘‘Special Areas; Roadless Area Conservation;
National Forest System Lands in Alaska’’
(84 Fed. Reg. 55522 (October 17, 2019)).
SA 1004. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title V of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this division may be used by the Depart-
ment of Justice to argue, in the conduct of
any litigation to which the United States, or
an agency or officer thereof is a party, that
any provision of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111–148; 124
Stat. 119) or of the Health Care and Edu-
cation Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public
Law 111–152; 124 Stat. 1029), including any
amendment made by such Acts, is unconsti-
tutional or is invalid or unenforceable on
any ground, including that certain provi-
sions of the Patient Protection and Afford-
able Care Act are not severable from section
5000A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
added by section 1501 of the Patient Protec-
tion and Affordable Care Act (Public Law
111–148; 124 Stat. 242).
SA 1005. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. ll. SENSE OF CONGRESS.
It is the sense of Congress that the Admin-
istrator of the Federal Aviation Administra-
tion, as part of ongoing efforts to review reg-
ulations regarding the emergency medical
equipment carried by passenger airlines,
should continue to prioritize the demands of
our nation’s growing opioid epidemic and
take timely action to issue additional guid-
ance to air carriers to ensure the expeditious
inclusion of opioid antagonists in emergency
medical kits.
SA 1006. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00061 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.043 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6112 October 23, 2019
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. It is the sense of Congress
that—
(1) more than 17,000,000 people live in man-
ufactured homes and benefit from high-qual-
ity affordable homes which provide stability;
(2) owners of manufactured homes have
disproportionately low-income households,
and in 2013, the median annual household in-
come for living in manufactured housing was
$28,400;
(3) approximately 75 percent of manufac-
tured home households earn less than $50,000
per year;
(4) more than 10 percent of veterans in the
United States live in manufactured homes;
(5) in late 1990, manufactured housing rep-
resented 2⁄3 of the new affordable housing
produced in the United States and remains a
significant source of unsubsidized affordable
housing in the United States;
(6) in 2015, the average cost per square foot
for a new manufactured home was 48 dollars,
less than half of the cost per square foot for
a new-site built, structure-only home, which
was $101;
(7) in 2009, 43 percent of all new homes that
sold for less than $150,000 were manufactured
homes;
(8) manufactured homes account for 23 per-
cent of new home sales under $200,000;
(9) more than 50,000 manufactured home
communities, also referred to as ‘‘mobile
home parks’’, exist throughout the United
States;
(10) more than 2,900,000 manufactured
homes are placed in manufactured home
communities;
(11) manufactured home communities pro-
vide critical affordable housing, but receive
very little Federal, State, or local funds to
subsidize the cost of manufactured homes;
(12) manufactured home owners in such
communities may own the home, but they do
not own the land under the home, which
leaves the home owners vulnerable to rent
increases, arbitrary rule enforcement, and in
the case of a manufactured home community
owner converting the land to some other use,
community closure;
(13) an eviction or closure of a manufac-
tured home community is very disruptive to
a resident who may be unable to pay the
thousands of dollars it takes to move the
manufactured home or find a new location
for the manufactured home;
(14) in an effort to preserve a crucial source
of affordable housing within the past two
decades, a national network of housing pro-
viders has helped residents purchase and own
the land under the manufactured home com-
munity, and manage the manufactured home
community;
(15) nationwide, there are more than 1,000
stable, permanent ownership cooperatives or
nonprofit-owned developments in more than
a dozen States;
(16) members of manufactured home com-
munities continue to own such homes indi-
vidually, own an equal share of the land be-
neath the entire manufactured home com-
munity, participate in the governing of the
community, and elect a board of directors
who make major decisions within the manu-
factured home community by a democratic
vote;
(17) in New Hampshire, more than 30 per-
cent of manufactured home communities are
owned by residents;
(18) resident-owned cooperatives and non-
profit owned communities have also flour-
ished in Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Is-
land, Washington, Oregon, and Minnesota;
(19) nationwide, only 2 percent of all manu-
factured home communities are resident or
nonprofit-owned;
(20) manufactured home community own-
ers often prefer to devise such property tax
free, rather than selling the community, in
order to avoid capital gain taxes;
(21) when the owner of a manufactured
home community dies, the heirs of the owner
frequently sell the community to the highest
bidder which results in displacement for doz-
ens and sometimes hundreds of families; and
(22) in order to preserve manufactured
home communities in the future, a Federal
tax benefit should be established to induce
manufactured home community owners to
sell such properties to residents that the
owners have known for decades, or to non-
profit organizations.
SA 1007. Ms. ROSEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. (a) An additional $1,000,000 shall
be available for rental assistance and associ-
ated administrative fees for Tribal HUD–
VASH under the heading ‘‘TENANT-BASED
RENTAL ASSISTANCE’’ under the heading
‘‘PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING’’ under this
title, and the funds available under this title
for the Office of Administration under the
heading ‘‘ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICES’’
under the heading ‘‘MANAGEMENT AND ADMIN-
ISTRATION’’ shall be decreased by $1,000,000.
SA 1008. Ms. ROSEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 85, line 22, insert ‘‘: Provided, That
of such amount, not to exceed $95,000,000
shall remain available until expended for
Discovery Research PreK-12’’ after ‘‘2021’’.
SA 1009. Ms. ROSEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 84, line 20, strike ‘‘$6,769,670,000’’
and insert ‘‘$6,770,670,000’’.
On page 86, line 8, strike ‘‘$336,900,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$335,900,000’’.
SA 1010. Mr. KAINE (for himself, Mr.
CRAPO, Mr. RISCH, and Mr. WARNER)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 383, line 10, insert the following
after ‘‘Budget’’ : ‘‘Provided further, That of
the amounts made available for Enterprise,
Concept Development, Human Factors, and
Demonstration, not less than $9,500,000 shall
be available for the remote tower pilot pro-
gram as authorized by section 161 of the FAA
Reauthorization Act of 2018 (49 U.S.C. 47104
note)’’.
SA 1011. Mr. JONES submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 120, line 17, strike ‘‘$46,782,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$41,782,000’’.
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. 7ll. There is appropriated $5,000,000
to carry out section 310I of the Consolidated
Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C.
1936c).
SA 1012. Mr. KAINE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 238, line 5, strike the period and
insert ‘‘: Provided further, That, notwith-
standing section 9 of the 400 Years of Afri-
can-American History Commission Act (36
U.S.C. note prec. 101; Public Law 115–102), of
the amounts made available under this head-
ing, $500,000 shall be made available to carry
out that Act.’’.
On page 288, between lines 9 and 10, insert
the following:
400 YEARS OF AFRICAN-AMERICAN HISTORY
COMMISSION
SEC. 117. (a) Section 7(b) of the 400 Years of
African-American History Commission Act
(36 U.S.C. note prec. 101; Public Law 115–102)
is amended, in the matter preceding para-
graph (1), by striking ‘‘July 1, 2020’’ and in-
serting ‘‘July 1, 2021’’.
(b) Section 8(a) of the 400 Years of African-
American History Commission Act (36 U.S.C.
note prec. 101; Public Law 115–102) is amend-
ed by striking ‘‘July 1, 2020’’ and inserting
‘‘July 1, 2021’’.
SA 1013. Mr. PETERS (for himself,
Mr. PORTMAN, and Mr. DURBIN) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00062 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.041 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6113
October 23, 2019
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
GREAT LAKES RESTORATION INITIATIVE
SEC. 4ll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this division, the amount made
available for Geographic Programs under the
heading ‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND
MANAGEMENT’’ under the heading ‘‘ENVI-
RONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’
under title II shall be increased by $19,000,000
to provide additional funding for the Great
Lakes Restoration Initiative under section
118(c)(7) of the Federal Water Pollution Con-
trol Act (33 U.S.C. 1268(c)(7)).
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, the amount authorized to be
transferred under the fourth paragraph
under the heading ‘‘ADMINISTRATIVE PROVI-
SIONS—ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
(INCLUDING TRANSFERS)’’ under the heading
‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGEN-
CY’’ under title II shall be increased by
$19,000,000.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this division, funds made available for Oper-
ations and Administration under the heading
‘‘ENVIRONMENTAL PROGRAMS AND MANAGE-
MENT’’ under the heading ‘‘ENVIRON-
MENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY’’ under
title II in the report accompanying this Act
shall be reduced by $19,000,000.
SA 1014. Mr. CASSIDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 19, after line 25, insert the fol-
lowing:
FISHERY DISASTER ASSISTANCE
For an additional amount for ‘‘Fishery
Disaster Assistance’’ for necessary expenses
associated with the mitigation of fishery dis-
asters, $100,000,000, to remain available until
expended: Provided, That such funds shall be
used for mitigating the effects of commercial
fishery failures and fishery resource disas-
ters declared by the Secretary of Commerce:
Provided further, That such amount is des-
ignated by Congress as being for an emer-
gency requirement pursuant to section
251(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Balanced Budget and
Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.
SA 1015. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 84, between lines 18 and 19, insert
the following:
SEC. 192. (a) None of the funds appropriated
or otherwise made available by this Act may
be used—
(1) to terminate a grant or cooperative
agreement with the California High-Speed
Rail Authority;
(2) to deobligate funding associated with a
grant or cooperative agreement with the
California High-Speed Rail Authority; or
(3) to require the State of California or the
California High-Speed Rail Authority to
repay funding previously obligated and ex-
pended.
(b) Subsection (a) shall apply to Coopera-
tive Agreement FR-HSR-0009-10-01-06 and
any other grant or cooperative agreement
with the California High-Speed Rail Author-
ity in effect on or after the date of the enact-
ment of this Act.
(c) Notwithstanding the Department of
Transportation Appropriations Act, 2010
(Public Law 111–117), deobligated funds asso-
ciated with Cooperative Agreement FR-HSR-
0118-12-01-01 may not be made available for
any purpose until the final determination of
any litigation concerning such funds.
(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2),
upon the final determination of any litiga-
tion referred to in subsection (c), deobligated
funds referred to in subsection (c) shall be
made available only for high-speed rail
projects under section 26106 of title 49,
United States Code, in accordance with such
section.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary of Transportation shall—
(A) issue a notice of funding opportunity
for grants for projects referred to in para-
graph (1) not later than 30 days after the
final determination of litigation referred to
in subsection (c);
(B) ensure that such notice of funding op-
portunity requires applications to be sub-
mitted not later than 30 days after the
issuance of such notice;
(C) require such applications to include
completed documentation with respect to
any required environmental impact state-
ments; and
(D) award grants not later than 60 days
after the issuance of notice under subpara-
graph (A).
SA 1016. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
OIL AND GAS DRILLING OFF WEST COAST OF
UNITED STATES
SEC. 1ll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this or any other Act may be used by
the Secretary of the Interior to issue leases
for the exploration, development, or produc-
tion of oil or natural gas in any area of the
outer Continental Shelf off the coast of the
States of California, Oregon, and Wash-
ington.
SA 1017. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
In title V of division A, strike sections 526
through 527.
SA 1018. Mr. DAINES submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title I of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
ADJUSTMENT FOR LOW-POPULATION UNITS OF
GENERAL LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNDER THE
PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES PROGRAM
SEC. 1llll. Section 6903(c) of title 31,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘4,999’’ and
inserting ‘‘999’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in the matter preceding the table, by
striking ‘‘5,000’’ and inserting ‘‘1,000’’; and
(B) by striking the table and inserting the
following:
‘‘If population equals— ... the limitation is equal to
the population times—
1,000 ................................ $254.40
2,000 ................................ $230.66
3,000 ................................ $212.00
4,000 ................................ $198.43
5,000 ................................ $186.56
6,000 ................................ $174.71
7,000 ................................ $164.50
8,000 ................................ $152.67
9,000 ................................ $142.45
10,000 ............................... $130.55
11,000 ............................... $127.22
12,000 ............................... $123.83
13,000 ............................... $118.73
14,000 ............................... $115.34
15,000 ............................... $111.92
16,000 ............................... $110.24
17,000 ............................... $108.51
18,000 ............................... $106.85
19,000 ............................... $105.16
20,000 ............................... $103.51
21,000 ............................... $101.76
22,000 ............................... $100.07
23,000 ............................... $100.07
24,000 ............................... $98.37
25,000 ............................... $96.69
26,000 ............................... $94.98
27,000 ............................... $94.98
28,000 ............................... $94.98
29,000 ............................... $93.31
30,000 ............................... $93.31
31,000 ............................... $91.59
32,000 ............................... $91.59
33,000 ............................... $89.88
34,000 ............................... $89.88
35,000 ............................... $88.17
36,000 ............................... $88.17
37,000 ............................... $86.48
38,000 ............................... $86.48
39,000 ............................... $84.82
40,000 ............................... $84.82
41,000 ............................... $83.09
42,000 ............................... $81.42
43,000 ............................... $81.42
44,000 ............................... $79.69
45,000 ............................... $79.69
46,000 ............................... $78.03
47,000 ............................... $78.03
48,000 ............................... $76.33
49,000 ............................... $76.33
50,000 ............................... $74.63.’’.
SA 1019. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. REDUCTION IN AMOUNT OF APPRO-
PRIATIONS.
Each amount made available under divi-
sion A, B, C, or D of this Act (in this section
referred to as a ‘‘fiscal year 2020 amount’’)
shall be reduced by the amount necessary for
the fiscal year 2020 amount to be equal to the
amount that is 2 percent less than the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00063 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.044 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6114 October 23, 2019
amount made available for fiscal year 2019
for the purposes for which the fiscal year
2020 amount is being made available.
SA 1020. Ms. MURKOWSKI submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) The Secretary of Agriculture
shall revise any regulation of the Secretary
of Agriculture relating to the definition of
the term ‘‘fish’’ to ensure that the definition
includes any aquatic gilled animal, and any
mollusk, crustacean, or other invertebrate,
that exists in the wild or is produced under
controlled conditions in ponds, lakes,
streams, or similar holding areas.
(b) Section 343(a) of the Consolidated Farm
and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1991(a))
is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1), by striking ‘‘in, fish
farming’’ and inserting the following: ‘‘in—
‘‘(A) fish farming; and
‘‘(B) in the case of assistance under sub-
title B, commercial fishing’’; and
(2) in paragraph (2), by striking ‘‘shall’’
and all that follows through the period at
the end and inserting the following: ‘‘in-
cludes—
‘‘(A) fish farming; and
‘‘(B) in the case of assistance under sub-
title B, commercial fishing.’’.
SA 1021. Mr. SCOTT of South Caro-
lina (for himself, Mr. MENENDEZ, Mr.
CRAMER, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO, Mr. VAN
HOLLEN, Mr. PERDUE, and Mr. JONES)
submitted an amendment intended to
be proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. (a) The United States Housing
Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq.) is amend-
ed—
(1) in section 3(a) (42 U.S.C. 1437a(a)), by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘(8) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each pub-
lic housing agency shall ensure that carbon
monoxide alarms or detectors are installed
in each dwelling unit in public housing
owned or operated by the public housing
agency in a manner that meets or exceeds—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, including any relevant
updates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’; and
(2) in section 8 (42 U.S.C. 1437f)—
(A) by inserting after subsection (i) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(j) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
owner of a dwelling unit receiving project-
based assistance under this section shall en-
sure that carbon monoxide alarms or detec-
tors are installed in the dwelling unit in a
manner that meets or exceeds—
‘‘(1) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(2) any other standards as may be adopted
by the Secretary, including any relevant up-
dates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’; and
(B) in subsection (o), by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(21) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
dwelling unit receiving tenant-based assist-
ance or project-based assistance under this
subsection shall have carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors installed in the dwelling
unit in a manner that meets or exceeds—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, including any relevant
updates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’.
(b) Section 202(j) of the Housing Act of 1959
(12 U.S.C. 1701q(j)) is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(9) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
owner of a dwelling unit assisted under this
section shall ensure that carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors are installed in the
dwelling unit in a manner that meets or ex-
ceeds—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, including any relevant
updates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’.
(c) Section 811(j) of the Cranston-Gonzalez
National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
8013(j)) is amended by adding at the end the
following:
‘‘(7) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
dwelling unit assisted under this section
shall contain installed carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors that meet or exceed—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, including any relevant
updates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’.
(d) Section 856 of the Cranston-Gonzalez
National Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C.
12905) is amended by adding at the end the
following new subsection:
‘‘(i) CARBON MONOXIDE ALARMS.—Each
dwelling unit assisted under this subtitle
shall contain installed carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors that meet or exceed—
‘‘(1) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(2) any other standards as may be adopted
by the Secretary, including any relevant up-
dates to the International Fire Code,
through a notice published in the Federal
Register.’’.
(e) Title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42
U.S.C. 1471 et seq.) is amended—
(1) in section 514 (42 U.S.C. 1484), by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(j) Housing and related facilities con-
structed with loans under this section shall
contain installed carbon monoxide alarms or
detectors that meet or exceed—
‘‘(1) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(2) any other standards as may be adopted
by the Secretary, in collaboration with the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, including any relevant updates to the
International Fire Code, through a notice
published in the Federal Register.’’; and
(2) in section 515 (42 U.S.C. 1485)—
(A) in subsection (m), by inserting ‘‘(1)’’ be-
fore ‘‘The Secretary shall establish’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(2) Housing and related facilities rehabili-
tated or repaired with amounts received
under a loan made or insured under this sec-
tion shall contain installed carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors that meet or exceed—
‘‘(A) the standards described in chapters 9
and 11 of the 2018 publication of the Inter-
national Fire Code, as published by the
International Code Council; or
‘‘(B) any other standards as may be adopt-
ed by the Secretary, in collaboration with
the Secretary of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, including any relevant updates to the
International Fire Code, through a notice
published in the Federal Register.’’.
(f) The Secretary of Housing and Urban De-
velopment shall provide guidance to public
housing agencies (as defined in section 3(b)(6)
of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42
U.S.C. 1437a(b)(6)) on how to educate tenants
on health hazards in the home, including to
carbon monoxide poisoning, lead poisoning,
asthma induced by housing-related aller-
gens, and other housing-related preventable
outcomes, to help advance primary preven-
tion and prevent future deaths and other
harms.
(g) Nothing in the amendments made by
this section shall be construed to preempt or
limit the applicability of any State or local
law relating to the installation and mainte-
nance of carbon monoxide alarms or detec-
tors in housing that requires standards that
are more stringent than the standards de-
scribed in the amendments made by this sec-
tion.
(h) The Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development, in consultation with the Con-
sumer Product Safety Commission, shall
conduct a study and issue a publicly avail-
able report on requiring carbon monoxide
alarms or detectors in federally assisted
housing that is not covered in the amend-
ments made by this section.
SA 1022. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division A, in-
sert the following:
TITLE ll—ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN OF
2019
SEC. l01. SHORT TITLE.
This title may be cited as the ‘‘Assault
Weapons Ban of 2019’’.
SEC. l02. DEFINITIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 921(a) of title 18,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by inserting after paragraph (29) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(30) The term ‘semiautomatic pistol’
means any repeating pistol that—
‘‘(A) utilizes a portion of the energy of a
firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge
case and chamber the next round; and
‘‘(B) requires a separate pull of the trigger
to fire each cartridge.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00064 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.046 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6115
October 23, 2019
‘‘(31) The term ‘semiautomatic shotgun’
means any repeating shotgun that—
‘‘(A) utilizes a portion of the energy of a
firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge
case and chamber the next round; and
‘‘(B) requires a separate pull of the trigger
to fire each cartridge.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(36) The term ‘semiautomatic assault
weapon’ means any of the following, regard-
less of country of manufacture or caliber of
ammunition accepted:
‘‘(A) A semiautomatic rifle that has the ca-
pacity to accept a detachable magazine and
any 1 of the following:
‘‘(i) A pistol grip.
‘‘(ii) A forward grip.
‘‘(iii) A folding, telescoping, or detachable
stock, or is otherwise foldable or adjustable
in a manner that operates to reduce the
length, size, or any other dimension, or oth-
erwise enhances the concealability, of the
weapon.
‘‘(iv) A grenade launcher.
‘‘(v) A barrel shroud.
‘‘(vi) A threaded barrel.
‘‘(B) A semiautomatic rifle that has a fixed
magazine with the capacity to accept more
than 10 rounds, except for an attached tubu-
lar device designed to accept, and capable of
operating only with, .22 caliber rimfire am-
munition.
‘‘(C) Any part, combination of parts, com-
ponent, device, attachment, or accessory
that is designed or functions to accelerate
the rate of fire of a semiautomatic rifle but
not convert the semiautomatic rifle into a
machinegun.
‘‘(D) A semiautomatic pistol that has the
capacity to accept a detachable magazine
and any 1 of the following:
‘‘(i) A threaded barrel.
‘‘(ii) A second pistol grip.
‘‘(iii) A barrel shroud.
‘‘(iv) The capacity to accept a detachable
magazine at some location outside of the pis-
tol grip.
‘‘(v) A semiautomatic version of an auto-
matic firearm.
‘‘(vi) A manufactured weight of 50 ounces
or more when unloaded.
‘‘(vii) A stabilizing brace or similar compo-
nent.
‘‘(E) A semiautomatic pistol with a fixed
magazine that has the capacity to accept
more than 10 rounds.
‘‘(F) A semiautomatic shotgun that has
any 1 of the following:
‘‘(i) A folding, telescoping, or detachable
stock.
‘‘(ii) A pistol grip.
‘‘(iii) A fixed magazine with the capacity
to accept more than 5 rounds.
‘‘(iv) The ability to accept a detachable
magazine.
‘‘(v) A forward grip.
‘‘(vi) A grenade launcher.
‘‘(G) Any shotgun with a revolving cyl-
inder.
‘‘(H) All of the following rifles, copies, du-
plicates, variants, or altered facsimiles with
the capability of any such weapon thereof:
‘‘(i) All AK types, including the following:
‘‘(I) AK, AK47, AK47S, AK–74, AKM, AKS,
ARM, MAK90, MISR, NHM90, NHM91, Rock
River Arms LAR–47, SA85, SA93, Vector
Arms AK–47, VEPR, WASR–10, and WUM.
‘‘(II) IZHMASH Saiga AK.
‘‘(III) MAADI AK47 and ARM.
‘‘(IV) Norinco 56S, 56S2, 84S, and 86S.
‘‘(V) Poly Technologies AK47 and AKS.
‘‘(ii) All AR types, including the following:
‘‘(I) AR–10.
‘‘(II) AR–15.
‘‘(III) Alexander Arms Overmatch Plus 16.
‘‘(IV) Armalite M15 22LR Carbine.
‘‘(V) Armalite M15–T.
‘‘(VI) Barrett REC7.
‘‘(VII) Beretta AR–70.
‘‘(VIII) Black Rain Ordnance Recon Scout.
‘‘(IX) Bushmaster ACR.
‘‘(X) Bushmaster Carbon 15.
‘‘(XI) Bushmaster MOE series.
‘‘(XII) Bushmaster XM15.
‘‘(XIII) Chiappa Firearms MFour rifles.
‘‘(XIV) Colt Match Target rifles.
‘‘(XV) CORE Rifle Systems CORE15 rifles.
‘‘(XVI) Daniel Defense M4A1 rifles.
‘‘(XVII) Devil Dog Arms 15 Series rifles.
‘‘(XVIII) Diamondback DB15 rifles.
‘‘(XIX) DoubleStar AR rifles.
‘‘(XX) DPMS Tactical rifles.
‘‘(XXI) DSA Inc. ZM–4 Carbine.
‘‘(XXII) Heckler & Koch MR556.
‘‘(XXIII) High Standard HSA–15 rifles.
‘‘(XXIV) Jesse James Nomad AR–15 rifle.
‘‘(XXV) Knight’s Armament SR–15.
‘‘(XXVI) Lancer L15 rifles.
‘‘(XXVII) MGI Hydra Series rifles.
‘‘(XXVIII) Mossberg MMR Tactical rifles.
‘‘(XXIX) Noreen Firearms BN 36 rifle.
‘‘(XXX) Olympic Arms.
‘‘(XXXI) POF USA P415.
‘‘(XXXII) Precision Firearms AR rifles.
‘‘(XXXIII) Remington R–15 rifles.
‘‘(XXXIV) Rhino Arms AR rifles.
‘‘(XXXV) Rock River Arms LAR–15.
‘‘(XXXVI) Sig Sauer SIG516 rifles and MCX
rifles.
‘‘(XXXVII) SKS with a detachable maga-
zine.
‘‘(XXXVIII) Smith & Wesson M&P15 rifles.
‘‘(XXXIX) Stag Arms AR rifles.
‘‘(XL) Sturm, Ruger & Co. SR556 and AR–
556 rifles.
‘‘(XLI) Uselton Arms Air-Lite M–4 rifles.
‘‘(XLII) Windham Weaponry AR rifles.
‘‘(XLIII) WMD Guns Big Beast.
‘‘(XLIV) Yankee Hill Machine Company,
Inc. YHM–15 rifles.
‘‘(iii) Barrett M107A1.
‘‘(iv) Barrett M82A1.
‘‘(v) Beretta CX4 Storm.
‘‘(vi) Calico Liberty Series.
‘‘(vii) CETME Sporter.
‘‘(viii) Daewoo K–1, K–2, Max 1, Max 2, AR
100, and AR 110C.
‘‘(ix) Fabrique Nationale/FN Herstal FAL,
LAR, 22 FNC, 308 Match, L1A1 Sporter, PS90,
SCAR, and FS2000.
‘‘(x) Feather Industries AT–9.
‘‘(xi) Galil Model AR and Model ARM.
‘‘(xii) Hi-Point Carbine.
‘‘(xiii) HK–91, HK–93, HK–94, HK–PSG–1,
and HK USC.
‘‘(xiv) IWI TAVOR, Galil ACE rifle.
‘‘(xv) Kel-Tec Sub-2000, SU–16, and RFB.
‘‘(xvi) SIG AMT, SIG PE–57, Sig Sauer SG
550, Sig Sauer SG 551, and SIG MCX.
‘‘(xvii) Springfield Armory SAR–48.
‘‘(xviii) Steyr AUG.
‘‘(xix) Sturm, Ruger & Co. Mini-14 Tactical
Rifle M–14/20CF.
‘‘(xx) All Thompson rifles, including the
following:
‘‘(I) Thompson M1SB.
‘‘(II) Thompson T1100D.
‘‘(III) Thompson T150D.
‘‘(IV) Thompson T1B.
‘‘(V) Thompson T1B100D.
‘‘(VI) Thompson T1B50D.
‘‘(VII) Thompson T1BSB.
‘‘(VIII) Thompson T1–C.
‘‘(IX) Thompson T1D.
‘‘(X) Thompson T1SB.
‘‘(XI) Thompson T5.
‘‘(XII) Thompson T5100D.
‘‘(XIII) Thompson TM1.
‘‘(XIV) Thompson TM1C.
‘‘(xxi) UMAREX UZI rifle.
‘‘(xxii) UZI Mini Carbine, UZI Model A Car-
bine, and UZI Model B Carbine.
‘‘(xxiii) Valmet M62S, M71S, and M78.
‘‘(xxiv) Vector Arms UZI Type.
‘‘(xxv) Weaver Arms Nighthawk.
‘‘(xxvi) Wilkinson Arms Linda Carbine.
‘‘(I) All of the following pistols, copies, du-
plicates, variants, or altered facsimiles with
the capability of any such weapon thereof:
‘‘(i) All AK–47 types, including the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(I) Centurion 39 AK pistol.
‘‘(II) CZ Scorpion pistol.
‘‘(III) Draco AK–47 pistol.
‘‘(IV) HCR AK–47 pistol.
‘‘(V) IO Inc. Hellpup AK–47 pistol.
‘‘(VI) Krinkov pistol.
‘‘(VII) Mini Draco AK–47 pistol.
‘‘(VIII) PAP M92 pistol.
‘‘(IX) Yugo Krebs Krink pistol.
‘‘(ii) All AR–15 types, including the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(I) American Spirit AR–15 pistol.
‘‘(II) Bushmaster Carbon 15 pistol.
‘‘(III) Chiappa Firearms M4 Pistol GEN II.
‘‘(IV) CORE Rifle Systems CORE15 Roscoe
pistol.
‘‘(V) Daniel Defense MK18 pistol.
‘‘(VI) DoubleStar Corporation AR pistol.
‘‘(VII) DPMS AR–15 pistol.
‘‘(VIII) Jesse James Nomad AR–15 pistol.
‘‘(IX) Olympic Arms AR–15 pistol.
‘‘(X) Osprey Armament MK–18 pistol.
‘‘(XI) POF USA AR pistols.
‘‘(XII) Rock River Arms LAR 15 pistol.
‘‘(XIII) Uselton Arms Air-Lite M–4 pistol.
‘‘(iii) Calico Liberty pistols.
‘‘(iv) DSA SA58 PKP FAL pistol.
‘‘(v) Encom MP–9 and MP–45.
‘‘(vi) Heckler & Koch model SP–89 pistol.
‘‘(vii) Intratec AB–10, TEC–22 Scorpion,
TEC–9, and TEC–DC9.
‘‘(viii) IWI Galil Ace pistol, UZI PRO pis-
tol.
‘‘(ix) Kel-Tec PLR 16 pistol.
‘‘(x) The following MAC types:
‘‘(I) MAC–10.
‘‘(II) MAC–11.
‘‘(III) Masterpiece Arms MPA A930 Mini
Pistol, MPA460 Pistol, MPA Tactical Pistol,
and MPA Mini Tactical Pistol.
‘‘(IV) Military Armament Corp. Ingram M–
11.
‘‘(V) Velocity Arms VMAC.
‘‘(xi) Sig Sauer P556 pistol.
‘‘(xii) Sites Spectre.
‘‘(xiii) All Thompson types, including the
following:
‘‘(I) Thompson TA510D.
‘‘(II) Thompson TA5.
‘‘(xiv) All UZI types, including Micro-UZI.
‘‘(J) All of the following shotguns, copies,
duplicates, variants, or altered facsimiles
with the capability of any such weapon
thereof:
‘‘(i) DERYA Anakon MC–1980, Anakon
SD12.
‘‘(ii) Doruk Lethal shotguns.
‘‘(iii) Franchi LAW–12 and SPAS 12.
‘‘(iv) All IZHMASH Saiga 12 types, includ-
ing the following:
‘‘(I) IZHMASH Saiga 12.
‘‘(II) IZHMASH Saiga 12S.
‘‘(III) IZHMASH Saiga 12S EXP–01.
‘‘(IV) IZHMASH Saiga 12K.
‘‘(V) IZHMASH Saiga 12K–030.
‘‘(VI) IZHMASH Saiga 12K–040 Taktika.
‘‘(v) Streetsweeper.
‘‘(vi) Striker 12.
‘‘(K) All belt-fed semiautomatic firearms,
including TNW M2HB and FN M2495.
‘‘(L) Any combination of parts from which
a firearm described in subparagraphs (A)
through (K) can be assembled.
‘‘(M) The frame or receiver of a rifle or
shotgun described in subparagraph (A), (B),
(C), (F), (G), (H), (J), or (K).
‘‘(37) The term ‘large capacity ammunition
feeding device’—
‘‘(A) means a magazine, belt, drum, feed
strip, or similar device, including any such
device joined or coupled with another in any
manner, that has an overall capacity of, or
that can be readily restored, changed, or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00065 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6116 October 23, 2019
converted to accept, more than 10 rounds of
ammunition; and
‘‘(B) does not include an attached tubular
device designed to accept, and capable of op-
erating only with, .22 caliber rimfire ammu-
nition.’’.
(b) RELATED DEFINITIONS.—Section 921(a) of
title 18, United States Code, as amended by
this title, is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘(38) The term ‘barrel shroud’—
‘‘(A) means a shroud that is attached to, or
partially or completely encircles, the barrel
of a firearm so that the shroud protects the
user of the firearm from heat generated by
the barrel; and
‘‘(B) does not include—
‘‘(i) a slide that partially or completely en-
closes the barrel; or
‘‘(ii) an extension of the stock along the
bottom of the barrel which does not encircle
or substantially encircle the barrel.
‘‘(39) The term ‘detachable magazine’
means an ammunition feeding device that
can be removed from a firearm without dis-
assembly of the firearm action.
‘‘(40) The term ‘fixed magazine’ means an
ammunition feeding device that is perma-
nently fixed to the firearm in such a manner
that it cannot be removed without dis-
assembly of the firearm.
‘‘(41) The term ‘folding, telescoping, or de-
tachable stock’ means a stock that folds,
telescopes, detaches or otherwise operates to
reduce the length, size, or any other dimen-
sion, or otherwise enhances the
concealability, of a firearm.
‘‘(42) The term ‘forward grip’ means a grip
located forward of the trigger that functions
as a pistol grip.
‘‘(43) The term ‘grenade launcher’ means
an attachment for use on a firearm that is
designed to propel a grenade or other similar
destructive device.
‘‘(44) The term ‘permanently inoperable’
means a firearm which is incapable of dis-
charging a shot by means of an explosive and
incapable of being readily restored to a fir-
ing condition.
‘‘(45) The term ‘pistol grip’ means a grip, a
thumbhole stock or Thordsen-type grip or
stock, or any other characteristic that can
function as a grip.
‘‘(46) The term ‘threaded barrel’ means a
feature or characteristic that is designed in
such a manner to allow for the attachment
of a device such as a firearm silencer or a
flash suppressor.
‘‘(47) The term ‘qualified law enforcement
officer’ has the meaning given the term in
section 926B.
‘‘(48) The term ‘grandfathered semiauto-
matic assault weapon’ means any semiauto-
matic assault weapon the importation, pos-
session, sale, or transfer of which would be
unlawful under section 922(v) but for the ex-
ception under paragraph (2) of such section.
‘‘(49) The term ‘belt-fed semiautomatic
firearm’ means any repeating firearm that—
‘‘(A) utilizes a portion of the energy of a
firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge
case and chamber the next round;
‘‘(B) requires a separate pull of the trigger
to fire each cartridge; and
‘‘(C) has the capacity to accept a belt am-
munition feeding device.’’.
SEC. l03. RESTRICTIONS ON ASSAULT WEAPONS
AND LARGE CAPACITY AMMUNITION
FEEDING DEVICES.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 922 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended—
(1) by inserting after subsection (u) the fol-
lowing:
‘‘(v)(1) It shall be unlawful for a person to
import, sell, manufacture, transfer, or pos-
sess, in or affecting interstate or foreign
commerce, a semiautomatic assault weapon.
‘‘(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the
possession, sale, or transfer of any semiauto-
matic assault weapon otherwise lawfully
possessed under Federal law on the date of
enactment of the Assault Weapons Ban of
2019.
‘‘(3) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any
firearm that—
‘‘(A) is manually operated by bolt, pump,
lever, or slide action;
‘‘(B) has been rendered permanently inop-
erable; or
‘‘(C) is an antique firearm, as defined in
section 921 of this title.
‘‘(4) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—
‘‘(A) the importation for, manufacture for,
sale to, transfer to, or possession by the
United States or a department or agency of
the United States or a State or a depart-
ment, agency, or political subdivision of a
State, or a sale or transfer to or possession
by a qualified law enforcement officer em-
ployed by the United States or a department
or agency of the United States or a State or
a department, agency, or political subdivi-
sion of a State, for purposes of law enforce-
ment (whether on or off duty), or a sale or
transfer to or possession by a campus law en-
forcement officer for purposes of law enforce-
ment (whether on or off duty);
‘‘(B) the importation for, or sale or trans-
fer to a licensee under title I of the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954 for purposes of estab-
lishing and maintaining an on-site physical
protection system and security organization
required by Federal law, or possession by an
employee or contractor of such licensee on-
site for such purposes or off-site for purposes
of licensee-authorized training or transpor-
tation of nuclear materials;
‘‘(C) the possession, by an individual who is
retired in good standing from service with a
law enforcement agency and is not otherwise
prohibited from receiving a firearm, of a
semiautomatic assault weapon—
‘‘(i) sold or transferred to the individual by
the agency upon such retirement; or
‘‘(ii) that the individual purchased, or oth-
erwise obtained, for official use before such
retirement;
‘‘(D) the importation, sale, manufacture,
transfer, or possession of a semiautomatic
assault weapon by a licensed manufacturer
or licensed importer for the purposes of test-
ing or experimentation authorized by the At-
torney General; or
‘‘(E) the importation, sale, manufacture,
transfer, or possession of a firearm specified
in Appendix A to this section, as such fire-
arm was manufactured on the date of intro-
duction of the Assault Weapons Ban of 2019.
‘‘(5) For purposes of paragraph (4)(A), the
term ‘campus law enforcement officer’
means an individual who is—
‘‘(A) employed by a private institution of
higher education that is eligible for funding
under title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.);
‘‘(B) responsible for the prevention or in-
vestigation of crime involving injury to per-
sons or property, including apprehension or
detention of persons for such crimes;
‘‘(C) authorized by Federal, State, or local
law to carry a firearm, execute search war-
rants, and make arrests; and
‘‘(D) recognized, commissioned, or certified
by a government entity as a law enforcement
officer.
‘‘(6) The Attorney General shall establish
and maintain, in a timely manner, a record
of the make, model, and, if available, date of
manufacture of any semiautomatic assault
weapon which the Attorney General is made
aware has been used in relation to a crime
under Federal or State law, and the nature
and circumstances of the crime involved, in-
cluding the outcome of relevant criminal in-
vestigations and proceedings. The Attorney
General shall annually submit a copy of the
record established under this paragraph to
the Congress and make the record available
to the general public.
‘‘(w)(1) It shall be unlawful for a person to
import, sell, manufacture, transfer, or pos-
sess, in or affecting interstate or foreign
commerce, a large capacity ammunition
feeding device.
‘‘(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the
possession of any large capacity ammunition
feeding device otherwise lawfully possessed
on or before the date of enactment of the As-
sault Weapons Ban of 2019.
‘‘(3) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—
‘‘(A) the importation for, manufacture for,
sale to, transfer to, or possession by the
United States or a department or agency of
the United States or a State or a depart-
ment, agency, or political subdivision of a
State, or a sale or transfer to or possession
by a qualified law enforcement officer em-
ployed by the United States or a department
or agency of the United States or a State or
a department, agency, or political subdivi-
sion of a State for purposes of law enforce-
ment (whether on or off duty), or a sale or
transfer to or possession by a campus law en-
forcement officer for purposes of law enforce-
ment (whether on or off duty);
‘‘(B) the importation for, or sale or trans-
fer to a licensee under title I of the Atomic
Energy Act of 1954 for purposes of estab-
lishing and maintaining an on-site physical
protection system and security organization
required by Federal law, or possession by an
employee or contractor of such licensee on-
site for such purposes or off-site for purposes
of licensee-authorized training or transpor-
tation of nuclear materials;
‘‘(C) the possession, by an individual who is
retired in good standing from service with a
law enforcement agency and is not otherwise
prohibited from receiving ammunition, of a
large capacity ammunition feeding device—
‘‘(i) sold or transferred to the individual by
the agency upon such retirement; or
‘‘(ii) that the individual purchased, or oth-
erwise obtained, for official use before such
retirement; or
‘‘(D) the importation, sale, manufacture,
transfer, or possession of any large capacity
ammunition feeding device by a licensed
manufacturer or licensed importer for the
purposes of testing or experimentation au-
thorized by the Attorney General.
‘‘(4) For purposes of paragraph (3)(A), the
term ‘campus law enforcement officer’
means an individual who is—
‘‘(A) employed by a private institution of
higher education that is eligible for funding
under title IV of the Higher Education Act of
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq.);
‘‘(B) responsible for the prevention or in-
vestigation of crime involving injury to per-
sons or property, including apprehension or
detention of persons for such crimes;
‘‘(C) authorized by Federal, State, or local
law to carry a firearm, execute search war-
rants, and make arrests; and
‘‘(D) recognized, commissioned, or certified
by a government entity as a law enforcement
officer.’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(aa) SECURE STORAGE OR SAFETY DEVICE
REQUIREMENT FOR GRANDFATHERED SEMI-
AUTOMATIC ASSAULT WEAPONS.—It shall be
unlawful for any person, other than a li-
censed importer, licensed manufacturer, or
licensed dealer, to store or keep under the
dominion or control of that person any
grandfathered semiautomatic assault weap-
on that the person knows, or has reasonable
cause to believe, will be accessible to an in-
dividual prohibited from receiving or pos-
sessing a firearm under subsection (g), (n), or
(x), or any provision of State law, unless the
grandfathered semiautomatic assault weap-
on is—
‘‘(1) carried on the person, or within such
close proximity that the person can readily
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00066 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6117
October 23, 2019
retrieve and use the grandfathered semiauto-
matic assault weapon as if the grandfathered
semiautomatic assault weapon were carried
on the person; or
‘‘(2) locked by a secure gun storage or safe-
ty device that the prohibited individual has
no ability to access.’’.
(b) IDENTIFICATION MARKINGS FOR SEMI-
AUTOMATIC ASSAULT WEAPONS.—Section
923(i) of title 18, United States Code, is
amended by adding at the end the following:
‘‘The serial number of any semiautomatic
assault weapon manufactured after the date
of enactment of the Assault Weapons Ban of
2019 shall clearly show the date on which the
weapon was manufactured or made, legibly
and conspicuously engraved or cast on the
weapon, and such other identification as the
Attorney General shall by regulations pre-
scribe.’’.
(c) IDENTIFICATION MARKINGS FOR LARGE
CAPACITY AMMUNITION FEEDING DEVICES.—
Section 923(i) of title 18, United States Code,
as amended by this title, is amended by add-
ing at the end the following: ‘‘A large capac-
ity ammunition feeding device manufactured
after the date of enactment of the Assault
Weapons Ban of 2019 shall be identified by a
serial number and the date on which the de-
vice was manufactured or made, legibly and
conspicuously engraved or cast on the de-
vice, and such other identification as the At-
torney General shall by regulations pre-
scribe.’’.
(d) SEIZURE AND FORFEITURE OF LARGE CA-
PACITY AMMUNITION FEEDING DEVICES.—Sub-
section (d) of section 924 of title 18, United
States Code, is amended—
(1) in paragraph (1)—
(A) by inserting ‘‘or large capacity ammu-
nition feeding device’’ after ‘‘firearm or am-
munition’’ each time it appears;
(B) by inserting ‘‘or large capacity ammu-
nition feeding device’’ after ‘‘firearms or am-
munition’’ each time it appears; and
(C) by striking ‘‘or (k)’’ and inserting ‘‘(k),
(r), (v), or (w)’’;
(2) in paragraph (2)—
(A) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ‘‘or
large capacity ammunition feeding devices’’
after ‘‘firearms or quantities of ammuni-
tion’’; and
(3) in paragraph (3)—
(A) in subparagraph (E), by inserting
‘‘922(r), 922(v), 922(w),’’ after ‘‘922(n),’’.
(e) APPENDIX A.—Section 922 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘APPENDIX A—FIREARMS EXEMPTED
BY THE ASSAULT WEAPONS BAN OF 2017
‘‘CENTERFIRE RIFLES—AUTOLOADERS
‘‘Benelli R1 Rifle
‘‘Browning BAR Mark II Safari Magnum
Rifle
‘‘Browning BAR Mark II Safari Semi-Auto
Rifle
‘‘Browning BAR Stalker Rifles
‘‘Browning High-Power Rifle
‘‘Browning Longtrac Rifle
‘‘Browning Shorttrac Rifle
‘‘Heckler & Koch HK630
‘‘Heckler & Koch HK770
‘‘Heckler & Koch HK940
‘‘Heckler & Koch Model 300 Rifle
‘‘Heckler & Koch SL7 Rifle
‘‘Iver Johnson 50th Anniversary M–1 Car-
bine (w/o folding stock)
‘‘Iver Johnson M–1 Carbine (w/o folding
stock)
‘‘M–1 Carbines with standard fixed stock
‘‘M–1 Garand with fixed 8 round capacity
and standard stock
‘‘Marlin Model 9 Camp Carbine
‘‘Marlin Model 45 Carbine
‘‘Remington Model 74
‘‘Remington Model 81
‘‘Remington Model 740
‘‘Remington Model 742
‘‘Remington Model 750 Synthetic
‘‘Remington Model 750 Woodmaster
‘‘Remington Model 7400 Rifle
‘‘Remington Model 7400 Special Purpose
Auto Rifle
‘‘Remington Nylon 66 Auto-Loading Rifle
‘‘Ruger Mini 30
‘‘Ruger Mini-14 (w/o folding or telescoping
stock or pistol grip)
‘‘Ruger PC4
‘‘Ruger PC9
‘‘SKS type rifles with fixed 10 round maga-
zine and standard fixed stock
‘‘Winchester Model SXR
‘‘CENTERFIRE RIFLES—LEVER & SLIDE
‘‘Action Arms Timber Wolf Pump Action
‘‘Beretta 1873 Renegade Lever Action
‘‘Beretta Gold Rush Slide Action
‘‘Big Horn Armory Model 89
‘‘Browning BLR Model 181 Lever Action,
All Models
‘‘Browning BPR Pump Rifle
‘‘Browning Model 53 Lever Action
‘‘Browning Model 65 Grade 1 Lever Action
Rifle
‘‘Browning Model 71 Rifle and Carbine
‘‘Browning Model 81 BLR
‘‘Browning Model 81 BLR Lever-Action
Rifle
‘‘Browning Model 81 Long Action BLR
‘‘Browning Model 1886 High Grade Carbine
‘‘Browning Model 1886 Lever-Action Car-
bine
‘‘Browning Model B–92 Carbine
‘‘Charles Daly Model 1892 Lever Action, All
Models
‘‘Chiappa 1886 Lever Action Rifles
‘‘Cimarron 1860 Henry Replica
‘‘Cimarron 1866 Winchester Replicas
‘‘Cimarron 1873 30″ Express Rifle
‘‘Cimarron 1873 Short Rifle
‘‘Cimarron 1873 Sporting Rifle
‘‘Cimarron 1873 Winchester Replicas
‘‘Dixie Engraved 1873 Rifle
‘‘Dixie Lightning Rifle and Carbines
‘‘E.M.F. 1860 Henry Rifle
‘‘E.M.F. 1866 Yellowboy Lever Actions
‘‘E.M.F. Model 73 Lever-Action Rifle
‘‘E.M.F. Model 1873 Lever Actions
‘‘Henry .30/30 Lever Action Carbine
‘‘Henry Big Boy .357 Magnum
‘‘Henry Big Boy .44 Magnum
‘‘Henry Big Boy .45 Colt
‘‘Henry Big Boy Deluxe Engraved .44 Mag-
num
‘‘Henry Big Boy Deluxe Engraved .45 Colt
‘‘Marlin Model 30AS Lever-Action Carbine
‘‘Marlin Model 62 Lever Action
‘‘Marlin Model 93 Lever Action
‘‘Marlin Model 308MX
‘‘Marlin Model 308MXLR
‘‘Marlin Model 336 Deluxe
‘‘Marlin Model 336C
‘‘Marlin Model 336CS Lever-Action Carbine
‘‘Marlin Model 336DL Lever Action
‘‘Marlin Model 336SS
‘‘Marlin Model 336W
‘‘Marlin Model 336XLR
‘‘Marlin Model 338MX
‘‘Marlin Model 338MXLR
‘‘Marlin Model 444
‘‘Marlin Model 444 Lever-Action
‘‘Marlin Model 444XLR
‘‘Marlin Model 1894 Marlin Model 1894 Cow-
boy
‘‘Marlin Model 1894 Lever Action, All Mod-
els
‘‘Marlin Model 1894C
‘‘Marlin Model 1894CL Classic
‘‘Marlin Model 1894CS Carbine
‘‘Marlin Model 1894S Lever-Action Carbine
‘‘Marlin Model 1894SS
‘‘Marlin Model 1895
‘‘Marlin Model 1895 Cowboy
‘‘Marlin Model 1895 Lever Action, All Mod-
els
‘‘Marlin Model 1895G
‘‘Marlin Model 1895GS
‘‘Marlin Model 1895M
‘‘Marlin Model 1895MXLR
‘‘Marlin Model 1895SBL
‘‘Marlin Model 1895SS Lever-Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 1895XLR
‘‘Marlin XLR Lever Action Rifles
‘‘Mitchell 1858 Henry Replica
‘‘Mitchell 1866 Winchester Replica
‘‘Mitchell 1873 Winchester Replica
‘‘Mossberg 464 Lever Action Rifle
‘‘Mossberg Model 472 Lever Action
‘‘Mossberg Model 479 Lever Action
‘‘Navy Arms 1866 Yellowboy Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms 1873 Sporting Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms 1873 Winchester-Style Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms 1892 Short Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms Henry Carbine
‘‘Navy Arms Henry Trapper
‘‘Navy Arms Iron Frame Henry
‘‘Navy Arms Military Henry Rifle
‘‘Puma Bounty Hunter Rifle
‘‘Puma Model 92 Rifles & Carbines
‘‘Remington 7600 Slide Action
‘‘Remington Model 6 Pump Action
‘‘Remington Model 14, 141⁄2 Pump Actions
‘‘Remington Model 141 Pump Action
‘‘Remington Model 760 Slide Actions
‘‘Remington Model 7600 Special Purpose
Slide Action
‘‘Remington Model 7600 Synthetic
‘‘Remington Model 7615 Camo Hunter
‘‘Remington Model 7615 Ranch Carbine
‘‘Remington Model 7615 SPS
‘‘Rossi M92 SRC Saddle-Ring Carbine
‘‘Rossi M92 SRS Short Carbine
‘‘Rossi R92 Lever Action Carbines
‘‘Ruger Model 96/44 Lever Action
‘‘Savage 99C Lever-Action Rifle
‘‘Savage Model 170 Pump Action
‘‘Taurus Thunderbolt Pump Action
‘‘Taylor’s & CO., Inc. 1865 Spencer Carbine/
Rifle
‘‘Taylor’s & CO., Inc. 1892 Carbine/Rifle
‘‘U.S. Fire Arms Standard Lightning Mag-
azine Rifle
‘‘Uberti 1866 Sporting Rifle Uberti 1873
Sporting Rifle
‘‘Uberti 1876 Rifle
‘‘Uberti 1883 Burgess Lever Action Rifle/
Carbine
‘‘Uberti Henry Rifle
‘‘Uberti Lightning Rifle/Carbine
‘‘Winchester Lever Actions, All Other Cen-
ter Fire Models
‘‘Winchester Model 94 Big Bore Side Eject
‘‘Winchester Model 94 Ranger Side Eject
Lever-Action Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 94 Side Eject Lever-Ac-
tion Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 94 Trapper Side Eject
‘‘Winchester Model 94 Wrangler Side Eject
‘‘Winchester Model 1895 Safari Centennial
‘‘CENTERFIRE RIFLES—BOLT ACTION
‘‘Accurate Arms Raptor & Backpack Bolt
Action Rifles
‘‘Alpine Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1700D Bavarian Bolt-Action
Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1700D Classic Rifles
‘‘Anschutz 1700D Custom Rifles
‘‘Anschutz 1733D Mannlicher Rifle
‘‘Arnold Arms African Safari & Alaskan
Trophy Rifles
‘‘A-Square Caesar Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘A-Square Genghis Khan Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘A-Square Hamilcar Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘A-Square Hannibal Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Auguste Francotte Bolt-Action Rifles
‘‘Bansners Ultimate Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Beeman/HW 60J Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Benton & Brown Firearms, Inc. Model 93
Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Blackheart International BBG Hunter
Bolt Action
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00067 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6118 October 23, 2019
‘‘Blackheart International LLC BBG Light
Sniper Bolt Action
‘‘Blaser R8 Professional
‘‘Blaser R84 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Blaser R93 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘BRNO 537 Sporter Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘BRNO ZKB 527 Fox Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘BRNO ZKK 600, 601, 602 Bolt-Action Rifles
‘‘Brown Precision Company Bolt Action
Sporter
‘‘Browning A-Bolt Gold Medallion
‘‘Browning A-Bolt Left Hand
‘‘Browning A-Bolt Micro Medallion
‘‘Browning A-Bolt Rifle
‘‘Browning A-Bolt Short Action
‘‘Browning A-Bolt Stainless Stalker
‘‘Browning Euro-Bolt Rifle
‘‘Browning High-Power Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Browning X-Bolt Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Carbon One Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Carl Gustaf 2000 Bolt-Action Rifle Cen-
tury
‘‘Centurion 14 Sporter
‘‘Century Enfield Sporter #4
‘‘Century M70 Sporter
‘‘Century Mauser 98 Sporter
‘‘Century Swedish Sporter #38
‘‘Cheytac M–200
‘‘Cheytac M70 Sporter
‘‘Cooper Model 21 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Cooper Model 22 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Cooper Model 38 Centerfire Sporter
‘‘Cooper Model 56 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘CZ 527 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘CZ 550 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘CZ 750 Sniper Rifle
‘‘Dakota 22 Sporter Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Dakota 76 Classic Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Dakota 76 Safari Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Dakota 76 Short Action Rifles
‘‘Dakota 97 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Dakota 416 Rigby African
‘‘Dakota Predator Rifle
‘‘DSA DS–MP1 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘E.A.A./Sabatti Rover 870 Bolt-Action
Rifle
‘‘EAA/Zastava M–93 Black Arrow Rifle
‘‘Ed Brown Hunting and Model 704 Bolt Ac-
tion Rifles
‘‘Heym Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Heym Magnum Express Series Rifle
‘‘Howa Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Howa Lightning Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Howa Realtree Camo Rifle
‘‘H–S Precision Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Interarms Mark X Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Interarms Mark X Viscount Bolt-Action
Rifle
‘‘Interarms Mark X Whitworth Bolt-Action
Rifle
‘‘Interarms Mini-Mark X Rifle
‘‘Interarms Whitworth Express Rifle
‘‘Iver Johnson Model 5100A1 Long-Range
Rifle
‘‘KDF K15 American Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Kenny Jarrett Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Kimber Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Krico Model 600 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Krico Model 700 Bolt-Action Rifles
‘‘Magnum Research Mount Eagle Rifles
‘‘Marlin Model XL7
‘‘Marlin Model XL7C
‘‘Marlin Model XL7L
‘‘Marlin Model XL7W
‘‘Marlin Model XS7
‘‘Marlin Model XS7C
‘‘Marlin Model XS7Y
‘‘Marlin XL–7/XS7 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Mauser Model 66 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Mauser Model 99 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘McMillan Classic Stainless Sporter
‘‘McMillan Signature Alaskan
‘‘McMillan Signature Classic Sporter
‘‘McMillan Signature Super Varminter
‘‘McMillan Signature Titanium Mountain
Rifle
‘‘McMillan Talon Safari Rifle
‘‘McMillan Talon Sporter Rifle
‘‘Merkel KR1 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Midland 1500S Survivor Rifle
‘‘Mossberg Model 100 ATR (All-Terrain
Rifle)
‘‘Navy Arms TU–33/40 Carbine
‘‘Nosler Model 48 Varmint Rifle
‘‘Parker Hale Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 81 Classic African
Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 81 Classic Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 1000 Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 1100 Lightweight Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 1100M African Mag-
num
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 1200 Super Clip Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 1200 Super Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 1300C Scout Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 2100 Midland Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 2700 Lightweight Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale Model 2800 Midland Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 ADL Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 BDL Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 BDL European Bolt-Ac-
tion Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 BDL Left Hand
‘‘Remington 700 BDL SS Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 BDL Varmint Special
‘‘Remington 700 Camo Synthetic Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 Classic Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 Custom KS Mountain Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 Mountain Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 MTRSS Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 Safari
‘‘Remington 700 Stainless Synthetic Rifle
‘‘Remington 700 Varmint Synthetic Rifle
‘‘Remington Model 40–X Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Remington Model 700 Alaskan Ti
‘‘Remington Model 700 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Remington Model 700 CDL
‘‘Remington Model 700 CDL ‘Boone and
Crockett’
‘‘Remington Model 700 CDL Left-Hand
‘‘Remington Model 700 CDL SF Limited
Edition
‘‘Remington Model 700 LSS
‘‘Remington Model 700 Mountain LSS
‘‘Remington Model 700 Sendero SF II
‘‘Remington Model 700 SPS
‘‘Remington Model 700 SPS Buckmasters
Edition
‘‘Remington Model 700 SPS Buckmasters
Edition ‘Young Bucks’ Youth
‘‘Remington Model 700 SPS Stainless
‘‘Remington Model 700 SPS Tactical Rifle
‘‘Remington Model 700 SPS Varmint
‘‘Remington Model 700 SPS Varmint (Left-
Hand)
‘‘Remington Model 700 SPS Youth Syn-
thetic Left-Hand
‘‘Remington Model 700 VL SS Thumbhole
‘‘Remington Model 700 VLS
‘‘Remington Model 700 VS SF II
‘‘Remington Model 700 VTR
‘‘Remington Model 700 XCR
‘‘Remington Model 700 XCR Camo
‘‘Remington Model 700 XCR Compact Tac-
tical Rifle
‘‘Remington Model 700 XCR Left-Hand
‘‘Remington Model 700 XCR Tactical Long
Range Rifle
‘‘Remington Model 715
‘‘Remington Model 770
‘‘Remington Model 770 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Remington Model 770 Stainless Camo
‘‘Remington Model 770 Youth
‘‘Remington Model 798
‘‘Remington Model 798 Safari
‘‘Remington Model 798 SPS
‘‘Remington Model 799
‘‘Remington Model Seven 25th Anniversary
‘‘Remington Model Seven Bolt Action Ri-
fles
‘‘Remington Model Seven CDL
‘‘Remington Model Seven Custom KS
‘‘Remington Model Seven Custom MS Rifle
‘‘Remington Model Seven Predator
‘‘Remington Model Seven Youth Rifle
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye African
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Alaskan
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye All-Weather
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye All-Weather Ultra
Light
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Compact
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye International
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Laminate Compact
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Laminate Left-Hand-
ed
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Predator
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Sporter
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Standard
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Standard Left-Hand-
ed
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Tactical
‘‘Ruger M77 Hawkeye Ultra Light
‘‘Ruger M77 Mark II All-Weather Stainless
Rifle
‘‘Ruger M77 Mark II Express Rifle
‘‘Ruger M77 Mark II Magnum Rifle
‘‘Ruger M77 Mark II Rifle
‘‘Ruger M77 Mark II Target Rifle
‘‘Ruger M77 RSI International Carbine
‘‘Ruger M77
‘‘Ruger Compact Magnum
‘‘Ruger M77RL Ultra Light
‘‘Ruger M77VT Target Rifle
‘‘Ruger Model 77 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Sako Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Sako Classic Bolt Action
‘‘Sako Deluxe Lightweight
‘‘Sako FiberClass Sporter
‘‘Sako Hunter Left-Hand Rifle
‘‘Sako Hunter LS Rifle Sako Hunter Rifle
‘‘Sako Mannlicher-Style Carbine
‘‘Sako Safari Grade Bolt Action
‘‘Sako Super Deluxe Sporter
‘‘Sako TRG–S Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Sako Varmint Heavy Barrel
‘‘Sauer 90 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Savage 16/116 Rifles
‘‘Savage 110 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Savage 110CY Youth/Ladies Rifle
‘‘Savage 110F Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Savage 110FP Police Rifle
‘‘Savage 110FXP3 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Savage 110G Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Savage 110GV Varmint Rifle
‘‘Savage 110GXP3 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Savage 110WLE One of One Thousand
Limited Edition Rifle
‘‘Savage 112 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Savage 112FV Varmint Rifle
‘‘Savage 116 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Savage 116FSS Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Savage Axis Series Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Savage Model 10 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Savage Model 10GXP Package Guns
‘‘Savage Model 11/111 Series Bolt Action
Rifles
‘‘Savage Model 12 Series Rifles
‘‘Savage Model 14/114 Rifles
‘‘Savage Model 25 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Savage Model 110GXP3 Package Guns
‘‘Savage Model 112BV Heavy Barrel
Varmint Rifle
‘‘Savage Model 112FVS Varmint Rifle
‘‘Savage Model 116FSK Kodiak Rifle
‘‘Shilen Rifles Inc. DGA Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Smith & Wesson i-Bolt Rifle
‘‘Steyr Scout Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Steyr SSG 69 PII Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Steyr SSG08 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher Luxus Model L, M, S
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher Model M Professional
Rifle
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher Sporter Models SL, L,
M, S, S/T
‘‘Thompson/Center ICON Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Thompson/Center Icon Classic Long Ac-
tion Rifle
‘‘Thompson/Center Icon Medium Action
Rifle
‘‘Thompson/Center Icon Precision Hunter
‘‘Thompson/Center Icon Weather Shield
Long Action Rifle
‘‘Thompson/Center Icon Weather Shield
Medium Action Rifle
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00068 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6119
October 23, 2019
‘‘Thompson/Center Venture
‘‘Tikka Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Tikka Premium Grade Rifles
‘‘Tikka T3 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Tikka Varmint/Continental Rifle
‘‘Tikka Whitetail/Battue Rifle
‘‘Ultra Light Arms Model 20 Rifle
‘‘Ultra Light Arms Model 24
‘‘Ultra Light Arms Model 28, Model 40 Ri-
fles
‘‘Voere Model 2155, 2150 Bolt-Action Rifles
‘‘Voere Model 2165 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Voere VEC 91 Lightning Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Classicmark No. 1 Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Lasermark V Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Mark V Crown Custom Rifles
‘‘Weatherby Mark V Deluxe Bolt-Action
Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Mark V Rifles
‘‘Weatherby Mark V Safari Grade Custom
Rifles
‘‘Weatherby Mark V Sporter Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Vanguard Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Weatherby Vanguard Classic No. 1 Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Vanguard Classic Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Vanguard VGX Deluxe Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Vanguard Weatherguard Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Weatherguard Alaskan Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Weathermark Alaskan Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Weathermark Rifle
‘‘Weatherby Weathermark Rifles
‘‘Wichita Classic Rifle
‘‘Wichita Varmint Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Custom Sharp-
shooter
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Custom Sporting
Sharpshooter Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 70 DBM Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 70 DBM–S Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Featherweight
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Featherweight Clas-
sic
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Featherweight
WinTuff
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Lightweight Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 70 SM Sporter
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Sporter
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Sporter WinTuff
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Stainless Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Super Express Mag-
num
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Super Grade
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Synthetic Heavy
Varmint Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 70 Varmint
‘‘Winchester Ranger Rifle
‘‘CENTERFIRE RIFLES—SINGLE SHOT
‘‘Armsport 1866 Sharps Rifle, Carbine
‘‘Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 #3 Gallery Single
Shot Rifle
‘‘Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 #4 Perfection Rifle
‘‘Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 #7 Long Range
Rifle
‘‘Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 #8 Union Hill rifle
‘‘Ballard Arms Inc. 1875 11⁄2 Hunter Rifle
‘‘Ballard Arms Inc. 1885 High Wall Sporting
Rifle
‘‘Ballard Arms Inc. 1885 Low Wall Single
Shot
‘‘Brown Model 97D Single Shot Rifle
‘‘Brown Model One Single Shot Rifle
‘‘Browning Model 1885 Single Shot Rifle
‘‘C. Sharps Arms 1875 Target & Sporting
Rifle
‘‘C. Sharps Arms Custom New Model 1877
‘‘C. Sharps Arms New Model 1885 High Wall
Rifle
‘‘C.Sharps Arms 1874 Bridgeport Sporting
Rifle
‘‘C.Sharps Arms 1875 Classic Sharps
‘‘C.Sharps Arms New Model 1874 Old Reli-
able
‘‘C.Sharps Arms New Model 1875 Rifle
‘‘C.Sharps Arms New Model 1875 Target &
Long Range
‘‘Cabela’s 1874 Sharps Sporting
‘‘Cimarron Billy Dixon 1874 Sharps
‘‘Cimarron Model 1885 High Wall
‘‘Cimarron Quigley Model 1874 Sharps
‘‘Cimarron Silhouette Model 1874 Sharps
‘‘Dakota Model 10 Single Shot Rifle
‘‘Dakota Single Shot Rifle
‘‘Desert Industries G–90 Single Shot Rifle
‘‘Dixie Gun Works 1873 Trapdoor Rifle/Car-
bine
‘‘Dixie Gun Works 1874 Sharps Rifles
‘‘Dixie Gun Works Remington Rolling
Block Rifles
‘‘EMF Premier 1874 Sharps
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Buffalo Classic
Rifle (CR–1871)
‘‘Harrington & Richardson CR 45–LC
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Handi-Mag
Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Handi-Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Handi-Rifle
Compact
‘‘Harrington & Richardson New England
Hand-Rifle/Slug Gun Combos
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Stainless
Handi-Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Stainless Ultra
Hunter Thumbhole Stock
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Superlight
Handi-Rifle Compact
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Survivor Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Synthetic
Handi-Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra Hunter
Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra Varmint
Fluted
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra Varmint
Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra Varmint
Thumbhole Stock
‘‘Krieghoff Hubertus Single Shot
‘‘Meacham High Wall
‘‘Merkel K1 Lightweight Stalking Rifle
‘‘Merkel K2 Custom Stalking Rifle
‘‘Model 1885 High Wall Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms #2 Creedmoor Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms 1873 John Bodine Rolling
Black Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms 1873 Springfield Cavalry Car-
bine
‘‘Navy Arms 1874 Sharps Rifles
‘‘Navy Arms 1874 1885 High Wall Rifles
‘‘Navy Arms Rolling Block Buffalo Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms Sharps ‘‘Quigley’’ Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms Sharps Cavalry Carbine
‘‘Navy Arms Sharps Plains Rifle
‘‘New England Firearms Handi-Rifle
‘‘New England Firearms Sportster/Versa
Pack Rifle
‘‘New England Firearms Survivor Rifle
‘‘Red Willow Armory Ballard No. 1.5 Hunt-
ing Rifle
‘‘Red Willow Armory Ballard No. 4.5 Tar-
get Rifle
‘‘Red Willow Armory Ballard No. 5 Pacific
‘‘Red Willow Armory Ballard No. 8 Union
Hill Rifle
‘‘Red Willow Armory Ballard Rifles
‘‘Remington Model Rolling Block Rifles
‘‘Remington Model SPR18 Blued
‘‘Remington Model SPR18 Nickel
‘‘Remington Model SPR18 Single Shot
Rifle
‘‘Remington-Style Rolling Block Carbine
‘‘Rossi Match Pairs Rifles
‘‘Rossi Single Shot Rifles
‘‘Rossi Wizard
‘‘Ruger No. 1 RSI International
‘‘Ruger No. 1 Stainless Sporter
‘‘Ruger No. 1 Stainless Standard
‘‘Ruger No. 1A Light Sporter
‘‘Ruger No. 1B Single Shot
‘‘Ruger No. 1H Tropical Rifle
‘‘Ruger No. 1S Medium Sporter
‘‘Ruger No. 1V Special Varminter
‘‘Sharps 1874 Old Reliable
‘‘Shiloh 1875 Rifles
‘‘Shiloh Sharps 1874 Business Rifle
‘‘Shiloh Sharps 1874 Long Range Express
‘‘Shiloh Sharps 1874 Military Carbine
‘‘Shiloh Sharps 1874 Military Rifle
‘‘Shiloh Sharps 1874 Montana Roughrider
‘‘Shiloh Sharps Creedmoor Target
‘‘Thompson/Center Contender Carbine
‘‘Thompson/Center Contender Carbine Sur-
vival System
‘‘Thompson/Center Contender Carbine
Youth Model
‘‘Thompson/Center Encore
‘‘Thompson/Center Stainless Contender
Carbine
‘‘Thompson/Center TCR ’87 Single Shot
Rifle
‘‘Thompson/Encore Rifles
‘‘Traditions 1874 Sharps Deluxe Rifle
‘‘Traditions 1874 Sharps Standard Rifle
‘‘Traditions Rolling Block Sporting Rifle
‘‘Uberti (Stoeger Industries) Sharps Rifles
‘‘Uberti 1871 Rolling Block Rifle/Carbine
‘‘Uberti 1874 Sharps Sporting Rifle
‘‘Uberti 1885 High Wall Rifles
‘‘Uberti Rolling Block Baby Carbine
‘‘Uberti Springfield Trapdoor Carbine/Rifle
‘‘DRILLINGS, COMBINATION GUNS, DOUBLE
RIFLES
‘‘A. Zoli Rifle-Shotgun O/U Combo
‘‘Auguste Francotte Boxlock Double Rifle
‘‘Auguste Francotte Sidelock Double Ri-
fles
‘‘Baikal IZH–94 Express
‘‘Baikal MP94– (IZH–94) O/U
‘‘Beretta Express SSO O/U Double Rifles
‘‘Beretta Model 455 SxS Express Rifle
‘‘Chapuis RGExpress Double Rifle
‘‘CZ 584 SOLO Combination Gun
‘‘CZ 589 Stopper O/U Gun
‘‘Dakota Double Rifle
‘‘Garbi Express Double Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Survivor
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Synthetic
Handi-Rifle/Slug Gun Combo
‘‘Heym Model 55B O/U Double Rifle
‘‘Heym Model 55FW O/U Combo Gun
‘‘Heym Model 88b Side-by-Side Double
Rifle
‘‘Hoenig Rotary Round Action Combina-
tion Rifle
‘‘Hoenig Rotary Round Action Double Rifle
‘‘Kodiak Mk. IV Double Rifle
‘‘Kreighoff Teck O/U Combination Gun
‘‘Kreighoff Trumpf Drilling
‘‘Krieghoff Drillings
‘‘Lebeau-Courally Express Rifle 5X5
‘‘Merkel Boxlock Double Rifles
‘‘Merkel Drillings
‘‘Merkel Model 160 Side-by-Side Double Ri-
fles
‘‘Merkel Over/Under Combination Guns
‘‘Merkel Over/Under Double Rifles
‘‘Remington Model SPR94 .410/Rimfire
‘‘Remington Model SPR94 12 Gauge/
Centerfire
‘‘Rizzini Express 90L Double Rifle
‘‘Savage 24F O/U Combination Gun
‘‘Savage 24F–12T Turkey Gun
‘‘Springfield Inc. M6 Scout Rifle/Shotgun
‘‘Tikka Model 412s Combination Gun
‘‘Tikka Model 412S Double Fire
‘‘RIMFIRE RIFLES—AUTOLOADERS
‘‘AMT Lightning 25/22 Rifle
‘‘AMT Lightning Small-Game Hunting
Rifle II
‘‘AMT Magnum Hunter Auto Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 525 Deluxe Auto
‘‘Armscor Model 20P Auto Rifle
‘‘Browning Auto .22 Rifles
‘‘Browning Auto-22 Rifle
‘‘Browning Auto-22 Grade VI
‘‘Browning BAR .22 Auto Rifle
‘‘Browning SA–22 Semi-Auto 22 Rifle
‘‘Henry U.S. Survival .22
‘‘Henry U.S. Survival Rifle AR–7
‘‘Krico Model 260 Auto Rifle
‘‘Lakefield Arms Model 64B Auto Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 60 Self Loading Rifles
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00069 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6120 October 23, 2019
‘‘Marlin Model 60C
‘‘Marlin Model 60SB
‘‘Marlin Model 60S–CF
‘‘Marlin Model 60SN
‘‘Marlin Model 60ss Self-Loading Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 70 Auto-loading Rifles
‘‘Marlin Model 70 HC Auto
‘‘Marlin Model 70P Papoose
‘‘Marlin Model 70PSS
‘‘Marlin Model 795
‘‘Marlin Model 795SS
‘‘Marlin Model 922 Magnum Self-Loading
Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 990l Self-Loading Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 995 Self-Loading Rifle
‘‘Mossberg 702 Plinkster
‘‘Norinco Model 22 ATD Rifle
‘‘Remington 552BDL Speedmaster Rifle
‘‘Remington Model 522 Viper Autoloading
Rifle
‘‘Remington Model 597 Blaze Camo
‘‘Remington Model 597 Pink Camo
‘‘Remington Model 597 Synthetic Scope
Combo
‘‘Ruger 10/22 Autoloading Carbine (w/o fold-
ing stock)
‘‘Ruger 10/22 Compact
‘‘Ruger 10/22 Sporter
‘‘Ruger 10/22 Target
‘‘Survival Arms AR–7 Explorer Rifle
‘‘Texas Remington Revolving Carbine
‘‘Thompson/Center R–55 All-Weather
‘‘Thompson/Center R–55 Benchmark
‘‘Thompson/Center R–55 Classic
‘‘Thompson/Center R–55 Rifles
‘‘Thompson/Center R–55 Sporter
‘‘Voere Model 2115 Auto Rifle
‘‘RIMFIRE RIFLES—LEVER & SLIDE ACTION
‘‘Browning BL–22 Lever-Action Rifle
‘‘Henry .22 Lever Action Rifles, All Models
‘‘Henry Golden Boy .17 HMR
‘‘Henry Golden Boy .22
‘‘Henry Golden Boy .22 Magnum
‘‘Henry Golden Boy Deluxe
‘‘Henry Lever .22 Magnum
‘‘Henry Lever Action .22
‘‘Henry Lever Carbine .22
‘‘Henry Lever Octagon .22
‘‘Henry Lever Octagon .22 Magnum
‘‘Henry Lever Youth Model .22
‘‘Henry Pump Action Octagon .22
‘‘Henry Pump Action Octagon .22 Magnum
‘‘Henry Varmint Express .17 HMR
‘‘Marlin 39TDS Carbine
‘‘Marlin Model 39A Golden Lever Action
‘‘Marlin Model 39AS Golden Lever-Action
Rifle
‘‘Mossberg Model 464 Rimfire Lever Action
Rifle
‘‘Norinco EM–321 Pump Rifle
‘‘Remington 572BDL Fieldmaster Pump
Rifle
‘‘Rossi Model 62 SA Pump Rifle
‘‘Rossi Model 62 SAC Carbine
‘‘Rossi Model G2 Gallery Rifle
‘‘Ruger Model 96 Lever-Action Rifle
‘‘Taurus Model 62-Pump
‘‘Taurus Model 72 Pump Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 9422 Lever-Action Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 9422 Magnum Lever-Ac-
tion Rifle
‘‘RIMFIRE RIFLES—BOLT ACTIONS & SINGLE
SHOTS
‘‘Anschutz 1416D/1516D Classic Rifles
‘‘Anschutz 1418D/1518D Mannlicher Rifles
‘‘Anschutz 1700 FWT Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1700D Bavarian Bolt-Action
Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1700D Classic Rifles
‘‘Anschutz 1700D Custom Rifles
‘‘Anschutz 1700D Graphite Custom Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1702 D H B Classic
‘‘Anschutz 1713 Silhouette
‘‘Anschutz Achiever
‘‘Anschutz Achiever Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Anschutz All other Bolt Action Rimfire
Models
‘‘Anschutz Kadett
‘‘Anschutz Model 1502 D Classic
‘‘Anschutz Model 1517 D Classic
‘‘Anschutz Model 1517 MPR Multi Purpose
‘‘Anschutz Model 1517 S–BR
‘‘Anschutz Model 1710 D KL
‘‘Anschutz Model 1717 Classic
‘‘Anschutz Model 1717 Silhouette Sporter
‘‘Anschutz Model G4 MPB
‘‘Anschutz Model Woodchucker
‘‘Armscor Model 14P Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Armscor Model 1500 Rifle
‘‘Beeman/HW 60–J–ST Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘BRNO ZKM 452 Deluxe
‘‘BRNO ZKM–456 Lux Sporter
‘‘BRNO ZKM–452 Deluxe Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Browning A-Bolt 22 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Browning A-Bolt Gold Medallion
‘‘Browning T-Bolt Rimfire Rifles
‘‘Cabanas Espronceda IV Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Cabanas Leyre Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Cabanas Master Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Cabanas Phaser Rifle
‘‘Chipmunk Single Shot Rifle
‘‘Cooper Arms Model 36S Sporter Rifle
‘‘Cooper Model 57–M Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘CZ 452 Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Dakota 22 Sporter Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Davey Crickett Single Shot Rifle
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Sportster
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Sportster 17
Hornady Magnum Rimfire
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Sportster Com-
pact
‘‘Henry ‘Mini’ Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Henry Acu-Bolt .22
‘‘Henry Mini Bolt Youth .22
‘‘Kimber Bolt Action .22 Rifles
‘‘Krico Model 300 Bolt-Action Rifles
‘‘Lakefield Arms Mark I Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Lakefield Arms Mark II Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Magtech Model MT Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Magtech Model MT–22C Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 15YN ‘Little Buckaroo’
‘‘Marlin Model 25MN Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 25N Bolt-Action Repeater
‘‘Marlin Model 880 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 881 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 882 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 883 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 883SS Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 915 YN ‘Little Buckaroo’
‘‘Marlin Model 915Y (Compact)
‘‘Marlin Model 915YS (Compact)
‘‘Marlin Model 917
‘‘Marlin Model 917S
‘‘Marlin Model 917V
‘‘Marlin Model 917VR
‘‘Marlin Model 917VS
‘‘Marlin Model 917VS–CF
‘‘Marlin Model 917VSF
‘‘Marlin Model 917VST
‘‘Marlin Model 917VT
‘‘Marlin Model 925
‘‘Marlin Model 925C
‘‘Marlin Model 925M
‘‘Marlin Model 925R
‘‘Marlin Model 925RM
‘‘Marlin Model 980S
‘‘Marlin Model 980S–CF
‘‘Marlin Model 981T
‘‘Marlin Model 982 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 982VS
‘‘Marlin Model 982VS–CF
‘‘Marlin Model 983
‘‘Marlin Model 983S
‘‘Marlin Model 983T
‘‘Marlin Model XT–17 Series Bolt Action
Rifles
‘‘Marlin Model XT–22 Series Bolt Action
Rifles
‘‘Mauser Model 107 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Mauser Model 201 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Meacham Low-Wall Rifle
‘‘Mossberg Model 801/802 Bolt Rifles
‘‘Mossberg Model 817 Varmint Bolt Action
Rifle
‘‘Navy Arms TU–33/40 Carbine
‘‘Navy Arms TU–KKW Sniper Trainer
‘‘Navy Arms TU–KKW Training Rifle
‘‘New England Firearms Sportster Single
Shot Rifles
‘‘Norinco JW–15 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Norinco JW–27 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Remington 40–XR Rimfire Custom
Sporter
‘‘Remington 541–T
‘‘Remington 541–T HB Bolt-Action
‘‘Rifle Remington 581–S Sportsman Rifle
‘‘Remington Model Five
‘‘Remington Model Five Youth
‘‘Rossi Matched Pair Single Shot Rifle
‘‘Ruger 77/17
‘‘Ruger 77/22
‘‘Ruger 77/22 Rimfire Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Ruger 77/44
‘‘Ruger K77/22 Varmint Rifle
‘‘Savage CUB T Mini Youth
‘‘Savage Mark I–G Bolt Action
‘‘Savage Mark II Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Savage Model 30 G Stevens Favorite
‘‘Savage Model 93 Rifles
‘‘Thompson/Center Hotshot Youth Rifle
‘‘Ultra Light Arms Model 20 RF Bolt-Ac-
tion Rifle
‘‘Winchester Model 52B Sporting Rifle
‘‘Winchester Wildcat Bolt Action Rifle 22
‘‘COMPETITION RIFLES—CENTERFIRE &
RIMFIRE
‘‘Anschutz 1803D Intermediate Match
‘‘Anschutz 1808D RT Super Match 54 Target
‘‘Anschutz 1827B Biathlon Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1827BT Fortner Biathlon Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1903 Rifles
‘‘Anschutz 1903D Match Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1907 Match Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1910 Super Match II
‘‘Anschutz 1911 Match Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 1912 Rifles
‘‘Anschutz 1913 Super Match Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 54.18MS REP Deluxe Silhouette
Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 54.18MS Silhouette Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 64 MP R Silhouette Rifle
‘‘Anschutz 64–MS Left Silhouette
‘‘Anschutz Super Match 54 Target Model
2007
‘‘Anschutz Super Match 54 Target Model
2013
‘‘Beeman/Feinwerkbau 2600 Target Rifle
‘‘Cooper Arms Model TRP–1 ISU Standard
Rifle
‘‘E.A.A./HW 60 Target Rifle
‘‘E.A.A./HW 660 Match Rifle
‘‘E.A.A./Weihrauch HW 60 Target Rifle
‘‘Ed Brown Model 704, M40A2 Marine Snip-
er
‘‘Finnish Lion Standard Target Rifle
‘‘Krico Model 360 S2 Biathlon Rifle
‘‘Krico Model 360S Biathlon Rifle
‘‘Krico Model 400 Match Rifle
‘‘Krico Model 500 Kricotronic Match Rifle
‘‘Krico Model 600 Match Rifle
‘‘Krico Model 600 Sniper Rifle
‘‘Lakefield Arms Model 90B Target Rifle
‘‘Lakefield Arms Model 91T Target Rifle
‘‘Lakefield Arms Model 92S Silhouette
Rifle
‘‘Marlin Model 2000 Target Rifle
‘‘Mauser Model 86–SR Specialty Rifle
‘‘McMillan 300 Phoenix Long Range Rifle
‘‘McMillan Long Range Rifle
‘‘McMillan M–86 Sniper Rifle
‘‘McMillan M–89 Sniper Rifle
‘‘McMillan National Match Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale M–85 Sniper Rifle
‘‘Parker-Hale M–87 Target Rifle
‘‘Remington 40–X Bolt Action Rifles
‘‘Remington 40–XB Rangemaster Target
Centerfire
‘‘Remington 40–XBBR KS
‘‘Remington 40–XC KS National Match
Course Rifle
‘‘Remington 40–XR KS Rimfire Position
Rifle
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00070 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6121
October 23, 2019
‘‘Sako TRG–21 Bolt-Action Rifle
‘‘Sako TRG–22 Bolt Action Rifle
‘‘Springfield Armory M–1 Garand
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher SSG Rifles
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher Match SPG–UIT Rifle
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher SSG P–I Rifle
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher SSG P–II Rifle
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher SSG P–III Rifle
‘‘Steyr-Mannlicher SSG P–IV Rifle
‘‘Tanner 300 Meter Free Rifle
‘‘Tanner 50 Meter Free Rifle
‘‘Tanner Standard UIT Rifle
‘‘Time Precision 22RF Bench Rifle
‘‘Wichita Silhouette Rifle
‘‘SHOTGUNS—AUTOLOADERS
‘‘American Arms
‘‘American Arms/Franchi Black Magic 48/
AL
‘‘Benelli Bimillionaire
‘‘Benelli Black Eagle Competition Auto
Shotgun
‘‘Benelli Cordoba
‘‘Benelli Executive Series
‘‘Benelli Legacy Model
‘‘Benelli M1
‘‘Benelli M1 Defense
‘‘Benelli M1 Tactical
‘‘Benelli M1014 Limited Edition
‘‘Benelli M2
‘‘Benelli M2 Field Steady Grip
‘‘Benelli M2 Practical
‘‘Benelli M2 Tactical
‘‘Benelli M2 American Series
‘‘Benelli M3 Convertible
‘‘Benelli M4 Models Vinci Steady Grip
‘‘Benelli Montefeltro Super 90 20-Gauge
Shotgun
‘‘Benelli Montefeltro Super 90 Shotgun
‘‘Benelli Raffaello Series Shotguns
‘‘Benelli Sport Model
‘‘Benelli Super 90 M1 Field Model
‘‘Benelli Super Black Eagle II Models
‘‘Benelli Super Black Eagle II Steady Grip
‘‘Benelli Super Black Eagle Models
‘‘Benelli Super Black Eagle Shotgun
‘‘Benelli Super Black Eagle Slug Gun
‘‘Benelli Super Vinci
‘‘Benelli Supersport
‘‘Benelli Two-Gun Sets
‘‘Benelli Ultralight
‘‘Benelli Vinci
‘‘Beretta 390 Field Auto Shotgun
‘‘Beretta 390 Super Trap, Super Skeet
Shotguns
‘‘Beretta 3901 Citizen
‘‘Beretta 3901 Rifled Slug Gun
‘‘Beretta 3901 Statesman
‘‘Beretta A–303 Auto Shotgun
‘‘Beretta A400 Series
‘‘Beretta AL–2 Models
‘‘Beretta AL–3 Deluxe Trap
‘‘Beretta AL390 Series
‘‘Beretta AL391 Teknys Gold
‘‘Beretta AL391 Teknys Gold Sporting
‘‘Beretta AL391 Teknys Gold Target
‘‘Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Camo AP
‘‘Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Camo Max-4
‘‘Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Classic
‘‘Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Gold
‘‘Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Gold Sporting
‘‘Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Parallel Target SL
‘‘Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Sporting
‘‘Beretta AL391 Urika 2 Synthetic
‘‘Beretta ES100 Pintail Series
‘‘Beretta Model 1200 Field
‘‘Beretta Model 1201F Auto Shotgun
‘‘Beretta Model 300
‘‘Beretta Model 301 Series
‘‘Beretta Model 302 Series
‘‘Beretta Model 60
‘‘Beretta Model 61
‘‘Beretta Model A304 Lark
‘‘Beretta Model AL391 Series
‘‘Beretta Model TX4 Storm
‘‘Beretta Silver Lark
‘‘Beretta UGB25 Xcel
‘‘Beretta Vittoria Auto Shotgun
‘‘Beretta Xtrema2
‘‘Breda Altair
‘‘Breda Altair Special
‘‘Breda Aries 2
‘‘Breda Astro
‘‘Breda Astrolux
‘‘Breda Echo
‘‘Breda Ermes Series
‘‘Breda Gold Series
‘‘Breda Grizzly
‘‘Breda Mira
‘‘Breda Standard Series
‘‘Breda Xanthos
‘‘Brolin BL–12
‘‘Brolin SAS–12
‘‘Browning A–500G Auto Shotgun
‘‘Browning A–500G Sporting Clays
‘‘Browning A–500R Auto Shotgun
‘‘Browning Auto-5 Light 12 and 20
‘‘Browning Auto-5 Magnum 12
‘‘Browning Auto-5 Magnum 20
‘‘Browning Auto-5 Stalker
‘‘Browning B2000 Series
‘‘Browning BSA 10 Auto Shotgun
‘‘Browning BSA 10 Stalker Auto Shotgun
‘‘Browning Gold Series
‘‘Browning Maxus Series
‘‘Charles Daly Field Grade Series
‘‘Charles Daly Novamatic Series
‘‘Charles Daly Tactical
‘‘Churchill Regent
‘‘Churchill Standard Model
‘‘Churchill Turkey Automatic Shotgun
‘‘Churchill Windsor
‘‘Cosmi Automatic Shotgun
‘‘CZ 712
‘‘CZ 720
‘‘CZ 912
‘‘Escort Escort Series
‘‘European American Armory (EAA)
Bundra Series
‘‘Fabarms Ellegi Series
‘‘Fabarms Lion Series
‘‘Fabarms Tactical
‘‘FNH USA Model SLP
‘‘Franchi 610VS
‘‘Franchi 612 Series
‘‘Franchi 620
‘‘Franchi 712
‘‘Franchi 720
‘‘Franchi 912
‘‘Franchi AL 48
‘‘Franchi AL 48 Series
‘‘Franchi Elite
‘‘Franchi I–12 Inertia Series
‘‘Franchi Prestige
‘‘H&K Model 512
‘‘H&R Manufrance
‘‘H&R Model 403
‘‘Hi-Standard 10A
‘‘Hi-Standard 10B
‘‘Hi-Standard Semi Automatic Model
‘‘Hi-Standard Supermatic Series
‘‘Ithaca Mag-10
‘‘Ithaca Model 51 Series
‘‘LaSalle Semi-automatic
‘‘Ljutic Bi-matic Autoloader
‘‘Luger Ultra-light Model
‘‘Marlin SI 12 Series
‘‘Maverick Model 60 Auto Shotgun
‘‘Model AL–1
‘‘Mossberg 1000
‘‘Mossberg Model 600 Auto Shotgun
‘‘Mossberg Model 930 All-Purpose Field
‘‘Mossberg Model 930 Slugster
‘‘Mossberg Model 930 Turkey
‘‘Mossberg Model 930 Waterfowl
‘‘Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Combos
‘‘Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Flyway Se-
ries Waterfowl
‘‘Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Grand Slam
Series Turkey
‘‘Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Turkey
‘‘Mossberg Model 935 Magnum Waterfowl
‘‘New England Firearms Excell Auto
Combo
‘‘New England Firearms Excell Auto Syn-
thetic
‘‘New England Firearms Excell Auto Tur-
key
‘‘New England Firearms Excell Auto Wal-
nut
‘‘New England Firearms Excell Auto Wa-
terfowl
‘‘Nighthawk Tactical Semi-auto
‘‘Ottomanguns Sultan Series
‘‘Remington 105Ti Series
‘‘Remington 1100 20-Gauge Deer Gun
‘‘Remington 1100 LT–20 Auto
‘‘Remington 1100 LT–20 Tournament Skeet
‘‘Remington 1100 Special Field
‘‘Remington 11–48 Series
‘‘Remington 11–96 Series
‘‘Remington Model 105 Cti
‘‘Remington Model 11 Series
‘‘Remington Model 1100 Classic Trap
‘‘Remington Model 1100 Competition
‘‘Remington Model 1100 G3
‘‘Remington Model 1100 G3
‘‘Remington Model 1100 Series
‘‘Remington Model 1100 Shotgun
‘‘Remington Model 1100 Sporting Series
‘‘Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Camo
‘‘Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Super
Mag Synthetic
‘‘Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Super
Mag Waterfowl
‘‘Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Syn-
thetic
‘‘Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Youth
‘‘Remington Model 11–87 Sportsman Youth
Synthetic
‘‘Remington Model 48 Series
‘‘Remington Model 58 Series
‘‘Remington Model 870 Classic Trap
‘‘Remington Model 878A Automaster
‘‘Remington Model SP–10 Magnum Satin
‘‘Remington Model SP–10 Waterfowl
‘‘Remington Model SPR453
‘‘Remington Versa-Max Series
‘‘Savage Model 720
‘‘Savage Model 726
‘‘Savage Model 740C Skeet Gun
‘‘Savage Model 745
‘‘Savage Model 755 Series
‘‘Savage Model 775 Series
‘‘Scattergun Technologies K–9
‘‘Scattergun Technologies SWAT
‘‘Scattergun Technologies Urban Sniper
Model
‘‘SKB 1300 Upland
‘‘SKB 1900
‘‘SKB 300 Series
‘‘SKB 900 Series
‘‘SKS 3000
‘‘Smith & Wesson Model 1000
‘‘Smith & Wesson Model 1012 Series
‘‘Spartan Gun Works SPR453
‘‘TOZ Model H–170
‘‘Tri-Star Diana Series
‘‘Tri-Star Phantom Series
‘‘Tri-Star Viper Series
‘‘Tula Arms Plant TOZ 87
‘‘Verona 401 Series
‘‘Verona 405 Series
‘‘Verona 406 Series
‘‘Verona SX801 Series
‘‘Weatherby Centurion Series
‘‘Weatherby Field Grade
‘‘Weatherby Model 82
‘‘Weatherby SA–08 Series
‘‘Weatherby SA–459 TR
‘‘Weatherby SAS Series
‘‘Winchester 1500
‘‘Winchester Model 50
‘‘Winchester Model 59
‘‘Winchester Super X1 Series
‘‘Winchester Super X2 Series
‘‘Winchester Super X3 Series
‘‘SHOTGUNS—SLIDE ACTIONS
‘‘ADCO Diamond Grade
‘‘ADCO Diamond Series Shotguns
‘‘ADCO Mariner Model
‘‘ADCO Sales Inc. Gold Elite Series
‘‘Armscor M–30 Series
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00071 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6122 October 23, 2019
‘‘Armscor M–5
‘‘Baikal IZH–81
‘‘Baikal MP133
‘‘Benelli Nova Series
‘‘Benelli Supernova Series
‘‘Beretta Ariete Standard
‘‘Beretta Gold Pigeon Pump
‘‘Beretta Model SL–12
‘‘Beretta Ruby Pigeon Pump
‘‘Beretta Silver Pigeon Pump
‘‘Brolin Field Series
‘‘Brolin Lawman Model
‘‘Brolin Slug Special
‘‘Brolin Slugmaster
‘‘Brolin Turkey Master
‘‘Browning BPS Game Gun Deer Special
‘‘Browning BPS Game Gun Turkey Special
‘‘Browning BPS Pigeon Grade Pump Shot-
gun
‘‘Browning BPS Pump Shotgun
‘‘Browning BPS Pump Shotgun (Ladies and
Youth Model)
‘‘Browning BPS Series Pump Shotgun
‘‘Browning BPS Stalker Pump Shotgun
‘‘Browning Model 12 Limited Edition Se-
ries
‘‘Browning Model 42 Pump Shotgun
‘‘Century IJ12 Slide Action
‘‘Century Ultra 87 Slide Action
‘‘Charles Daly Field Hunter
‘‘Ducks Unlimited Dinner Guns
‘‘EAA Model PM2
‘‘Escort Field Series
‘‘Fort Worth Firearms GL18
‘‘H&R Pardner Pump
‘‘Hi-Standard Flite-King Series
‘‘Hi-Standard Model 200
‘‘Interstate Arms Model 981
‘‘Interstate Arms Model 982T
‘‘Ithaca Deerslayer II Rifled Shotgun
‘‘Ithaca Model 87 Deerslayer Shotgun
‘‘Ithaca Model 87 Deluxe Pump Shotgun
‘‘Ithaca Model 87 Series Shotguns
‘‘Ithaca Model 87 Supreme Pump Shotgun
‘‘Ithaca Model 87 Turkey Gun
‘‘Magtech Model 586–VR Pump Shotgun
‘‘Maverick Models 88, 91 Pump Shotguns
‘‘Mossberg 200 Series Shotgun
‘‘Mossberg 3000 Pump shotgun
‘‘Mossberg 535 ATS Series Pump Shotguns
‘‘Mossberg Field Grade Model 835 Pump
Shotgun
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 All Purpose Field
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Bantam
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Bantam Combo
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Bantam Pump
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Camo Pump
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Combos
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Flyway Series Water-
fowl
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Grand Slam Series
Turkey
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Muzzleloader
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Muzzleloader Combo
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Series Pump Shot-
guns
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Slugster
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Sporting Pump
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Super Bantam All
Purpose Field
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Super Bantam Combo
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Super Bantam Slug
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Super Bantam Tur-
key
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Trophy Slugster
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Turkey
‘‘Mossberg Model 500 Waterfowl
‘‘Mossberg Model 505 Series Pump Shot-
guns
‘‘Mossberg Model 505 Youth All Purpose
Field
‘‘Mossberg Model 535 ATS All Purpose
Field
‘‘Mossberg Model 535 ATS Combos
‘‘Mossberg Model 535 ATS Slugster
‘‘Mossberg Model 535 ATS Turkey
‘‘Mossberg Model 535 ATS Waterfowl
‘‘Mossberg Model 835 Regal Ulti-Mag Pump
‘‘Mossberg Model 835 Series Pump Shot-
guns
‘‘Mossberg Model 835 Ulti-Mag
‘‘Mossberg Turkey Model 500 Pump
‘‘National Wild Turkey Federation (NWTF)
Banquet/Guns of the Year
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump
Combo
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump
Field
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump
Slug Gun
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump
Synthetic
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump
Turkey Gun
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump
Walnut
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump-
Compact Field
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump-
Compact Synthetic
‘‘New England Firearms Pardner Pump-
Compact Walnut
‘‘Norinco Model 98 Field Series
‘‘Norinco Model 983
‘‘Norinco Model 984
‘‘Norinco Model 985
‘‘Norinco Model 987
‘‘Orvis Grand Vazir Series
‘‘Quail Unlimited Limited Edition Pump
Shotguns
‘‘Remington 870 Express
‘‘Remington 870 Express Rifle Sighted Deer
Gun
‘‘Remington 870 Express Series Pump Shot-
guns
‘‘Remington 870 Express Turkey
‘‘Remington 870 High Grade Series
‘‘Remington 870 High Grades
‘‘Remington 870 Marine Magnum
‘‘Remington 870 Special Field
‘‘Remington 870 Special Purpose Deer Gun
‘‘Remington 870 Special Purpose Synthetic
Camo
‘‘Remington 870 SPS Special Purpose Mag-
num
‘‘Remington 870 SPS–BG–Camo Deer/Tur-
key Shotgun
‘‘Remington 870 SPS–Deer Shotgun
‘‘Remington 870 SPS–T Camo Pump Shot-
gun
‘‘Remington 870 TC Trap
‘‘Remington 870 Wingmaster
‘‘Remington 870 Wingmaster Series
‘‘Remington 870 Wingmaster Small Gauges
‘‘Remington Model 11–87 XCS Super Mag-
num Waterfowl
‘‘Remington Model 870 Ducks Unlimited
Series Dinner Pump Shotguns
‘‘Remington Model 870 Express
‘‘Remington Model 870 Express JR.
‘‘Remington Model 870 Express Shurshot
Synthetic Cantilever
‘‘Remington Model 870 Express Super Mag-
num
‘‘Remington Model 870 Express Synthetic
‘‘Remington Model 870 Express Youth Gun
‘‘Remington Model 870 Express Youth Syn-
thetic
‘‘Remington Model 870 SPS Shurshot Syn-
thetic Cantilever
‘‘Remington Model 870 SPS Shurshot Syn-
thetic Turkey
‘‘Remington Model 870 SPS Special Pur-
pose Magnum Series Pump Shotguns
‘‘Remington Model 870 SPS Super Mag Max
Gobbler
‘‘Remington Model 870 XCS Marine Mag-
num
‘‘Remington Model 870 XCS Super Magnum
‘‘Winchester 12 Commercial Riot Gun
‘‘Winchester 97 Commercial Riot Gun
‘‘Winchester Model 12 Pump Shotgun
‘‘Winchester Model 120 Ranger
‘‘Winchester Model 1200 Series Shotgun
‘‘Winchester Model 1300 Ranger Pump Gun
‘‘Winchester Model 1300 Ranger Pump Gun
Combo & Deer Gun
‘‘Winchester Model 1300 Series Shotgun
‘‘Winchester Model 1300 Slug Hunter Deer
Gun
‘‘Winchester Model 1300 Turkey Gun
‘‘Winchester Model 1300 Walnut Pump
‘‘Winchester Model 42 High Grade Shotgun
‘‘Winchester Speed Pump Defender
‘‘Winchester SXP Series Pump Shotgun
‘‘Zoli Pump Action Shotgun
‘‘SHOTGUNS—OVER/UNDERS
‘‘ADCO Sales Diamond Series Shotguns
‘‘American Arms/Franchi Falconet 2000 O/
U
‘‘American Arms Lince
‘‘American Arms Silver I O/U
‘‘American Arms Silver II Shotgun
‘‘American Arms Silver Skeet O/U
‘‘American Arms Silver Sporting O/U
‘‘American Arms Silver Trap O/U
‘‘American Arms WS/OU 12, TS/OU 12 Shot-
guns
‘‘American Arms WT/OU 10 Shotgun
‘‘American Arms/Franchi Sporting 2000 O/U
‘‘Armsport 2700 O/U Goose Gun
‘‘Armsport 2700 Series O/U
‘‘Armsport 2900 Tri-Barrel Shotgun
‘‘AYA Augusta
‘‘AYA Coral A
‘‘AYA Coral B
‘‘AYA Excelsior
‘‘AYA Model 37 Super
‘‘AYA Model 77
‘‘AYA Model 79 Series
‘‘Baby Bretton Over/Under Shotgun
‘‘Baikal IZH27
‘‘Baikal MP310
‘‘Baikal MP333
‘‘Baikal MP94
‘‘Beretta 90 DE LUXE
‘‘Beretta 682 Gold E Skeet
‘‘Beretta 682 Gold E Trap
‘‘Beretta 682 Gold E Trap Bottom Single
‘‘Beretta 682 Series
‘‘Beretta 682 Super Sporting O/U
‘‘Beretta 685 Series
‘‘Beretta 686 Series
‘‘Beretta 686 White Onyx
‘‘Beretta 686 White Onyx Sporting
‘‘Beretta 687 EELL Classic
‘‘Beretta 687 EELL Diamond Pigeon
‘‘Beretta 687 EELL Diamond Pigeon Sport-
ing
‘‘Beretta 687 series
‘‘Beretta 687EL Sporting O/U
‘‘Beretta Alpha Series
‘‘Beretta America Standard
‘‘Beretta AS
‘‘Beretta ASE 90 Competition O/U Shotgun
‘‘Beretta ASE 90 Gold Skeet
‘‘Beretta ASE Gold
‘‘Beretta ASE Series
‘‘Beretta ASEL
‘‘Beretta BL Sereis
‘‘Beretta DT10 Series
‘‘Beretta DT10 Trident EELL
‘‘Beretta DT10 Trident L Sporting
‘‘Beretta DT10 Trident Skeet
‘‘Beretta DT10 Trident Sporting
‘‘Beretta DT10 Trident Trap Combo
‘‘Beretta Europa
‘‘Beretta Field Shotguns
‘‘Beretta Gamma Series
‘‘Beretta Giubileo
‘‘Beretta Grade Four
‘‘Beretta Grade One
‘‘Beretta Grade Three
‘‘Beretta Grade Two
‘‘Beretta Milano
‘‘Beretta Model 686 Ultralight O/U
‘‘Beretta Model SO5, SO6, SO9 Shotguns
‘‘Beretta Onyx Hunter Sport O/U Shotgun
‘‘Beretta Over/Under Field Shotguns
‘‘Beretta Royal Pigeon
‘‘Beretta S56 Series
‘‘Beretta S58 Series
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00072 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6123
October 23, 2019
‘‘Beretta Series 682 Competition Over/
Unders
‘‘Beretta Silver Pigeon II
‘‘Beretta Silver Pigeon II Sporting
‘‘Beretta Silver Pigeon III
‘‘Beretta Silver Pigeon III Sporting
‘‘Beretta Silver Pigeon IV
‘‘Beretta Silver Pigeon S
‘‘Beretta Silver Pigeon V
‘‘Beretta Silver Snipe
‘‘Beretta Skeet Set
‘‘Beretta SO–1
‘‘Beretta SO–2
‘‘Beretta SO–3
‘‘Beretta SO–4
‘‘Beretta SO5
‘‘Beretta SO6 EELL
‘‘Beretta SO–10
‘‘Beretta SO10 EELL
‘‘Beretta Sporting Clay Shotguns
‘‘Beretta SV10 Perennia
‘‘Beretta Ultralight
‘‘Beretta Ultralight Deluxe
‘‘Bertuzzi Zeus
‘‘Bertuzzi Zeus Series
‘‘Beschi Boxlock Model
‘‘Big Bear Arms IJ–39
‘‘Big Bear Arms Sterling Series
‘‘Big Bear IJ–27
‘‘Blaser F3 Series
‘‘Bosis Challenger Titanium
‘‘Bosis Laura
‘‘Bosis Michaelangelo
‘‘Bosis Wild Series
‘‘Boss Custom Over/Under Shotguns
‘‘Boss Merlin
‘‘Boss Pendragon
‘‘Breda Pegaso Series
‘‘Breda Sirio Standard
‘‘Breda Vega Series
‘‘Bretton Baby Standard
‘‘Bretton Sprint Deluxe
‘‘BRNO 500/501
‘‘BRNO 502
‘‘BRNO 801 Series
‘‘BRNO 802 Series
‘‘BRNO BS–571
‘‘BRNO BS–572
‘‘BRNO ZH–300
‘‘BRNO ZH–301
‘‘BRNO ZH–302
‘‘BRNO ZH–303
‘‘Browning 325 Sporting Clays
‘‘Browning 625 Series
‘‘Browning 725 Series
‘‘Browning B–25 Series
‘‘Browning B–26 Series
‘‘Browning B–27 Series
‘‘Browning B–125 Custom Shop Series
‘‘Browning Citori 525 Series
‘‘Browning Citori GTI Sporting Clays
‘‘Browning Citori Lightning Series
‘‘Browning Citori O/U Shotgun
‘‘Browning Citori O/U Skeet Models
‘‘Browning Citori O/U Trap Models
‘‘Browning Citori Plus Trap Combo
‘‘Browning Citori Plus Trap Gun
‘‘Browning Cynergy Series
‘‘Browning Diana Grade
‘‘Browning Lightning Sporting Clays
‘‘Browning Micro Citori Lightning
‘‘Browning Midas Grade
‘‘Browning Special Sporting Clays
‘‘Browning Sporter Model
‘‘Browning ST–100
‘‘Browning Superlight Citori Over/Under
‘‘Browning Superlight Citori Series
‘‘Browning Superlight Feather
‘‘Browning Superposed Pigeon Grade
‘‘Browning Superposed Standard
‘‘BSA Falcon
‘‘BSA O/U
‘‘BSA Silver Eagle
‘‘Cabela’s Volo
‘‘Caprinus Sweden Model
‘‘Centurion Over/Under Shotgun
‘‘Century Arms Arthemis
‘‘Chapuis Over/Under Shotgun
‘‘Charles Daly Country Squire Model
‘‘Charles Daly Deluxe Model
‘‘Charles Daly Diamond Series
‘‘Charles Daly Empire Series
‘‘Charles Daly Field Grade O/U
‘‘Charles Daly Lux Over/Under
‘‘Charles Daly Maxi-Mag
‘‘Charles Daly Model 105
‘‘Charles Daly Model 106
‘‘Charles Daly Model 206
‘‘Charles Daly Over/Under Shotguns, Japa-
nese Manufactured
‘‘Charles Daly Over/Under Shotguns, Prus-
sian Manufactured
‘‘Charles Daly Presentation Model
‘‘Charles Daly Sporting Clays Model
‘‘Charles Daly Superior Model
‘‘Charles Daly UL
‘‘Churchill Imperial Model
‘‘Churchill Monarch
‘‘Churchill Premiere Model
‘‘Churchill Regent Trap and Skeet
‘‘Churchill Regent V
‘‘Churchill Sporting Clays
‘‘Churchill Windsor III
‘‘Churchill Windsor IV
‘‘Classic Doubles Model 101 Series
‘‘Cogswell & Harrison Woodward Type
‘‘Connecticut Shotgun Company A.
Galazan Model
‘‘Connecticut Shotgun Company A–10
American
‘‘Connecticut Valley Classics Classic Field
Waterfowler
‘‘Connecticut Valley Classics Classic
Sporter O/U
‘‘Continental Arms Centaure Series
‘‘Cortona Over/Under Shotguns
‘‘CZ 581 Solo
‘‘CZ Canvasback 103D
‘‘CZ Limited Edition
‘‘CZ Mallard 104A
‘‘CZ Redhead Deluxe 103FE
‘‘CZ Sporting
‘‘CZ Super Scroll Limited Edition
‘‘CZ Upland Ultralight
‘‘CZ Wingshooter
‘‘Dakin Arms Model 170
‘‘Darne SB1
‘‘Darne SB2
‘‘Darne SB3
‘‘Depar ATAK
‘‘Doumoulin Superposed Express
‘‘Ducks Unlimited Dinner Guns/Guns of the
Year, Over/Under Models
‘‘Dumoulin Boss Royal Superposed
‘‘E.A.A. Falcon
‘‘E.A.A. Scirocco Series
‘‘E.A.A./Sabatti Falcon-Mon Over/Under
‘‘E.A.A./Sabatti Sporting Clays Pro-Gold
O/U
‘‘ERA Over/Under
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Aries
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli
Castrone
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Dove
Gun
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli
Excaliber Series
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Jorema
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli
Leonardo
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Pegasus
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Posiden
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Quail
Gun
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Royal
‘‘Famars di Abbiatico & Salvinelli Royale
‘‘Fausti Boutique Series
‘‘Fausti Caledon Series
‘‘Fausti Class Series
‘‘Ferlib Boss Model
‘‘Finnclassic 512 Series
‘‘Franchi 2004 Trap
‘‘Franchi 2005 Combination Trap
‘‘Franchi Alcione Series
‘‘Franchi Aristocrat Series
‘‘Franchi Black Majic
‘‘Franchi Falconet Series
‘‘Franchi Instict Series
‘‘Franchi Model 2003 Trap
‘‘Franchi Renaissance Series
‘‘Franchi Sporting 2000
‘‘Franchi Undergun Model 3000
‘‘Franchi Veloce Series
‘‘Galef Golden Snipe
‘‘Galef Silver Snipe
‘‘Golden Eagle Model 5000 Series
‘‘Griffon & Howe Black Ram
‘‘Griffon & Howe Broadway
‘‘Griffon & Howe Claremont
‘‘Griffon & Howe Madison
‘‘Griffon & Howe Silver Ram
‘‘Griffon & Howe Superbrite
‘‘Guerini Apex Series
‘‘Guerini Challenger Sporting
‘‘Guerini Ellipse Evo
‘‘Guerini Ellipse Evolution Sporting
‘‘Guerini Ellipse Limited
‘‘Guerini Essex Field
‘‘Guerini Flyaway
‘‘Guerini Forum Series
‘‘Guerini Magnus Series
‘‘Guerini Maxum Series
‘‘Guerini Summit Series
‘‘Guerini Tempio
‘‘Guerini Woodlander
‘‘H&R Harrich #1
‘‘H&R Model 1212
‘‘H&R Model 1212WF
‘‘H&R Pinnacle
‘‘Hatfields Hatfield Model 1 of 100
‘‘Heym Model 55 F
‘‘Heym Model 55 SS
‘‘Heym Model 200
‘‘Holland & Holland Royal Series
‘‘Holland & Holland Sporting Model
‘‘IGA 2000 Series
‘‘IGA Hunter Series
‘‘IGA Trap Series
‘‘IGA Turkey Series
‘‘IGA Waterfowl Series
‘‘K.F.C. E–2 Trap/Skeet
‘‘K.F.C. Field Gun
‘‘Kassnar Grade I O/U Shotgun
‘‘KDF Condor Khan Arthemis Field/Deluxe
‘‘Kimber Augusta Series
‘‘Kimber Marias Series
‘‘Krieghoff K–80 Four-Barrel Skeet Set
‘‘Krieghoff K–80 International Skeet
‘‘Krieghoff K–80 O/U Trap Shotgun
‘‘Krieghoff K–80 Skeet Shotgun
‘‘Krieghoff K–80 Sporting Clays O/U
‘‘Krieghoff K–80/RT Shotguns
‘‘Krieghoff Model 20 Sporting/Field
‘‘Krieghoff Model 32 Series
‘‘Lames Field Model
‘‘Lames Skeet Model
‘‘Lames Standard Model
‘‘Lames California Model
‘‘Laurona Model 67
‘‘Laurona Model 82 Series
‘‘Laurona Model 83 Series
‘‘Laurona Model 84 Series
‘‘Laurona Model 85 Series
‘‘Laurona Model 300 Series
‘‘Laurona Silhouette 300 Sporting Clays
‘‘Laurona Silhouette 300 Trap
‘‘Laurona Super Model Over/Unders
‘‘Lebeau Baron Series
‘‘Lebeau Boss Verres
‘‘Lebeau Boxlock with sideplates
‘‘Lebeau Sidelock
‘‘Lebeau Versailles
‘‘Lippard Custom Over/Under Shotguns
‘‘Ljutic LM–6 Deluxe O/U Shotgun
‘‘Longthorne Hesketh Game Gun
‘‘Longthorne Sporter
‘‘Marlin Model 90
‘‘Marocchi Avanza O/U Shotgun
‘‘Marocchi Conquista Over/Under Shotgun
‘‘Marocchi Conquista Series
‘‘Marocchi Model 100
‘‘Marocchi Model 99
‘‘Maverick HS–12 Tactical
‘‘Maverick Hunter Field Model
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00073 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6124 October 23, 2019
‘‘McMillan Over/Under Sidelock
‘‘Merkel 201 Series
‘‘Merkel 2016 Series
‘‘Merkel 2116 EL Sidelock
‘‘Merkel 303EL Luxus
‘‘Merkel Model 100
‘‘Merkel Model 101
‘‘Merkel Model 101E
‘‘Merkel Model 200E O/U Shotgun
‘‘Merkel Model 200E Skeet, Trap Over/
Unders
‘‘Merkel Model 200SC Sporting Clays
‘‘Merkel Model 203E, 303E Over/Under Shot-
guns
‘‘Merkel Model 204E
‘‘Merkel Model 210
‘‘Merkel Model 301
‘‘Merkel Model 302
‘‘Merkel Model 304E
‘‘Merkel Model 310E
‘‘Merkel Model 400
‘‘Merkel Model 400E
‘‘Merkel Model 2000 Series
‘‘Mossberg Onyx Reserve Field
‘‘Mossberg Onyx Reserve Sporting
‘‘Mossberg Silver Reserve Field
‘‘Mossberg Silver Reserve Series
‘‘Mossberg Silver Reserve Sporting
‘‘Norinco Type HL12–203
‘‘Omega Standard Over/Under Model
‘‘Orvis Field
‘‘Orvis Knockabout
‘‘Orvis Premier Grade
‘‘Orvis SKB Green Mountain Uplander
‘‘Orvis Sporting Clays
‘‘Orvis Super Field
‘‘Orvis Uplander
‘‘Orvis Waterfowler
‘‘Pederson Model 1000 Series
‘‘Pederson Model 1500 Series
‘‘Perazzi Boxlock Action Hunting
‘‘Perazzi Competition Series
‘‘Perazzi Electrocibles
‘‘Perazzi Granditalia
‘‘Perazzi Mirage Special Four-Gauge Skeet
‘‘Perazzi Mirage Special Skeet Over/Under
‘‘Perazzi Mirage Special Sporting O/U
‘‘Perazzi MS80
‘‘Perazzi MT–6
‘‘Perazzi MX1/MX2
‘‘Perazzi MX3
‘‘Perazzi MX4
‘‘Perazzi MX5
‘‘Perazzi MX6
‘‘Perazzi MX7 Over/Under Shotguns
‘‘Perazzi MX8/20 Over/Under Shotgun
‘‘Perazzi MX8/MX8 Special Trap, Skeet
‘‘Perazzi MX9 Single Over/Under Shotguns
‘‘Perazzi MX10
‘‘Perazzi MX11
‘‘Perazzi MX12 Hunting Over/Under
‘‘Perazzi MX14
‘‘Perazzi MX16
‘‘Perazzi MX20 Hunting Over/Under
‘‘Perazzi MX28, MX410 Game O/U Shotguns
‘‘Perazzi MX2000
‘‘Perazzi MX2005
‘‘Perazzi MX2008
‘‘Perazzi Sidelock Action Hunting
‘‘Perazzi Sporting Classic O/U
‘‘Perugini Maestro Series
‘‘Perugini Michelangelo
‘‘Perugini Nova Boss
‘‘Pietro Zanoletti Model 2000 Field O/U
‘‘Piotti Boss Over/Under Shotgun
‘‘Pointer Italian Model
‘‘Pointer Turkish Model
‘‘Remington 396 Series
‘‘Remington 3200 Series
‘‘Remington Model 32 Series
‘‘Remington Model 300 Ideal
‘‘Remington Model 332 Series
‘‘Remington Model SPR310
‘‘Remington Model SPR310N
‘‘Remington Model SPR310S
‘‘Remington Peerless Over/Under Shotgun
‘‘Remington Premier Field
‘‘Remington Premier Ruffed Grouse
‘‘Remington Premier Series
‘‘Remington Premier STS Competition
‘‘Remington Premier Upland
‘‘Richland Arms Model 41
‘‘Richland Arms Model 747
‘‘Richland Arms Model 757
‘‘Richland Arms Model 787
‘‘Richland Arms Model 808
‘‘Richland Arms Model 810
‘‘Richland Arms Model 828
‘‘Rigby 401 Sidelock
‘‘Rota Model 650
‘‘Rota Model 72 Series
‘‘Royal American Model 100
‘‘Ruger Red Label O/U Shotgun
‘‘Ruger Sporting Clays O/U Shotgun
‘‘Ruger Woodside Shotgun
‘‘Rutten Model RM 100
‘‘Rutten Model RM285
‘‘S.I.A.C.E. Evolution
‘‘S.I.A.C.E. Model 66C
‘‘S.I.A.C.E.600T Lusso EL
‘‘San Marco 10-Ga. O/U Shotgun
‘‘San Marco 12-Ga. Wildflower Shotgun
‘‘San Marco Field Special O/U Shotgun
‘‘Sauer Model 66 Series
‘‘Savage Model 242
‘‘Savage Model 420/430
‘‘Sig Sauer Aurora Series
‘‘Sig Sauer SA–3
‘‘Sig Sauer SA–5
‘‘Silma Model 70 Series
‘‘SKB Model 85 Series
‘‘SKB Model 500 Series
‘‘SKB Model 505 Deluxe Over/Under Shot-
gun
‘‘SKB Model 505 Series
‘‘SKB Model 600 Series
‘‘SKB Model 605 Series
‘‘SKB Model 680 Series
‘‘SKB Model 685 Over/Under Shotgun
‘‘SKB Model 685 Series
‘‘SKB Model 700 Series
‘‘SKB Model 785 Series
‘‘SKB Model 800 Series
‘‘SKB Model 880 Series
‘‘SKB Model 885 Over/Under Trap, Skeet,
Sporting Clays
‘‘SKB Model 885 Series
‘‘SKB Model 5600 Series
‘‘SKB Model 5700 Series
‘‘SKB Model 5800 Series
‘‘SKB Model GC–7 Series
‘‘Spartan SPR310/320
‘‘Stevens Model 240
‘‘Stevens Model 512
‘‘Stoeger/IGA Condor I O/U Shotgun
‘‘Stoeger/IGA ERA 2000 Over/Under Shot-
gun
‘‘Techni-Mec Model 610 Over/Under
‘‘Tikka Model 412S Field Grade Over/Under
‘‘Traditions 350 Series Traditions Classic
Field Series
‘‘Traditions Classic Upland Series
‘‘Traditions Gold Wing Series
‘‘Traditions Real 16 Series
‘‘Tri Star Model 330 Series
‘‘Tri-Star Hunter EX
‘‘Tri-Star Model 300
‘‘Tri-Star Model 333 Series
‘‘Tri-Star Setter Model
‘‘Tri-Star Silver Series
‘‘Tri-Star Sporting Model
‘‘TULA 120
‘‘TULA 200
‘‘TULA TOZ34
‘‘Universal 7112
‘‘Universal 7312
‘‘Universal 7412
‘‘Universal 7712
‘‘Universal 7812
‘‘Universal 7912
‘‘Verona 501 Series
‘‘Verona 680 Series
‘‘Verona 702 Series
‘‘Verona LX692 Series
‘‘Verona LX980 Series
‘‘Weatherby Athena Grade IV O/U Shot-
guns
‘‘Weatherby Athena Grade V Classic Field
O/U
‘‘Weatherby Athena Series
‘‘Weatherby Classic Field Models
‘‘Weatherby II, III Classic Field O/Us
‘‘Weatherby Orion II Classic Sporting
Clays O/U
‘‘Weatherby Orion II series
‘‘Weatherby Orion II Sporting Clays O/U
‘‘Weatherby Orion III Series
‘‘Weatherby Orion O/U Shotguns
‘‘Winchester Model 91
‘‘Winchester Model 96
‘‘Winchester Model 99
‘‘Winchester Model 101 All Models and
Grades
‘‘Winchester Model 1001 O/U Shotgun
‘‘Winchester Model 1001 Series
‘‘Winchester Model 1001 Sporting Clays O/U
‘‘Winchester Model G5500
‘‘Winchester Model G6500
‘‘Winchester Select Series
‘‘Zoli Condor
‘‘Zoli Deluxe Model
‘‘Zoli Dove
‘‘Zoli Field Special
‘‘Zoli Pigeon Model
‘‘Zoli Silver Snipe
‘‘Zoli Snipe
‘‘Zoli Special Model
‘‘Zoli Target Series
‘‘Zoli Texas
‘‘Zoli Z Series
‘‘Zoli Z–90 Series
‘‘Zoli Z-Sport Series
‘‘SHOTGUNS—SIDE BY SIDES
‘‘Armas Azor Sidelock Model
‘‘ADCO Sales Diamond Series Shotguns
‘‘American Arms Brittany Shotgun
‘‘American Arms Derby Side-by-Side
‘‘American Arms Gentry Double Shotgun
‘‘American Arms Grulla #2 Double Shot-
gun
‘‘American Arms TS/SS 10 Double Shotgun
‘‘American Arms TS/SS 12 Side-by-Side
‘‘American Arms WS/SS 10
‘‘Arizaga Model 31 Double Shotgun
‘‘Armes de Chasse Sidelock and Boxlock
Shotguns
‘‘Armsport 1050 Series Double Shotguns
‘‘Arrieta Sidelock Double Shotguns
‘‘Auguste Francotte Boxlock Shotgun
‘‘Auguste Francotte Sidelock Shotgun
‘‘AYA Boxlock Shotguns
‘‘AYA Sidelock Double Shotguns
‘‘Baikal IZH–43 Series Shotguns
‘‘Baikal MP210 Series Shotguns
‘‘Baikal MP213 Series Shotguns
‘‘Baikal MP220 Series Shotguns
‘‘Baker Gun Sidelock Models
‘‘Baltimore Arms Co. Style 1
‘‘Baltimore Arms Co. Style 2
‘‘Bayard Boxlock and Sidelock Model
Shotguns
‘‘Beretta 450 series Shotguns
‘‘Beretta 451 Series Shotguns
‘‘Beretta 452 Series Shotguns
‘‘Beretta 470 Series Shotguns
‘‘Beretta Custom Grade Shotguns
‘‘Beretta Francia Standard
‘‘Beretta Imperiale Montecarlo
‘‘Beretta Model 452 Sidelock Shotgun
‘‘Beretta Omega Standard
‘‘Beretta Side-by-Side Field Shotguns
‘‘Beretta Verona/Bergamo
‘‘Bertuzzi Ariete Hammer Gun
‘‘Bertuzzi Model Orione
‘‘Bertuzzi Venere Series Shotguns
‘‘Beschi Sidelock and Boxlock Models
‘‘Bill Hanus Birdgun Doubles
‘‘Bosis Country SxS
‘‘Bosis Hammer Gun
‘‘Bosis Queen Sidelock
‘‘Boss Robertson SxS
‘‘Boss SxS
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00074 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6125
October 23, 2019
‘‘Boswell Boxlock Model
‘‘Boswell Feartherweight Monarch Grade
‘‘Boswell Merlin Sidelock
‘‘Boswell Sidelock Model
‘‘Breda Andromeda Special
‘‘BRNO ZP Series Shotguns
‘‘Brown SxS Shotgun
‘‘Browning B–SS
‘‘Browning B–SS Belgian/Japanese Proto-
type
‘‘Browning B–SS Sidelock
‘‘Browning B–SS Sporter
‘‘Bruchet Model A
‘‘Bruchet Model B
‘‘BSA Classic
‘‘BSA Royal
‘‘Cabela’s ATA Grade II Custom
‘‘Cabela’s Hemingway Model
‘‘Casartelli Sidelock Model
‘‘Century Coach SxS
‘‘Chapuis RGP Series Shotguns
‘‘Chapuis RP Series Shotguns
‘‘Chapuis Side-by-Side Shotgun
‘‘Chapuis UGP Round Design SxS
‘‘Charles Daly 1974 Wildlife Commemora-
tive
‘‘Charles Daly Classic Coach Gun
‘‘Charles Daly Diamond SxS
‘‘Charles Daly Empire SxS
‘‘Charles Daly Model 306
‘‘Charles Daly Model 500
‘‘Charles Daly Model Dss Double
‘‘Charles Daly Superior SxS
‘‘Churchill Continental Series Shotguns
‘‘Churchill Crown Model
‘‘Churchill Field Model
‘‘Churchill Hercules Model
‘‘Churchill Imperial Model
‘‘Churchill Premiere Series Shotguns
‘‘Churchill Regal Model
‘‘Churchill Royal Model
‘‘Churchill Windsor Series Shotguns
‘‘Cimarron Coach Guns
‘‘Classic Doubles Model 201
‘‘Classic Clot 1878 Hammer Shotgun
‘‘Cogswell & Harrison Sidelock and
Boxlock Shotguns
‘‘Colt 1883 Hammerless
‘‘Colt SxS Shotgun
‘‘Connecticut Shotgun Co. Model 21
‘‘Connecticut Shotgun Co. RBL Series
‘‘Continental Arms Centaure
‘‘Crescent SxS Model
‘‘Crucelegui Hermanos Model 150 Double
‘‘CZ Amarillo
‘‘CZ Bobwhite
‘‘CZ Competition
‘‘CZ Deluxe
‘‘CZ Durango
‘‘CZ Grouse
‘‘CZ Hammer Models
‘‘CZ Partridge
‘‘CZ Ringneck
‘‘CZ Ringneck Target
‘‘Dakin Model 100
‘‘Dakin Model 147
‘‘Dakin Model 160
‘‘Dakin Model 215
‘‘Dakota American Legend
‘‘Dakota Classic Grade
‘‘Dakota Classic Grade II
‘‘Dakota Classic Grade III
‘‘Dakota Premier Grade
‘‘Dan Arms Deluxe Field Model
‘‘Dan Arms Field Model
‘‘Darne Sliding Breech Series Shotguns
‘‘Davidson Arms Model 63B
‘‘Davidson Arms Model 69SL
‘‘Davidson Arms Model 73 Stagecoach
‘‘Dumoulin Continental Model
‘‘Dumoulin Etendard Model
‘‘Dumoulin Europa Model
‘‘Dumoulin Liege Model
‘‘E.A.A. SABA
‘‘E.A.A./Sabatti Saba-Mon Double Shotgun
‘‘E.M.F. Model 1878 SxS
‘‘E.M.F. Stagecoach SxS Model
‘‘ERA Quail SxS
‘‘ERA Riot SxS
‘‘ERA SxS
‘‘Famars Boxlock Models
‘‘Famars Castore
‘‘Famars Sidelock Models
‘‘Fausti Caledon
‘‘Fausti Class
‘‘Fausti Class Round Body
‘‘Fausti DEA Series Shotguns
‘‘Ferlib Mignon Hammer Model
‘‘Ferlib Model F VII Double Shotgun
‘‘FN Anson SxS Standard Grade
‘‘FN New Anson SxS Standard Grade
‘‘FN Sidelock Standard Grade
‘‘Fox Higher Grade Models (A–F)
‘‘Fox Sterlingworth Series
‘‘Franchi Airone
‘‘Franchi Astore Series
‘‘Franchi Destino
‘‘Franchi Highlander
‘‘Franchi Sidelock Double Barrel
‘‘Francotte Boxlock Shotgun
‘‘Francotte Jubilee Model
‘‘Francotte Sidelock Shotgun
‘‘Galef Silver Hawk SxS
‘‘Galef Zabala SxS
‘‘Garbi Model 100
‘‘Garbi Model 101 Side-by-Side
‘‘Garbi Model 103A, B Side-by-Side
‘‘Garbi Model 200 Side-by-Side
‘‘Gastinne Model 105
‘‘Gastinne Model 202
‘‘Gastinne Model 353
‘‘Gastinne Model 98
‘‘Gib 10 Gauge Magnum
‘‘Gil Alhambra
‘‘Gil Diamond
‘‘Gil Laga
‘‘Gil Olimpia
‘‘Greener Sidelock SxS Shotguns
‘‘Griffin & Howe Britte
‘‘Griffin & Howe Continental Sidelock
‘‘Griffin & Howe Round Body Game Gun
‘‘Griffin & Howe Traditional Game Gun
‘‘Grulla 217 Series
‘‘Grulla 219 Series
‘‘Grulla Consort
‘‘Grulla Model 209 Holland
‘‘Grulla Model 215
‘‘Grulla Model 216 Series
‘‘Grulla Number 1
‘‘Grulla Royal
‘‘Grulla Super MH
‘‘Grulla Supreme
‘‘Grulla Windsor
‘‘H&R Anson & Deeley SxS
‘‘H&R Model 404
‘‘H&R Small Bore SxS Hammer Gun
‘‘Hatfield Uplander Shotgun
‘‘Henry Atkin Boxlock Model
‘‘Henry Atkin Sidelock Model
‘‘Holland & Holland Cavalier Boxlock
‘‘Holland & Holland Dominion Game Gun
‘‘Holland & Holland Northwood Boxlock
‘‘Holland & Holland Round Action Sidelock
‘‘Holland & Holland Round Action Sidelock
Paradox
‘‘Holland & Holland Royal Hammerless
Ejector Sidelock
‘‘Holland & Holland Sidelock Shotguns
‘‘Holloway premier Sidelock SxS Model
‘‘Hopkins & Allen Boxlock and Sidelock
Models
‘‘Huglu SxS Shotguns
‘‘Husqvarna SxS Shotguns
‘‘IGA Deluxe Model
‘‘IGA Turkey Series Model
‘‘Interstate Arms Model 99 Coach Gun
‘‘Ithaca Classic Doubles Series Shotguns
‘‘Ithaca Hammerless Series
‘‘Iver Johnson Hammerless Model Shot-
guns
‘‘Jeffery Boxlock Shotguns
‘‘Jeffery Sidelock Shotguns
‘‘K.B.I. Grade II SxS
‘‘Khan Coach Gun
‘‘Kimber Valier Series
‘‘Krieghoff Essencia Boxlock
‘‘Krieghoff Essencia Sidelock
‘‘Lanber Imperial Sidelock
‘‘Laurona Boxlock Models
‘‘Laurona Sidelock Models
‘‘Lefever Grade A Field Model
‘‘Lefever Grade A Skeet Model
‘‘Lefever New
‘‘Lefever Model
‘‘Lefever Nitro Special
‘‘Lefever Sideplate Models
‘‘Leforgeron Boxlock Ejector
‘‘Leforgeron Sidelock Ejector
‘‘Liberty Coach Gun Series
‘‘MacNaughton Sidelock Model
‘‘Malin Boxlock Model
‘‘Malin Sidelock Model
‘‘Masquelier Boxlock Model
‘‘Masquelier Sidelock Model
‘‘Medwell SxS Sidelock
‘‘Merkel Model 8, 47E Side-by-Side Shot-
guns
‘‘Merkel Model 47LSC Sporting Clays Dou-
ble
‘‘Merkel Model 47S, 147S Side-by-Sides
‘‘Merkel Model 76E
‘‘Merkel Model 122E
‘‘Merkel Model 126E
‘‘Merkel Model 280 Series
‘‘Merkel Model 360 Series
‘‘Merkel Model 447SL
‘‘Merkel Model 1620 Series
‘‘Merkel Model 1622 Series
‘‘Mossberg Onyx Reserve Sporting
‘‘Mossberg Silver Reserve Field
‘‘Navy Arms Model 100
‘‘Navy Arms Model 150
‘‘Orvis Custom Uplander
‘‘Orvis Field Grade
‘‘Orvis Fine Grade
‘‘Orvis Rounded Action
‘‘Orvis Waterfowler
‘‘Parker Fluid Steel Barrel Models (All
Grades)
‘‘Parker Reproductions Side-by-Side
‘‘Pederson Model 200
‘‘Pederson Model 2500
‘‘Perazzi DHO Models
‘‘Perugini Ausonia
‘‘Perugini Classic Model
‘‘Perugini Liberty
‘‘Perugini Regina Model
‘‘Perugini Romagna Gun
‘‘Piotti Hammer Gun
‘‘Piotti King Extra Side-by-Side
‘‘Piotti King No. 1 Side-by-Side Piotti
Lunik Side-by-Side
‘‘Piotti Monaco Series
‘‘Piotti Monte Carlo
‘‘Piotti Piuma Side-by-Side
‘‘Piotti Westlake
‘‘Precision Sports Model 600 Series Doubles
‘‘Premier Italian made SxS Shotguns
‘‘Premier Spanish made SxS Shotguns
‘‘Purdy Best Quality Game Gun
‘‘Remington Model 1900 Hammerless
‘‘Remington Model SPR210
‘‘Remington Model SPR220
‘‘Remington Model SPR220 Cowboy
‘‘Remington Premier SxS
‘‘Richland Arms Co. Italian made SxS
Models
‘‘Richland Arms Co. Spanish made SxS
Models
‘‘Rigby Boxlock Shotgun
‘‘Rigby Hammer Shotgun
‘‘Rizzini Boxlock Side-by-Side
‘‘Rizzini Sidelock Side-by-Side
‘‘Rossi Overlund
‘‘Rossi Squire
‘‘Rota Model 105
‘‘Rota Model 106
‘‘Rota Model 411 Series
‘‘Royal American Model 600 Boxlock
‘‘Royal American Model 800 Sidelock
‘‘Ruger Gold Label
‘‘SAE Model 209E
‘‘SAE Model 210S
‘‘SAE Model 340X
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00075 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6126 October 23, 2019
‘‘Sarasqueta Mammerless Sidelock
‘‘Sarasqueta Model 3 Boxlock
‘‘Sauer Boxlock Model Shotguns
‘‘Sauer Sidelock Model Shotguns
‘‘Savage Fox Model FA–1
‘‘Savage Model 550
‘‘Scott Blenheim
‘‘Scott Bowood
‘‘Scott Chatsworth
‘‘Scott Kinmount
‘‘SIACE Italian made SxS Shotguns
‘‘SKB Model 100
‘‘SKB Model 150
‘‘SKB Model 200
‘‘SKB Model 280
‘‘SKB Model 300
‘‘SKB Model 385
‘‘SKB Model 400
‘‘SKB Model 480
‘‘SKB Model 485
‘‘Smith & Wesson Elite Gold Series Grade
I
‘‘Smith & Wesson Elite Silver Grade I
‘‘Smith, L.C. Boxlock Hammerless Shot-
guns
‘‘Smith, L.C. Sidelock Hammerless Shot-
guns
‘‘Spartan SPR Series Shotguns
‘‘Stevens Model 311/315 Series
‘‘Stoeger/IGA Uplander Side-by-Side Shot-
gun
‘‘Taylor’s SxS Model
‘‘Tri-Star Model 311
‘‘Tri-Star Model 411 Series
‘‘Ugartechea 10-Ga. Magnum Shotgun
‘‘Universal Double Wing SxS
‘‘Vouzelaud Model 315 Series
‘‘Walther Model WSF
‘‘Walther Model WSFD
‘‘Weatherby Atheana
‘‘Weatherby D’Italia Series
‘‘Weatherby Orion
‘‘Westley Richards Best Quality Sidelock
‘‘Westley Richards Boxlock Shotguns
‘‘Westley Richards Connaught Model
‘‘Westley Richards Hand Detachable Lock
Model
‘‘William Douglas Boxlock
‘‘Winchester Model 21
‘‘Winchester Model 24
‘‘Zoli Alley Cleaner
‘‘Zoli Classic
‘‘Zoli Falcon II
‘‘Zoli Model Quail Special
‘‘Zoli Pheasant
‘‘Zoli Silver Hawk
‘‘Zoli Silver Snipe
‘‘SHOTGUNS—BOLT ACTIONS & SINGLE SHOTS
‘‘ADCC Diamond Folding Model
‘‘American Arms Single-Shot
‘‘ARMSCOR 301A
‘‘Armsport Single Barrel Shotgun
‘‘Baikal MP18
‘‘Beretta 471 EL Silver Hawk
‘‘Beretta 471 Silver Hawk
‘‘Beretta Beta Single Barrel
‘‘Beretta MKII Trap
‘‘Beretta Model 412
‘‘Beretta Model FS
‘‘Beretta TR–1
‘‘Beretta TR–1 Trap
‘‘Beretta Vandalia Special Trap
‘‘Browning BT–99 Competition Trap Spe-
cial
‘‘Browning BT–99 Plus Micro
‘‘Browning BT–99 Plus Trap Gun
‘‘Browning Micro Recoilless Trap Shotgun
‘‘Browning Recoilless Trap Shotgun
‘‘Crescent Single Shot Models
‘‘CZ Cottontail
‘‘Desert Industries Big Twenty Shotgun
‘‘Fefever Long Range Field
‘‘Frigon FS–4
‘‘Frigon FT–1
‘‘Frigon FT–C
‘‘Gibbs Midland Stalker
‘‘Greener General Purpose GP MKI/MKII
‘‘H&R Survivor
‘‘H&R Tracker Slug Model
‘‘Harrington & Richardson N.W.T.F. Tur-
key Mag
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Pardner
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Pardner Com-
pact
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Pardner Com-
pact Turkey Gun
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Pardner Screw-
In Choke
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Pardner Turkey
Gun
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Pardner Turkey
Gun Camo
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Pardner Water-
fowl
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Tamer
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Tamer 20
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Topper Classic
Youth Shotgun
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Topper Deluxe
Classic
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Topper Deluxe
Model 098
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Topper Junior
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Topper Model
098
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Topper Trap
Gun
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Tracker II Slug
Gun
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra Slug Hun-
ter
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra Slug Hun-
ter Compact
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra Slug Hun-
ter Deluxe
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra Slug Hun-
ter Thumbhole Stock
‘‘Harrington & Richardson Ultra-Lite Slug
Hunter
‘‘Hi-Standard 514 Model
‘‘Holland & Holland Single Barrel Trap
‘‘IGA Reuna Model
‘‘IGA Single Barrel Classic
‘‘Ithaca Model 66
‘‘Ithaca Single Barrel Trap
‘‘Iver Johnson Champion Series
‘‘Iver Johnson Commemorative Series Sin-
gle Shot Shotgun
‘‘Iver Johnson Excel
‘‘Krieghoff K–80 Single Barrel Trap Gun
‘‘Krieghoff KS–5 Special
‘‘Krieghoff KS–5 Trap Gun
‘‘Lefever Trap Gun
‘‘Ljutic LTX Super Deluxe Mono Gun
‘‘Ljutic Mono Gun Single Barrel
‘‘Ljutic Recoilless Space Gun Shotgun
‘‘Marlin Model 55 Goose Gun Bolt Action
‘‘Marlin Model 60 Single Shot
‘‘Marocchi Model 2000
‘‘Mossberg Models G–4, 70, 73, 73B
‘‘Mossberg Models 75 Series
‘‘Mossberg Models 80, 83, 83B, 83D
‘‘Mossberg 173 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 183 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 185 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 190 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 195 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 385 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 390 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 395 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 595 Series
‘‘Mossberg Model 695 Series
‘‘New England Firearms N.W.T.F. Shotgun
‘‘New England Firearms Standard Pardner
‘‘New England Firearms Survival Gun
‘‘New England Firearms Tracker Slug Gun
‘‘New England Firearms Turkey and Goose
Gun
‘‘Parker Single Barrel Trap Models
‘‘Perazzi TM1 Special Single Trap
‘‘Remington 90–T Super Single Shotgun
‘‘Remington Model No. 9
‘‘Remington Model 310 Skeet
‘‘Remington Model No. 3
‘‘Rossi Circuit Judge Lever Action Shot-
gun
‘‘Rossi Circuit Judge Shotgun
‘‘Ruger Single Barrel Trap
‘‘S.W.D. Terminator
‘‘Savage Kimel Kamper Single Shot
‘‘Savage Model 210F Slug Warrior
‘‘Savage Model 212 Slug Gun
‘‘Savage Model 220 Series
‘‘Savage Model 220 Slug Gun
‘‘SEITZ Single Barrel Trap
‘‘SKB Century II Trap
‘‘SKB Century Trap
‘‘SKB Model 505 Trap
‘‘SKB Model 605 Trap
‘‘Smith, L.C. Single Barrel Trap Models
‘‘Snake Charmer II Shotgun
‘‘Stoeger/IGA Reuna Single Barrel Shotgun
‘‘Tangfolio Model RSG–16
‘‘Tangfolio Blockcard Model
‘‘Tangfolio Model DSG
‘‘Tangfolio Model RSG–12 Series
‘‘Tangfolio Model RSG–20
‘‘Tangfolio RSG-Tactical
‘‘Taurus Circuit Judge Shotgun
‘‘Thompson/Center Encore Shotgun
‘‘Thompson/Center Pro Hunter Turkey
Shotgun
‘‘Thompson/Center TCR ’87 Hunter Shot-
gun
‘‘Universal Firearms Model 7212 Single
Barrel Trap
‘‘Winchester Model 36 Single Shot
‘‘Winchester Model 37 Single Shot
‘‘Winchester Model 41 Bolt Action
‘‘Winchester Model 9410 Series
‘‘Zoli Apache Model
‘‘Zoli Diano Series
‘‘Zoli Loner Series’’.
SEC. l04. PENALTIES.
Section 924(a)(1)(B) of title 18, United
States Code, is amended by striking ‘‘or (q)
of section 922’’ and inserting ‘‘(q), (r), (v),
(w), or (aa) of section 922’’.
SEC. l05. BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR TRANS-
FERS OF GRANDFATHERED SEMI-
AUTOMATIC ASSAULT WEAPONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 922 of title 18,
United States Code, as amended by this title,
is amended—
(1) by repealing subsection (s);
(2) by redesignating subsection (t) as sub-
section (s);
(3) in subsection (s), as redesignated—
(A) in paragraph (3)(C)(ii), by striking ‘‘(as
defined in subsection (s)(8))’’; and
(B) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(7) In this subsection, the term ‘chief law
enforcement officer’ means the chief of po-
lice, the sheriff, or an equivalent officer or
the designee of any such individual.’’; and
(4) by inserting after subsection (s), as re-
designated, the following:
‘‘(t)(1) Beginning on the date that is 90
days after the date of enactment of the As-
sault Weapons Ban of 2019, it shall be unlaw-
ful for any person who is not licensed under
this chapter to transfer a grandfathered
semiautomatic assault weapon to any other
person who is not licensed under this chap-
ter, unless a licensed importer, licensed
manufacturer, or licensed dealer has first
taken custody of the grandfathered semi-
automatic assault weapon for the purpose of
complying with subsection (s). Upon taking
custody of the grandfathered semiautomatic
assault weapon, the licensee shall comply
with all requirements of this chapter as if
the licensee were transferring the grand-
fathered semiautomatic assault weapon from
the licensee’s inventory to the unlicensed
transferee.
‘‘(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply to a tem-
porary transfer of possession for the purpose
of participating in target shooting in a li-
censed target facility or established range
if—
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00076 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6127
October 23, 2019
‘‘(A) the grandfathered semiautomatic as-
sault weapon is, at all times, kept within the
premises of the target facility or range; and
‘‘(B) the transferee is not known to be pro-
hibited from possessing or receiving a grand-
fathered semiautomatic assault weapon.
‘‘(3) For purposes of this subsection, the
term ‘transfer’—
‘‘(A) shall include a sale, gift, or loan; and
‘‘(B) does not include temporary custody of
the grandfathered semiautomatic assault
weapon for purposes of examination or eval-
uation by a prospective transferee.
‘‘(4)(A) Notwithstanding any other provi-
sion of this chapter, the Attorney General
may implement this subsection with regula-
tions.
‘‘(B) Regulations promulgated under this
paragraph—
‘‘(i) shall include a provision setting a
maximum fee that may be charged by licens-
ees for services provided in accordance with
paragraph (1); and
‘‘(ii) shall not include any provision impos-
ing recordkeeping requirements on any unli-
censed transferor or requiring licensees to
facilitate transfers in accordance with para-
graph (1).’’.
(b) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENTS.—
(1) SECTION 922.—Section 922(y)(2) of title 18,
United States Code, is amended, in the mat-
ter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking
‘‘, (g)(5)(B), and (s)(3)(B)(v)(II)’’ and inserting
‘‘and (g)(5)(B)’’.
(2) SECTION 925A.—Section 925A of title 18,
United States Code, is amended, in the mat-
ter preceding paragraph (1), by striking
‘‘subsection (s) or (t) of section 922’’ and in-
serting ‘‘section 922(s)’’.
(c) EFFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments
made by this section shall take effect 90 days
after the date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. l06. USE OF BYRNE GRANTS FOR BUY-BACK
PROGRAMS FOR SEMIAUTOMATIC
ASSAULT WEAPONS AND LARGE CA-
PACITY AMMUNITION FEEDING DE-
VICES.
Section 501(a)(1) of title I of the Omnibus
Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968
(34 U.S.C. 10152(a)(1)) is amended by adding
at the end the following:
‘‘(I) Compensation for surrendered semi-
automatic assault weapons and large capac-
ity ammunition feeding devices, as those
terms are defined in section 921 of title 18,
United States Code, under buy-back pro-
grams for semiautomatic assault weapons
and large capacity ammunition feeding de-
vices.’’.
SEC. l07. SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this title, an amend-
ment made by this title, or the application
of such provision or amendment to any per-
son or circumstance is held to be unconstitu-
tional, the remainder of this title, the
amendments made by this title, and the ap-
plication of such provision or amendment to
any person or circumstance shall not be af-
fected thereby.
SA 1023. Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr.
ROUNDS, Mrs. MURRAY, and Mrs. SHA-
HEEN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 155, line 10, insert after ‘‘one-year
period:’’ the following: ‘‘Provided further,
that upon request by an owner of a project
financed by an existing loan under section
514 or 515 of the Act, the Secretary may
renew the rental assistance agreement for a
period of 20 years or until the term of such
loan has expired, subject to annual appro-
priations:’’.
On page 156, line 4, strike ‘‘third proviso’’
and insert ‘‘fourth proviso’’.
SA 1024. Ms. SMITH (for herself and
Mrs. SHAHEEN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title III of divi-
sion B, insert the following:
SEC. 3ll. In providing assistance under
title V of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C.
1471 et seq.) using amounts made available
under this title under the heading ‘‘RURAL
HOUSING SERVICE’’, the Secretary of Agri-
culture shall prioritize the maintenance
needs for rural housing facilities and staff
needs, which shall include prioritizing—
(1) capital repairs for aging properties par-
ticipating in the rental housing programs of
the Rural Housing Service;
(2) the needs of staff overseeing the Rural
Housing Service and field staff conducting
housing inspections; and
(3) enforcement against property owners
when those owners fail to make necessary re-
pairs.
SA 1025. Ms. SINEMA submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 253, line 2, strike ‘‘costs:’’ and in-
sert the following: ‘‘costs: Provided further,
That not later than 120 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, the Director of the
Bureau of Indian Affairs shall submit to the
Committee on Appropriations of the Senate
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives a report describing
the facilities investments required to im-
prove the direct service and tribally oper-
ated detention and public safety facilities in
Indian country that are in poor condition,
including associated cost estimates:’’.
SA 1026. Mr. BENNET submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the end of title I of division C, insert
the following:
SEC. 1ll. REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN BU-
REAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT LAND
SALES.
(a) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) AFFECTED BUREAU LAND.—The term ‘‘af-
fected Bureau land’’ means any land that—
(A) is under the jurisdiction of the Bureau;
(B) contains any surface or subsurface min-
eral right; and
(C) is located within 15 miles of Service
land or water.
(2) BUREAU.—The term ‘‘Bureau’’ means
the Bureau of Land Management.
(3) SERVICE LAND OR WATER.—The term
‘‘Service land or water’’ means land or water
under the jurisdiction of the National Park
Service.
(4) STATE DIRECTOR.—The term ‘‘State Di-
rector’’ means a State Director of the Bu-
reau.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding any
other provision of law, before offering for
competitive, public sale any affected Bureau
land, the State Director of each State in
which the affected Bureau land is located
shall—
(A) complete formal consultation with
each applicable Superintendent of the Na-
tional Park Service regarding—
(i) the impact of the proposed sale on—
(I) natural, cultural, and historic re-
sources; and
(II) visitor use and enjoyment of park re-
sources; and
(ii) the cumulative impacts of the proposed
sale on National Park Service resources, in-
cluding air and water quality;
(B) achieve compliance with the applicable
requirements of section 306108 of title 54,
United States Code, taking into consider-
ation the means by which the proposed sale
may impact historic property, historic ob-
jects, traditional cultural properties, archeo-
logical sites, or cultural landscapes;
(C) consider the effects of the proposed sale
on—
(i) wildlife migration corridors and habitat
connectivity; and
(ii) recreational opportunities on and off
the applicable Service land and water,
through consultation with affected rec-
reational user groups;
(D) conduct a viewshed analysis with re-
spect to all potential points of view within
the affected Service land or water;
(E) consult with relevant agencies to
evaluate—
(i) the direct, indirect, and cumulative im-
pacts of development on the air quality, in-
cluding visibility, of affected Service land
and water to ensure compliance with all ap-
plicable air quality requirements; and
(ii) the impacts of development on water
quality and groundwater resources;
(F) provide a period of not less than 30 days
for public review and comment with respect
to environmental analyses and findings of no
significant impact for oil and gas leasing on
the affected Bureau land; and
(G) post a final notice of the proposed sale
not later than the date that is 90 days before
the sale date to ensure a period of not less
than—
(i) 30 days for public participation; and
(ii) 60 days for review by the Bureau.
(2) CONSIDERATION OF LEASE SALES.—The
Director of the Bureau shall consider lease
sales of affected Bureau land not more fre-
quently than once each calendar year.
(3) LIGHT POLLUTION.—In any case in which
an application for a permit to drill on af-
fected Bureau land is approved, the State Di-
rector of each State in which the affected
Bureau land is located shall ensure that
compliance with applicable Bureau and Na-
tional Park Service best management prac-
tices to reduce light pollution is achieved.
SA 1027. Mr. BENNET submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00077 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.045 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6128 October 23, 2019
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
SEC. ll. FOREST SERVICE LEGACY ROADS AND
TRAILS REMEDIATION PROGRAM.
Public Law 88–657 (16 U.S.C. 532 et seq.)
(commonly known as the ‘‘Forest Roads and
Trails Act’’) is amended by adding at the end
the following:
‘‘SEC. 8. FOREST SERVICE LEGACY ROADS AND
TRAILS REMEDIATION PROGRAM.
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 180 days
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary, acting through the Chief of
the Forest Service, shall establish, and de-
velop a national strategy to carry out, a pro-
gram, to be known as the ‘Forest Service
Legacy Roads and Trails Remediation Pro-
gram’, within the National Forest System
(as defined in section 11(a) of the Forest and
Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning
Act of 1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a)))—
‘‘(1) to carry out critical maintenance and
urgent repairs and improvements on Na-
tional Forest System roads, trails, and
bridges;
‘‘(2) to restore fish and other aquatic orga-
nism passages by removing or replacing un-
natural barriers to the passage of fish and
other aquatic organisms;
‘‘(3) to decommission unneeded roads and
trails; and
‘‘(4) to carry out activities associated with
the activities described in paragraphs (1)
through (3).
‘‘(b) PRIORITY.—In implementing the pro-
gram under this section, the Secretary shall
give priority to any project that protects or
restores—
‘‘(1) water quality;
‘‘(2) a watershed that feeds a public drink-
ing water system; or
‘‘(3) habitat for threatened, endangered, or
sensitive fish or wildlife species.
‘‘(c) NATIONAL FOREST SYSTEM.—Except as
authorized under section 323 of the Depart-
ment of the Interior and Related Agencies
Appropriations Act, 1999 (16 U.S.C. 1011a),
each project carried out under this section
shall be on a National Forest System road or
trail.
‘‘SEC. 9. ROAD SYSTEM ANALYSIS.
‘‘(a) DEFINITION OF DECOMMISSION.—In this
section, the term ‘decommission’ means,
with respect to a road—
‘‘(1) to restore, through active or passive
means, natural drainage, watershed func-
tion, or other ecological conditions and proc-
esses that are disrupted or adversely im-
pacted by the road; and
‘‘(2) to remove the road from the transpor-
tation system.
‘‘(b) IDENTIFICATION OF MINIMUM ROAD SYS-
TEM.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than 3 years
after the date of enactment of this section,
the Secretary shall identify for each unit of
the National Forest System (as defined in
section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Re-
newable Resources Planning Act of 1974 (16
U.S.C. 1609(a))) the minimum road system
necessary for—
‘‘(A) safe and efficient travel within the
National Forest System; and
‘‘(B) the administration, use, and protec-
tion of the National Forest System.
‘‘(2) REQUIREMENTS.—Each minimum road
system identified under paragraph (1) for a
unit of the National Forest System shall—
‘‘(A) meet the resource and other manage-
ment objectives adopted in the land and re-
source management plan applicable to the
unit;
‘‘(B) meet all applicable statutory and reg-
ulatory requirements;
‘‘(C) be in accordance with long-term fund-
ing expectations; and
‘‘(D) minimize any adverse environmental
impacts associated with the construction, re-
construction, decommissioning, and mainte-
nance of the minimum road system.
‘‘(c) CONTENTS.—In identifying minimum
road systems under subsection (b)(1), the
Secretary shall—
‘‘(1) incorporate a science-based roads
analysis at the appropriate scale;
‘‘(2) incorporate a long-term fiscal analysis
that includes an assessment of maintenance
costs;
‘‘(3) identify as unneeded any roads that—
‘‘(A) are no longer necessary to meet forest
resource management objectives; and
‘‘(B) may be decommissioned or considered
for trails; and
‘‘(4) consult with—
‘‘(A) appropriate State, Tribal, and local
governmental entities; and
‘‘(B) members of the public.
‘‘(d) UNNEEDED ROADS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—The Secretary shall de-
commission any roads identified as unneeded
under subsection (c)(3) as soon as practicable
after making the identification under that
subsection.
‘‘(2) PRIORITY.—In decommissioning
unneeded roads under paragraph (1), the Sec-
retary shall prioritize the decommissioning
of roads that pose the greatest risk—
‘‘(A) to public safety; or
‘‘(B) of environmental degradation.
‘‘(e) RECORDS.—The Secretary shall regu-
larly update the Infra database of the Sec-
retary to record—
‘‘(1) each road identified as unneeded under
subsection (c)(3); and
‘‘(2) each road decommissioned under sub-
section (d)(1).
‘‘(f) REVISION.—The Secretary shall review,
and may revise, an identification made
under subsection (b)(1) for a unit of the Na-
tional Forest System during a revision of the
land and resource management plan applica-
ble to the unit.’’.
SA 1028. Mr. DURBIN (for himself,
Mr. CRAMER, and Ms. SMITH) submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. ll. Section 7002(e)(4) of the Biologics
Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009
(Public Law 111–148) is amended—
(1) by striking ‘‘An amended’’ and insert-
ing the following:
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—An amended’’; and
(2) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(B) TREATMENT OF CERTAIN PENDING APPLI-
CATIONS.—With respect to an application for
an insulin biological product submitted
under subsection (b)(2) or (j) of section 505 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act
(21 U.S.C. 355) with a filing date that is not
later than December 31, 2019, until the Sec-
retary makes a determination on final ap-
proval with respect to such application, the
Secretary shall continue to review and ap-
prove (as appropriate) such application under
such section 505, even if such review and ap-
proval process continues after March 23, 2020.
For purposes of completing the review and
approval process for such an application, any
listed drug referenced in the application
shall be treated as a listed drug under sec-
tion 505(j)(7) of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act, even if such listed drug is
deemed licensed under section 351 of the Pub-
lic Health Service Act during such review
and approval process. Effective on the later
of March 23, 2020, or the date of approval
under subsection (c) or (j) of section 505 of
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act of
any such application, such approved applica-
tion shall be deemed to be a license for the
biological product under section 351 of the
Public Health Service Act.’’.
SA 1029. Mr. DURBIN (for himself
and Ms. DUCKWORTH) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 289, line 22, strike ‘‘Act.’’ and in-
sert ‘‘Act: Provided further, That of the funds
included under this heading, $3,000,000 shall
be for ethylene oxide ambient air monitoring
in communities identified as having an ele-
vated cancer risk due to emissions of ethyl-
ene oxide by the most recent National Air
Toxics Assessment published by the Admin-
istrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency.’’.
SA 1030. Mr. DURBIN (for himself
and Ms. MURKOWSKI) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds provided by
this Act may be used by the Secretary of
Health and Human Services to issue a mar-
keting order under subsection (c)(1)(A)(i) of
section 910 of the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 387j) or a substantial
equivalence order under subsection
(a)(2)(A)(i) of such section 910, for any elec-
tronic nicotine delivery system, including
any liquid, solution, or other component or
part or its aerosol, that contains an artifi-
cial or natural flavor (other than tobacco)
that is a characterizing flavor, unless the
Secretary of Health and Human Services
issues an order finding that the manufac-
turer has demonstrated that use of the char-
acterizing flavor—
(1) will increase the likelihood of smoking
cessation among current users of tobacco
products;
(2) will not increase the likelihood of youth
initiation of nicotine or tobacco products;
and
(3) will not increase the likelihood of harm
to the person using the characterizing flavor.
SA 1031. Ms. ROSEN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00078 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.047 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6129
October 23, 2019
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. An additional $2,000,000, to re-
main available until September 30, 2023, shall
be available for payment to the Neighbor-
hood Reinvestment Corporation for use in
neighborhood reinvestment activities, as au-
thorized by the Neighborhood Reinvestment
Corporation Act (42 U.S.C. 8101 et seq.), and
the funds available under this title for the
Office of Administration under the heading
‘‘ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICES’’ under
the heading ‘‘MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRA-
TION’’ shall be decreased by $3,000,000.
SA 1032. Ms. BALDWIN (for herself
and Mr. MORAN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 123, line 14, strike ‘‘$13,500,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$6,500,000’’.
On page 131, line 4, strike ‘‘$509,082,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$516,082,000’’.
On page 131, line 8, insert ‘‘That the
amount specified in that table for the Farm
and Ranch Stress Assistance Network shall
be increased by $7,000,000: Provided further,’’
after ‘‘Provided,’’.
SA 1033. Mr. TILLIS (for himself and
Mr. BURR) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. 7ll. Notwithstanding subsections (d)
and (e) of section 5 of the Commodity Credit
Corporation Charter Act (15 U.S.C. 714c) or
any other provision of law, tobacco shall be
an eligible agricultural commodity under
the Market Facilitation Program conducted
pursuant to that section.
SA 1034. Mr. BARRASSO (for him-
self, Mr. CARPER, Mrs. CAPITO, and Mr.
CARDIN) submitted an amendment in-
tended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
DIVISION E—SAVING OUR AMERICAN
ROADS
SEC. 1lll. REPEAL OF RESCISSION.
(1) IN GENERAL.—Section 1438 of the FAST
Act (Public Law 114–94; 129 Stat. 1432) is re-
pealed.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
contents in section 1(b) of the FAST Act
(Public Law 114–94; 129 Stat. 1312) is amended
by striking the item relating to section 1438.
(b) BUDGETARY EFFECTS.—
(1) STATUTORY PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The
budgetary effects of this section and the
amendments made by this section shall not
be entered on either PAYGO scorecard main-
tained pursuant to section 4(d) of the Statu-
tory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C.
933(d)).
(2) SENATE PAYGO SCORECARDS.—The budg-
etary effects of this section and the amend-
ments made by this section shall not be en-
tered on any PAYGO scorecard maintained
for purposes of section 4106 of H. Con. Res. 71
(115th Congress).
(3) CLASSIFICATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budg-
et Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the
joint explanatory statement of the com-
mittee of conference accompanying Con-
ference Report 105–217 and section 250(c)(8) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900(c)(8)), the
budgetary effects of this section and the
amendments made by this section shall not
be estimated—
(A) for purposes of section 251 of such Act
(2 U.S.C. 901); and
(B) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of sec-
tion 3 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act
of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 932) as being included in an
appropriation Act.
SA 1035. Mr. BOOKER (for himself
and Mr. JONES) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 164, line 21, strike ‘‘$1,500,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$15,000,000’’.
SA 1036. Ms. SMITH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in division C, in-
sert the following:
SEC. ll. In addition to other amounts
made available under this division to con-
tinue a Special Behavioral Health Pilot Pro-
gram as authorized by Public Law 116–6,
there shall be available to the Director of
the Indian Health Service, $40,000,000 to be
used as otherwise provided for under this di-
vision to carry out such Program.
SA 1037. Ms. HIRONO submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. (a) IN GENERAL.—Not later than
180 days after the date of enactment of this
Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall sub-
mit to Congress a report that describes the
economic and environmental impacts of im-
porting orchids in growing media.
(b) REQUIREMENTS.—The report under sub-
section (a) shall include—
(1) a description of—
(A) the economic impact of importing or-
chids in growing media on a State-by-State
basis, with data collected from local growers;
and
(B) any incidents of pests detected on or-
chids imported with growing media; and
(2) an analysis with respect to the addi-
tional resources that are necessary to pre-
vent and mitigate the introduction of pests
resulting from importing orchids in growing
media.
SA 1038. Mr. DURBIN (for himself
and Mr. INHOFE) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 52, line 14, strike ‘‘$2,000,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$4,000,000’’.
SA 1039. Mr. KAINE submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. (a) Notwithstanding any other
provision of this Act, the amount appro-
priated under this Act to the Department of
Justice for ‘‘State and Local Law Enforce-
ment Assistance’’ shall be $1,790,290,000, of
which $12,500,000 shall be for the court-ap-
pointed special advocate program, as author-
ized by section 217 of the Victims of Child
Abuse Act of 1990 (Public Law 101–647).
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act, the amount appropriated under this
Act to the Department of Justice for ‘‘Sala-
ries and Expenses, General Legal Activities’’
shall be $923,500,000.
SA 1040. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 289, line 22, strike the period at
the end and insert ‘‘: Provided further, That
of the funds included under this heading,
$2,000,000 shall be made available to the Of-
fice of Transportation and Air Quality of the
Office of Air and Radiation of the Environ-
mental Protection Agency to approve, not
later than 120 days after the date of enact-
ment of this Act, not less than 2 pending ap-
plications under the electric pathway under
the renewable fuel program under section
211(o) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C.
7545(o)).’’
SA 1041. Mrs. SHAHEEN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00079 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.048 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6130 October 23, 2019
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
ELECTRIC PATHWAYS
SEC. 4ll. Not later than 30 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Adminis-
trator of the Environmental Protection
Agency shall submit to the Committees on
Appropriations of the Senate and House of
Representatives a detailed work plan that
describes how the Environmental Protection
Agency will comply with the requirement
with respect to applications for the electric
pathway in the report accompanying this
Act.
SA 1042. Ms. DUCKWORTH submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 7, line 22, strike ‘‘$279,500,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$291,500,000’’.
On page 7, line 24, insert ‘‘, and of which
$17,000,000 shall be for assistance to nuclear
power plant closure communities’’ after
‘‘27’’.
SA 1043. Mr. BROWN (for himself and
Mr. JONES) submitted an amendment
intended to be proposed to amendment
SA 948 proposed by Mr. SHELBY to the
bill H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and
Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
for the fiscal year ending September 30,
2020, and for other purposes; which was
ordered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 121, line 2, strike ‘‘$22,301,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$17,301,000’’.
On page 223, between lines 13 and 14, insert
the following:
SEC. 7ll. There is appropriated $5,000,000
to carry out section 1673(d) of the Food, Ag-
riculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of
1990 (7 U.S.C. 5926(d)).
SA 1044. Ms. SMITH (for herself, Mr.
BROWN, Mr. VAN HOLLEN, Mr. KAINE,
Mr. WARNER, and Mr. CARDIN) sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by her to the bill H.R. 3055,
making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the end, add the following:
DIVISION E—FAIR COMPENSATION FOR
LOW-WAGE CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES
ACT OF 2019
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This division may be cited as the ‘‘Fair
Compensation for Low-Wage Contractor Em-
ployees Act of 2019’’.
SEC. 2. APPROPRIATION.
There is hereby appropriated, out of any
money in the Treasury not otherwise appro-
priated, such sums as may be necessary, to
remain available until expended, for each
Federal agency subject to the lapse in appro-
priations that began on or about December
22, 2018, for adjustments in the price of con-
tracts of such agency under section 3.
SEC. 3. BACK COMPENSATION FOR LOW-WAGE
EMPLOYEES OF GOVERNMENT CON-
TRACTORS IN CONNECTION WITH
THE LAPSE IN APPROPRIATIONS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Each Federal agency sub-
ject to the lapse in appropriations that
began on or about December 22, 2018, shall
adjust the price of any contract of such
agency for which the contractor was ordered
to suspend, delay, or interrupt all or part of
the work of such contract, or stop all or any
part of the work called for in such contract,
as a result of the lapse in appropriations to
compensate the contractor for reasonable
costs incurred—
(1) to provide compensation, at an employ-
ee’s standard rate of compensation, to any
employee who was furloughed or laid off, or
who was not working, who experienced a re-
duction of hours, or who experienced a reduc-
tion in compensation, as a result of the lapse
in appropriations (for the period of the
lapse); or
(2) to restore paid leave taken by any em-
ployee during the lapse in appropriations, if
the contractor required employees to use
paid leave as a result of the lapse in appro-
priations.
(b) LIMITATION ON AMOUNT OF WEEKLY COM-
PENSATION COVERED BY ADJUSTMENT.—The
maximum amount of weekly compensation
of an employee for which an adjustment may
be made under subsection (a) may not exceed
the lesser of—
(1) the employee’s actual weekly com-
pensation; or
(2) $965.
(c) TIMING OF ADJUSTMENTS.—The adjust-
ments required by subsection (a) shall be
made as soon as practicable after the enact-
ment of this Act.
(d) DEFINITIONS.—In this section:
(1) The term ‘‘compensation’’ has the
meaning given that term in section 6701 of
title 41, United States Code.
(2) The term ‘‘employee’’ means the fol-
lowing:
(A) A ‘‘service employee’’ as that term is
defined in section 6701(3) of title 41, United
States Code, except that the term also in-
cludes service employees described in sub-
paragraph (C) of that section notwith-
standing that subparagraph.
(B) A ‘‘laborer or mechanic’’ covered by
section 3142 of title 40, United States Code.
SEC. 4. EFFECTIVE DATE.
This division shall take effect upon the
date of enactment of this Act.
SEC. 5. BUDGETARY EFFECTS.
(a) CLASSIFICATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—Notwithstanding Rule 3 of the Budg-
et Scorekeeping Guidelines set forth in the
joint explanatory statement of the com-
mittee of conference accompanying Con-
ference Report 105–217 and section 250(c)(8) of
the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit
Control Act of 1985, the budgetary effects of
this division shall not be estimated—
(1) for purposes of section 251 of such Act;
and
(2) for purposes of paragraph (4)(C) of sec-
tion 3 of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act
of 2010 as being included in an appropriation
Act.
(b) DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EF-
FECTS.—The budgetary effects of this divi-
sion, for the purpose of complying with the
Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall
be determined by reference to the latest
statement titled ‘‘Budgetary Effects of
PAYGO Legislation’’ for this division, sub-
mitted for printing in the Congressional
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget
Committee, provided that such statement
has been submitted prior to the vote on pas-
sage.
SA 1045. Mr. HEINRICH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 169, line 10, insert ‘‘: Provided,
That 10 percent of the amount made avail-
able by this paragraph shall be used for trib-
al outreach and technical assistance grants’’
before the period at the end.
SA 1046. Mr. HEINRICH submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion D, insert the following:
SEC. 2ll. (a) An additional $3,000,000 shall
be available for rental assistance and associ-
ated administrative fees for Tribal HUD-
VASH under the heading ‘‘TENANT-BASED
RENTAL ASSISTANCE’’ under the heading
‘‘PUBLIC AND INDIAN HOUSING’’ under this
title, provided that $1,000,000 shall be used
for tribal outreach and technical assistance,
and the funds available under this title for
necessary salaries and expenses for Adminis-
trative Support Offices under the heading
‘‘ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT OFFICES’’ under
the heading ‘‘MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRA-
TION’’ under this title shall be decreased by
$3,000,000.
SA 1047. Mr. TOOMEY (for himself
and Mr. COONS) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title II of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. ll. NICS DENIAL NOTIFICATION ACT.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘NICS Denial Notification Act
of 2019’’.
(b) REPORTING OF BACKGROUND CHECK DENI-
ALS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 44 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by inserting
after section 925A the following:
‘‘§ 925B. Reporting of background check deni-
als to State authorities
‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—If the national instant
criminal background check system estab-
lished under section 103 of the Brady Hand-
gun Violence Prevention Act (34 U.S.C. 40901)
(commonly referred to as ‘NICS’) provides a
notice pursuant to section 922(t) of this title
that the receipt of a firearm by a person
would violate subsection (g) or (n) of section
922 of this title or State law, the Attorney
General shall, in accordance with subsection
(b) of this section—
‘‘(1) report to the law enforcement authori-
ties of the State where the person sought to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00080 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.051 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6131
October 23, 2019
acquire the firearm and, if different, the law
enforcement authorities of the State of resi-
dence of the person—
‘‘(A) that the notice was provided;
‘‘(B) the specific provision of law that
would have been violated;
‘‘(C) the date and time the notice was pro-
vided;
‘‘(D) the location where the firearm was
sought to be acquired; and
‘‘(E) the identity of the person; and
‘‘(2) where practicable, report the incident
to local law enforcement authorities and
State and local prosecutors in the jurisdic-
tion where the firearm was sought and in the
jurisdiction where the person resides.
‘‘(b) REQUIREMENTS FOR REPORT.—A report
is made in accordance with this subsection if
the report is made within 24 hours after the
provision of the notice described in sub-
section (a), except that the making of the re-
port may be delayed for so long as is nec-
essary to avoid compromising an ongoing in-
vestigation.
‘‘(c) AMENDMENT OF REPORT.—If a report is
made in accordance with this subsection and,
after such report is made, the Federal Bu-
reau of Investigation or the Bureau of Alco-
hol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives de-
termines that the receipt of a firearm by a
person for whom the report was made would
not violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922
of this title or State law, the Attorney Gen-
eral shall, in accordance with subsection (b),
notify any law enforcement authority and
any prosecutor to whom the report was made
of that determination.
‘‘(d) RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.—Nothing in
subsection (a) shall be construed to require a
report with respect to a person to be made to
the same State authorities that originally
issued the notice with respect to the per-
son.’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for such chapter is amended by in-
serting after the item relating to section
925A the following:
‘‘925B. Reporting of background check deni-
als to State authorities.’’.
(c) ANNUAL REPORT TO CONGRESS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 44 of title 18,
United States Code, as amended by sub-
section (b), is amended by inserting after
section 925B the following:
‘‘§ 925C. Annual report to Congress
‘‘Not later than 1 year after the date of en-
actment of this section, and annually there-
after, the Attorney General shall submit to
Congress a report detailing the following,
broken down by Federal judicial district:
‘‘(1) With respect to each category of per-
sons prohibited by subsection (g) or (n) of
section 922 of this title or State law from re-
ceiving or possessing a firearm who are so
denied a firearm—
‘‘(A) the number of denials;
‘‘(B) the number of denials referred to the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives;
‘‘(C) the number of denials for which the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and
Explosives determines that the person denied
was not prohibited by subsection (g) or (n) of
section 922 of this title or State law from re-
ceiving or possessing a firearm;
‘‘(D) the number of denials overturned
through the national instant criminal back-
ground check system appeals process and the
reasons for overturning the denials;
‘‘(E) the number of denials with respect to
which an investigation was opened by a field
division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms, and Explosives;
‘‘(F) the number of persons charged with a
Federal criminal offense in connection with
a denial; and
‘‘(G) the number of convictions obtained by
Federal authorities in connection with a de-
nial.
‘‘(2) The number of background check no-
tices reported to State authorities pursuant
to section 925B (including the number of the
notices that would have been so reported but
for section 925B(c)).’’.
(2) CLERICAL AMENDMENT.—The table of
sections for such chapter, as amended by
subsection, is amended by inserting after the
item relating to section 925B the following:
‘‘925C. Annual report to Congress.’’.
SA 1048. Mrs. GILLIBRAND sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. HADIYA PENDLETON AND NYASIA
PRYEAR-YARD GUN TRAFFICKING
AND CRIME PREVENTION ACT OF
2019.
(a) SHORT TITLE.—This section may be
cited as the ‘‘Hadiya Pendleton and Nyasia
Pryear-Yard Gun Trafficking and Crime Pre-
vention Act of 2019’’.
(b) FIREARMS TRAFFICKING.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Chapter 44 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘§ 932. Trafficking in firearms
‘‘(a) OFFENSES.—It shall be unlawful for
any person, regardless of whether anything
of value is exchanged—
‘‘(1) to ship, transport, transfer, or other-
wise dispose to a person, 2 or more firearms
in or affecting interstate or foreign com-
merce, if the transferor knows or has reason-
able cause to believe that such shipping,
transportation, transfer, or disposition of
the firearm would be in violation of, or
would result in a violation of any Federal,
State, or local law punishable by a term of
imprisonment exceeding 1 year;
‘‘(2) to receive from a person, 2 or more
firearms in or affecting interstate or foreign
commerce, if the recipient knows or has rea-
sonable cause to believe that such receipt
would be in violation of, or would result in a
violation of any Federal, State, or local law
punishable by a term of imprisonment ex-
ceeding 1 year;
‘‘(3) to make a statement to a licensed im-
porter, licensed manufacturer, or licensed
dealer relating to the purchase, receipt, or
acquisition from a licensed importer, li-
censed manufacturer, or licensed dealer of 2
or more firearms that have moved in or af-
fected interstate or foreign commerce that—
‘‘(A) is material to—
‘‘(i) the identity of the actual buyer of the
firearms; or
‘‘(ii) the intended trafficking of the fire-
arms; and
‘‘(B) the person knows or has reasonable
cause to believe is false; or
‘‘(4) to direct, promote, or facilitate con-
duct specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
‘‘(b) PENALTIES.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—Any person who violates,
or conspires to violate, subsection (a) shall
be fined under this title, imprisoned for not
more than 20 years, or both.
‘‘(2) ORGANIZER ENHANCEMENT.—If a viola-
tion of subsection (a) is committed by a per-
son in concert with 5 or more other persons
with respect to whom such person occupies a
position of organizer, a supervisory position,
or any other position of management, such
person may be sentenced to an additional
term of imprisonment of not more than 5
consecutive years.
‘‘(c) DEFINITIONS.—In this section—
‘‘(1) the term ‘actual buyer’ means the in-
dividual for whom a firearm is being pur-
chased, received, or acquired; and
‘‘(2) the term ‘term of imprisonment ex-
ceeding 1 year’ does not include any offense
classified by the applicable jurisdiction as a
misdemeanor and punishable by a term of
imprisonment of 2 years or less.’’.
(2) TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMEND-
MENT.—The table of sections for chapter 44 of
title 18, United States Code, is amended by
adding at the end the following:
‘‘932. Trafficking in firearms.’’.
(3) DIRECTIVE TO THE SENTENCING COMMIS-
SION.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—Pursuant to its authority
under section 994(p) of title 28, United States
Code, the United States Sentencing Commis-
sion shall review and, if appropriate, amend
the Federal sentencing guidelines and policy
statements applicable to persons convicted
of offenses under section 932 of title 18,
United States Code (as added by paragraph
(1)).
(B) REQUIREMENTS.—In carrying out this
subsection, the Commission shall—
(i) review the penalty structure that the
guidelines currently provide based on the
number of firearms involved in the offense
and determine whether any changes to that
penalty structure are appropriate in order to
reflect the intent of Congress that such pen-
alties reflect the gravity of the offense; and
(ii) review and amend, if appropriate, the
guidelines and policy statements to reflect
the intent of Congress that guideline pen-
alties for violations of section 932 of title 18,
United States Code, and similar offenses be
increased substantially when committed by
a person who is a member of a gang, cartel,
organized crime ring, or other such enter-
prise or in concert with another person who
is a member of a gang, cartel, organized
crime ring, or other such enterprise.
SA 1049. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title V of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. ll. OFFICE FOR THE PREVENTION OF
FRAUD TARGETING SENIORS.
(a) ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY OFFICE.—
The Federal Trade Commission (referred to
in this section as the ‘‘Commission’’) shall
establish an advisory office within the Bu-
reau of Consumer Protection for the purpose
of advising the Commission on the preven-
tion of fraud targeting seniors and to assist
the Commission with the following:
(1) OVERSIGHT.—The advisory office shall
monitor the market for mail, television,
internet, telemarketing, and recorded mes-
sage telephone call (referred to in this sec-
tion as ‘‘robocall’’) fraud targeting seniors
and shall coordinate with other relevant
agencies regarding the requirements of this
section.
(2) CONSUMER EDUCATION.—The Commission
through the advisory office shall, in con-
sultation with the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00081 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.052 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6132 October 23, 2019
Postmaster General, the Chief Postal Inspec-
tor for the United States Postal Inspection
Service, and other relevant agencies—
(A) disseminate to seniors and families and
caregivers of seniors general information on
mail, television, internet, telemarketing,
and robocall fraud targeting seniors, includ-
ing descriptions of the most common fraud
schemes;
(B) disseminate to seniors and families and
caregivers of seniors information on report-
ing complaints of fraud targeting seniors ei-
ther to the national toll-free telephone num-
ber established by the Commission for re-
porting such complaints, or to the Consumer
Sentinel Network, operated by the Commis-
sion, where such complaints will become im-
mediately available to appropriate law en-
forcement agencies, including the Federal
Bureau of Investigation and the attorneys
general of the States;
(C) in response to a specific request about
a particular entity or individual, provide
publically available information of enforce-
ment action taken by the Commission for
mail, television, internet, telemarketing,
and robocall fraud against such entity; and
(D) maintain a website to serve as a re-
source for information for seniors and fami-
lies and caregivers of seniors regarding mail,
television, internet, telemarketing, robocall,
and other identified fraud targeting seniors.
(3) COMPLAINTS.—The Commission through
the advisory office shall, in consultation
with the Attorney General, establish proce-
dures to—
(A) log and acknowledge the receipt of
complaints by individuals who believe they
have been a victim of mail, television, inter-
net, telemarketing, and robocall fraud in the
Consumer Sentinel Network, and shall make
those complaints immediately available to
Federal, State, and local law enforcement
authorities; and
(B) provide to individuals described in sub-
paragraph (A), and to any other persons, spe-
cific and general information on mail, tele-
vision, internet, telemarketing, and robocall
fraud, including descriptions of the most
common schemes using such methods of
communication.
(b) COMMENCEMENT.—The Commission shall
commence carrying out the requirements of
this section not later than one year after the
date of the enactment of this Act.
SA 1050. Ms. KLOBUCHAR submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title IV of divi-
sion C, insert the following:
NONPOINT SOURCE MANAGEMENT PROGRAMS
SEC. 4ll. Section 319 of the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1329) is
amended by striking subsection (j) and in-
serting the following:
‘‘(j) AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—There is authorized to be
appropriated to carry out subsections (h) and
(i) $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020
through 2024, of which not more than
$7,500,000 for each fiscal year may be used to
carry out subsection (i).
‘‘(2) AVAILABILITY.—Amounts made avail-
able under paragraph (1) shall remain avail-
able until expended.’’.
SA 1051. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. Funds appropriated to the For-
est Service shall not be made available for
the destruction of healthy, unadopted, wild
horses and burros in the care of the Forest
Service or contractors of the Forest Service,
or for the sale of wild horses and burros that
results in the destruction of the sold wild
horses or burros for processing into commer-
cial products.
SA 1052. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 230, line 10, strike ‘‘products.’’ and
insert ‘‘products, except that appropriations
shall be made available for humane fertility
control of wild horses and burros in the care
of the Bureau or its contractors.’’.
SA 1053. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VI of divi-
sion B, insert the following:
SEC. 6ll. None of the funds made avail-
able under this Act shall be used to support
the use of phthalates, including dibutyl
phthalate, di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate, diethyl
phthalate, and benzyl butyl phthalate, in
baby diapers, adult diapers, menstrual prod-
ucts, and obstetrical and gynecological de-
vices described in section 884.5400, 884.5425,
884.5435, 884.5460, 884.5470, or 884.5900 of title
21, Code of Federal Regulations (or any suc-
cessor regulation).
SA 1054. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. lll. Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the Administrator of the
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
shall—
(1) not later than 60 days after the date of
enactment of this Act, restore on the website
of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection
Service the searchable Animal Care Informa-
tion System and Enforcement Action data-
bases, and the contents of those databases,
that were available on the website on Janu-
ary 30, 2017;
(2) for all content generated on or after
January 30, 2017, not later than 60 days after
receiving or generating such content, make
publicly available through a searchable data-
base, in their entirety and without redaction
(except for signatures)—
(A) all inspection records maintained pur-
suant to the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C.
2131 et seq.), including—
(i) all animal inventories; and
(ii) all inspection reports by officials of the
Department of Agriculture—
(I) dated after the settlement of any ap-
peal; and
(II) that document noncompliance with
that Act;
(B) all enforcement records created pursu-
ant to the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C. 2131
et seq.) or the Horse Protection Act (15
U.S.C. 1821 et seq.), including warning let-
ters, stipulations, settlement agreements,
administrative complaints, and court orders;
and
(C) all research facility annual reports (in-
cluding attachments) required to be sub-
mitted under the Animal Welfare Act (7
U.S.C. 2131 et seq.); and
(3) ensure that each instance of noncompli-
ance, as observed by a Department of Agri-
culture inspector—
(A) with the Animal Welfare Act (7 U.S.C.
2131 et seq.) is documented on an inspection
report; and
(B) with the Horse Protection Act (15
U.S.C. 1821 et seq.) is documented on an in-
spection form.
SA 1055. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title V of divi-
sion A, insert the following:
SEC. ll. None of the funds made available
by this Act may be used to remove the prohi-
bition on pelagic longline fishing gear under
the Fishery Management Plan for U.S. West
Coast Fisheries for Highly Migratory Species
issued by the Pacific Fishery Management
Council.
SA 1056. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 263, line 9, strike ‘‘$136,244,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$125,755,000’’.
On page 294, line 5, strike ‘‘$4,247,028,000’’
and insert ‘‘$4,257,517,000’’.
On page 299, line 19, strike ‘‘$19,511,000’’ and
insert ‘‘$30,000,000’’.
SA 1057. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00082 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.052 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S6133
October 23, 2019
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. ll. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Commis-
sioner of Food and Drugs shall submit a re-
port to the Committee on Appropriations of
the Senate and the Committee on Appropria-
tions of the House of Representatives on the
feasibility of banning all electronic cigarette
devices and components. The report shall
consider how such products affect public
health, particularly with respect to minors,
pregnant women, never-smokers, and former
smoker populations, and shall include de-
tailed reasoning behind the conclusion.
SA 1058. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. ll. Not later than 180 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Commis-
sioner of Food and Drugs shall issue final
regulations establishing tobacco product
standards. Such standards shall include low-
ering nicotine levels in cigarettes to a non-
addictive level, addressing levels of toxicants
and impurities in e-liquids, regulations on
flavors including menthol for combustible
cigarettes and electronic cigarettes, and ad-
dressing safety hazards including battery ex-
plosions in electronic cigarettes and chil-
dren’s exposure to nicotine.
SA 1059. Mrs. FEINSTEIN submitted
an amendment intended to be proposed
to amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. ll. Not later than 1 year after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Commis-
sioner of Food and Drugs shall issue regula-
tions deeming the use of any ortho-phthalate
chemical as a food contact substance to be a
use of an unsafe food additive within the
meaning of section 402(a)(2)(C) of the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C.
342(a)(2)(C)).
SA 1060. Mr. CARDIN submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 346, line 14, strike the period and
insert ‘‘: Provided, That, not later than 120
days after the date of enactment of this Act,
the Director of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum shall submit to the Com-
mittee on Appropriations of the Senate and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives a report that de-
scribes the efforts of the United States Holo-
caust Memorial Museum to support memory
and education programs relating to the Holo-
caust.’’.
SA 1061. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. Not later than 90 days after the
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary
of Transportation shall submit to the Com-
mittees on Appropriations, Commerce,
Science, and Transportation, and Environ-
ment and Public Works of the Senate and
the Committees on Appropriations and
Transportation and Infrastructure of the
House of Representatives a report on efforts
by the Department of Transportation to en-
gage with local communities, metropolitan
planning organizations, and regional trans-
portation commissions on advancing data
and intelligent transportation systems tech-
nologies and other smart cities solutions.
SA 1062. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed by her to the bill H.R. 3055,
making appropriations for the Depart-
ments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. None of the funds made avail-
able by this Act shall be used to terminate
the Intelligent Transportation System Pro-
gram Advisory Committee established under
section 5305(h) of SAFETEA–LU (23 U.S.C.
512 note; Public Law 109–59).
SA 1063. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO (for
herself and Mr. PORTMAN) submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
At the appropriate place in title VII of di-
vision B, insert the following:
SEC. 7ll. There is appropriated $499,000 to
support the addition of 4 full-time equivalent
employees and administrative costs associ-
ated with the development by the Council on
Rural Community Innovation and Economic
Development established under section 6306
of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018
(7 U.S.C. 2204b–3) of reports and resource
guides and for the establishment of a Federal
support team for rural jobs accelerators.
SA 1064. Ms. CORTEZ MASTO sub-
mitted an amendment intended to be
proposed to amendment SA 948 pro-
posed by Mr. SHELBY to the bill H.R.
3055, making appropriations for the De-
partments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the
fiscal year ending September 30, 2020,
and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table; as follows:
On page 422, line 13, insert ‘‘Provided fur-
ther, That $80,000 of the amount provided
under this heading shall be available to per-
form a cost benefit analysis for adding addi-
tional stops along the California Zephyr
Line:’’ after ‘‘regulation:’’.
SA 1065. Mr. INHOFE (for himself
and Mr. BROWN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed to
amendment SA 948 proposed by Mr.
SHELBY to the bill H.R. 3055, making
appropriations for the Departments of
Commerce and Justice, Science, and
Related Agencies for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 2020, and for
other purposes; which was ordered to
lie on the table; as follows:
On page 52, line 14, after ‘‘disabilities,’’ in-
sert the following: ‘‘$2,500,000 is for law en-
forcement training grant programs to edu-
cate, train and prepare officers so that they
are equipped to appropriately interact with
mentally ill individuals,’’.
SA 1066. Mr. DURBIN (for himself
and Mr. BROWN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill H.R. 3055, making appropria-
tions for the Departments of Commerce
and Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies for the fiscal year ending Sep-
tember 30, 2020, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. SENSE OF THE SENATE REGARDING
OPIOID LITIGATION SETTLEMENTS.
(a) FINDINGS.—Congress finds the fol-
lowing:
(1) Thousands of lawsuits have been
brought by governmental entities in every
State against manufacturers and suppliers of
opioids seeking compensation for costs and
damages that governments have incurred
due to the defendants’ alleged role in the
current public health crisis of opioid addic-
tion and abuse.
(2) Opioid litigation settlements have re-
sulted in payments of hundreds of millions of
dollars, to date, from opioid manufacturers
and suppliers to governmental entities, with
the potential for additional settlements pro-
viding more funds to government entities.
(3) Only 8 percent of tobacco litigation set-
tlement funds paid to government entities as
part of the 1998 Master Settlement Agree-
ment have been devoted toward addressing
the public health harms of tobacco addiction
and death and preventing further harm.
(b) SENSE OF THE SENATE.—It is the sense
of the Senate that, to the greatest extent
practicable, any potential funds paid by
opioid industry defendants to government
entities pursuant to opioid litigation settle-
ments should be prioritized for activities and
services that respond to the public health
crisis of opioid addiction and abuse and that
help prevent further drug addiction-related
harms.
f
AUTHORITY FOR COMMITTEES TO
MEET
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
have 4 requests for committees to meet
during today’s session of the Senate.
They have the approval of the Majority
and Minority leaders.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00083 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.053 S23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S6134 October 23, 2019
Pursuant to rule XXVI, paragraph
5(a), of the Standing Rules of the Sen-
ate, the following committees are au-
thorized to meet during today’s session
of the Senate:
COMMITTEE ON COMMERCE, SCIENCE, AND
TRANSPORTATION
The Committee on Commerce,
Science, and Transportation is author-
ized to meet during the session of the
Senate on Wednesday, October 23, 2019,
at 10 a.m., to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON ENVIRONMENT AND PUBLIC
WORKS
The Committee on Environment and
Public Works is authorized to meet
during the session of the Senate on
Wednesday, October 23, 2019, at 10 a.m.,
to conduct a hearing.
COMMITTEE ON FOREIGN RELATIONS
The Committee on Foreign Relations
is authorized to meet during the ses-
sion of the Senate on Wednesday, Octo-
ber 23, 2019, at 2:30 p.m., to conduct a
hearing.
SUBCOMMITTEE ON SEAPOWER
The Subcommittee on Seapower of
the Committee on Armed Services is
authorized to meet during the session
of the Senate on Wednesday, October
23, 2019, at 10 a.m., to conduct a hear-
ing.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that Senator
MERKLEY’s intern, Thomas Sipp, have
privileges of the floor for the remain-
der of the day.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR THURSDAY, OCTOBER
24, 2019
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
ask unanimous consent that when the
Senate completes its business today, it
adjourn until 10 a.m., Thursday, Octo-
ber 24; further, that following the pray-
er and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, morning business
be closed, and the Senate proceed to
executive session and resume consider-
ation of the Walker nomination under
the previous order; finally, that the
Senate recess from 10:30 a.m. until 12
noon tomorrow.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, if
there is no further business to come be-
fore the Senate, I ask unanimous con-
sent that it stand adjourned under the
previous order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 6:15 p.m., adjourned until Thursday,
October 24, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:19 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00084 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC6.057 S23OCPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1329
October 23, 2019
ROBERT BEATO 2019 MICHIGAN
PRINCIPAL OF THE YEAR
HON. ANDY LEVIN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. LEVIN of Michigan. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to recognize Mr. Robert Beato, Prin-
cipal of South Lake High School in St. Clair
Shores, who was named the 2019 Michigan
Principal of the Year by the Michigan Associa-
tion of Secondary School Principals (MASSP).
Mr. Beato has spent his entire career at
South Lake High School, beginning in 1999
when he started teaching history, world his-
tory, and government. Currently in his third
year as Principal, Mr. Beato served as Dean
of Students and as Assistant Principal at
South Lake.
The MASSP requires nominees for Principal
of the Year to demonstrate collaborative lead-
ership; involvement in curriculum, instruction,
and assessment; and personal involvement
with students, their families, and staff. After
being selected as Principal of the Year, Mr.
Beato summed up his philosophy to the St.
Clair Shores Sentinel, saying ‘‘I pretty much
want to do everything I can for my staff.
Therefore, they can do everything they can for
the students . . . at the end of the day, if it
works for kids, let’s try it; let’s do it.’’ Students
at South Lake High School certainly believe
that he lives up to his words, as several of
them told the Sentinel that he inspires them to
learn, to achieve their goals, and to make their
voices heard about issues important to them.
His South Lake colleagues also agree, includ-
ing Assistant Principal Rebecca Scholl-Riedel,
who nominated Beato and who said, ‘‘He’s my
sixth principal that I’ve worked for, and it’s
what he was meant to do.’’
As Vice Chair of the Education and Labor
Committee, I strongly believe that students
can achieve their goals with the support of
people like Mr. Beato in leadership positions:
leaders who focus on the academic and per-
sonal well-being of their students, leaders who
promote collaboration among the education
professionals in their schools, and leaders
who inspire excellence and celebrate the
achievements of everyone in their schools—
even in unconventional ways. Mr. Beato has
been known to tell high school juniors that if
their class earns a higher SAT score than the
previous year’s juniors, he will shave his head
or spend the night on the roof of the high
school, and he honors those commitments,
noting to the Sentinel, ‘‘I’ve done it before.’’
Madam Speaker, this Friday, October 25,
2019, the South Lake High School community
will come together at an assembly to show
their pride that Robert Beato was named this
year’s Michigan Principal of the Year. I en-
courage my colleagues to join me in congratu-
lating him for this richly deserved recognition,
and in wishing him, his students, and his col-
leagues continued success.
HONORING THE 74TH BIRTHDAY
AND 40 YEARS OF SERVICE OF
JUDGE WAYNE C. SHELTON
HON. MARK E. GREEN
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. GREEN of Tennessee. Madam Speak-
er, I rise today to recognize and honor Judge
Wayne C. Shelton of Clarksville, Tennessee
on the occasion of his 74th birthday and 40
years of service as a judge.
Judge Shelton was appointed as the judge
for Montgomery County’s General Sessions
and Juvenile Court Div. II by Governor Lamar
Alexander on July 1, 1979. At present, he is
the longest-serving judge in the State of Ten-
nessee. For the past 40 years, Judge Shelton
has served with distinction and devotion.
Fittingly, the Tennessee Juvenile Judges
Association recently presented Judge Shelton
with a lifetime achievement award to honor
Judge Shelton’s decades of faithful service to
the people of Tennessee as a judge.
As the father of a son with Down’s Syn-
drome, Judge Shelton is a strong advocate for
those with special needs. His family is estab-
lishing a scholarship in his honor at Austin
Peay State University for students who intend
to work with people like his son, William Isaac
Shelton, to help them lead successful and ful-
filling lives.
Madam Speaker, I ask that my colleagues
in the United States House of Representatives
join me in commending Judge Shelton for his
faithful service to the law and his contributions
towards improving the lives of those in need.
f
RECOGNIZING SERGEANT DOUG-
LAS CHAPMAN, RECIPIENT OF
TEXAS’ THIRD CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICT 2019 CONGRESSIONAL
VETERAN COMMENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Ser-
geant Douglas Chapman of McKinney, Texas.
Sergeant Douglas Chapman proudly served
in the United States Marine Corps from 1964
to 1969. During a tour of duty in Vietnam, Ser-
geant Chapman was stationed in Da Nang
where he provided service to four different
types of aircraft in his capacity as an Aviation
Photographic Electronics Technician. He also
provided training on specialized reconnais-
sance equipment repair to the Air Force, and
was deployed to Yuma, Arizona; Key West,
Florida; and Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. For his
outstanding and dedicated service, Sergeant
Chapman was awarded the Vietnam Service
Medal, Good Conduct Medal, Vietnam Cam-
paign Medal, National Defense Service Medal,
Presidential Unit Citation, Combat Action Rib-
bon, and the Rifle Marksmanship Badge.
Following his time in uniform, Mr. Chapman
received degrees from Saddleback College,
California State University-Fullerton, and his
Teaching Credential from National University
in Quantico. Having been recognized as a
State of Texas Educator of the Year by
Project Learning Tree, and as the Math and
Science Teacher of the Year by the Air Force
Association’s State of Texas Chapter, Mr.
Chapman has focused on meeting the indi-
vidual needs of the students he serves. He
further exhibited selfless volunteerism in his
work with Lions International where he was
recognized for his service as a recipient of
their highest honor, the Melvin Jones Fellow-
ship and Jack Weich Fellowship. His work with
Lions continued in his active roles with both
the Plano Early Lions Club and the McKinney
Morning Pride Lions where he assisted in ef-
forts to provide services for the vision impaired
and those with diabetes. As a member of the
Collin County Marine Corps League, he volun-
teered his time in programs including Toys for
Tots and the Marine Corps Ball. Mr. Chapman
also serves as a Court Appointed Special Ad-
vocate where he actively works to support
children who have been removed from their
home environment due to neglect or abuse.
Sergeant Douglas Chapman is a wonderful
example of a servant leader who has used his
experiences to better the community around
him.
Today a grateful Nation thanks Sergeant
Chapman for his exceptional service and con-
gratulates him on this recognition. May his
steadfast example of leadership inspire others
to live a life of service to a cause greater than
themselves. It is my extreme honor to award
him the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for the Third District of Texas.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF ACCESS’S
12TH ANNUAL DOMESTIC VIO-
LENCE PROGRAM DINNER
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 12th Annual Domestic
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\K23OC8.001 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1330 October 23, 2019
Violence Program Dinner hosted by the Arab
Community Center for Economic and Social
Services. The organization’s commitment to
supporting our Arab American community is
worthy of commendation.
The Arab Community Center for Economic
and Social Services (ACCESS) is the largest
Arab American community nonprofit organiza-
tion in the nation. Founded by a group of vol-
unteers in 1971, ACCESS was created to help
the Arab immigrant population adapt to life
within the United States. Ever since, ACCESS
has been devoted to promoting a just and eq-
uitable society where all can flourish. Today,
with 11 locations, ACCESS provides commu-
nity members a wide range of educational, so-
cial, economic, and health services to assist,
improve, and empower people in need.
The 12th Annual Domestic Violence Pro-
gram Dinner exemplifies ACCESS’s continued
commitment to assisting people in distress.
Every year, the dinner brings countless com-
munity members together to raise proceeds to
benefit survivors of domestic violence. In addi-
tion, the important program generates a great-
er awareness for the prevalence of domestic
violence and its negative impacts on children,
families, and even entire communities. AC-
CESS is a vital resource for people facing do-
mestic violence, and the organization’s annual
dinner dedicated to empowering hundreds of
survivors truly makes a difference in our com-
munity.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the Arab Community Center
for Economic and Social Services as they host
their 12th Annual Domestic Violence Program
Dinner. ACCESS’s mission to assist, improve,
and empower people in our community truly
changes lives, and I am deeply appreciative of
their remarkable work.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
I was absent due to a family emergency.
Had I been present, I would have voted
NAY on Roll Call No. 571; NAY on Roll Call
No. 572; YEA on Roll Call No. 573; NAY on
Roll Call No. 574; YEA on Roll Call No. 575;
YEA on Roll Call No. 576; and NAY on Roll
Call No. 577.
f
OPIOID EPIDEMIC
HON. RODNEY DAVIS
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illinois. Madam
Speaker, the opioid epidemic and our efforts
to
H.R. 6, the SUPPORT for Patients and
Communities Act, was a highlight for me last
Congress.
Because it was a moment where Congress
was focused on legislating and actually getting
things done.
The House took 39 bipartisan bills, moved
them through the legislative process, and gave
each member a chance to vote for or against
them.
We didn’t include any partisan, poison
pills—we gave both sides an opportunity to
legislate on an issue that doesn’t see party
lines and we got something done.
Now, we’re seeing progress—the majority,
1.27 million Americans, are now receiving
treatment for their addiction and we’re seeing
the overdose deaths decline in this country.
But we can’t let up.
I am hoping we can repeat the success of
this legislation—on many issues, including
continuing to help communities fight opioid ad-
diction.
This week, I’m introducing a bill that came
from a local police officer in my district.
A police officer from the Normal Police De-
partment was trying to track down a case of
‘pharmacy shopping,’ where someone had
come down from Chicago and was trying to
get an opioid prescription for someone else
filled at multiple pharmacies.
But there was no way to track who had tried
to fill this prescription because no ID is re-
quired to pick up these highly addictive pain
killers.
My bill, the Opioid Prescription Verification
Act, changes that by requiring pharmacists to
record the ID of a person picking up an opioid
prescription.
This is similar to ID requirements that were
placed on Sudafed sales in 2005 to combat
the meth epidemic.
I’m looking forward to hopefully passing this
bill to continue fighting this epidemic from all
angles.
f
RECOGNIZING SERGEANT STEVEN
DEFFIBAUGH, RECIPIENT OF
TEXAS’ THIRD CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICT 2019 CONGRESSIONAL
VETERAN COMMENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Ser-
geant Steven Deffibaugh of Princeton, Texas.
A native of Borger, Texas, Sergeant Steven
Deffibaugh served in the United States Marine
Corps in the 5th Marine Division from 1969 to
1972. For his distinguished service to our Na-
tion, he was awarded the Marine Corps Good
Conduct Medal, National Defense Service
Medal, and Marksman Rifle Badge. He re-
ceived degrees from Grayson County College
and Abilene Christian University at Dallas.
After returning from his time in service, Ser-
geant Deffibaugh chose to pursue a new ave-
nue of leadership in law enforcement, serving
in both the Van Alstyne and McKinney Police
Departments prior to working as a Collin
County Deputy Sheriff. Mr. Deffibaugh would
later begin a career as an investigator with the
Collin County District Attorney’s office where
he would remain until his retirement in 2011.
Due to his deep commitment in Collin County,
he would also serve as Reserve Deputy Con-
stable for Precinct 2. In addition to his stellar
service in law enforcement, Mr. Deffibaugh
also played a role as a volunteer fireman,
County Fire Marshall, and Assistant Fire Chief
for the City of Princeton until his retirement in
2018. Mr. Deffibaugh’s leadership and commit-
ment to his community was further reflected in
his role as the Mayor and Mayor Pro Tempore
of Princeton, and through his efforts as the
President of the Princeton Community Devel-
opment Corporation.
In his civic life, Mr. Deffibaugh has volun-
teered as a Scoutmaster, Little League Coach,
and church deacon. He is also a founding
member of the Jacob D. Hayes Marine Corps
League, where he has tirelessly coordinated
the Collin County Toys for Tots program and
led the organization as the Chaplain. Sergeant
Steven Deffibaugh has led a remarkable life of
service to his community and is to be com-
mended for his tireless efforts.
Today a grateful Nation thanks Sergeant
Deffibaugh for his exceptional service and
congratulates him on this recognition. May his
steadfast example of leadership inspire others
to live a life of service to a cause greater than
themselves. It is my extreme honor to award
him the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for the Third District of Texas.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, due to
Ways & Means Committee business, I was
unavoidably detained and missed the vote.
Had I been present, I would have voted
YEA on Roll Call No. 573.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE 100TH AN-
NIVERSARY OF WAYNE COUNTY
PARKS
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the 100th anniversary of
Wayne County Parks. Its century of dedication
to the Wayne County community is worthy of
commendation, and it is my honor and privi-
lege to recognize their important milestone
today.
In 1919, Elizabeth Park in Trenton was do-
nated to Wayne County by the children of Eliz-
abeth Slocum. The acceptance of this dona-
tion marks the beginning of the Wayne County
Park System, the first county park system in
the state of Michigan. In the years and dec-
ades that followed, the county began to accu-
mulate different outdoor locations throughout
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.001 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1331
October 23, 2019
the area to add to its park system, seeking to
discover new outdoor recreational opportuni-
ties that could enhance the quality of life for
the families and residents of Wayne County.
Over the course of 100 years, the Wayne
County Park System has significantly trans-
formed. From humble beginnings in Elizabeth
Park in 1919, Wayne County Parks have since
become an invaluable pillar of our community,
serving as spaces for community members to
gather and enjoy the outdoors, compete in
sports, participate in various community
events, and simply have fun. Today, nearly 40
parks including nature trails, golf courses,
playscapes, swimming pools, dog parks, picnic
shelters, and baseball diamonds, to name a
few, comprise the entire Wayne County Park
System. Without a doubt, Wayne County
Parks play an important role in our community
and have been improving the lives of our resi-
dents for a century. Wayne County Parks truly
foster inclusive, lively, and enjoyable environ-
ments where all feel welcome, and I cannot
thank the Wayne County Parks System
enough for its century of exceptional service to
our community.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me today in honoring the centennial anniver-
sary of Wayne County Parks. We are grateful
for their impactful contributions to our commu-
nity and wish the parks many more years of
continued success.
f
RECOGNIZING THE IMPORTANCE
OF THE MALTA CONFERENCES
HON. JANICE D. SCHAKOWSKY
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Ms. SCHAKOWSKY. Madam Speaker, I rise
to recognize the greatest example of science
diplomacy, the Malta Conferences, their found-
er and president Professor Zafra Lerman, and
the important work that the conferences facili-
tate. This year marks the ninth meeting of the
Malta Conferences. The conferences help
identify unique opportunities for collaboration
to meet the scientific and technological chal-
lenges of the Middle East region. In the Malta
Conferences, the common language of
science is used for science diplomacy, which
serves as a bridge to peace, tolerance and
understanding.
These peace congresses have made it pos-
sible for scientists from countries that are
often on opposing sides of political and cul-
tural conflicts to meet in a politically neutral
environment, where they can collaborate on
solving regional problems, and forge relation-
ships that bridge deep chasms of mistrust and
intolerance. These unique gatherings draw sci-
entists from many Middle East countries, in-
cluding Bahrain, Egypt, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Jor-
dan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Oman, Pal-
estine, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Turkey and
the United Arab Emirates.
In each of the Malta Conferences, Middle
East scientists meet with science Nobel Laure-
ates to catalyze enduring collaborations on
scientific and technological problems, including
water scarcity, environmental degradation, nu-
clear and chemical security, science and tech-
nology education for all, energy, and climate
change.
The founder and president of the Malta
Conferences, Professor Zafra Lerman, is my
friend and constituent. Professor Lerman is a
life-long champion for human rights, freedom,
and peace. For more than four decades, she
has worked tirelessly to promote peace and
justice around the globe, especially among na-
tions whose governments are hostile to one
another.
Professor Lerman has received over 40
international awards, including the Presidential
Award for Excellence in Science, Mathe-
matics, and Engineering Mentoring from Presi-
dent Clinton, the Royal Society of Chemistry
Nyholm Education Award, the American
Chemical Society George C. Pimentel Award,
the American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science (AAAS) Award for Science
and Diplomacy, the American Physical Society
Andrei Sakharov Prize, and the UN NOVUS
Summit Peace and Justice Award. Professor
Lerman received her bachelor’s and master’s
degrees in chemistry at Technion-Israel Insti-
tute of Technology, and her Ph.D. from the
Weizmann Institute of Science.
Despite many obstacles to success, the
Malta Conferences have developed several
avenues for change: Jordan, Palestine, Israel,
Egypt, and Kuwait formed a working group on
Drinking Water Quality Assessment in the Mid-
dle East; Palestinian students from Al Quds
University in Palestine are pursuing PhD stud-
ies at Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel;
a women’s group was formed in order to em-
power women scientists across the region,
and encourage young girls to pursue careers
in STEM; and a unified science curriculum for
the Middle East is being developed which will
include climate change, chemistry, nuclear se-
curity, and ethics. More than 700 Middle East
scientists and 15 Nobel Laureates are now in
the network.
I would like to thank Professor Zafra Lerman
and the Malta Conferences for their continued
hard work to bring peace to the Middle East.
f
RECOGNIZING CORPORAL RONNIE
‘‘RD’’ FOSTER, RECIPIENT OF
TEXAS’ THIRD CONGRESSIONAL
DISTRICT 2019 CONGRESSIONAL
VETERAN COMMENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Cor-
poral Ronnie ‘‘RD’’ Foster of Anna, Texas.
Corporal Ronnie Davenport Foster, known
to his friends as ‘‘RD’’ served in the United
States Marine Corps from 1966 to 1969. Origi-
nally from Farmersville, Texas, as the son of
a WWII veteran, Ronnie’s sense of patriotism
was developed early on. Shortly after grad-
uating from high school, RD would be as-
signed to the 1st Force Logistics Command
driving resupply and gun trucks out of Da
Nang, Vietnam in 1967 as a part of the
‘‘Rough Riders’’ motor transport Battalion. For
his efforts, RD was awarded the National De-
fense Service Medal, Vietnam Service Medal,
Good Conduct Medal, and Rifle Sharpshooter
Badge.
In the decades that would follow, RD pur-
sued a music career as a singer songwriter
and worked as a tour bus operator for famed
musicians and performers. In an effort to rec-
ognize the patriotism of our Vietnam Veterans
who were often shunned upon their return
from service, RD organized a concert to raise
awareness and funds for the Texas Vietnam
Veterans Memorial in Fair Park in the 1980s.
Later, RD would embark on an extensive mis-
sion to identify all the men and women from
Collin County who died while serving our Na-
tion going back to the Great War. Upon con-
clusion of his painstaking research efforts, he
would lobby local governmental entities and
spearhead a fundraising effort to construct a
Veterans Memorial to remember and honor
the legacies of our fallen warriors from Collin
County. In response, the City of McKinney
created the Armed Services Memorial Board,
of which RD was a founding member. The re-
sult was the Collin County Veterans Memorial,
which was dedicated in November 2011. Fur-
ther in 2013, RD cofounded the Collin County
Fallen Warrior Portrait Project which has re-
sulted in 70 portraits of fallen warriors on per-
manent display at the Collin County Court-
house. Corporal Foster would also organize
the efforts to rename Courthouse to the Rus-
sell A. Steindam Courts Building in honor of
the posthumously awarded Medal of Honor re-
cipient. Foster’s recognitions include Patriot of
the Year by the Texas Veterans Commission
and recognition as a recipient of the Distin-
guished Citizens Medal from the Daughters of
the American Revolution.
Today a grateful Nation thanks Corporal
Foster for his exceptional service and con-
gratulates him on this recognition. May his
steadfast example of leadership inspire others
to live a life of service to a cause greater than
themselves. It is my extreme honor to award
him the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for the Third District of Texas.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. BILL FOSTER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. FOSTER. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for a vote on Tuesday, October 23,
2019. Had I been present, I would have voted
on rollcall No. 573, ‘‘aye.’’
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.005 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1332 October 23, 2019
INTRODUCTION OF WHITE HOUSE
ACCOUNTABILITY FOR DIVER-
SITY ACT
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, after Presi-
dent Trump’s inauguration, the White House
deleted Spanish-language content from the of-
ficial White House website. At the time, the
White House claimed that a Spanish-language
site was under development, but, more than
two years later, such a website has yet to ma-
terialize. Meanwhile, the previous two adminis-
trations offered Spanish-language content on
the official White House website.
There are many taxpayers whose first lan-
guage is not English. Spanish, Chinese, Taga-
log, Vietnamese, and French are among the
most spoken languages in the United States.
People benefit tremendously from having dif-
ferent options to access their government and
receive information that may impact their lives.
This is why it is imperative that the White
House and federal agencies continue to be
accessible to all taxpayers.
Therefore, I am reintroducing the White
House Accountability for Diversity Act. It is
vital for all Americans to be able to follow
issues that affect their lives. This legislation
will allow for content to be translated into
Spanish, Chinese, Tagalog, Vietnamese,
French and any other language deemed nec-
essary by the Office of Management and
Budget. This will ensure that all taxpayers
have the option of accessing up-to-date infor-
mation in their preferred language.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE DEDICA-
TION OF THE BOB AND ANNA
RENAUD TRAIN BARN
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Renaud Family and
celebrate the opening of the ‘‘Bob and Anna
Renaud Train Barn.’’ The Renaud Family’s
generosity and life-long commitment to our
community are worthy of commendation.
The Renaud Family is a central fixture of
the Southgate community. Since moving to
Southgate in 1947, Bob and Anna Renaud
have fully dedicated their lives to serving the
city. Anna, a retired councilwoman, served on
the Southgate City Council for 16 years, and
her husband Bob was a United States veteran
who dutifully served our country in World War
II. Throughout the decades, Bob and Anna
have become pillars of Southgate and are
widely recognized for their lifetime of gen-
erosity and philanthropy. To the great sadness
of our community, Bob Renaud passed away
last August, yet his remarkable work alongside
his wife will always be remembered, honored,
and appreciated.
The opening of the Bob and Anna Renaud
Train Barn was only made possible due to the
continued generosity of the Renaud Family.
Named in recognition of Anna and in honor of
the legacy of Bob, the barn will provide the
Great Lakes Live Steamers crews a place to
store and work on their trains. More impor-
tantly though, the barn will serve as a wel-
coming place for our community to gather and
learn more about something Bob loved: trains.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me today in celebrating the dedication of the
Bob and Anna Renaud Train Barn. We are
grateful for Bob and Anna’s 70 years of mean-
ingful service to Southgate and their efforts
are truly deserving of this recognition. The
Renaud Family is cherished by so many within
our community, and I am glad the train barn
will bear their name for generations to come.
f
RECOGNIZING SPECIALIST ERIC
HALL, RECIPIENT OF TEXAS’
THIRD CONGRESSIONAL DIS-
TRICT 2019 CONGRESSIONAL VET-
ERAN COMMENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Spe-
cialist Eric Hall of Frisco, Texas.
Specialist Eric Hall began his career in the
United States Army as an infantryman, in both
Scout and Reconnaissance Platoons. He was
deployed to Iraq and continued his active duty
service until June 2010. For his valiant efforts
in the Army, he was awarded the Army Com-
mendation Medal, Army Good Conduct Medal,
National Defense Service Medal, Global War
on Terrorism Medal, Iraq Campaign Medal
with Campaign Star, Army Service Ribbon,
Overseas Service Ribbon, and Combat Infan-
try Badge to name a few.
Mr. Hall would spend the next few years of
his career in the Army National Guard, during
which time he attended the University of
Texas at Dallas, earning a Bachelor of Art in
Political Science and a Masters in Constitu-
tional Law. As a student, Eric developed a
passion for servant leadership in organizations
including the Young Conservatives of Texas,
Kappa Sigma Fraternity, the Cares Team, and
as a member of the Rugby team. His deep de-
sire to ensure equality, as instilled by the
teachings of family members, led him to con-
tinue to serve in a multitude of organizations
including the Equal Rights Voting Institute, 22
Fellowship Program, and as a Board Member
for the DFW Chapter of the Martin Luther King
Jr. Association of Texas.
As an advocate for our military and vet-
erans, Eric has maintained an active role in
organizations including the Association of the
United States Army, Veterans of Foreign
Wars, and Carry the Load. Specialist Eric Hall
is a leader of service and sacrifice who is
wholly deserving of this recognition.
Today a grateful Nation thanks Specialist
Hall for his exceptional service and congratu-
lates him on this recognition. May his stead-
fast example of leadership inspire others to
live a life of service to a cause greater than
themselves. It is my extreme honor to award
him the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for the Third District of Texas.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DOUG COLLINS
OF GEORGIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. COLLINS of Georgia. Madam Speaker,
on October 22, 2019, I was absent for a vote
on H.R. 2426, the CASE Act of 2019, due to
a family emergency. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No. 578.
f
RECOGNIZING SGT. JEFF HEWITT
AND DEPUTY JARED S. HEWITT
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Sgt. Jeff Hewitt and Deputy Jared
S. Hewitt of the Franklin County Sheriff’s Of-
fice for their courageous actions during the
Eastpoint, FL fire that took place last June
devastating the community and stretching over
1,000 acres.
The father and son received a call over dis-
patch that a family was trapped in a burning
vehicle, and without hesitation, the two of
them hurried to the scene. Placing their lives
at risk, they fought through the heavy smoke
and engulfing fire to free a young boy, his par-
ents, and their cat from the emblazoned truck.
Because of their bravery and swift action,
this family was safely rescued and there were
no deaths as a result of the horrific fire in
Eastpoint.
Their heroic actions have not gone unno-
ticed. Sgt. Jeff Hewitt and Deputy Jared Hewitt
were named as the 2019 Law Enforcement
Officers of the Year at the Florida Sheriff’s As-
sociation annual summer conference. As a na-
tion, we are indebted to our first responders
and law enforcement officers for their daily
acts of heroism.
Madam Speaker, please join me in thanking
this father and son for risking their lives not
only during this fire, but every day to ensure
that the people of Franklin County can live
safe and prosperous lives.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DWIGHT EVANS
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. EVANS. Madam Speaker, I was attend-
ing a committee meeting. Had I been present,
I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on Roll Call No.
579.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.008 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1333
October 23, 2019
RECOGNIZING SPECIALIST PAUL
HUFF, RECIPIENT OF TEXAS’
THIRD CONGRESSIONAL DIS-
TRICT 2019 CONGRESSIONAL VET-
ERAN COMMENDATION
HON. VAN TAYLOR
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. TAYLOR. Madam Speaker, today, it is
my privilege to honor twelve distinguished mili-
tary veterans from Texas’ Third Congressional
District who answered the call to serve their
Nation honorably, both in uniform and fol-
lowing their return to civilian life. The recipi-
ents of the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation exemplify the time-honored quali-
ties of patriotism, service before self, and bold
leadership. Following their time in service,
their efforts in our community have earned
these fine individuals recognition as the recipi-
ents of this prestigious commendation. Their
stories of sacrifice will encourage future gen-
erations to pursue a life dedicated to the very
values we cherish as Americans: faith, free-
dom, and democracy. One such hero is Spe-
cialist Paul Huff of McKinney, Texas.
Paul Huff entered the United States Army in
1962 and was assigned to the 5th Missile Bat-
talion, 517th Artillery Division in Abilene,
Texas following his completion of basic train-
ing. Following his promotion to Fire Control
Specialist, Paul was assigned to the United
States Army Signal School and later served
under the United States Army Intelligence
Training Center in Fort Ritchie, Maryland. Mr.
Huff was promoted to a Specialist E–6 rank
and was assigned with the Signal Corps in
Vietnam and Thailand. In 1967, Paul returned
home to his wife and children. For his service,
Specialist Huff was awarded the National De-
fense Medal, Good Conduct Medal, Vietnam
Service Medal with 1 Bronze Star, and Repub-
lic of Vietnam Gallantry Cross with the Palm
Unit Citation Badge.
Upon reentering civilian life, Paul worked in
the computer and data processing field before
later retiring. Since that time, Paul has dedi-
cated his life to assisting veterans and fur-
thering the cause of those who have worn the
uniform as evidenced by his role as President
of the Collin County Vietnam Veterans of
America (Chapter 1122), and active member-
ship in the Veterans of Foreign Wars (Allen
Post 2195), American Legion (Bill Bryan Post
110), and the Association of the United States
Army (Audie Murphy Chapter).
In his role as Treasurer for the Disabled
American Veterans (McKinney Chapter 38),
Paul also serves as a certified DAV Chapter
Service Advisor where he has assisted many
veterans obtain Compensation and Pension
benefits from the Veterans Benefits Adminis-
tration. Mr. Huff further demonstrates his abil-
ity to benefit the lives of those around him by
giving selflessly of his time with the Veterans
Center of North Texas, an all-volunteer organi-
zation that serves as a free resource center
for veterans offering health, employment,
housing, mental health and benefits assist-
ance. Mr. Paul Huff has continuously found
new ways to exhibit service before self to
those within our community and deserves our
unwavering gratitude for his many efforts.
Today a grateful Nation thanks Specialist
Huff for his exceptional service and congratu-
lates him on this recognition. May his stead-
fast example of leadership inspire others to
live a life of service to a cause greater than
themselves. It is my extreme honor to award
him the 2019 Congressional Veteran Com-
mendation for the Third District of Texas.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF DETECTIVE
SERGEANT JASON HOHNER
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Detective Sergeant Jason
Hohner and congratulate him on receiving The
Washtenaw 100 Law Enforcement Officer of
the Year Award. Detective Sergeant Jason
Hohner’s selfless dedication to protecting the
Washtenaw County community is worthy of
commendation.
The Washtenaw 100 is a non-profit organi-
zation committed to supporting our hometown
heroes. The organization’s mission is to pro-
vide immediate financial funding to families of
law enforcement and firefighting personnel in
Washtenaw County who have died in the line
of duty, helping them through their grief. In ad-
dition, the organization strives to serve active
duty law enforcement officers and firefighters
by providing grants to local departments and
offering annual scholarships to their children to
bolster their educational opportunities.
The Washtenaw 100’s Annual Dinner exem-
plifies the organization’s continued dedication
to supporting our community’s firefighters and
law enforcement officers and serves as a
great way to recognize their outstanding ef-
forts. This year, The Washtenaw 100 is proud
to recognize Detective Sergeant Jason Hohner
as the 2019 Law Enforcement Officer of the
Year.
Detective Sergeant Jason Hohner is an ex-
perienced and valuable member of the Pitts-
field Police Department. Nominated by Chief
Matthew Harshberger, Det. Sgt. Hohner is a
leader who consistently goes above and be-
yond what is expected of him in his position.
Although Det. Sgt. Hohner has a host of out-
standing accomplishments that make him de-
serving of the Law Enforcement Officer of the
Year Award, some of his most noteworthy
achievements include his leadership in a re-
cent homicide investigation that involved over
90 law enforcement personnel and his crucial
coordination between the Pittsfield Police De-
partment and a variety of other agencies to
ensure crucial information was not left unno-
ticed. Det. Sgt. Hohner is known amongst his
peers as a driven problem-solver who humbly
strives for excellence without seeking praise or
recognition for any of his remarkable accom-
plishments.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Detective Sergeant Jason
Hohner. His bravery, dedication, and service
to the citizens of Washtenaw County is deeply
appreciated and truly makes a difference in
our community.
HONORING MAHOMED AKBAR
KHAN
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to honor Mahomed Akbar Khan for his dedica-
tion to our youth and the Muslim community.
With over 30 years of commitment to the peo-
ple of Southern California, Mr. Khan has fo-
cused on conflict resolution, interfaith pro-
grams, humanitarian aid, and youth develop-
ment.
In 1970, at age 9, Mr. Khan’s family immi-
grated to the United States from South Africa
during the apartheid. By the early 1990s, Mr.
Khan co-founded over 25 Muslim student
unions and campus organizations across the
United States, including the Muslim Youth of
North America (M.Y.N.A) which is the largest
American Muslim youth organization today.
Mr. Khan’s 30 years of experience in inter-
faith dialog and conflict resolution is exempli-
fied by his notable accomplishments. As a stu-
dent, he served as a Muslim Chaplain and
provided impactful religious services to prison
inmates. This service influenced many former
gang leaders to return to their communities
and devote their lives to gang intervention,
easing tensions, and creating a peace move-
ment on the streets.
Mr. Khan traveled to Israel as an ambas-
sador of peace alongside Martin Luther King
III, a ‘‘civil rights Rabbi,’’ advocating for an end
to violence. Mr. Khan sat on the Economic
and Poverty Alleviation Advisory Board for
Xhosa King Sandile, where he was heavily in-
volved in alleviating poverty and building
peace strategies throughout South Africa.
Currently, Mr, Khan continues to bring im-
pact and attention to local and global issues.
Mr. Khan brought national attention to the
Rohingya humanitarian crisis when he helped
to organize a hearing before the House For-
eign Affairs Committee in Washington, D.C. in
2018. This hearing brought over $130 million
in emergency aid to the Rohingya refugees in
Bangladesh.
Today, we celebrate the many humanitarian
efforts and accomplishments of Mahomed
Akbar Khan. His has committed his life to
serving his local and global community by
continuing to advocate for tolerance, peace,
and non-violence. I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring and recognizing Mahomed
Akbar Khan.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. JOHN H. RUTHERFORD
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. RUTHERFORD. Madam Speaker, I was
unavailable and missed rollcall Vote 570. Had
I been present, I would have voted ‘‘aye’’ on
rollcall No. 570.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\K23OC8.007 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1334 October 23, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF IVAN ‘‘BUD’’
WARREN ATWOOD, JR.’S LIFE-
TIME OF SERVICE TO THE VET-
ERAN COMMUNITY
HON. JAHANA HAYES
OF CONNECTICUT
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. HAYES. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize Ivan ‘‘Bud’’ Warren Atwood, Jr.,
of Torrington, Connecticut, who passed away
on October 20, 2019 after a long battle with
cancer. As a decorated member of the U.S.
Army and a longtime advocate for veterans,
Mr. Atwood lived a life that was truly emblem-
atic of service to his community.
During his time in the U.S. Army, Mr. At-
wood proved himself to be a dedicated and
brave soldier. As a result, he was awarded a
series of medals and decorations, including
the National Defense Service Medal, the
Marksman (Rifle), the Good Conduct Medal, a
Korean War Service Medal, and a Letter of
Appreciation.
However, work for the Armed Services and
his country continued long after he left the
Army. After retiring, Mr. Atwood turned his at-
tention to veterans. He became the Director of
the Torrington Veterans Service Office, where
he had the privilege of providing services and
final honors to countless veterans for at least
eighteen years. In addition to this, Mr. Atwood
served with the Northwest Connecticut Honor
Guard and was instrumental in organizing
local events for veterans such as National
Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, Veterans
Day, National Vietnam War Veterans Day, Na-
tional Korean War Armistice Day, and many
more.
Mr. Atwood’s work in the military community
shows his character and integrity. His legacy
lives on through the veterans for whom he ad-
vocated tirelessly, the organization which he
championed, and his family members who
have inherited his commitment to service. It
cannot be understated how much he will be
missed.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Ivan Warren Atwood, Jr. as he
rests in peace after such an extraordinary life.
He truly made our community a better place.
f
HONORING RABBI MORLEY
FEINSTEIN
HON. BRAD SHERMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. SHERMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor a leader in the Jewish commu-
nity, Rabbi Morley Feinstein.
Ordained in 1981 at Hebrew Union Col-
lege—Jewish Institute of Religion in Cincinnati,
Rabbi Feinstein served as the assistant and
first associate rabbi of Temple Beth-El in San
Antonio, Texas. From 1987 to 2002, he served
as senior rabbi of Temple Beth-El in South
Bend, Indiana. During his tenure there, Indi-
ana’s Governor recognized Rabbi Feinstein
with the state’s highest citizen honor, The
Sagamore of the Wabash, for his efforts in
promoting peace and justice.
Rabbi Feinstein has devoted time for thirty-
four summers teaching at the camps of the
Union for Reform Judaism. In addition, he has
served in leadership roles with the Los Ange-
les Council of Religious Leaders, the Central
Conference of American Rabbis, and the
Board of Rabbis of Southern California.
For the past 17 years, Rabbi Feinstein has
served as senior rabbi at University Syna-
gogue in Los Angeles, where he has shared
his love for teaching Torah and helped to grow
a vibrant Jewish community. He has also
brought his passion for music to this sacred
work.
I have had the privilege of attending serv-
ices officiated by Rabbi Feinstein and have
seen firsthand the welcoming spiritual home
he has fostered at University Synagogue.
In his role as rabbi emeritus, Rabbi Fein-
stein will remain a treasured resource to our
community. Rabbi Feinstein is loved by his
wife Dr. Margarete Myers Feinstein, sons,
Aaron and Ari, twin daughters, Eliana and
Renata, and his two grandchildren.
Madam Speaker, I wish to thank Rabbi
Feinstein for his service to our community.
f
IN REMEMBRANCE OF THE
MARYSVILLE–PILCHUCK HIGH
SCHOOL SHOOTING
HON. RICK LARSEN
OF WASHINGTON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. LARSEN of Washington. Madam Speak-
er, I rise to commemorate a solemn anniver-
sary.
Five years ago, on October 24, 2014, the
Marysville, Washington and Tulalip commu-
nities were violently ripped apart by a tragic
shooting at Marysville-Pilchuck High School.
The victims—Zoe Galasso (14), Shaylee
Chuckulnaskit (14), Gia Soriano (14) and An-
drew Fryberg (15)—were filled with ambition
and excitement for life.
Jaylen Fryberg (15), also died.
Nate Hatch survived the shooting and spent
months fighting for his life.
As a father of two boys, my heart still hurts
when I think of those parents who received
the worst news imaginable.
Today, five years later, I recognize the
strength and resilience of the victims’ families,
the Tulalip tribes, the Marysville-Pilchuck High
School community and the city of Marysville,
Washington. When faced with unimaginable
tragedy, the community came together to cele-
brate the young victims and give thanks for
their lives which were cut short in a senseless
act of violence.
f
CONGRATULATING DR. C. DIANE
MOSBY FOR 10 YEARS OF SERV-
ICE TO THE ANOINTED NEW LIFE
BAPTIST CHURCH
HON. ABIGAIL DAVIS SPANBERGER
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Ms. SPANBERGER. Madam Speaker, it is
my true pleasure to congratulate Dr. C. Diane
Mosby on her deeply deserved recognition for
10 years of service as a Senior Pastor for the
Anointed New Life Baptist Church in Rich-
mond, Virginia.
Over the past decade and beyond, Dr.
Mosby has served as a leader in her faith and
community. Her dedication is evident through
her Doctor of Ministry and Master of Divinity
degrees from Virginia Union University. More-
over, her work in the Commonwealth, as well
as completion of international ministry assign-
ments in Ghana, France, and the Philippines,
exhibits remarkable commitment to the com-
munities she serves. In Dr. Mosby’s daily
work, she has made a positive impact on
countless lives and has honored the values
she preaches at the Anointed New Life Baptist
Church.
Dr. Mosby’s commitment is both inspiring
and humbling. I hope to emulate her service
as the Representative for Virginia’s 7th District
and would like to thank her for all her work. I
look forward to celebrating her continued serv-
ice in years to come.
f
IN CELEBRATION OF THE AMER-
ICAN SYRIAN ARAB CULTURAL
ASSOCIATION ANNUAL BANQUET
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the American Syrian Arab
Cultural Association and celebrate its 2019
Annual Banquet. The association’s lasting
commitment to supporting our Syrian Arab
American community is worthy of commenda-
tion.
The American Syrian Arab Cultural Associa-
tion (ASACA) is a non-profit and non-sectarian
cultural and education organization with a mis-
sion to ‘‘acquaint the American public with the
rich Arabic culture and heritage through the
promotion of lectures, educational seminars
and cultural events.’’ The association aspires
to strengthen ties and promote friendly rela-
tions by building bridges between Arabic cul-
ture and the American community at large. In
addition, ASACA tirelessly strives to preserve
and instill Arabic language, culture, and herit-
age within the youth of the Arab community,
ensuring it will be shared with generations to
come.
ASACA’s Annual Banquet exemplifies the
association’s continued commitment to our
Arab American community. This year, the ban-
quet will support Syrian Youth Empowerment
(SYE), a non-profit initiative that empowers
Syrian youth by providing paths to higher edu-
cation. Established by a group of Syrian refu-
gees who personally experienced the chal-
lenges of pursuing higher education both in-
side and outside Syria, SYE was created to
support students in conflict areas and help
them navigate the barriers they encounter
throughout the college application process.
ASACA’s important work alongside SYA will
generate a greater awareness for the obsta-
cles many Syrians face due to ongoing con-
flicts, and ASACA’s dedicated efforts with help
better support students who wish to obtain
their college degrees.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the American Syrian Arab Cul-
tural Association as it hosts its annual ban-
quet. ASACA’s commitment to empowering
Syrian youth truly changes lives, and I am
deeply appreciative of the association’s re-
markable work.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.016 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1335
October 23, 2019
GEORGIA SUPPORT ACT
SPEECH OF
HON. BRENDAN F. BOYLE
OF PENNSYLVANIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Tuesday, October 22, 2019
Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of H.R. 598, the
Georgia Support Act. This bill helps strengthen
the vital U.S.—Georgia partnership, a strategi-
cally important relationship in a critical part of
the world. In 2008, Georgia was invaded by
Russia and the Kremlin continues to attack
Georgia through subversive disinformation
campaigns and cyberattacks. This bill provides
Georgia with assistance to combat this threat
and support its democratic institutions.
The Georgian government has long made
closer integration with the EU and NATO a pri-
ority. According to recent polls, almost 80 per-
cent of the Georgian population supports
membership in the EU and over 70 percent
supports membership in NATO. As a member
of the U.S. delegation to NATO Parliamentary
Assembly, I am pleased that the bill recog-
nizes that Georgia has been a longstanding
NATO-aspirant country.
I urge all of my colleagues to support the
Georgia Support Act. Passing this bill shows
our support for Georgia’s sovereignty, inde-
pendence, and territorial integrity, as well as
for its democratic development, Euro-Atlantic
integration, and peaceful conflict resolution in
Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
f
GEORGIANA VINES
HON. TIM BURCHETT
OF TENNESSEE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. BURCHETT. Madam Speaker, today I
recognize longtime East Tennessee journalist
Georgiana Vines as she celebrates her 80th
birthday this week.
Over the last five decades, Georgiana has
had a successful career as a reporter and edi-
tor. She retired from full-time work in 2005 but
continues to cover East Tennessee news and
politics as a newspaper freelancer. In addition
to working in the news industry, Georgiana
has spent a great deal of time teaching and
sharing her experience with future journalists
at the University of Tennessee’s College of
Communications and Information.
I am honored to call her my friend, and I
know I speak for many in East Tennessee
when I say Happy Birthday, Georgiana.
f
RECOGNIZING THE WORK OF THE
SOCIETY FOR NEUROSCIENCE
HON. ADAM KINZINGER
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. KINZINGER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the work of the Society for
Neuroscience, an organization at the forefront
of medical research and positively affecting
the lives of people across America and all
over the world. The Society for Neuroscience
is the world’s largest organization of scientists
and physicians devoted to understanding the
brain and nervous system.
Over the past few days, more than 30,000
scientists from more than 70 countries have
gathered at the Society’s Neuroscience 2019
Conference in Chicago to present emerging
science, learn from experts, forge collabora-
tions with peers, and explore new tools and
technologies. Some of the research being pre-
sented includes the latest projects and discov-
eries surrounding Alzheimer’s and opioid ad-
diction research, both of which are issues I
care deeply about and have advocated for
here in Congress.
At the annual conference, the state of Illi-
nois is represented by nearly 1,400 attendees
who are sharing cutting-edge research con-
ducted by Illinois’ research institutions and
academic centers. One of these institutions
taking part in the gathering of minds is North-
ern Illinois University (NIU), which I proudly
represent in Illinois’s 16th Congressional Dis-
trict. NIU had 10 researchers showcasing their
dedicated work to the Society, representing
their passion to better the sciences and find
answers to questions we all hope to uncover.
In Fiscal Year 2019, the state of Illinois re-
ceived over $485 million in funding through
grants from the National Institute of Health
(NIH). Of that funding, $424,000 went to IL–16
and included funding to conduct research
aimed at better understanding the nervous
system and to improve the treatment and pre-
vention of brain and nervous system dis-
orders. I want to commend the institutions in
my district and state, as well as the Society for
Neuroscience, for being leaders in neuro-
science research and highlighting the impor-
tance of scientific research to advance our un-
derstanding of the nervous system to ulti-
mately improve the health of people across
the world.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF LIEUTENANT
MICHAEL GRISSOM
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Lieutenant Michael
Grissom and congratulate him on receiving
The Washtenaw 100 Firefighter of the Year
Award. Lieutenant Grissom’s selfless dedica-
tion to protecting the Washtenaw County com-
munity is worthy of commendation.
The Washtenaw 100 is a non-profit organi-
zation committed to supporting our hometown
heroes. The organization’s mission is to pro-
vide immediate financial funding to families of
law enforcement and firefighting personnel in
Washtenaw County who have died in the line
of duty, helping them through their grief. In ad-
dition, the organization strives to serve active
duty law enforcement officers and firefighters
by providing grants to local departments and
offering annual scholarships to their children to
bolster their educational opportunities.
The Washtenaw 100’s Annual Dinner exem-
plifies the organization’s continued commit-
ment to supporting our community’s fire-
fighters and law enforcement officers and
serves as a great way to recognize their out-
standing efforts. This year, The Washtenaw
100 is proud to recognize Lieutenant Michael
Grissom as the 2019 Firefighter of the Year.
Lieutenant Michael Grissom is an experi-
enced and valuable member of the Dexter
Area Fire Department. Nominated by Chief
Robert Smith, Lieutenant Grissom is known as
a leader who consistently goes above and be-
yond what is expected of him in his position.
Lieutenant Grissom has a host of remarkable
accomplishments that make him deserving of
the Firefighter of the Year Award, but some of
his most noteworthy achievements include his
involvement with Active 911, a mobile app that
enables responders to easily access pertinent
information and communicate effectively with
one another, and his leadership in repurposing
old radios.
When asked about his impressive work,
Lieutenant Grissom responded, ‘‘It’s not about
me.’’ Lieutenant Grissom truly embodies all
the qualities of a dedicated firefighter—he
humbly strives for excellence without seeking
praise or recognition for any of his significant
accomplishments.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Lieutenant Michael Grissom.
His bravery, dedication, and service to the citi-
zens of Washtenaw County is deeply appre-
ciated and truly makes a difference in our
community.
f
RECOGNIZING THE COTTONDALE
HIGH SCHOOL FUTURE FARMERS
OF AMERICA CHAPTER
HON. NEAL P. DUNN
OF FLORIDA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. DUNN. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
congratulate the Cottondale High School Fu-
ture Farmers of America (FFA) Chapter for
winning the 2019 state championship for both
Agriculture Communication and Parliamentary
Procedure.
Cottondale FFA Chapter members Josh
Scurlock, Addison Griffin, Taylor Dumas, Lillie
Livingston, Blayton See, Carl Young, Joey
Jackson and their Advisor Stan Scurlock did
an outstanding job preparing and practicing for
this competition.
Agriculture will always be vital to the sus-
tainability of this great nation and we are fortu-
nate to have FFA Chapters across the country
that instill its importance in our youth.
The Cottondale FFA members will compete
at the National FFA Convention in Indianap-
olis, Indiana for the national title.
Madam Speaker, please join me in con-
gratulating the Cottondale FFA chapter and
wishing them luck at the National FFA Con-
vention next week.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE RETIRE-
MENT OF MICHAEL SCHNEIDER
HON. JOSH GOTTHEIMER
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the retirement of my good
friend, and true leader of labor, Mike Schnei-
der of Rochelle Park, New Jersey. After thirty-
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.019 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1336 October 23, 2019
five years with the International Association of
Heat and Frost Insulators and Allied Workers
Local No. 32, Mike leaves his indelible legacy.
Born and raised in New Jersey, Mike is a
third generation Insulator, following in the foot-
steps of his grandfather, father, uncle and
brother, and he is rightly proud of this legacy.
Since joining as an apprentice member in
1984, Mike worked his way up to foreman,
earning leadership positions as Vice Presi-
dent, President, and Fund Trustee. Mike’s
story is emblematic of the great American
story, and he has always pushed himself and
those around him to be the best they could
be. It is precisely these values that make me
proud to call Mike a dear friend.
I would especially like to commend Mike for
his work to help New Jersey workers succeed
in the 21st Century economy. As President of
the Bergen County Central Trades and Labor
Council and President of the United Labor
Agency of Northern NJ, Mike worked tirelessly
to secure his members the benefits they de-
serve. The hard-working brothers and sisters
of labor, including Local No. 32, helped build
our great country, and our towering economy,
and have continued to contribute to the most
competitive workforce in the world.
As dedicated as Mike has been to his craft
and his career, his commitment to his family
and community has been even stronger. Mike
is a devoted husband to Josette and dedi-
cated father to Brian and Kelly. Despite work-
ing long days, he never missed a wrestling
match or cheerleading competition. The same
drive that makes Mike such a community and
labor leader has also made him a successful
wrestling coach for the Hackensack Junior
Wrestling Program and for the workers he
trains every day.
Mr. Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join me
in recognizing Mike for his tireless efforts on
behalf of working men and women in North
Jersey. As Mike departs Local No. 32, I hope
he can enjoy more time with his loving family
and pursue his passions of cycling and golf. I
am elated he is keeping a leadership role on
the Council, so we can continue to work to-
gether. I thank Mike, a true public servant, and
wish him all the best.
f
IN MEMORY OF ALBERT R.
PERAZA
HON. J. LUIS CORREA
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. CORREA. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to celebrate the life of Albert R. Peraza. Mr.
Peraza was my constituent and a prominent
member of the community, whose passion in
life service to the Anaheim community. His
work in education impacted countless lives.
On behalf of the community, I wish to thank
him for his contributions.
Mr. Peraza was born in 1933 in Jerome, Ari-
zona. He began his professional career by re-
ceiving his Bachelor of Arts in Education at
Northern Arizona University. After college, he
moved to Anaheim, California and spent 19
years as an elementary school teacher. Fur-
thering his own education, he received a mas-
ter’s degree in education from the California
State University, Fullerton, and completed his
post graduate work both in psychometry at
California State University, Fullerton and in ad-
ministration at Chapman University. He was
subsequently hired by the La Habra City
School District, where he served as an ele-
mentary school principle and Director of the
Head Start Program for 15 years.
Mr. Peraza served as the Anaheim Planning
Commissioner for nine years and on the Utility
Board Commission for eight years. Mr. Peraza
also dedicated himself to the Anaheim City
School District, serving as a Member of
School Board of Education for 13 years. Fur-
thermore, he was also an active Member of
Board of Directors of the Anaheim YMCA.
Mr. Peraza was loved by his family, friends
and community. He is preceded in death by
his loving wife, Rachel. He leaves behind his
daughters, Patricia Peraza and Kathleen Gar-
cia, his son-in-law, Valentin Garcia, grand-
children Michelle (David) Scharfe, Andrew
(Jessica) Garcia, Matthew Garcia, Amanda
Garcia, and his great-grandchildren, Eli, Evan-
geline, Ezekiel, Ephraim Scharfe, and Ben-
jamin Garcia.
I ask my colleagues to join me, in cele-
brating the successful life of Albert R. Peraza
and honoring his decades of hard work for our
community. May he rest in peace.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. A. DONALD McEACHIN
OF VIRGINIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. MCEACHIN. Madam Speaker, I was un-
avoidably detained on October 21, 2019 dur-
ing roll call no. 568, On Motion to Table,
H.Res. 647, Raising a question of the privi-
leges of the House. Had I been present, I
would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also unavoid-
ably detained during roll call no. 569, On Mo-
tion to Suspend the Rules and Pass, as
Amended, H.R. 4406, Small Business Devel-
opment Centers Improvement Act. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’ I was also
unavoidably detained during roll call no. 570,
On Motion to Suspend the Rules and Pass,
H.R. 4407, SCORE for Small Business Act.
Had I been present, I would have voted ‘‘yea.’’
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE MUSLIM
COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION OF
ANN ARBOR AND VACINITY
MOSQUE OPEN HOUSE
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the Muslim Community As-
sociation of Ann Arbor and Vicinity’s Mosque
Open House.
The Muslim community is an important com-
ponent of Michigan’s identity. Since the com-
munity’s humble beginnings in the state over
100 years ago, the Muslim community in
Michigan has grown significantly and today
represents one of the most diverse groups in
the nation. In 1972, the Muslim Community
Association of Ann Arbor and Vicinity (MCA)
was founded by a dedicated group of Muslims
to better serve the needs of Michigan’s Muslim
community. The purpose of this association
was to practice, propagate, and preserve
Islam and Islamic heritage. Today, the asso-
ciation tirelessly works to serve the religious
needs of Muslims, but also strives to meet the
social, cultural, and educational needs of the
community, as well. In addition, the associa-
tion provides opportunities for people to learn
more about the teachings of the Holy Qur’an
and Sunnah through classes and prayer and
aspires to enhance friendly relations between
Muslims and non-Muslims throughout the
state.
MCA’s Mosque Open House exemplifies the
association’s continued commitment to uni-
fying our community. By opening the
mosque’s doors and encouraging community
members to visit, countless people will be in-
troduced to—or gain a better understanding
of—Islam. Moreover, the open house presents
a new opportunity for visitors to meet and
speak with more of their Muslim neighbors.
Thanks to the open house, MCA will advance
its mission to facilitate greater unification for
all members of our community, and impor-
tantly will create a welcoming space for both
Muslims and non-Muslims of Ann Arbor to
come together to learn more about one an-
other.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the Muslim Community Asso-
ciation of Ann Arbor and Vicinity and thank
them for hosting their Mosque Open House.
We are grateful for the association’s dedicated
efforts to serve the Muslims of Ann Arbor and
promote friendly relations communitywide.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. CHELLIE PINGREE
OF MAINE
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Ms. PINGREE. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for roll call vote 568, the Motion to
Table on H. Res. 647, which took place on
October 21, 2019. Had I been present, I would
have voted ‘‘yea’’.
f
INTRODUCTION OF THE VISION
ZERO ACT OF 2019
HON. EARL BLUMENAUER
OF OREGON
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. BLUMENAUER. Madam Speaker, today
I introduced the Vision Zero Act of 2019. This
bipartisan legislation makes the development
and implementation of Vision Zero plans eligi-
ble for federal transportation funding under the
Surface Transportation Block Grant program,
the Highway Safety Improvement Program,
and the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality
Program.
Traffic fatalities in the United States claim
more than 36,000 lives every year, that is one
life approximately every 14 minutes. Fatal
crashes are especially common for the most
vulnerable road users, that is, pedestrians, cy-
clists, older Americans, and children. Just yes-
terday, the National Highway Traffic Safety
Administration (NHTSA) released their annual
traffic fatalities report which found a decrease
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.024 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1337
October 23, 2019
in total traffic fatalities but an increase for vul-
nerable road users like pedestrians and cy-
clists. We need a new approach. The only ac-
ceptable number of traffic fatalities is zero.
In more than 40 urban, rural, and suburban
communities across America, residents, activ-
ists, and elected officials have come together
to adopt and implement Vision Zero plans.
The goal of Vision Zero is the elimination of all
transportation-related fatalities and serious in-
juries. This includes pedestrians, bicyclists,
transit users, motorists, and passengers. Vi-
sion Zero is an innovative, multifaceted ap-
proach to improve transportation safety across
all transportation modes by using data, new
partnerships, safe planning, and community-
focused solutions toward zero traffic fatalities.
The Vision Zero Act of 2019 integrates Vi-
sion Zero into federal transportation policy so
that safety, equity, and proper planning are fi-
nally prioritized.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. DAN BISHOP
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I was unable to attend votes be-
tween October 15 and 23 due to a long stand-
ing family committment. While this would not
have changed the outcome, below is how I
would have voted on each rollcall. Had I been
present, I would have voted ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 556; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 557; ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 558; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 559;
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 560; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No.
561; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 562; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 563; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 564; ‘‘yea’’ on
rollcall No. 565; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 566;
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 567; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No.
568; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 569; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 570; ‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 571; ‘‘nay’’ on
rollcall No. 572; ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall No. 573;
‘‘nay’’ on rollcall No. 574; and ‘‘yea’’ on rollcall
No. 575.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF FAYROUZ
BAZZI FOR HER HEROISM
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Fayrouz Bazzi for her her-
oism. Her courageous response to a vehicle
fire saved the lives of six people and greatly
deserves commendation.
On August 14, 2019, Fayrouz Bazzi’s vehi-
cle overheated and was engulfed in flames on
Interstate 275 as she and her family drove to
buy school supplies at Oak Park Mall.
Through her remarkable efforts and heroism,
Ms. Bazzi was able to stay calm and quickly
maneuver the car through three lanes of traffic
without harming any other motorists. As she
directed the car into safety, her sons recall
watching flames shoot from the hood while
she provided escape instructions to ensure ev-
eryone had a clear exit route once the vehicle
stopped. As the car burned, all six of Ms.
Bazzi’s children were able to escape without
serious injury. Ms. Bazzi left the vehicle only
after she confirmed all six family members
were safe.
I am proud that a strong, brave, and coura-
geous woman like Fayrouz Bazzi is a part of
our Dearborn community. As a graduate of the
University of Michigan-Dearborn, an ICU
nurse, a business-woman, and a mother, Ms.
Bazzi is not a stranger to adversity and has
consistently displayed a tremendous amount
of motivation to tackling and solving every
problem she encounters. Her quick-thinking
and levelheaded actions in the face of crisis
saved the lives of six children. Undoubtedly,
Ms. Bazzi’s commitment to helping others
makes the community a better place.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring Dearborn resident, Fayrouz
Bazzi. Her outstanding efforts in a time of
panic ensured the safety of her family and
other motorists in the community. I am deeply
appreciative of her selfless actions and her-
oism.
f
CONGRATULATING BRIAN
MORIGUCHI ON HIS RETIREMENT
HON. JUDY CHU
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Ms. JUDY CHU of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to congratulate Brian
Moriguchi on his retirement from a remarkable
career in public service and law enforcement.
For the past 34 years, Brian has served in
multiple capacities with the Los Angeles Coun-
ty Sherriff’s Department. From the start of his
career, Brian fought tirelessly for systemic
change within law enforcement, devoting his
professional and personal life to fighting for
justice and fairness. While working as a Ser-
geant, Brian helped develop the Sheriff’s De-
partment’s hate crime policy. He then became
the chairperson for the Los Angeles County
Human Relations Commission’s Network
Against Hate Crimes, which develops pro-
grams to combat racism and prejudice in the
county.
In 2008, Brian was elected president of the
Los Angeles County Professional Peace Offi-
cers Association (PPOA), which represents
over 9,000 active and retired law enforcement
officials. He held this position for more than 10
years, becoming the longest serving president
in PPOA’s 68-year history. As president, Brian
successfully undertook a variety of initiatives.
He improved communications with PPOA’s
members, modernized its digital presence, and
improved its outreach. Brian also increased
funding for the organization’s Star & Shield
Foundation, enabling PPOA to better assist
the families of fallen officers. Moreover, Brian
is also lauded for protecting the members’
pensions, negotiating better contracts, and
providing support for numerous local charities.
Outside of his career, Brian has engaged in
a variety of civic activities to continuously im-
prove the communities around him. He served
as president of the San Fernando Valley
Chapter of the Japanese American Citizens
League (JACL), the oldest national Asian-Pa-
cific American civil rights organization in the
country. As president, Brian helped organize
protests, educational programs, field trips, and
other activities to cultivate awareness of
Asian-Pacific American history and the ongo-
ing fight to combat injustice and bigotry. Brian
also devoted time to other significant commu-
nity organizations, serving as a board member
for the McKinley Children’s Center and A
Safer California Foundation.
Brian’s lifetime of service is a testament to
the tremendous impact one person can have
on a community. I thank him for his 34 years
of contributions to Los Angeles and wish him
nothing but the best in retirement.
f
TRIBUTE TO THOMAS LUDWIG
JOHN D’ALESANDRO III TRANS-
FORMATIONAL MAYOR OF BAL-
TIMORE, CHAMPION OF CIVIL
RIGHTS FOR ALL, AND SCION OF
GREAT AMERICAN FAMILY
HON. SHEILA JACKSON LEE
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Ms. JACKSON LEE. Madam Speaker, I rise
to pay tribute to Thomas Ludwig John
D’Alesandro III, the Mayor of Baltimore from
1967 to 1971, a champion of civil rights and
equal treatment for all persons, the son of a
former Member of Congress and Mayor of
Baltimore, and the older brother of House
Speaker NANCY PELOSI, the first and only
woman to ascend to the height of national leg-
islative power.
Thomas Ludwig John D’Alesandro III died
October 20, 2019 at his home in North Balti-
more at the age of 90.
Thomas Ludwig John D’Alesandro III was
elected president of the Baltimore City Council
in 1963 before winning election as Mayor of
Baltimore in 1967 and served until 1971 and
whose patience and care ushered Baltimore
through a very difficult period.
Thomas Ludwig John D’Alesandro III was
born on July 24, 1929, in Baltimore, the first
of seven children of Thomas Jr. and
Annunciata (Lombardi) D’Alesandro.
Thomas Ludwig John D’Alesandro III grad-
uated from Loyola High School and Loyola
College, and the University of Maryland
School of Law, before serving in the United
States Army from 1952 to 1955.
When Thomas Ludwig John D’Alesandro III
was elected mayor, Baltimore’s public housing
was in a state of terrible disrepair, crime was
rising, and the middle class was retreating to
the suburbs.
Under the mayoral leadership of Thomas
Ludwig John D’Alesandro III, things changed
as civil rights laws were enacted in the city,
neighborhood centers were opened, and a
housing and community development depart-
ment was created. He stood for justice and he
wasn’t afraid to fight for equal rights. He was
privileged to meet Dr. Martin Luther King. He
wanted all to live the American dream.
During his first four months in office, Thom-
as Ludwig John D’Alesandro III appointed
more African American persons to govern-
mental offices than any predecessor did over
an entire term.
Once, at a neighborhood meeting with a
conservative civic group in northeast Baltimore
in 1967 and right before becoming mayor,
‘‘was the only person in the room to speak in
favor of equal housing.’’
According to his sister and House Speaker
NANCY PELOSI, ‘‘Tommy dedicated his life to
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.029 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1338 October 23, 2019
our city’’ and was a ‘‘champion for civil rights,’’
who ‘‘worked tirelessly for all who called Balti-
more home.’’
Thomas Ludwig John D’Alesandro III leaves
to cherish his memory his beloved wife, Mar-
garet; his children, Thomas, Dominic, Nich-
olas, Patricia and Gregory; a brother, Nich-
olas; 10 grandchildren; three great-grand-
children; and countless neighbors and friends
who will always remember this family man and
transformational mayor who opened up the
City of Baltimore politically. My deepest sym-
pathy to his entire family.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE RETIRE-
MENT OF REVEREND GREG
JACKSON
HON. JOSH GOTTHEIMER
OF NEW JERSEY
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. GOTTHEIMER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the retirement of my good
friend, and a great leader in New Jersey, Pas-
tor Greg Jackson. For the last thirty-five years,
after growing up in South Carolina, Reverend
Jackson has shared his warmth, integrity, and
compassion with our blessed community in
Hackensack, New Jersey.
Reverend Jackson is the longest-serving
pastor of Mount Olive Baptist Church in the
congregation’s remarkable 130 years. Under
the Pastor’s leadership, Mount Olive has con-
tinued to flourish; it serves not only as a vi-
brant spiritual center, but also as a community
dedicated to serving others, especially for
those in need. Among other accomplishments,
during his tenure, Mount Olive Church built the
Logan Family Life Center, providing emer-
gency assistance, social services and edu-
cational programs, and advancing the church’s
goal of serving humanity. Without question
Mount Olive’s success is reflective of the com-
passion and selflessness of its spiritual leader.
We are truly lucky to have Reverend Jackson
in North Jersey, and I am especially lucky to
call him a friend. He has, more than once, in-
vited me to speak from his pulpit. I have often
joked that I spent more time praying with Pas-
tor Jackson than my own Rabbi.
Reverend Jackson’s efforts to improve the
lives of others extends beyond his work as
pastor at Mount Olive. He founded the Inter-
faith Brotherhood and Sisterhood breakfast,
has served on Hackensack City committees,
and the Bergen County Council of Churches.
Even in retirement, Reverend Jackson’s serv-
ice will endure as President of the Lott Carey
Baptist Foreign Missions Convention.
Over the course of his incredible career,
Reverend Jackson has traveled across the
world to preach, including in South Africa,
China, India, Brazil, Cuba, and right here on
the floor of the House of Representatives,
where he offered the opening prayer as the
Guest Chaplain. He has also welcomed trans-
formational leaders to his church, including
JOHN LEWIS and so many other civil rights
leaders. I only wish my colleagues had the op-
portunity to experience the passion, smarts,
warmth, wisdom, and conviction of Reverend
Jackson for themselves.
I am proud to recognize Reverend Jackson
on his remarkable career and wish him many
years of happiness alongside his wife Barbara
and their children, Michael, Monique and
Aashon, and their grandchildren Jorden, Ken-
nedy and Madison. In the years to come, I
know he will remain a pillar of our community.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF THE
GROUNDBREAKING OF MICHIGAN
MEDICINE’S ‘‘HOSPITAL OF THE
FUTURE’’
HON. DEBBIE DINGELL
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mrs. DINGELL. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the groundbreaking of
Michigan Medicine’s new ‘‘Hospital of the Fu-
ture.’’ The construction of Michigan Medicine’s
new adult hospital on its main medical campus
will transform patients’ medical and surgical
care, improving the lives of many within our
community. This endeavor is worthy of com-
mendation.
Since the opening of the University of Michi-
gan Medical School in 1850, Michigan Medi-
cine has been the site of many transformative
medical and technological advancements.
Since its humble beginnings, Michigan Medi-
cine has grown to become one of the largest
health care complexes in the state of Michi-
gan. Today, the institution continues to ad-
vance the future of healthcare and lead the
nation in health care reform, education, and
biomedical innovation.
The groundbreaking of Michigan Medicine’s
new hospital exemplifies the institution’s last-
ing commitment to meeting the increasingly
complex health care demands of communities
across Michigan. The new 12-story facility will
include a revolutionary neurological and
neurosurgical center, specialty care services
for cardiovascular and thoracic patients, and
264 private rooms equipped with universal in-
tensive care. Measuring around 690,000
square feet, the hospital will expand Michigan
Medicine’s breadth of services and signifi-
cantly heighten access to medical care com-
munity-wide.
Notably, the new facility aligns with the Uni-
versity of Michigan’s commitment to enhancing
environmental sustainability and continued ef-
forts to reduce the institution’s carbon foot-
print. Working alongside a team of expert ar-
chitects and engineers, Michigan Medicine
hopes the new hospital will be a highly effi-
cient ‘‘green’’ facility and achieve LEED gold
status.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in honoring the groundbreaking of Michi-
gan Medicine’s new hospital. It is critical that
healthcare providers adapt to meet the chang-
ing medical needs of communities nationwide.
I am grateful for Michigan’s support in this en-
deavor. Their revolutionary vision propels our
country forward and truly makes them part of
our nation’s leaders and best.
PAYING TRIBUTE TO CONGRESS-
MAN ELIJAH E. CUMMINGS
SPEECH OF
HON. MARCY KAPTUR
OF OHIO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, October 21, 2019
Ms. KAPTUR. Mr. Speaker, I rise today with
affection in memoriam of Congressman Elijah
E. Cummings of Baltimore, Maryland. He was
a man for our time.
Today, I join a grateful nation in honoring
the life, as well as, mourning the death of an
exceptional American, a man of deep faith in
his creator and fellow human beings. As I
learned of Elijah’s passing, I was deeply sad-
dened by the loss of such a magnanimous
human being, a devoted patriot, and a man
whose heart for others never stopped beating.
During my tenure in the House of Representa-
tives, I had the honor to serve alongside Elijah
for over 23 years, but it is the greatest privi-
lege of all to call him my friend. All Members
who served with him know this similar affinity.
The word great is often overused, but Elijah
was truly a great man. He served his district
in a way that made clear to everyone his
unshakable love for the City of Baltimore and
its people. His love was enduring. His service
and passion touched those of us serving in
any capacity.
A graduate of Howard University in 1973,
Elijah received his bachelor’s in political
science and served as the student govern-
ment president. Following the completion of
his undergraduate degree, he attended the
University of Maryland where he studied law,
which led to two-decades of legal practice in
the private sector. Elijah also served as the
Chief Judge on the Maryland Moot Court,
where he aided law students in their studies
on appellate casework.
Prior to winning his election to the House of
Representatives in 1996, in 1982, at only 31
years old, Elijah became the youngest chair-
man of the Legislative Black Caucus in the
Maryland House of Delegates. With not only
an impressive 16 years to show for this serv-
ice, he successfully climbed the ranks to be-
come the first African American to serve as
Speaker pro tem—one of the many
groundbreaking milestones in his illustrious ca-
reer. As a trailblazer, Elijah advocated for eco-
nomic and racial justice, and human rights. He
was constantly working to improve the condi-
tion of his community that had been dev-
astated by the loss of over 30,000 steel jobs,
which brought about great despair. Elijah per-
severed for his people and community using
every opportunity to revitalize and to improve
his hometown.
Joining the House of Representatives in
1996, Elijah became the Representative for
the seventh district in Maryland, serving and
dedicated to Baltimore and its suburbs. He
was truly a crusader, as he tirelessly fought as
an advocate against drug abuse, gun violence,
and a visionary for home ownership for all and
labor unions—issues that so deeply impact
our nation and his district. Amid racial conflict
in his home city, Elijah was able to stand
above the fray in such a riot-torn landscape
and bring peace and reason. As a man who
lived by example, his mantra of standing up
for one’s beliefs was reflected through his
years of diligent service and his grace under
fire.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.033 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E1339
October 23, 2019
I can attest, during his medical challenge,
which had been significant and prolonged, he
never yielded. His dutiful work sustained the
hope of his family and colleagues. History will
attest his vision will have laid the foundation
for a more honorable and respectful approach
to governance of a free people.
May I extend my deepest condolences to
his family, his devoted wife Maya, daughter
Jennifer, and the people of greater Baltimore
for sending a man of such substance and
bearing to serve the people of the United
States.
Elijah, the proud son of Baltimore, left his
community, our nation, and this world a better
place through his service. And for that, we
shall remain eternally grateful. May God rest
his soul peacefully and in full communion with
the power of creation.
f
HONORING THE STRAND THEATRE
ON THE OCCASION OF ITS RIB-
BON CUTTING CEREMONY
HON. ELISE M. STEFANIK
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Ms. STEFANIK. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor The Strand Theatre on the oc-
casion of its Ribbon Cutting Ceremony.
At nearly a century old, the Strand theatre
has been a staple of the Hudson River com-
munity since the 1920s. It has played host to
the evolving nature of entertainment since that
time. First being used as a Vaudeville theatre,
it evolved with the times to start featuring
films. Over the years, the Strand fell into dis-
repair. However, Hudson River Music Hall
Productions stepped in and has just finished a
full renovation and modernization project to
bring the Strand back to its former glory.
On behalf of New York’s 21st district, I want
to congratulate Hudson River Music Hall Pro-
ductions and all those who worked so hard to
revive this historic venue. Historic places like
the Strand connect us with our history while
we chart our own paths forward. I look forward
to seeing its renewed role as a centerpiece of
the Hudson Falls community and to the new
memories being created there.
f
COMMEMORATING IDAHO WHEAT
60TH ANNIVESARY
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Madam Speaker, Idaho is
recognized around the world for producing
high-quality wheat. Sixty years ago, Idaho
wheat farmers decided to join together and
form the Idaho Wheat Commission to develop
export markets, conduct research, and edu-
cate growers.
Much has changed over the past 60 years.
In 2018, Idaho was the highest yielding state
in the nation with an average of 90 bushels
per acre. Idaho ranked fifth among wheat pro-
ducing states at more than 100 million bush-
els.
Idaho has one of the most consistent har-
vests of any wheat-growing area. Wet springs
and warm, dry summers combined with rich
volcanic solids create ideal conditions for our
high-quality wheat. Nearly two-thirds of Idaho
wheat is grown under irrigation, allowing for
Idaho growers to manage the crop to cus-
tomers’ specifications.
Idaho is one of few states that grows all five
classes of wheat.
About half of the 100 million bushels pro-
duced each year in Idaho are exported. Idaho
is uniquely positioned to access the global
marketplace by moving grain through the Co-
lumbia-Snake River system to Portland, and
then onto foreign customers, particularly Asian
markets.
The other half of Idaho’s wheat production
goes to domestic markets via trucks and rail
into products we all know and love like
Pepperidge Farms Goldfish Crackers,
Wheaties and Wheat Chex cereals, pasta,
cookies and pastries.
This year, the Idaho Wheat Commission is
celebrating 60 years of service to wheat grow-
ers in Idaho providing growers with market de-
velopment, research, and education.
Let it be known that Idaho wheat is Quality
Wheat Simply Grown and let us join Idaho’s
wheat growers in celebrating 60 years of the
Idaho Wheat Commission.
f
CELEBRATING BRYAN K. EXUM’S
RETIREMENT
HON. ERIC A. ‘‘RICK’’ CRAWFORD
OF ARKANSAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. CRAWFORD. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to celebrate the retirement of Bryan K.
Exum. Bryan began his career with Farmers
Home Administration (aka Rural Development)
as a Student Trainee Agriculture Management
Specialist on May 18, 1980, in the Pine Bluff,
Jefferson County Office. He worked in that of-
fice for three months and then was transferred
as a Student Trainee to the Paragould,
Greene County Office. While working Bryan
was attending Arkansas State University in
Jonesboro and received a degree in Agri-
culture Business. In December 1982, he was
hired as the Assistant County Supervisor in
the Greene County Office. In 1989, Bryan was
transferred to the Marianna, Lee County Office
and in 1992 he was selected as the County
Supervisor.
In 1995 Bryan was selected as the Rural
development Manager for Greene, Craighead
and Poinsett Counties and was an Area Spe-
cialist from August 16, 2007 until January
2011, in the Jonesboro Area Office. On Janu-
ary 16, 20l l, Bryan was selected as the Area
Director for the Jonesboro Area Office. In ad-
dition to his duties as Area Director in
Jonesboro, he was Acting Area Director for
the Forrest City Area Office on two different
occasions for an extended amount of time.
Bryan K. Exum, throughout his lifetime of
service, has played a significant impact on
eastern rural Arkansas. Bryan is a loyal and
dedicated Arkansan, and we are a better State
because of his service to the agriculture busi-
ness.
TRIBUTE TO BRIGADIER GENERAL
JOHN CLAYTON REPPERT
HON. MIKE BOST
OF ILLINOIS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. BOST. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor the life of Brigadier General John Clay-
ton Reppert of Anna, Illinois, who passed
away peacefully earlier this month. General
Reppert dedicated his life to his God, his
country, his family and his friends.
As a young man, John was a star on his
high school football team and worked at his
hometown, family-owned newspaper, the Anna
Gazette-Democrat. While attending Kansas
State, he met and later married Patricia Ann
Rash. Soon after graduating, John was drafted
as a private and assigned to Officer Candidate
School before serving in Vietnam as a Signal
Corps Officer. General Reppert proudly served
in the Army for 33 years, with a focus on
issues impacting relations between the United
States and former Soviet Union. General
Reppert became the Defense Attaché at the
U.S. Embassy in Moscow, playing a key role
in shaping American military and diplomatic
policy.
General Reppert earned a master’s degree
and a Ph.D., leading him to an influential ca-
reer as a professor. He later taught classes at
schools such as Harvard University and West
Point. He eventually served as Harvard’s Ex-
ecutive Director for Research. Though he
maintained an extremely busy life after his
military and educational careers, General
Reppert remained involved in his community
as a Sunday School teacher at his local
church. A devoted husband, father and grand-
father, General Reppert lived his life in full
measure, leaving his mark on all on who knew
him.
Madam Speaker, please join me in recog-
nizing Brigadier General John Reppert of
Anna, Illinois, and celebrate the incredible life
he lived. May he rest in peace.
f
ELIJAH MARLER EAGLE SCOUT
HON. KEN BUCK
OF COLORADO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. BUCK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize Elijah Marler of Boy Scouts of
America Troop 46 from Fort Morgan, Colo-
rado. On August 28, 2019, Elijah was awarded
the rank of Eagle Scout for his outstanding ac-
complishments. Since 1920, the Boy Scouts of
America has helped mold young men in a dis-
ciplined environment with only a fraction
achieving the rank of Eagle Scout. Over the
years, the Eagle Scout rank has become an
American icon symbolizing the core principles
of honor, duty, resourcefulness, and courage.
Throughout his time as a scout, Elijah has
grown as a leader among his peers and is
dedicated to serving others. For his Eagle
Scout service project, Elijah helped organize a
creative mural project at the Converge Day-
time Treatment Center in Brush, Colorado.
This specialized treatment center provides a
therapeutic treatment program and targeted
academic instruction in a structured, small
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.036 E23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E1340 October 23, 2019
group setting for students with emotional dis-
abilities or autism spectrum disorders in the
northeastern Colorado region. Artwork is a
critical component of many therapy programs,
and I commend Elijah for his commitment to
serving his community in this capacity.
Madam Speaker, it is an honor to recognize
Elijah Marler for his many accomplishments,
including earning the rank of Eagle Scout.
f
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
HON. TOM COLE
OF OKLAHOMA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. COLE. Madam Speaker, I was not
present for Roll Call Vote 571 which took
place on October 22, 2019. However, if I had
been present, I would have voted ‘‘NAY’’ on
Ordering the Previous Question; Providing for
consideration of the bill (H.R. 2513) Corporate
Transparency Act.
f
COMMENDING PASTOR TOMMY
LEGRAND
HON. DAN BISHOP
OF NORTH CAROLINA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. BISHOP of North Carolina. Madam
Speaker, I wish to commend Pastor Tommy
Legrand, who has been a leader in our com-
munity for 50 years.
After Tommy Legrand served our country,
he served in a different capacity as a Pastor
of the Faith Temple Church of God and Christ
in Hamlet, NC. Starting with street-side ser-
mons, Legrand has shepherded the church to
become a figure in the local community. He
has started several ministries within the
church such as the Southview Learning Cen-
ter, Faith Academy, Prayer and Faith Temple
Food Pantry and Life Center which continue to
serve countless members of our society.
Pastor Legrand continued to follow his call-
ing and later graduated from Shaw University
with a Master’s degree in religion and philos-
ophy, and later from Family Bible Institute with
a Doctorate in divinity 2015. As a prayer lead-
er in the National Church of God in Christ and
the Greater North Carolina jurisdiction, and
even on his own radio ministry, Pastor
Legrand is a true example of a life dedicated
to service in every sense of the word. It is a
pleasure and an honor to represent him in
Congress.
f
COMMEMORATING THE COMPLE-
TION OF A RAIL SPUR TRANS-
FER IN MOUNTAIN HOME, IDAHO
HON. MICHAEL K. SIMPSON
OF IDAHO
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Mr. SIMPSON. Mr. Speaker, I rise today to
acknowledge the completion of project critical
to the economic development and prosperity
of Mountain Home, Idaho: the official transfer
of a rail spur from the Mountain Home Air
Force Base to the City of Mountain Home.
With this transfer, the City of Mountain Home
will attract new businesses to the adjoining rail
industrial park and increase economic activity
in the region.
This rail spur transfer represents the ex-
traordinary teamwork that is so often displayed
in Southern Idaho. It took the combined efforts
of the City of Mountain Home civic leaders, in-
cluding Mayor Richard Sykes; the Mountain
Home Economic Development team; the Spe-
cial Military Liaison to the Governor of Idaho;
Mountain Home Air Force Base personnel;
and more to complete the transfer. I also wish
to thank the Air Force House Liaison Office,
House Armed Service Committee professional
staff, and Billy Valderrama and Katherine
Myers on my personal staff for facilitating the
inclusion of the transfer language in the Na-
tional Defense Authorization Act of 2018.
Congratulations to all parties, and I look for-
ward to following the progress of new eco-
nomic development in Mountain Home as a
result of this rail spur transfer.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Thursday, Oc-
tober 24, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
OCTOBER 29
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Lisa W. Hershman, of Indiana,
to be Chief Management Officer, Dana
S. Deasy, of Virginia, to be Chief Infor-
mation Officer, and Robert John Sand-
er, of Virginia, to be General Counsel
of the Department of the Navy, all of
the Department of Defense.
SD–G50
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
To hold hearings to examine aviation
safety and the future of Boeing’s 737
MAX.
SH–216
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tions of Roxanne Cabral, of Virginia, to
be Ambassador to the Republic of the
Marshall Islands, Robert S. Gilchrist,
of Florida, to be Ambassador to the Re-
public of Lithuania, and Yuri Kim, of
Guam, to be Ambassador to the Repub-
lic of Albania, all of the Department of
State.
SD–419
OCTOBER 30
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
Subcommittee on Water and Power
To hold hearings to examine the use of
technology and innovation to increase
water security and enable economic de-
velopment in the West.
SD–366
Committee on Environment and Public
Works
To hold hearings to examine the nomina-
tion of Sean O’Donnell, of Maryland, to
be Inspector General, Environmental
Protection Agency.
SD–406
Committee on the Judiciary
To hold hearings to examine pending
nominations.
SD–226
2 p.m.
Committee on Finance
Subcommittee on Health Care
To hold hearings to examine Medicaid,
focusing on compliance with eligibility
requirements.
SD–215
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Cybersecurity
To receive a closed briefing on Depart-
ment of Defense cyber operations.
SVC–217
Committee on the Budget
To hold hearings to examine the Chief
Financial Officers Act of 1990.
SD–608
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Subcommittee on Federal Spending Over-
sight and Emergency Management
To hold hearings to examine the unau-
thorized and unaccountable govern-
ment.
SD–342
Committee on the Judiciary
Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
To hold hearings to examine promoting
the useful arts, focusing on how Con-
gress can prevent the issuance of poor
quality patents.
SD–226
OCTOBER 31
9:30 a.m.
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
To hold hearings to examine supply
chain security, global competitiveness,
and 5G.
SD–342
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:30 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A23OC8.041 E23OCPT1
D1152
Wednesday, October 23, 2019
Daily Digest
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S6051–S6134
Measures Introduced: Twenty-two bills and three
resolutions were introduced, as follows: S.
2669–2690, S. Res. 374–375, and S. Con. Res. 28.
Pages S6091–92
Measures Reported:
S. 1751, to amend the Reclamation Project Act of
1939 to authorize pumped storage hydropower de-
velopment utilizing multiple Bureau of Reclamation
reservoirs, with an amendment. (S. Rept. No.
116–140)
S. 1821, to amend the Energy Independence and
Security Act of 2007 to provide for research on, and
the development and deployment of, marine energy,
with amendments. (S. Rept. No. 116–141)
S. 1931, to require the Administrator of the
Western Area Power Administration to establish a
pilot project to provide increased transparency for
customers. (S. Rept. No. 116–142)
S. 2137, to promote energy savings in residential
buildings and industry, with amendments. (S. Rept.
No. 116–143)
S. 2333, to provide for enhanced energy grid secu-
rity. (S. Rept. No. 116–144)
H.R. 1420, to amend the Energy Independence
and Security Act of 2007 to promote energy effi-
ciency via information and computing technologies.
(S. Rept. No. 116–145) Page S6091
Measures Failed:
SALT Congressional Review Act: By 43 yeas to
52 nays (Vote No. 331), Senate failed to pass to S.J.
Res. 50, providing for congressional disapproval
under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of
the rule submitted by the Internal Revenue Service,
Department of the Treasury, relating to ‘‘Contribu-
tions in Exchange for State or Local Tax Credits’’.
Pages S6053–80
Measures Considered:
Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related
Agencies Appropriations Act: Senate continued
consideration of H.R. 3055, making appropriations
for the Departments of Commerce and Justice,
Science, and Related Agencies for the fiscal year end-
ing September 30, 2020, taking action on the fol-
lowing amendments proposed thereto: Pages S6080–86
Pending:
Shelby Amendment No. 948, in the nature of a
substitute. Page S6080
McConnell (for Shelby) Amendment No. 950, to
make a technical correction. Page S6080
Walker Nomination—Agreement: A unani-
mous-consent agreement was reached providing that
notwithstanding the provisions of Rule XXII, the
motion to invoke cloture on the nomination of Jus-
tin Reed Walker, of Kentucky, to be United States
District Judge for the Western District of Kentucky,
ripen at 12 noon, on Thursday, October 24, 2019;
and that if cloture is invoked on the nomination, at
1:45 p.m., Senate vote on confirmation of the nomi-
nation, with no intervening action or debate.
Page S6086
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that at approximately 10 a.m., on Thursday,
October 24, 2019, Senate resume consideration of
the nomination. Page S6134
Messages from the House: Page S6089
Measures Referred: Page S6089
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S6089
Executive Communications: Pages S6089–91
Petitions and Memorials: Page S6091
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S6092–94
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S6094–95
Additional Statements: Pages S6088–89
Amendments Submitted: Pages S6096–S6133
Authorities for Committees to Meet:
Pages S6133–34
Privileges of the Floor: Page S6134
Record Votes: One record vote was taken today.
(Total—331) Page S6080
Adjournment: Senate convened at 9:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 6:15 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Thursday,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23OC9.REC D23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1153
October 23, 2019
October 24, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Majority Leader in today’s Record on
page S6134.)
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
SYRIA
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs concluded
a hearing to examine United States policy and assist-
ance in Syria, after receiving testimony from James
F. Jeffrey, Special Representative for Syria Engage-
ment and the Special Envoy to the Global Coalition
to Defeat ISIS, Department of State.
SPECTRUM OF CONFLICT
Committee on Armed Services: Subcommittee on
SeaPower received a closed briefing on the Navy’s
‘‘Spectrum of Conflict’’ strategic framework from
Vice Admiral Stuart B. Munsch, USN, Deputy Chief
of Naval Operations for Operations, Plans and Strat-
egy, Department of Defense.
SATELLITE TELEVISION EXTENSION AND
LOCALISM ACT
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation:
Committee concluded a hearing to examine the reau-
thorization of the Satellite Television Extension and
Localism Act, after receiving testimony from Emily
Barr, Graham Media Group, Chicago, Illinois, on be-
half of the National Association of Broadcasters;
Denny Law, Golden West Telecommunications Co-
operative, Inc., Wall, South Dakota; Rob Thun,
AT&T, Dallas, Texas; J.C. Watts, Black News Chan-
nel, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; and Jonathan
Schwantes, Consumer Reports, Washington, D.C.
WATER RESOURCES INFRASTRUCTURE
Committee on Environment and Public Works: Com-
mittee concluded a hearing to examine improving
American economic competitiveness through water
resources infrastructure, after receiving testimony
from Lieutenant General Todd T. Semonite, Chief of
Engineers, Army Corps of Engineers, Department of
Defense; and Charlotte Bertrand, Deputy Assistant
Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency.
WESTERN BALKANS
Committee on Foreign Relations: Subcommittee on Eu-
rope and Regional Security Cooperation concluded a
hearing to examine successes and unfinished business
in the Western Balkans, after receiving testimony
from Matthew A. Palmer, Deputy Assistant Secretary
of State, Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs;
and Janusz Bugajski, Center for European Policy
Analysis, and Majda Ruge, Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International
Studies, both of Washington, D.C.
MARIJUANA AND AMERICA’S HEALTH
United States Senate Caucus on International Narcotics
Control: Caucus concluded a hearing to examine
marijuana and America’s health, focusing on ques-
tions and issues for policy makers, including S.
2032, to expand research on the cannabidiol and
marihuana, after receiving testimony from Jerome
Adams, Surgeon General of the United States, De-
partment of Health and Human Services; Nora
Volkow, Director, National Institute of Drug Abuse;
Robert Fitzgerald, University of California, San
Diego; Staci Gruber, Harvard Medical School, Bos-
ton, Massachusetts; Sean Hennessy, University of
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadel-
phia; and Madeline Meier, Arizona State University,
Tempe.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 54 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 4801–4854; and 4 resolutions, H.J.
Res. 78; H. Con. Res. 69; and H. Res. 652–653
were introduced. Pages H8455–57
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H8459–60
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Rush to act as Speaker pro
tempore for today. Page H8391
Recess: The House recessed at 10:35 a.m. and re-
convened at 12 noon. Page H8395
Stopping Harmful Interference in Elections for a
Lasting Democracy Act: The House passed H.R.
4617, to amend the Federal Election Campaign Act
of 1971 to clarify the obligation to report acts of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23OC9.REC D23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1154 October 23, 2019
foreign election influence and require implementa-
tion of compliance and reporting systems by Federal
campaigns to detect and report such acts, by a re-
corded vote of 227 ayes to 181 noes, Roll No. 583.
Pages H8398–H8403, H8409, H8410–H8442
Rejected the Rodney Davis (IL) motion to recom-
mit the bill to the Committee on House Adminis-
tration with instructions to report the same back to
the House forthwith with an amendment, by a re-
corded vote of 182 ayes to 225 noes, Roll No. 582.
Pages H8439–42
Pursuant to the Rule, it shall be in order to con-
sider as an original bill for the purpose of amend-
ment under the five-minute rule an amendment in
the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of
Rules Committee Print 116–35, modified by the
amendment printed in part A of H. Rept. 116–253,
in lieu of the amendment in the nature of a sub-
stitute recommended by the Committee on House
Administration now printed in the bill.
Pages H8418–24
Agreed to:
DeSaulnier amendment (No. 1 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–253) that requires the FEC to no-
tify states within 30 days of making a determination
that a foreign national has initiated or attempted to
initiate a disinformation campaign targeted at an
election in a state; Pages H8424–25
Lynch amendment (No. 3 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–253) that generally prohibits the use of
deepfakes within 60 days of a federal election and es-
tablishes corresponding criminal and civil penalties;
Pages H8426–27
Levin (MI) amendment (No. 4 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–253) that prohibits foreign nation-
als from influencing American elections by setting
up shell companies; Pages H8427–28
Langevin amendment (No. 5 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–253) that directs the Federal Elections
Commission to commission an independent study
and report on media literacy with respect to online
political content consumption among voting-age
Americans; Pages H8428–30
Swalwell (CA) amendment (No. 6 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–253) that includes a candidates
immediate family members among those whose di-
rect or indirect contacts or communications with a
covered foreign national may amount to a reportable
foreign contact with the term immediate family
member meaning a candidate’s parent, parent-in-law,
spouse, adult child, or sibling; Pages H8430–31
Brown (MD) amendment (No. 7 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–253) that requires the FBI to
confirm receipt when a political committee issues a
notification that they have been contacted by a re-
portable foreign contact; additionally, requires the
FBI to submit a report to Congress on how they are
managing and responding to notifications from po-
litical committees; Pages H8431–32
Delgado amendment (No. 8 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–253) that requires the Federal Elec-
tion Commission to do an analysis of the extent to
which illicit foreign money was used to carry out
disinformation and propaganda campaigns focused on
depressing turnout among rural communities and
the success or failure of these efforts, together with
recommendations to address these efforts in future
elections; Pages H8432–33
Houlahan amendment (No. 9 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–253) that codifies the FEC definition
of ‘‘substantial assistance’’ for an illegal foreign
transaction and defines what it means to ‘‘know-
ingly’’ abet a foreign entity, consistent with FEC
regulations; Pages H8433–34
Slotkin amendment (No. 10 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–253) that directs GAO to conduct an
assessment of current exemptions of FARA registra-
tion requirements and what adjustments should be
made to prevent foreign funding from influencing
U.S. elections and political processes; Pages H8434–35
Sherrill amendment (No. 11 printed in part B of
H. Rept. 116–253) that expands from 60 days be-
fore an election to 90 days the provisions on know-
ingly prohibiting deceptive practices in federal elec-
tions, including knowingly providing false informa-
tion about the time or place of voting, qualifications
for voting, or public endorsements; Pages H8435–36
Cunningham amendment (No. 12 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–253) that requires the Federal
Election Commission to include in its report to Con-
gress an analysis of disinformation campaigns focused
on depressing turnout among African-American and
other minority communities; Page H8436
Cunningham amendment (No. 13 printed in part
B of H. Rept. 116–253) that requires the Federal
Election Commission to include in its report to Con-
gress an analysis of disinformation campaigns focused
on influencing military servicemembers and veterans
along with recommendations to address these efforts;
and Pages H8436–37
Spanberger amendment (No. 14 printed in part B
of H. Rept. 116–253) that requires that online plat-
form records of purchase requests for qualified polit-
ical advertisements include a statement that a person
is acting as the agent of a foreign principal and the
identification of the foreign principal involved, when
applicable; qualified political advertisements include
ads related to national legislative issues of public im-
portance. Pages H8437–38
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23OC9.REC D23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1155
October 23, 2019
Rejected:
Lesko amendment (No. 2 printed in part B of H.
Rept. 116–253) that sought to remove the require-
ment that the Attorney General communicate correc-
tive actions to the public (by a recorded vote of 180
ayes to 231 noes, Roll No. 582).
Pages H8425–26, H8438–39, H8441–42
H. Res. 650, the rule providing for consideration
of the bill (H.R. 4617) was agreed to by a yea-and-
nay vote of 226 yeas to 180 nays, Roll No. 580,
after the previous question was ordered by a yea-and-
nay vote of 223 yeas to 180 nays, Roll No. 579.
Pages H8409–10
Suspension: The House agreed to suspend the rules
and pass the following measure:
Debbie Smith Reauthorization Act of 2019:
H.R. 777, amended, to reauthorize programs author-
ized under the Debbie Smith Act of 2004, by a 2⁄3
yea-and-nay vote of 402 yeas to 1 nay, Roll No.
584. Pages H8403–09, H8442–43
Meeting Hour: Agreed by unanimous consent that
when the House adjourns today, it adjourn to meet
at 9 a.m. tomorrow, October 24th, and further when
the House adjourns on that day, it adjourn to meet
at 12 noon on Monday, October 28th for Morning
Hour debate. Page H8443
Senate Referral: S. 1590 was held at the desk.
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H8398.
Quorum Calls—Votes: Three yea-and-nay votes
and three recorded votes developed during the pro-
ceedings of today and appear on pages H8409,
H8409–10, H8438, H8441–42, H8442, and
H8443. There were no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 10 a.m. and ad-
journed at 8:06 p.m.
Committee Meetings
THE FUTURE OF WORK: PRESERVING
WORKER PROTECTIONS IN THE MODERN
ECONOMY
Committee on Education and Labor: Subcommittee on
Health, Employment, Labor, and Pensions; and Sub-
committee on Workforce Protections held a joint
hearing entitled ‘‘The Future of Work: Preserving
Worker Protections in the Modern Economy’’. Testi-
mony was heard from public witnesses.
SABOTAGE: THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION’S ATTACK ON HEALTH
CARE
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Oversight and Investigations held a hearing entitled
‘‘Sabotage: The Trump Administration’s Attack on
Health Care’’. Testimony was heard from Seema
Verma, Administrator, Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and
Human Services.
BUILDING A 100 PERCENT CLEAN
ECONOMY: SOLUTIONS FOR PLANES,
TRAINS AND EVERYTHING BEYOND
AUTOMOBILES
Committee on Energy and Commerce: Subcommittee on
Environment and Climate Change held a hearing en-
titled ‘‘Building a 100 Percent Clean Economy: So-
lutions for Planes, Trains and Everything Beyond
Automobiles’’. Testimony was heard from Fred
Felleman, Commissioner, Port of Seattle and the
Northwest Seaport Alliance; and public witnesses.
AN EXAMINATION OF FACEBOOK AND ITS
IMPACT ON THE FINANCIAL SERVICES
AND HOUSING SECTORS
Committee on Financial Services: Full Committee held
a hearing entitled ‘‘An Examination of Facebook and
Its Impact on the Financial Services and Housing
Sectors’’. Testimony was heard from a public wit-
ness.
THE BETRAYAL OF OUR SYRIAN KURDISH
PARTNERS: HOW WILL AMERICAN
FOREIGN POLICY AND LEADERSHIP
RECOVER?
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘The Betrayal of our Syrian Kurdish
Partners: How Will American Foreign Policy and
Leadership Recover?’’. Testimony was heard from
James F. Jeffrey, Special Representative for Syria En-
gagement and Special Envoy to the Global Coalition
to Defeat ISIS, Department of State; and Matthew
Palmer, Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Euro-
pean and Eurasian Affairs, Department of State.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S FY 2020
BUDGET AND U.S. POLICY TOWARD
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Committee on Foreign Affairs: Subcommittee on the
Western Hemisphere, Civilian Security, and Trade
held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Trump Administra-
tion’s FY 2020 Budget and U.S. Policy toward Latin
America and the Caribbean’’. Testimony was heard
from Michael G. Kozak, Acting Assistant Secretary,
Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, Department
of State; John Barsa, Assistant Administrator, Bureau
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23OC9.REC D23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D1156 October 23, 2019
for Latin America and the Caribbean, U.S. Agency
for International Development; and Rich Glenn,
Deputy Assistant Secretary, Bureau of International
Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, Department
of State.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Homeland Security: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 2932, the ‘‘Homeland Security
for Children Act’’; H.R. 3469, the ‘‘Covert Testing
and Risk Mitigation Improvement Act of 2019’’;
H.R. 3787, the ‘‘DHS Countering Unmanned Air-
craft Systems Coordinator Act’’; H.R. 4237, the
‘‘Advancing Cybersecurity Diagnostics and Mitiga-
tion Act’’; H.R. 4402, the ‘‘Inland Waters Security
Review Act’’; H.R. 4713, the ‘‘Department of
Homeland Security Office of Civil Rights and Civil
Liberties Authorization Act’’; H.R. 4727, the ‘‘De-
partment of Homeland Security Mentor Protégé Pro-
gram Act of 2019’’; H.R. 4739, the ‘‘Synthetic
Opioid Exposure Prevention and Training Act’’;
H.R. 4737, the ‘‘Department of Homeland Security
Climate Change Research Act’’; H.R. 4753, the
‘‘Drone Origin Security Enhancement Act’’; H.R.
4761, the ‘‘DHS Opioid Detention Resilience Act of
2019’’; and H.R. 4782, the ‘‘National Commission
on Online Platforms and Homeland Security Act’’.
H.R. 3787, H.R. 4237, H.R. 4713, H.R. 4737, and
H.R. 4782 were ordered reported, as amended. H.R.
2932, H.R. 3469, H.R. 4402, H.R. 4727,
H.R.4739, H.R. 4753, and H.R. 4761 were ordered
reported, without amendment.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on the Judiciary: Full Committee held a
markup on H.R. 4, the ‘‘Voting Rights Advance-
ment Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 565, the ‘‘AMIGOS
Act’’. H.R. 4 was ordered reported, as amended.
H.R. 565 was ordered reported, without amend-
ment.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Natural Resources: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 934, the ‘‘Health Benefits for
Miners Act of 2019’’; H.R. 935, the ‘‘Miners Pen-
sion Protection Act’’; and H.R. 2579, the ‘‘Hardrock
Leasing and Reclamation Act of 2019’’. H.R. 934
was ordered reported, without amendment. H.R.
935 and H.R. 2579 were ordered reported, as
amended.
EXAMINING THE OIL INDUSTRY’S
EFFORTS TO SUPPRESS THE TRUTH
ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
Committee On Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
Civil Rights and Civil Liberties held a hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Examining the Oil Industry’s Efforts to Sup-
press the Truth about Climate Change’’. Testimony
was heard from public witnesses.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION’S SYRIA
POLICY: PERSPECTIVES FROM THE FIELD
Committee on Oversight and Reform: Subcommittee on
National Security held a hearing entitled ‘‘The
Trump Administration’s Syria Policy: Perspectives
from the Field’’. Testimony was heard from public
witnesses.
SPACE WEATHER: ADVANCING RESEARCH,
MONITORING, AND FORECASTING
CAPABILITIES
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology: Sub-
committee on Environment; and Subcommittee on
Space and Aeronautics held a joint hearing entitled
‘‘Space Weather: Advancing Research, Monitoring,
and Forecasting Capabilities’’. Testimony was heard
from Bill Murtagh, Program Coordinator, Space
Weather Prediction Center, National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration; Nicola Fox,
Heliophysics Division Director, National Aeronautics
and Space Administration; and a public witness.
PRISON TO PROPRIETORSHIP:
ENTREPRENEURSHIP OPPORTUNITIES FOR
THE FORMERLY INCARCERATED
Committee on Small Business: Full Committee held a
hearing entitled ‘‘Prison to Proprietorship: Entrepre-
neurship Opportunities for the Formerly Incarcer-
ated’’. Testimony was heard from public witnesses.
THE PEBBLE MINE PROJECT: PROCESS AND
POTENTIAL IMPACTS
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure: Sub-
committee on Water Resources and Environment
held a hearing entitled ‘‘The Pebble Mine Project:
Process and Potential Impacts’’. Testimony was
heard from public witnesses.
PROTECTING BENEFITS FOR ALL
SERVICEMEMBERS
Committee On Veterans’ Affairs: Subcommittee on Eco-
nomic Opportunity held a hearing entitled ‘‘Pro-
tecting Benefits for All Servicemembers’’. Testimony
was heard from Major General Dawne Deskins, Di-
rector, Manpower and Personnel, National Guard
Bureau; Major General Michael C. O’Guinn, Deputy
Chief, Army Reserve; and public witnesses.
MISCELLANEOUS MEASURES
Committee on Ways And Means: Full Committee held
a markup on H.R. 4742, to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to impose a tax on nicotine used
in vaping, etc.; H.R. 4716, the ‘‘Inhaler Coverage
and Access Now Act’’; H.R. 1922, the ‘‘Restoring
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23OC9.REC D23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D1157
October 23, 2019
Access to Medication Act of 2019’’; and H.R. 3708,
the ‘‘Primary Care Enhancement Act of 2019’’. H.R.
4742, H.R. 4716, H.R. 1922, and H.R. 3708 were
ordered reported, as amended.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 24, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the nomination of Vice Admiral Charles A. Richard,
USN, to be Admiral and Commander, United States Stra-
tegic Command, Department of Defense, 9 a.m.,
SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: to
hold hearings to examine data ownership, focusing on ex-
ploring implications for data privacy rights and data valu-
ation, 10 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Finance: to hold hearings to examine treat-
ing substance misuse in America, focusing on scams,
shortfalls, and solutions, 9 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, with the
Subcommittee on Regulatory Affairs and Federal Manage-
ment, to hold a joint hearing to examine E–Rulemaking
comment systems, 10 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on the Judiciary: business meeting to consider
S. 2511, to amend title 40, United States Code, to pro-
vide the Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United
States and Supreme Court Police with the authority to
protect the Chief Justice of the United States, any Asso-
ciate Justice of the Supreme Court, and other individuals
in any location, and the nominations of Halil Suleyman
Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Fifth Circuit, Danielle J. Hunsaker, of Or-
egon, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth
Circuit, Steven J. Menashi, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Second Circuit, William Joseph Nardini, of
Connecticut, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Second Circuit, Jodi W. Dishman, to be United States
District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma,
Karen Spencer Marston, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Richard
Earnest Myers II, to be United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of North Carolina, Sarah E. Pitlyk,
to be United States District Judge for the Eastern Dis-
trict of Missouri, Anuraag Singhal, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, Daniel
Mack Traynor, to be United States District Judge for the
District of North Dakota, and David M. DeVillers, to be
United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio,
Department of Justice, 9:30 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: to receive a closed brief-
ing to examine certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m.,
SH–219.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D23OC9.REC D23OCPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D1158 October 23, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Thursday, October 24
Senate Chamber
Program for Thursday: Senate will resume consideration
of the nomination of Justin Reed Walker, of Kentucky,
to be United States District Judge for the Western Dis-
trict of Kentucky, and vote on the motion to invoke clo-
ture thereon at 12 noon. If cloture is invoked on the
nomination, Senate will vote on confirmation of the nom-
ination at 1:45 p.m.
(Senate will recess from 10:30 a.m. until 12 noon to allow
for the lying in state of Representative Elijah E. Cummings,
from the State of Maryland.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
9 a.m., Thursday, October 24
House Chamber
Program for Thursday: House will meet in Pro Forma
session at 9 a.m.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Bishop, Dan, N.C., E1337, E1340
Blumenauer, Earl, Ore., E1336
Bost, Mike, Ill., E1339
Boyle, Brendan F., Pa., E1335
Buck, Ken, Colo., E1339
Burchett, Tim, Tenn., E1335
Chu, Judy, Calif., E1337
Cole, Tom, Okla., E1340
Collins, Doug, Ga., E1330, E1332
Correa, J. Luis, Calif., E1332, E1333, E1336
Crawford, Eric A. ‘‘Rick’’, Ark., E1339
Davis, Rodney, Ill., E1330
Dingell, Debbie, Mich., E1329, E1330, E1332, E1333,
E1334, E1335, E1336, E1337, E1338
Dunn, Neal P., Fla., E1332, E1335
Evans, Dwight, Pa., E1332
Foster, Bill, Ill., E1331
Gottheimer, Josh, N.J., E1335, E1338
Green, Mark E., Tenn., E1329
Hayes, Jahana, Conn., E1334
Jackson Lee, Sheila, Tex., E1337
Kaptur, Marcy, Ohio, E1338
Kinzinger, Adam, Ill., E1335
Larsen, Rick, Wash., E1334
Levin, Andy, Mich., E1329
McEachin, A. Donald, Va., E1336
Pingree, Chellie, Me., E1336
Rutherford, John H., Fla., E1333
Schakowsky, Janice D., Ill., E1331
Sherman, Brad, Calif., E1334
Simpson, Michael K., Idaho, E1339, E1340
Spanberger, Abigail Davis, Va., E1334
Stefanik, Elise M., N.Y., E1339
Taylor, Van, Tex., E1329, E1330, E1331, E1332, E1333
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E1330
VerDate Sep 11 2014 06:07 Oct 24, 2019 Jkt 099060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D23OC9.REC D23OCPT1
