Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
b This symbol represents the time of day during the House proceedings, e.g., b 1407 is 2:07 p.m.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
.
H1345
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019 No. 21
House of Representatives
The House met at 11:30 a.m. and was
called to order by the Speaker pro tem-
pore (Mr. RASKIN).
f
DESIGNATION OF THE SPEAKER
PRO TEMPORE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Speaker:
WASHINGTON, DC,
February 4, 2019.
I hereby appoint the Honorable JAMIE
RASKIN to act as Speaker pro tempore on
this day.
NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, the Reverend Patrick
J. Conroy, offered the following prayer:
We give You thanks, O God, for giv-
ing us another day.
The Armed Forces have often been at
the forefront of extending the recogni-
tion of equality under the law for our
Nation. They were integrated long be-
fore most public and private organiza-
tions came to the realization that we
have more in common than not with
fellow Americans of races different
than our own.
So also in recognizing the strength
and diversity of religion among those
who serve in uniform. The Military
Chaplaincy celebrated this past week-
end the four chaplains—a Catholic, a
Methodist, a Jew, and a Dutch Re-
form—who went down with the troop
transport Dorchester on February 3,
1943, having given their life jackets to
young soldiers who survived the tor-
pedo attack that sunk their ship.
Bless this day all those who serve in
our Armed Forces. We thank You for
inspiring the military in showing all
Americans the ideals by which, at our
best, we might live every day. May all
who serve in this people’s House be in-
spired as well to ever greater service of
the people of our Nation, in all their di-
versity.
May all that is done this day be for
Your greater honor and glory.
Amen.
f
THE JOURNAL
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair has examined the Journal of the
last day’s proceedings and announces
to the House his approval thereof.
Pursuant to clause 1, rule I, the Jour-
nal stands approved.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The SPEAKER pro tempore. The
Chair will lead the House in the Pledge
of Allegiance.
The SPEAKER pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
COMMUNICATION FROM THE
CLERK OF THE HOUSE
The SPEAKER pro tempore laid be-
fore the House the following commu-
nication from the Clerk of the House of
Representatives:
OFFICE OF THE CLERK,
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
Washington, DC, February 4, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to the
permission granted in Clause 2(h) of Rule II
of the Rules of the U.S. House of Representa-
tives, the Clerk received the following mes-
sage from the Secretary of the Senate on
February 4, 2019, at 10:41 a.m.:
Appointments:
Chairman of the Senate Delegation to the
British-American Interparliamentary Group
Conference.
Vice Chairman of the Senate Delegation to
the British-American Interparliamentary
Group Conference.
With best wishes, I am,
Sincerely,
KAREN L. HAAS.
f
PUBLICATION OF COMMITTEE
RULES
RULES OF THE COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS
FOR THE 116TH CONGRESS
COMMITTEE ON APPROPRIATIONS,
Washington, DC, January 31, 2019.
Hon. NANCY PELOSI,
Speaker, House of Representatives,
Washington, DC.
DEAR MADAM SPEAKER: Pursuant to clause
2(a)(2) of House rule XI, the Committee on
Appropriations adopted its rules for the
116th Congress on January 30, 2019, and I sub-
mit them now for publication in the Congres-
sional Record.
With best regards,
Sincerely,
NITA M. LOWEY,
Chairwoman.
Resolved, That the rules and practices of
the Committee on Appropriations, House of
Representatives, in the One Hundred Fif-
teenth Congress, except as otherwise pro-
vided hereinafter, shall be and are hereby
adopted as the rules and practices of the
Committee on Appropriations in the One
Hundred Sixteenth Congress.
The foregoing resolution adopts the fol-
lowing rules:
Sec. 1: Power to Sit and Act
(a) For the purpose of carrying out any of
its functions and duties under rules X and XI
of the Rules of the House of Representatives,
the Committee and each of its subcommit-
tees is authorized:
(1) To sit and act at such times and places
within the United States whether the House
is in session, has recessed, or has adjourned,
and to hold such hearings as it deems nec-
essary; and
(2) To require, by subpoena or otherwise,
the attendance and testimony of such wit-
nesses and the production of such books, re-
ports, correspondence, memorandums, pa-
pers, and documents as it deems necessary.
(b) The Chair, or any Member designated
by the Chair, may administer oaths to any
witness.
(c) A subpoena may be authorized and
issued by the Committee or its subcommit-
tees under subsection (a)(2) in the conduct of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE7.000 H04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1346 February 4, 2019
any investigation or activity or series of in-
vestigations or activities, only when author-
ized by a majority of the Members of the
Committee voting, a majority being present.
The power to authorize and issue subpoenas
under subsection (a)(2) may be delegated to
the Chair pursuant to such rules and under
such limitations as the Committee may pre-
scribe. Authorized subpoenas shall be signed
by the Chair or by any Member designated
by the Committee.
(d) Compliance with any subpoena issued
by the Committee or its subcommittees may
be enforced only as authorized or directed by
the House.
Sec. 2: Subcommittees
(a) The Majority Caucus of the Committee
shall establish the number of subcommittees
and shall determine the jurisdiction of each
subcommittee.
(b) Each subcommittee is authorized to
meet, hold hearings, receive evidence, and
report to the Committee all matters referred
to it.
(c) All legislation and other matters re-
ferred to the Committee shall be referred to
the subcommittee of appropriate jurisdiction
within 2 weeks unless, by majority vote of
the majority Members of the full Committee,
consideration is to be by the full Committee.
(d) The Majority Caucus of the Committee
shall determine an appropriate ratio of Ma-
jority to Minority Members for each sub-
committee. The Chair is authorized to nego-
tiate that ratio with the Minority; Provided,
however, That party representation in each
subcommittee, including ex-officio members,
shall be no less favorable to the Majority
than the ratio for the full Committee.
(e) The Chair and Ranking Minority Mem-
ber of the full Committee are each author-
ized to sit as a member of all subcommittees
and to participate, including voting, in all of
the work of the subcommittees.
Sec. 3: Staffing
(a) Committee Staff—The Chair is author-
ized to appoint the staff of the Committee,
and make adjustments in the job titles and
compensation thereof subject to the max-
imum rates and conditions established in
clause 9(c) of rule X of the Rules of the
House of Representatives. In addition, she or
he is authorized, in her or his discretion, to
arrange for their specialized training. The
Chair is also authorized to employ additional
personnel as necessary.
(b) Assistants to Members:
(1) Each chair and ranking minority mem-
ber of a subcommittee or the full Committee
may select and designate not more than two
staff members who shall serve at the pleas-
ure of that Member.
(2) Staff members designated under this
subsection shall be compensated at a rate,
determined by the Member, not to exceed 75
per centum of the maximum established in
clause 9(c) of rule X of the Rules of the
House of Representatives, and subject to
other terms and conditions established by
the Chair.
(3) Notwithstanding any other provision of
this subsection, the Chair may prescribe
such terms and conditions she or he deems
necessary to regulate the number and com-
pensation of Assistants to Members and re-
tain Assistants to Members previously des-
ignated by a Member of the Committee prior
to the adoption of the Rules of the House es-
tablishing the Committee for the 112th Con-
gress.
(4) Members designating staff members
under this subsection must specifically cer-
tify by letter to the Chair that the employ-
ees are needed and will be utilized for Com-
mittee work.
Sec. 4: Committee Meetings
(a) Regular Meeting Day—The regular
meeting day of the Committee shall be the
first Wednesday of each month while the
House is in session if notice is given pursu-
ant to paragraph (d)(3).
(b) Additional and Special Meetings:
(1) The Chair may call and convene, as she
or he considers necessary, additional meet-
ings of the Committee for the consideration
of any bill or resolution pending before the
Committee or for the conduct of other Com-
mittee business. The Committee shall meet
for such purpose pursuant to that call of the
Chair.
(2) If at least three Committee Members
desire that a special meeting of the Com-
mittee be called by the Chair, those Mem-
bers may file in the Committee Offices a
written request to the Chair for that special
meeting. Such request shall specify the
measure or matter to be considered. Upon
the filing of the request, the Committee
clerk shall notify the Chair.
(3) If within 3 calendar days after the filing
of the request, the Chair does not call the re-
quested special meeting to be held within 7
calendar days after the filing of the request,
a majority of the Committee Members may
file in the Committee offices their written
notice that a special meeting will be held,
specifying the date and hour of such meet-
ing, and the measure or matter to be consid-
ered. The Committee shall meet on that date
and hour.
(4) Immediately upon the filing of the no-
tice, the Committee clerk shall notify all
Committee Members that such special meet-
ing will be held and inform them of its date
and hour and the measure or matter to be
considered. Such notice shall also be made
publicly available in electronic form and
shall be deemed to satisfy paragraph (d)(3).
Only the measure or matter specified in that
notice may be considered at the special
meeting.
(c) Vice Chair To Preside in Absence of
Chair—A member of the majority party on
the Committee or subcommittee thereof des-
ignated by the Chair of the full Committee
shall be vice chair of the Committee or sub-
committee, as the case may be, and shall
preside at any meeting during the temporary
absence of the Chair. If the Chair and vice
chair of the Committee or subcommittee are
not present at any meeting of the Committee
or subcommittee, the ranking member of the
majority party who is present shall preside
at that meeting.
(d) Business Meetings:
(1) Each meeting for the transaction of
business, including the markup of legisla-
tion, of the Committee and its subcommit-
tees shall be open to the public except when
the Committee or the subcommittee con-
cerned, in open session and with a majority
present, determines by roll call vote that all
or part of the remainder of the meeting on
that day shall be closed.
(2) No person other than Committee Mem-
bers and such congressional staff and depart-
mental representatives as they may author-
ize shall be present at any business or mark-
up session which has been closed.
(3) The Chair shall announce the date,
place, and subject matter of each committee
meeting for the transaction of business,
which may not commence earlier than the
third calendar day (excluding Saturdays,
Sundays, or legal holidays except when the
House is in session on such a day) on which
members have notice thereof, unless the
Chair, with the concurrence of the Ranking
Minority Member, or the Committee by ma-
jority vote with a quorum present for the
transaction of business, determines there is
good cause to begin the meeting sooner, in
which case the Chair shall make the an-
nouncement at the earliest possible date. An
announcement shall be published promptly
in the Daily Digest and made publicly avail-
able in electronic form.
(4) At least 24 hours prior to the com-
mencement of a meeting for the markup of a
bill or resolution, or at the time an an-
nouncement is made pursuant to the pre-
ceding subparagraph within 24 hours before
such meeting, the Chair shall cause the text
of such bill or resolution to be made publicly
available in electronic form.
(e) Committee Records:
(1) The Committee shall keep a complete
record of all Committee action, including a
record of the votes on any question on which
a roll call is taken. The result of each roll
call vote shall be available for inspection by
the public during regular business hours in
the Committee Offices and also made avail-
able in electronic form within 48 hours of
such record vote. The information made
available for public inspection shall include
a description of the amendment, motion, or
other proposition, and the name of each
Member voting for and each Member voting
against, and the names of those Members
present but not voting.
(2) Committee records (including hearings,
data, charts, and files) shall be kept separate
and distinct from the congressional office
records of the Chair of the Committee. Such
records shall be the property of the House,
and all Members of the House shall have ac-
cess thereto.
(3) The records of the Committee at the
National Archives and Records Administra-
tion shall be made available in accordance
with rule VII of the Rules of the House, ex-
cept that the Committee authorizes use of
any record to which clause 3 (b)(4) of rule VII
of the Rules of the House would otherwise
apply after such record has been in existence
for 20 years. The Chair shall notify the
Ranking Minority Member of any decision,
pursuant to clause 3 (b)(3) or clause 4 (b) of
rule VII of the Rules of the House, to with-
hold a record otherwise available, and the
matter shall be presented to the Committee
for a determination upon the written request
of any Member of the Committee.
(f) Availability of Amendments Adopted—
Not later than 24 hours after the adoption of
an amendment to a bill or resolution, the
Chair shall cause the text of any amendment
adopted thereto to be made publicly avail-
able in electronic form.
Sec. 5: Committee and Subcommittee Hear-
ings
(a) Overall Budget Hearings—Overall budg-
et hearings by the Committee, including the
hearing required by section 242 (c) of the
Legislative Reorganization Act of 1970 and
clause 4 (a)(1) of rule X of the Rules of the
House of Representatives, shall be conducted
in open session except when the Committee
in open session and with a majority present,
determines by roll call vote that the testi-
mony to be taken at that hearing on that
day may be related to a matter of national
security; except that the Committee may by
the same procedure close one subsequent day
of hearing. A transcript of all such hearings
shall be printed and a copy furnished to each
Member, Delegate, and the Resident Com-
missioner from Puerto Rico.
(b) Other Hearings:
(1) All other hearings conducted by the
Committee or its subcommittees shall be
open to the public except when the Com-
mittee or subcommittee in open session and
with a majority present determines by roll
call vote that all or part of the remainder of
that hearing on that day shall be closed to
the public because disclosure of testimony,
evidence, or other matters to be considered
would endanger the national security or
would violate any law or rule of the House of
Representatives.
Notwithstanding the requirements of the
preceding sentence, a majority of those
present at a hearing conducted by the Com-
mittee or any of its subcommittees, there
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE7.003 H04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1347
February 4, 2019
being in attendance the number required
under section 5 (c) of these rules to be
present for the purpose of taking testimony,
(1) may vote to close the hearing for the sole
purpose of discussing whether testimony or
evidence to be received would endanger the
national security or violate clause 2 (k)(5) of
rule XI of the Rules of the House of Rep-
resentatives or (2) may vote to close the
hearing, as provided in clause 2 (k)(5) of such
rule. No Member of the House of Representa-
tives may be excluded from nonparticipatory
attendance at any hearing of the Committee
or its subcommittees unless the House of
Representatives shall by majority vote au-
thorize the Committee or any of its sub-
committees, for purposes of a particular se-
ries of hearings on a particular article of leg-
islation or on a particular subject of inves-
tigation, to close its hearings to Members by
the same procedures designated in this sub-
section for closing hearings to the public;
Provided, however, That the Committee or its
subcommittees may by the same procedure
vote to close 5 subsequent days of hearings.
(2) Subcommittee chairs shall coordinate
the development of schedules for meetings or
hearings after consultation with the Chair
and other subcommittee chairs with a view
toward avoiding simultaneous scheduling of
Committee and subcommittee meetings or
hearings.
(3) Each witness who is to appear before
the Committee or any of its subcommittees
as the case may be, insofar as is practicable,
shall file in advance of such appearance, a
written statement of the proposed testimony
and shall limit the oral presentation at such
appearance to a brief summary, except that
this provision shall not apply to any witness
appearing before the Committee in the over-
all budget hearings.
(4) Each witness appearing in a nongovern-
mental capacity before the Committee, or
any of its subcommittees as the case may be,
shall to the greatest extent practicable, sub-
mit a written statement including a cur-
riculum vitae and a disclosure of the amount
and source (by agency and program) of any
Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) or con-
tract (or subcontract thereof), or contracts
or payments originating from a foreign gov-
ernment, received during the current fiscal
year or either of the two previous fiscal
years by the witness or by an entity rep-
resented by the witness and related to the
subject matter of the hearing. Such state-
ments, with appropriate redactions to pro-
tect the privacy of witnesses, shall be made
publicly available in electronic form not
later than 1 day after the witness appears.
The disclosure referred to in this para-
graph shall include the amount and source of
each Federal grant (or subgrant thereof) or
contract (or subcontract thereof) related to
the subject matter of the hearing, and the
amount and country of origin of any pay-
ment or contract related to the subject mat-
ter of the hearing originating with a foreign
government.
(c) Quorum for Taking Testimony—The
number of Members of the Committee which
shall constitute a quorum for taking testi-
mony and receiving evidence in any hearing
of the Committee shall be two.
(d) Calling and Interrogation of Witnesses:
(1) The Minority Members of the Com-
mittee or its subcommittees shall be enti-
tled, upon request to the Chair or sub-
committee chair, by a majority of them be-
fore completion of any hearing, to call wit-
nesses selected by the Minority to testify
with respect to the matter under consider-
ation during at least 1 day of hearings there-
on.
(2) The Committee and its subcommittees
shall observe the 5-minute rule during the
interrogation of witnesses until such time as
each Member of the Committee or sub-
committee who so desires has had an oppor-
tunity to question the witness.
(e) Broadcasting and Photographing of
Committee Meetings and Hearings—When-
ever a hearing or meeting conducted by the
full Committee or any of its subcommittees
is open to the public, those proceedings shall
be open to coverage by television, radio, and
still photography, and shall be conducted in
accordance with the requirements set forth
in clause (4)(f) of rule XI of the Rules of the
House of Representatives. Neither the full
Committee Chair or subcommittee chair
shall limit the number of television or still
cameras to fewer than two representatives
from each medium (except for legitimate
space or safety, in which case pool coverage
shall be authorized). To the maximum prac-
ticable, the Committee shall provide audio
and video coverage of each hearing or meet-
ing for the transaction of business in a man-
ner that allows the public to easily listen to
and view the proceedings and shall maintain
the recordings of such coverage in a manner
that is easily accessible to the public.
(f) Subcommittee Meetings—No sub-
committee shall sit while the House is read-
ing an appropriation measure for amendment
under the 5-minute rule or while the Com-
mittee is in session.
(g) Public Notice of Committee Hearings—
The Chair of the Committee shall make pub-
lic announcement of the date, place, and sub-
ject matter of any Committee or sub-
committee hearing at least 1 week before the
commencement of the hearing. If the Chair
of the Committee or subcommittee, with the
concurrence of the ranking minority mem-
ber of the Committee or respective sub-
committee, determines there is good cause
to begin the hearing sooner, or if the Com-
mittee or subcommittee so determines by
majority vote, a quorum being present for
the transaction of business, the Chair or sub-
committee chair shall make the announce-
ment at the earliest possible date. Any an-
nouncement made under this subsection
shall be promptly published in the Daily Di-
gest and made publicly available in elec-
tronic form.
Sec. 6: Procedures for Reporting Bills and
Resolutions
(a) Prompt Reporting Requirement:
(1) It shall be the duty of the Chair to re-
port, or cause to be reported promptly to the
House any bill or resolution approved by the
Committee and to take or cause to be taken
necessary steps to bring the matter to a
vote.
(2) In any event, a report on a bill or reso-
lution which the Committee has approved
shall be filed within 7 calendar days (exclu-
sive of days in which the House is not in ses-
sion) after the day on which there has been
filed with the Committee Clerk a written re-
quest, signed by a majority of Committee
Members, for the reporting of such bill or
resolution. Upon the filing of any such re-
quest, the Committee Clerk shall notify the
Chair immediately of the filing of the re-
quest. This subsection does not apply to the
reporting of a regular appropriation bill or
to the reporting of a resolution of inquiry
addressed to the head of an executive depart-
ment.
(b) Presence of Committee Majority—No
measure or recommendation shall be re-
ported from the Committee unless a major-
ity of the Committee was actually present.
(c) Roll Call Votes—With respect to each
roll call vote on a motion to report any
measure or matter of a public character, and
on any amendment offered to the measure of
matter, the total number of votes cast for
and against, and the names of those Mem-
bers voting for and against, shall be included
in the Committee report on the measure or
matter.
(d) Compliance With Congressional Budget
Act—A Committee report on a bill or resolu-
tion which has been approved by the Com-
mittee shall include the statement required
by section 308(a) of the Congressional Budget
Act of 1974, separately set out and clearly
identified, if the bill or resolution provides
new budget authority.
(e) Changes in Existing Law—Each Com-
mittee report on a general appropriation bill
shall contain a concise statement describing
fully the effect of any provision of the bill
which directly or indirectly changes the ap-
plication of existing law.
(f) Rescissions and Transfers—Each bill or
resolution reported by the Committee shall
include separate headings for rescissions and
transfers of unexpended balances with all
proposed rescissions and transfers listed
therein. The report of the Committee accom-
panying such a bill or resolution shall in-
clude a separate section with respect to such
rescissions or transfers.
(g) Listing of Unauthorized Appropria-
tions—Each Committee report on a general
appropriation bill shall contain a list of all
appropriations contained in the bill for any
expenditure not currently authorized by law
for the period concerned (except for classi-
fied intelligence or national security pro-
grams, projects, or activities) along with a
statement of the last year for which such ex-
penditures were authorized, the level of ex-
penditures authorized for that year, the ac-
tual level of expenditures for that year, and
the level of appropriations in the bill for
such expenditures.
(h) Duplicative Programs—Each Com-
mittee report on a bill or joint resolution
that establishes or reauthorizes a Federal
program shall contain a statement indi-
cating whether such program is known to be
duplicative of another program, pursuant to
clause 3(c)(5) of rule XIII of the Rules of the
House of Representatives.
(i) Supplemental or Minority Views:
(1) If, at the time the Committee approves
any measure or matter, any Committee
Member gives notice of intention to file sup-
plemental, minority, additional, or dis-
senting views, all Members shall be entitled
to not less than 2 additional calendar days
after the day of such notice (excluding Sat-
urdays, Sundays, and legal holidays) in
which to file such views in writing and
signed by the Member, with the Clerk of the
Committee. All such views so filed shall be
included in and shall be a part of the report
filed by the Committee with respect to that
measure or matter.
(2) The Committee report on that measure
or matter shall be printed in a single volume
which—
(i) shall include all supplemental, minor-
ity, additional, or dissenting views which
have been submitted by the time of the filing
of the report, and
(ii) shall have on its cover a recital that
any such supplemental, minority, additional,
or dissenting views are included as part of
the report.
(3) This subsection does not preclude—
(i) the immediate filing or printing of a
Committee report unless timely request for
the opportunity to file supplemental, minor-
ity, additional, or dissenting views has been
made as provided by such subsection; or
(ii) the filing by the Committee of a sup-
plemental report on a measure or matter
which may be required for correction of any
technical error in a previous report made by
the Committee on that measure or matter.
(4) If, at the time a subcommittee approves
any measure or matter for recommendation
to the full Committee, any Member of that
subcommittee who gives notice of intention
to offer supplemental, minority, additional,
or dissenting views shall be entitled, insofar
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:35 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE7.004 H04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1348 February 4, 2019
as is practicable and in accordance with the
printing requirements as determined by the
subcommittee, to include such views in the
Committee Print with respect to that meas-
ure or matter.
(j) Availability of Reports—A copy of each
bill, resolution, or report shall be made
available to each Member of the Committee
at least 3 calendar days (excluding Satur-
days, Sundays, and legal holidays except
when the House is in session on such a day)
in advance of the date on which the Com-
mittee is to consider each bill, resolution, or
report; Provided, That this subsection may
be waived by agreement between the Chair
and the Ranking Minority Member of the
full Committee.
(k) Performance Goals and Objectives—
Each Committee report shall contain a
statement of general performance goals and
objectives, including outcome-related goals
and objectives, for which the measure au-
thorizes funding.
(l) Motion to go to Conference—The Chair
is directed to offer a motion under clause 1 of
rule XXII of the Rules of the House whenever
the Chair considers it appropriate.
Sec. 7: Voting
(a) No vote by any Member of the Com-
mittee or any of its subcommittees with re-
spect to any measure or matter may be cast
by proxy.
(b) The vote on any question before the
Committee shall be taken by the yeas and
nays on the demand of one-fifth of the Mem-
bers present.
(c) The Chair of the Committee or the
chair of any of its subcommittees may—
(1) postpone further proceedings when a
record vote is ordered on the question of ap-
proving a measure or matter or on adopting
an amendment;
(2) resume proceedings on a postponed
question at any time after reasonable notice.
When proceedings resume on a postponed
question, notwithstanding any intervening
order for the previous question, an under-
lying proposition shall remain subject to fur-
ther debate or amendment to the same ex-
tent as when the question was postponed.
Sec. 8: Studies and Examinations
The following procedure shall be applicable
with respect to the conduct of studies and
examinations of the organization and oper-
ation of Executive Agencies under authority
contained in section 202 (b) of the Legislative
Reorganization Act of 1946 and in clause
(3)(a) of rule X of the Rules of the House of
Representatives:
(a) The Chair is authorized to appoint such
staff and, in her or his discretion, arrange for
the procurement of temporary services of
consultants, as from time to time may be re-
quired.
(b) Studies and examinations will be initi-
ated upon the written request of a sub-
committee which shall be reasonably specific
and definite in character, and shall be initi-
ated only by a majority vote of the sub-
committee, with the chair of the sub-
committee and the ranking minority mem-
ber thereof participating as part of such ma-
jority vote. When so initiated such request
shall be filed with the Clerk of the Com-
mittee for submission to the Chair and the
Ranking Minority Member and their ap-
proval shall be required to make the same ef-
fective. Notwithstanding any action taken
on such request by the chair and ranking mi-
nority member of the subcommittee, a re-
quest may be approved by a majority of the
Committee.
(c) Any request approved as provided under
subsection (b) shall be immediately turned
over to the staff appointed for action.
(d) Any information obtained by such staff
shall be reported to the chair of the sub-
committee requesting such study and exam-
ination and to the Chair and Ranking Minor-
ity Member, shall be made available to the
members of the subcommittee concerned,
and shall not be released for publication
until the subcommittee so determines.
(e) Any hearings or investigations which
may be desired, aside from the regular hear-
ings on appropriation items, when approved
by the Committee, shall be conducted by the
subcommittee having jurisdiction over the
matter.
Sec. 9: Temporary Investigative Task
Forces
(a) The Chair of the full Committee, in
consultation with the Ranking Member of
the full Committee, may establish and ap-
point members to serve on task forces of the
Committee, to examine specific activities for
a limited period of time in accordance with
clause 5(b)(2)(C) of rule X of the Rules of the
House.
(b) The Chair of the full Committee shall
issue a written directive, in consultation
with the Ranking Member of the full Com-
mittee, delineating the specific activities to
be reviewed by a task force constituted pur-
suant to the preceding paragraph.
(c) A task force constituted under this sec-
tion shall provide a written report of its
findings and recommendations to the full
Committee Chair and Ranking Member and
members of the relevant subcommittees hav-
ing jurisdiction over the matters reviewed.
Such report shall be approved by a majority
vote of the task force and shall include any
supplemental, minority, additional, or dis-
senting views submitted by a Member of the
task force or a member of a subcommittee
having jurisdiction over the matter re-
viewed.
(d) Any information obtained during the
course of such investigation, and any report
produced by, a task force pursuant to this
section, shall not be released until the Chair
of the full Committee has authorized such
release.
(e) The Chair is authorized to appoint such
staff, and, in her or his discretion, arrange
for the procurement of temporary services,
as from time to time may be required.
Sec. 10: Official Travel
(a) The chair of a subcommittee shall ap-
prove requests for travel by subcommittee
members and staff for official business with-
in the jurisdiction of that subcommittee.
The ranking minority member of a sub-
committee shall concur in such travel re-
quests by minority members of that sub-
committee and the Ranking Minority Mem-
ber shall concur in such travel requests for
Minority Members of the Committee. Re-
quests in writing covering the purpose,
itinerary, and dates of proposed travel shall
be submitted for final approval to the Chair.
Specific approval shall be required for each
and every trip.
(b) The Chair is authorized during the re-
cess of the Congress to approve travel au-
thorizations for Committee Members and
staff, including travel outside the United
States.
(c) As soon as practicable, the Chair shall
direct the head of each Government agency
concerned to honor requests of subcommit-
tees, individual Members, or staff for travel,
the direct or indirect expenses of which are
to be defrayed from an executive appropria-
tion, only upon request from the Chair.
(d) In accordance with clause 8 of rule X of
the Rules of the House of Representatives
and section 502 (b) of the Mutual Security
Act of 1954, as amended, local currencies
owned by the United States shall be avail-
able to Committee Members and staff en-
gaged in carrying out their official duties
outside the United States, its territories, or
possessions. No Committee Member or staff
member shall receive or expend local cur-
rencies for subsistence in any country at a
rate in excess of the maximum per diem rate
set forth in applicable Federal law.
(e) Travel Reports:
(1) Members or staff shall make a report to
the Chair on their travel, covering the pur-
pose, results, itinerary, expenses, and other
pertinent comments.
(2) With respect to travel outside the
United States or its territories or posses-
sions, the report shall include: (1) an
itemized list showing the dates each country
was visited, the amount of per diem fur-
nished, the cost of transportation furnished,
and any funds expended for any other official
purpose; and (2) a summary in these cat-
egories of the total foreign currencies and/or
appropriated funds expended. All such indi-
vidual reports on foreign travel shall be filed
with the Chair no later than 60 days fol-
lowing completion of the travel for use in
complying with reporting requirements in
applicable Federal law, and shall be open for
public inspection.
(3) Each Member or employee performing
such travel shall be solely responsible for
supporting the amounts reported by the
Member or employee.
(4) No report or statement as to any trip
shall be publicized making any recommenda-
tions on behalf of the Committee without
the authorization of a majority of the Com-
mittee.
(f) Members and staff of the Committee
performing authorized travel on official busi-
ness pertaining to the jurisdiction of the
Committee shall be governed by applicable
laws or regulations of the House and of the
Committee on House Administration per-
taining to such travel, and as promulgated
from time to time by the Chair.
Sec. 11. Activities Reports
(a) Not later than January 2 of each odd-
numbered year, the Committee shall submit
to the House a report on the activities of the
Committee.
(b) After adjournment sine die of a regular
session of Congress, or after December 15,
whichever occurs first, the Chair may file
the report with the Clerk of the House at any
time and without the approval of the Com-
mittee, provided that a copy of the report
has been available to each Member of the
Committee for at least 7 calendar days and
the report includes any supplemental, minor-
ity, additional, or dissenting views sub-
mitted by a Member of the Committee.
f
ADJOURNMENT
The SPEAKER pro tempore. Without
objection, the House stands adjourned
until noon tomorrow for morning-hour
debate.
There was no objection.
Thereupon (at 11 o’clock and 33 min-
utes a.m.), under its previous order, the
House adjourned until tomorrow, Tues-
day, February 5, 2019, at noon for morn-
ing-hour debate.
f
PUBLIC BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS
Under clause 2 of rule XII, public
bills and resolutions of the following
titles were introduced and severally re-
ferred, as follows:
By Mr. PALLONE (for himself, Ms.
ESHOO, Mr. ENGEL, Ms. DEGETTE, Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania,
Ms. MATSUI, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
WELCH, Mr. LUJÁN, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. LOEBSACK, Mr.
VEASEY, Mr. MCEACHIN, Mr. SOTO,
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:35 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE7.005 H04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1349
February 4, 2019
Mr. O’HALLERAN, Mr. CONNOLLY, Ms.
NORTON, and Mr. CRIST):
H.R. 946. A bill to amend the Communica-
tions Act of 1934 to clarify the prohibitions
on making robocalls, and for other purposes;
to the Committee on Energy and Commerce.
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico (for herself, Mr. SERRANO, Mrs.
RADEWAGEN, Mr. SOTO, Ms.
PLASKETT, Mr. SABLAN, and Mr. SAN
NICOLAS):
H.R. 947. A bill to extend the supplemental
security income program to Puerto Rico, the
United States Virgin Islands, Guam, and
American Samoa, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Ways and Means.
By Mr. CHABOT (for himself, Mr.
CICILLINE, Mr. SENSENBRENNER, Mr.
NADLER, and Mr. COLLINS of Georgia):
H.R. 948. A bill to amend the Sherman Act
to make oil-producing and exporting cartels
illegal; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. SCALISE (for himself, Mr. HICE
of Georgia, and Mr. JOHNSON of Lou-
isiana):
H.R. 949. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to allow charitable organi-
zations to make statements relating to polit-
ical campaigns if such statements are made
in the ordinary course of carrying out its tax
exempt purpose; to the Committee on Ways
and Means.
By Mr. CICILLINE (for himself, Mr.
GARAMENDI, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
ROYBAL-ALLARD, and Mr. DEFAZIO):
H.R. 950. A bill to require the disclosure of
the Federal income tax returns of the Presi-
dent; to the Committee on Oversight and Re-
form, and in addition to the Committee on
Ways and Means, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mr. CUELLAR (for himself and Mr.
MCCAUL):
H.R. 951. A bill to promote bilateral tour-
ism through cooperation between the United
States and Mexico; to the Committee on For-
eign Affairs.
By Mr. ENGEL (for himself, Mr.
MEEKS, Mr. COHEN, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
HASTINGS, and Mrs. WATSON COLE-
MAN):
H.R. 952. A bill to enact into law a frame-
work for deciding whether certain projectiles
are ‘‘primarily intended for sporting pur-
poses’’ for purposes of determining whether
the projectiles are armor piercing ammuni-
tion; to the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. EVANS (for himself, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. GRIJALVA, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Ms.
MOORE, and Ms. SCHAKOWSKY):
H.R. 953. A bill to prohibit consumer re-
porting agencies from including adverse in-
formation in certain consumer reports, and
from making adverse determinations relat-
ing to security clearances, with respect to
certain individuals affected by the Govern-
ment shutdown, and for other purposes; to
the Committee on Oversight and Reform,
and in addition to the Committee on Finan-
cial Services, for a period to be subsequently
determined by the Speaker, in each case for
consideration of such provisions as fall with-
in the jurisdiction of the committee con-
cerned.
By Mr. HURD of Texas (for himself and
Mrs. DAVIS of California):
H.R. 954. A bill to reform the GEAR UP
program; to the Committee on Education
and Labor.
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington (for
himself, Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. RUSH,
Mr. HECK, Mr. RYAN, Mr. DEFAZIO,
Mr. KILMER, Ms. BLUNT ROCHESTER,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New
York, and Mr. HIMES):
H.R. 955. A bill to improve the reproductive
assistance provided by the Department of
Defense and the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to severely wounded, ill, or injured
members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and
their spouses or partners, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs, and in addition to the Committee on
Armed Services, for a period to be subse-
quently determined by the Speaker, in each
case for consideration of such provisions as
fall within the jurisdiction of the committee
concerned.
By Mrs. LESKO (for herself, Mr. SMITH
of New Jersey, Mr. GAETZ, Mr. BIGGS,
Mr. MOONEY of West Virginia, Mr.
JOHNSON of Louisiana, Mr. WEBER of
Texas, Mrs. HARTZLER, Mr. ALLEN,
Mr. LOUDERMILK, Mr. GROTHMAN, Mr.
ABRAHAM, Mr. NORMAN, Mr. SPANO,
Mr. LAMBORN, Mr. GIBBS, Mr. CHABOT,
and Mr. JOYCE of Pennsylvania):
H.R. 956. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit dismemberment
abortions, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 957. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to make permanent certain
provisions of Public Law 115-97, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Ways and
Means.
By Mr. O’HALLERAN (for himself and
Mr. COLE):
H.R. 958. A bill to protect Native children
and promote public safety in Indian country;
to the Committee on Natural Resources, and
in addition to the Committees on Education
and Labor, and Energy and Commerce, for a
period to be subsequently determined by the
Speaker, in each case for consideration of
such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. PERRY (for himself, Mr. SEN-
SENBRENNER, Mr. QUIGLEY, Mr. RYAN,
Mrs. WAGNER, and Ms. JACKSON LEE):
H.R. 959. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to provide that traveling inter-
state or causing another to travel interstate
for the purpose of female genital mutilation
is prohibited, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
By Mr. PERRY (for himself, Mrs. WAG-
NER, Mr. QUIGLEY, and Mr. RYAN):
H.R. 960. A bill to allow certain grants to
be used for the purpose of assisting victims
of female genital mutilation, to classify the
offense of female genital mutilation as a
part II crime for purposes of the Uniform
Crime Reports, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary, and in addition
to the Committee on Financial Services, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY (for herself and
Mr. BUCHANAN):
H.R. 961. A bill to prevent human health
threats posed by the consumption of equines
raised in the United States; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce, and in ad-
dition to the Committee on Agriculture, for
a period to be subsequently determined by
the Speaker, in each case for consideration
of such provisions as fall within the jurisdic-
tion of the committee concerned.
By Mr. GALLEGO (for himself, Mr.
CONNOLLY, Mr. HURD of Texas, and
Ms. STEFANIK):
H.J. Res. 41. A joint resolution requiring
the advice and consent of the Senate or an
Act of Congress to suspend, terminate, or
withdraw the United States from the North
Atlantic Treaty and authorizing related liti-
gation, and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Foreign Affairs, and in addition to
the Committee on Rules, for a period to be
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in
each case for consideration of such provi-
sions as fall within the jurisdiction of the
committee concerned.
By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Mr. LEWIS, Ms.
MOORE, Ms. NORTON, Mr. RYAN, Mr.
SOTO, Mr. TAKANO, Mr. VELA, and
Mrs. LURIA):
H. Con. Res. 12. Concurrent resolution ex-
pressing the sense of Congress that a com-
memorative postage stamp should be issued
in honor of the Buffalo Soldiers; to the Com-
mittee on Oversight and Reform.
By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. MOORE, Mr.
RYAN, Ms. KELLY of Illinois, Mr.
DAVID SCOTT of Georgia, Mr. SOTO,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. VELA, Mrs. LURIA,
and Mr. VARGAS):
H. Con. Res. 13. Concurrent resolution rec-
ognizing the difficult challenges Black vet-
erans faced when returning home after serv-
ing in the Armed Forces, their heroic mili-
tary sacrifices, and their patriotism in fight-
ing for equal rights and for the dignity of a
people and a Nation; to the Committee on
Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. DINGELL (for herself and Mr.
UPTON):
H. Res. 95. A resolution expressing support
for designation of February 4, 2019, as Na-
tional Cancer Prevention Day; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Commerce.
By Mrs. BEATTY (for herself, Mr.
BROWN of Maryland, Ms. CLARKE of
New York, Mr. COHEN, Mr. GRIJALVA,
Ms. JACKSON LEE, Ms. FUDGE, Ms.
JOHNSON of Texas, Mr. RUSH, Mr.
STIVERS, Mr. SOTO, Mr. TAKANO, Mr.
VELA, Mrs. LURIA, and Mr. YARMUTH):
H. Res. 96. A resolution supporting the
goals and ideals of Black History Month and
honoring the outstanding contributions of
African-American Congressional Medal of
Honor recipients; to the Committee on
Armed Services.
By Mr. GAETZ (for himself and Mr.
BIGGS):
H. Res. 97. A resolution expressing the
sense of the House of Representatives that
the crime of lying to Congress must be pros-
ecuted equitably; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
By Ms. MENG (for herself, Mr. BEYER,
Mr. CASTEN of Illinois, Ms. JUDY CHU
of California, Mr. CISNEROS, Ms.
CLARK of Massachusetts, Mr. COX of
California, Mr. CROW, Ms. ESHOO, Mr.
ESPAILLAT, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr.
GOMEZ, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HORSFORD,
Mr. KHANNA, Mr. KILMER, Ms. JACK-
SON LEE, Ms. JAYAPAL, Mr. JEFFRIES,
Mr. KIM, Mr. KRISHNAMOORTHI, Mr.
TED LIEU of California, Mr. LIPINSKI,
Ms. LOFGREN, Mrs. CAROLYN B. MALO-
NEY of New York, Ms. MATSUI, Mr.
MCGOVERN, Mr. MCNERNEY, Mr.
MEEKS, Mrs. MURPHY, Ms. NORTON,
Mr. PALLONE, Mr. PASCRELL, Mr.
PETERS, Ms. PORTER, Mr. QUIGLEY,
Mr. RASKIN, Mr. RUSH, Ms. SCANLON,
Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr. SUOZZI,
Mr. TAKANO, Ms. TITUS, Mr. TRONE,
and Ms. VELÁZQUEZ):
H. Res. 98. A resolution recognizing the
cultural and historical significance of Lunar
New Year in 2019; to the Committee on Over-
sight and Reform.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:35 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\L04FE7.100 H04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE
H1350 February 4, 2019
CONSTITUTIONAL AUTHORITY
STATEMENT
Pursuant to clause 7 of rule XII of
the Rules of the House of Representa-
tives, the following statements are sub-
mitted regarding the specific powers
granted to Congress in the Constitu-
tion to enact the accompanying bill or
joint resolution.
By Mr. PALLONE:
H.R. 946.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, clause 3 of the U.S.
Constitution. That provision gives Congress
the power ‘‘to regulate commerce with for-
eign nations, and among the several states,
and with the Indian tribes.’’
By Miss GONZÁLEZ-COLÓN of Puerto
Rico:
H.R. 947.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clauses 1 and 18 of the
U.S. Constitution, which provide as follows:
The Congress shall have Power To lay and
collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises,
to pay the Debts and provide for the common
Defence and general Welfare of the United
States; [and . . .]
To make all laws which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into Execution the
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vest-
ed by this Constitution in the Government of
the United States, or in any Department or
Officer thereof.
By Mr. CHABOT:
H.R. 948.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 8, Clause 3 (‘‘The Con-
gress shall have power . . . To regulate Com-
merce with foreign Nations, and among the
several States, and with the Indian Tribes.’’)
By Mr. SCALISE:
H.R. 949.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
The First Amendment guarantees both free
speech and the free exercise of religion.The
Free Speech Fairness Act restores these fun-
damental liberties to churches and non-
profits.
By Mr. CICILLINE:
H.R. 950.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the United States
Constitution
By Mr. CUELLAR:
H.R. 951.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
‘‘To make all Laws which shall be nec-
essary and proper for carrying into Execu-
tion the foregoing Powers, and all other
Powers vested by this Constitution in the
Government of the United States, or in any
Department or Officer thereof.’’
By Mr. ENGEL:
H.R. 952.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article 1, Section 1 of the Constitution.
By Mr. EVANS:
H.R. 953.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Section 8, Clause 1 of the U.S. Constitu-
tion: The Congress shall have Power To lay
and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Ex-
cises, to pay the Debts and provide for the
common Defence and general Welfare of the
United States; but all Duties, Imposts and
Excises shall be uniform throughout the
United States;
By Mr. HURD of Texas:
H.R. 954.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8 of the Constitution
By Mr. LARSEN of Washington:
H.R. 955.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
As described in Article 1, Section 1 ‘‘all
legislative powers herein granted shall be
vested in a Congress of the United States,
which shall consist of a Senate and House of
Representatives.’’
By Mrs. LESKO:
H.R. 956.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Congress has the authority to protect un-
born children under the Supreme Court’s
Commerce Clause precedents and under the
Constitution’s grants of power to Congress
under the Equal Protection, Due Process,
and Enforcement Clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
By Mr. MITCHELL:
H.R. 957.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 1: The Congress
shall have Power to lay and collect Taxes,
Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the
Debts and provide for the common Defence
and general Welfare of the United States; but
all Duties, Imposts and Excises shall be uni-
form throughout the United States
By Mr. O’HALLERAN:
H.R. 958.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
By Mr. PERRY:
H.R. 959.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Mr. PERRY:
H.R. 960.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8
By Ms. SCHAKOWSKY:
H.R. 961.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
This bill is enacted pursuant to the power
granted to Congress under Article I, Section
8, Clause 3 of the United States Constitution.
By Mr. GALLEGO:
H.J. Res. 41.
Congress has the power to enact this legis-
lation pursuant to the following:
Article I, Section 8, Clause 18
f
ADDITIONAL SPONSORS
Under clause 7 of rule XII, sponsors
were added to public bills and resolu-
tions, as follows:
H.R. 20: Mrs. LESKO, Mr. LATTA, Mr. BACON,
and Mr. BARR.
H.R. 51: Mr. CASTEN of Illinois and Mrs.
KIRKPATRICK.
H.R. 92: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 117: Ms. DEAN.
H.R. 273: Mrs. LAWRENCE, Miss RICE of New
York, and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 276: Mr. PAYNE, Mrs. RODGERS of
Washington, and Mr. RODNEY DAVIS of Illi-
nois.
H.R. 281: Ms. WILSON of Florida and Mr.
COHEN.
H.R. 282: Ms. JACKSON LEE.
H.R. 296: Mr. CHABOT.
H.R. 308: Mr. ALLEN.
H.R. 309: Mr. CONNOLLY and Mr. BRENDAN
F. BOYLE of Pennsylvania.
H.R. 310: Ms. HILL of California.
H.R. 339: Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 357: Mr. HARDER of California.
H.R. 361: Mr. RESCHENTHALER.
H.R. 507: Mr. COHEN and Mr. FITZPATRICK.
H.R. 510: Mr. GUTHRIE, Mr. ROGERS of Ala-
bama, Mr. PERRY, Ms. MOORE, Ms. HILL of
California, and Mr. CRAWFORD.
H.R. 530: Mr. SUOZZI.
H.R. 532: Ms. MCCOLLUM.
H.R. 550: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
CÁRDENAS, Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of
New York, Mr. SABLAN, Miss GONZÁLEZ-
COLÓN of Puerto Rico, and Mrs. CAROLYN B.
MALONEY of New York.
H.R. 553: Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. WELCH,
and Mr. BOST.
H.R. 582: Mr. HIMES, Mr. DOGGETT, and Mr.
GOTTHEIMER.
H.R. 585: Mr. TAKANO, Mr. KHANNA, Mr.
TONKO, Mr. PETERS, Mr. JOHNSON of Georgia,
and Ms. LEE of California.
H.R. 587: Mr. HILL of Arkansas, Mr. KEN-
NEDY, and Mr. MITCHELL.
H.R. 588: Ms. NORTON.
H.R. 597: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas.
H.R. 613: Ms. PINGREE, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr. COLE, Mr. ABRAHAM,
Mr. KILMER, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. ROSE of New
York, and Mr. FLORES.
H.R. 615: Mr. SOTO.
H.R. 647: Mr. MAST, Ms. NORTON, Mr.
SERRANO, Mr. PANETTA, Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr.
HIGGINS of New York, Mr. GRIJALVA, Mrs.
BEATTY, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr. BERA, Mr. LIPIN-
SKI, Mr. CONNOLLY, Mrs. DAVIS of California,
Mr. SEAN PATRICK MALONEY of New York,
Mrs. WATSON COLEMAN, Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Ms.
MENG, Mr. VELA, Mr. PAPPAS, Mr. CARSON of
Indiana, Mr. BLUMENAUER, Mr. HIMES, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. PASCRELL, Ms. PINGREE,
and Ms. SPEIER.
H.R. 649: Ms. SCHAKOWSKY, Mrs. WATSON
COLEMAN, and Mr. CICILLINE.
H.R. 651: Mr. TURNER.
H.R. 661: Mr. CHABOT and Mr. JOYCE of
Pennsylvania.
H.R. 663: Mr. VISCLOSKY and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H.R. 673: Mr. SWALWELL of California and
Mr. MCGOVERN.
H.R. 674: Mr. CISNEROS and Mr. SARBANES.
H.R. 688: Ms. MENG.
H.R. 693: Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Mr.
SABLAN, Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr. SOTO, Mr.
BUCHANAN, Mr. GARAMENDI, Mr. RUPPERS-
BERGER, Mr. RESCHENTHALER, Mr. PRICE of
North Carolina, Mr. BRENDAN F. BOYLE of
Pennsylvania, Mr. VELA, Mr. GALLEGO, Mr.
LAWSON of Florida, Mr. NEAL, Ms. FRANKEL,
Mr. CRIST, Ms. CLARKE of New York, Ms.
JACKSON LEE, Ms. WILSON of Florida, Ms.
SÁNCHEZ, Mr. LANGEVIN, Ms. KAPTUR, Mr.
PETERS, Mr. ZELDIN, Ms. MUCARSEL-POWELL,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. LYNCH, Ms. KUSTER of New
Hampshire, Miss RICE of New York, Mr.
DEFAZIO, Ms. WASSERMAN SCHULTZ, Mr. TIP-
TON, Mr. THOMPSON of Pennsylvania, Ms.
JUDY CHU of California, Ms. ESHOO, Ms.
BLUNT ROCHESTER, Mr. WITTMAN, Mr. SCHIFF,
Mrs. BUSTOS, Mr. POSEY, Mr. RODNEY DAVIS
of Illinois, Mr. LIPINSKI, Mr. MCGOVERN, Mr.
MICHAEL F. DOYLE of Pennsylvania, Mr.
WALDEN, Mr. GALLAGHER, Mr. HIMES, Mr.
CISNEROS, Mr. SIMPSON, Mrs. DAVIS of Cali-
fornia, and Mr. HASTINGS.
H.R. 708: Mr. MARSHALL.
H.R. 724: Mr. DELGADO and Mr. CISNEROS.
H.R. 732: Ms. MOORE, Mr. CARSON of Indi-
ana, and Ms. WILSON of Florida.
H.R. 737: Mr. CISNEROS, Mr. COSTA, Ms.
DEAN, Mr. DELGADO, Ms. GABBARD, Mr. GUTH-
RIE, Ms. HAALAND, Mr. HARDER of California,
Mr. HECK, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mrs. LAW-
RENCE, Mr. LAWSON of Florida, Mr. DAVID P.
ROE of Tennessee, Mr. ROSE of New York,
Mr. TAKANO, Mr. WALDEN, and Mr. WATKINS.
H.R. 784: Mr. BYRNE, Mr. TURNER, and Mr.
JOHNSON of Ohio.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:35 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE7.010 H04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — HOUSE H1351
February 4, 2019
H.R. 787: Ms. WILSON of Florida and Mr.
FLORES.
H.R. 791: Mr. CHABOT and Mr. STEIL.
H.R. 806: Mr. HIMES.
H.R. 810: Mr. ROSE of New York, Mrs. CARO-
LYN B. MALONEY of New York, Mr. VIS-
CLOSKY, Ms. MCCOLLUM, and Mr. ENGEL.
H.R. 812: Mr. BLUMENAUER and Mr. GRI-
JALVA.
H.R. 845: Mr. MOULTON and Mr. GONZALEZ
of Ohio.
H.R. 866: Mr. COHEN and Mrs. LURIA.
H.R. 872: Mr. CARTWRIGHT, Mr.
FITZPATRICK, Mr. ESPAILLAT, Ms. SCHA-
KOWSKY, and Mr. GALLEGO.
H.R. 885: Ms. PINGREE.
H.R. 898: Mr. REED.
H.R. 916: Mr. TURNER, Mr. NEWHOUSE, and
Mr. OLSON.
H.R. 940: Mr. MEADOWS.
H.R. 943: Mr. DESAULNIER, Mr. ENGEL, and
Mr. NADLER.
H.J. Res. 2: Mr. ALLRED, Mr. KENNEDY, Mr.
CISNEROS, and Mrs. KIRKPATRICK.
H.J. Res. 35: Mr. AGUILAR, Mr. HORSFORD,
Mr. GONZALEZ of Texas, Ms. PRESSLEY, Mr.
SMITH of Washington, Ms. SLOTKIN, Mr. COO-
PER, Mr. SHERMAN, Ms. MATSUI, Ms. ROYBAL-
ALLARD, Mr. GREEN of Texas, Ms. CLARK of
Massachusetts, Ms. HILL of California, Mr.
LUJÁN, Mr. CISNEROS, Mrs. DEMINGS, Mr.
PERLMUTTER, Mr. GOMEZ, Mr. MALINOWSKI,
Mrs. KIRKPATRICK, Ms. SCANLON, Mr. HOYER,
Mrs. TORRES of California, and Ms. DEAN.
H.J. Res. 37: Ms. BASS, Mr. BLUMENAUER,
Mr. COSTA, and Mr. GOMEZ.
H.J. Res. 38: Mr. SMITH of Washington, Mr.
DESAULNIER, and Mr. GOMEZ.
H. Con. Res. 4: Mr. HASTINGS and Mr.
MCGOVERN.
H. Res. 33: Ms. VELÁZQUEZ, Mr. CISNEROS,
Mr. KENNEDY, Mr. BLUMENAUER, and Mr.
DESAULNIER.
H. Res. 36: Ms. WILSON of Florida and Mr.
HECK.
H. Res. 39: Mr. CISNEROS.
H. Res. 54: Ms. HERRERA BEUTLER, Mr.
ZELDIN, Mr. KINZINGER, Mr. GIANFORTE, Mr.
WITTMAN, Mr. JOYCE of Ohio, Mr.
DESAULNIER, Mr. CLEAVER, Mr. CROW, Mr.
PALLONE, Mr. MARSHALL, Mrs. BUSTOS, and
Mrs. LAWRENCE.
H. Res. 58: Mr. CARSON of Indiana, Mr.
JOHNSON of Georgia, and Mr. GONZALEZ of
Texas.
H. Res. 59: Mr. CARTER of Georgia.
H. Res. 72: Mr. WATKINS, Mr. DAVID P. ROE
of Tennessee, Mr. AUSTIN SCOTT of Georgia,
Ms. CHENEY, Mr. ROGERS of Alabama, Mr.
WEBER of Texas, Mr. BROOKS of Alabama, Mr.
GOHMERT, Mr. COLLINS of New York, Mr.
DUNCAN, and Mr. DUFFY.
H. Res. 75: Ms. WILSON of Florida, Mr.
BURCHETT, and Mr. SHERMAN.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 00:35 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 7634 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE7.008 H04FEPT1
Congressional Record
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
United States
of America PROCEEDINGS AND DEBATES OF THE 116th
CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
.
S817
Vol. 165 WASHINGTON, MONDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2019 No. 21
Senate
The Senate met at 3 p.m. and was
called to order by the President pro
tempore (Mr. GRASSLEY).
f
PRAYER
The Chaplain, Dr. Barry C. Black, of-
fered the following prayer:
Let us pray.
O Lord, our God, we praise Your holy
Name. Continue to be our strength and
protection. Lord, inspire our Senators
to strive to fulfill Your purposes, seek-
ing always to please You. Prosper the
works of their hands until the king-
doms of this world become the spring-
board for Your eternal reign.
Help our lawmakers to express their
gratitude to You with deeds of faith
and love as You use them to bring hope
from despair and joy from sadness.
We pray in Your sacred Name. Amen.
f
PLEDGE OF ALLEGIANCE
The President pro tempore led the
Pledge of Allegiance, as follows:
I pledge allegiance to the Flag of the
United States of America, and to the Repub-
lic for which it stands, one nation under God,
indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MAJORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
HAWLEY). The majority leader is recog-
nized.
f
MEASURE PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR—S. 311
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, I
understand there is a bill at the desk
due for a second reading.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will read the title of the bill for
the second time.
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 311) to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care practi-
tioner from failing to exercise the proper de-
gree of care in the case of a child who sur-
vives an abortion or attempted abortion.
Mr. MCCONNELL. In order to place
the bill on the calendar under provi-
sions of rule XIV, I object to further
proceeding.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion having been heard, the bill will be
placed on the calendar on the next leg-
islative day.
f
S. 1
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, for
the past week now, the Senate has been
considering a package of legislation to
strengthen our Nation’s diplomatic
presence in the Middle East. The
Strengthening America’s Security in
the Middle East Act would renew our
commitment to Israel’s security, ex-
pand cooperation with Jordan, and im-
pose new consequences on the perpetra-
tors of Assad’s brutality in Syria.
When America’s national security
and vital interests are at stake, some
circumstances require not only the use
of important diplomatic tools but also
direct involvement from the United
States. That is why I introduced an
amendment to S. 1, so the Senate can
speak clearly and directly about the
importance of our Nation’s ongoing
missions in Afghanistan and Syria.
I know a broad consensus about
American leadership in the world ex-
ists in this body. It is time to reaffirm
our commitment to this vision and to
the men and women fighting on the
ground to uphold it. I was glad to see a
big bipartisan majority of this body
vote to advance my amendment on
Thursday. I hope a similar majority
joins me in voting to approve this
mainstream amendment today, and I
look forward to passing this thor-
oughly bipartisan legislation later this
week.
NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT ACT
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President,
once we complete our work on S. 1, the
Senate will turn to the Natural Re-
sources Management Act, under the
leadership of Chairman MURKOWSKI and
the Natural Resources Committee.
This legislation combines more than
100 individual lands bills. It will allow
communities across America to respon-
sibly develop their land and natural re-
sources while maintaining a balance
with locally supported conservation.
On a national scale, this legislation
will achieve things such as perma-
nently reauthorizing the Land and
Water Conservation Fund and codi-
fying sportsmen’s recreational access
to Bureau of Land Management and
National Forest areas nationwide. On a
local scale, communities across Amer-
ica are looking forward to specific pro-
visions.
I am particularly proud that the leg-
islation will include two bills I intro-
duced to safeguard historic Kentucky
landmarks and designate Camp Nelson
and Mill Springs Battlefield as na-
tional monuments. I know virtually
every one of our colleagues is enthusi-
astic about local achievements it will
deliver in their States as well.
This bipartisan legislation is a major
priority dating back to the last Con-
gress, when nearly 90 Senators cospon-
sored its components, and I am glad we
will be able to turn to it soon.
f
S. 130
Mr. MCCONNELL. First, Mr. Presi-
dent, later today, the junior Senator
from Nebraska will give the Senate an
opportunity to address an issue of pro-
found moral importance. I understand
that he plans to ask consent to pass
legislation that ought to be the very
definition of something that receives
unanimous consent in this body. It
would help ensure that all baby girls
and boys who are born alive—all of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE6.000 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S818 February 4, 2019
them—have their right to life respected
and receive the medical care they need.
It builds on the Born-Alive Infants
Protection Act of 2002, which did in-
deed pass this body by unanimous con-
sent, and creates enforcement mecha-
nisms if abortion providers fail to give
these newborn babies the medical at-
tention and care they so obviously de-
serve.
Completely apart from the rest of our
debate on the issue of life, how could
this question be any clearer? What
could be more unanimous than this:
What medical professionals owe every
single newborn American citizen, re-
gardless of the circumstances of their
birth, is attention and care—not ne-
glect and certainly not violence.
Frankly, it is harrowing that this leg-
islation is even necessary.
What is even more disturbing when,
last week, a Democratic Governor was
unable to clearly and simply state
that, of course—of course—these new-
born babies have human rights that
must be respected.
I have been a proud cosponsor of Sen-
ator SASSE’s legislation, and I hope
none of my colleagues on the other side
of the aisle invent any reasons to block
this request later today. That would
make quite a disturbing statement.
If they do inexplicably block Senator
SASSE’s effort, I can assure them this
will not be the last time we try to af-
ford newborns this fundamental legal
protection.
f
THE ECONOMY
Mr. MCCONNELL. Mr. President, one
final matter—last week, our Nation re-
ceived yet another wave of good news
about our strong economy and all the
opportunities it is creating for working
Americans.
Republicans’ pro-growth, pro-family
economic policies have helped our Na-
tion’s job creators and small businesses
hit the accelerator, and middle-class
families across the country continue to
reap the rewards.
The Labor Department tracks the
total amount that U.S. employers
spend each year on wages and benefits
for workers. Last quarter, the year-on-
year increase was the highest it has
been in more than 10 years. Last
month, the total percentage of Ameri-
cans who are employed hit its highest
mark since December 2008.
Let me say that again. Following Re-
publican policies, we are now seeing
the largest annual jump in a decade in
the amount spent on workers’ com-
pensation and a higher percentage of
Americans working than we saw at any
point—at any point—under President
Obama.
An expert described these data to the
New York Times: ‘‘Employers are still
actively looking for jobs, and with
wages ticking up, it looks like workers
are getting some more bargaining
power.’’
Another expert put it this way: ‘‘The
virtuous cycle continues . . . a vir-
tuous cycle of a continuously growing
U.S. labor market.’’
So I am confident we will hear more
about this from the President in his ad-
dress Tuesday evening. The state of our
Nation’s economy is thriving and
working Americans are feeling the
boost. This is what happens when Re-
publican policies get Washington out of
the way.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk proceeded to call the
roll.
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
RECOGNITION OF THE MINORITY
LEADER
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
Democratic leader is recognized.
f
THE STATE OF THE UNION
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, to-
morrow, President Trump will belat-
edly report on the state of the Union
before a joint session of Congress. The
reason for the delay, of course, is the
35-day government shutdown that
President Trump precipitated as an at-
tempt to extract taxpayer money for a
wall he promised Mexico would pay for,
a pointless exercise, if there ever were
one—a pointless exercise that punished
hundreds of thousands of innocent pub-
lic servants and took billions of dollars
out of our economy.
We are all glad that the government
is back open and Federal workers are
back on the job and getting paid, but
the recent government shutdown
speaks to the fundamental uncertainty
about the state of our Union.
Tomorrow, the President will say,
predictably, that the state of our
Union is strong, but the truth is that
the state of the Trump economy is fail-
ing America’s middle class, that the
state of the Trump healthcare system
is failing American families, that the
state of the Trump administration is
embroiled in chaos and incompetence,
and that the state of the President’s
foreign policy is incoherent, incon-
sistent, and cynical in the extreme and
has undermined American power and
our national interests. In sum, the
state of our Union is in need of drastic
repair.
Let’s begin with the state of the
Trump economy. Corporate America
has cashed in on the Trump tax bill,
but working America has been left be-
hind. Since the tax bill passed over a
year ago, corporations have announced
plans to repurchase more than $1 tril-
lion of their own stock—a practice that
benefits corporate executives and
wealthy shareholders but not many av-
erage workers. Meanwhile, Reuters re-
ports that the tax bill had no major
impact on whether businesses made
capital investments or hired more
workers. The very wealthy—the big,
powerful corporations—fed this line:
Help them, and everyone will be
helped. Our Republican friends swal-
lowed that—hook, line, and sinker.
The only good news about this tax
bill that passed last year is that it
showed what a false promise it was—$1
trillion for the wealthy through stock
buybacks and other things and vir-
tually nothing for American workers.
The President promised—remember
this?—that his tax bill would deliver a
$4,000 raise to the average household.
The reality is that wages for average
workers have remained quite stagnant.
Workers are still making less today
than they did in 1973 after adjusting for
inflation. The effect of the Trump
economy has been a deepening of the
inequalities and wealth disparities that
threaten the future of the middle class
and the future of the American dream.
The rich are getting richer. The middle
class is being hollowed out. That is the
state of the Trump economy.
How about healthcare? The state of
our healthcare system is dire. Pre-
miums are higher than they should be.
Out-of-pocket costs are higher than
they should be. The uninsured rate is,
once again, rising. This is the result of
a relentless sabotage by the Trump ad-
ministration and congressional Repub-
licans. The Trump administration ex-
panded junk insurance plans. It sup-
ports a lawsuit that would end protec-
tions for Americans with preexisting
conditions. It all but eliminated pro-
grams that help people find the right
coverage for themselves and their fam-
ilies, and it continues to routinely pro-
pose and approve policies that cause
people to lose coverage and cause
health insurance markets to spiral into
chaos.
When any one of us goes home, one
just has to be home for a short time be-
fore hearing of people with horror sto-
ries of how they had normal procedures
and were told that this doctor was not
covered, that this procedure was not
covered, and that it would be several
thousand dollars out of their pockets,
which they can’t afford. We are told of
one horror story or another—of the
cost of something like insulin, which is
way through the roof, when it should
be available because it does so much
for those who have diabetes. We hear
story after story, and those aren’t iso-
lated. That is the state of the Trump
healthcare system.
The past 2 years have been a whole-
sale assault by the Trump administra-
tion on Americans’ healthcare. I doubt
President Trump will mention that to-
morrow, but if you ask American fami-
lies of the No. 1 problem they face, it
will be the cost of good healthcare,
which seems more and more out of
reach. So the state of the Trump
healthcare system is dire.
What is the state of the Trump ad-
ministration? The state of the Trump
administration is chaos. Underquali-
fied staffers cycle in and out of our
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.001 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S819
February 4, 2019
government’s most powerful positions.
Cabinet Secretaries are fired over
Twitter. Hundreds of important posi-
tions are unfilled or are covered by
someone in an acting capacity, includ-
ing for the Chief of Staff, the Attorney
General, the Defense Secretary, the In-
terior Secretary, the OMB Director,
and the EPA Director.
Hardly a week goes by without news
of a high-profile firing or resignation
from the White House. President
Trump publicly belittles the people
who are working for him. That is no
way to incent people to work hard. An
NPR study found that the Trump ad-
ministration has had the most Cabinet
turnovers of any administration in
more than a century. Three Cabinet
Secretaries have been fired or have re-
signed in scandal—Price, Zinke, and
Pruitt. One has resigned in protest—
probably the best Cabinet member we
had—General Mattis, who couldn’t
take Trump’s zigzags on policy and his
lack of sharing information. Another
had his nomination pulled before it
could be considered—Puzder—which is
not altogether rare for this President.
Since the start of the administration,
more than 40 of President Trump’s
nominees have been withdrawn. They
don’t know how to vet. The President
makes these off-the-cuff decisions
based on how someone looks, and we
all pay the price. Oh, yes, the state of
the Trump administration and how he
runs the government—chaos. The con-
tinuity and effectiveness of American
Government has been deeply com-
promised by the turmoil and turnover
at the White House.
Finally, the state of the Trump for-
eign policy is woefully backward. From
Brussels to Beijing, President Trump
has alienated our allies and
emboldened our adversaries. Russia,
China, North Korea—three of the worst
and least democratic countries on
Earth, the countries that pose the
greatest threats to America—are treat-
ed with kid gloves, while our allies,
like those in NATO, get harsh words
from this President. It is inside out. It
is topsy-turvy. It is what his instincts
and gut show, and they are totally
wrong—without fact, without knowl-
edge, and without understanding his-
tory. Too often, the President has, re-
grettably, failed to champion free
speech, freedom of the press, humani-
tarian rights, and democratic values.
Dictators and strongmen are ascendant
in the President’s circle while allies
are pushed to the fringe. Yes, the state
of the Trump foreign policy is woefully
backward.
Concerning the speech tomorrow
night, the President will not talk like
this, of course. What I expect the Presi-
dent to do is to ignore reality and spin
his own fiction. A looming question is
just how many falsehoods, distortions,
and made-up facts will appear in the
President’s speech. How many times
will he say something is fake news be-
cause it is true, and he doesn’t like to
hear the truth?
Yet the Democrats are not focused on
the President’s rhetoric—his usual
boasts or bluster or blame—that is so
characteristic of this administration.
We are going to continue fighting for
American workers in this unequal
economy, fighting for American fami-
lies who are struggling to afford qual-
ity healthcare, fighting to bring ac-
countability and stability to this gov-
ernment so in chaos, and fighting for
rational foreign policy that promotes
both our interests and our values.
The state of the Union is sad. Let me
just say that the No. 1 reason the state
of the Union has such woes is the
President. I hope he changes in the
next 2 years.
f
STOCK BUYBACKS
Mr. SCHUMER. Mr. President, one
other issue—I mentioned earlier that
one of the major consequences of the
Trump tax bill was the explosion of
stock buybacks. In 2018 alone—just
2018—U.S. companies announced plans
to repurchase more than $1 trillion of
their own stock. It is a staggering fig-
ure and the highest amount ever re-
corded in a single year.
When companies buy back their own
stock, it boosts the earnings of wealthy
shareholders and executives but does
little for average workers. The vast
majority of Americans don’t own
stocks. In fact, the top 10 percent of
Americans own 85 percent of stocks,
total.
When corporations direct so much of
their resources to buy back shares,
they restrain their capacity to reinvest
profits in R&D, equipment, higher
wages, medical leave, pensions, worker
retraining, and more.
I would like to see a study of how
many companies bought back their
stocks while leaving pensions under-
funded. What is happening is that cor-
porations are promising their workers
that they will have a good life in re-
tirement, and, instead, the corporate
executives and their top shareholders
are enriching themselves.
Think about this. Between 2008 and
2017—the last 10 years—466 of the S&P
500 companies did stock buybacks. Do
you know how much? It was $4 trillion.
That is equal to 53 percent of their
profits. More than $1 out of every $2 in
profit just went to stock buybacks—
not improving our economy, not help-
ing workers, and not helping commu-
nities. Then another 30 percent went to
dividends. It is the same thing. When
more than 80 percent of corporate prof-
its are going to stock buybacks and
dividends, something is really wrong in
the state of corporate America and the
state of our economy.
It wasn’t always this way. From the
mid-20th century up until the seventies
and even into the eighties, American
corporations shared a belief that they
had a duty not just to their share-
holders but to their workers, to their
communities, and to their country,
which helped them grow and prosper,
along with our schools, our roads, and
everything else. That created an ex-
tremely prosperous America for cor-
porate America but also for American
workers in the broad middle of this
country.
But over the past several decades,
workers’ rights have been diminished,
and corporate boardrooms have been
obsessed, slavishly, to shareholder
earnings. The only people they seem to
want to help are their shareholders.
I hear it. I talk to CEOs, and they
say: Well, maybe it is the wrong thing
to do this or that, but I just have to go
for the shareholder. And the share-
holder often has only short-term inter-
est. The explosion of stock buybacks is,
perhaps, the most pernicious way that
this new corporate ethos manifests
itself.
My friend and colleague Senator
SANDERS and I have written a joint op-
ed in today’s New York Times, out-
lining how we propose to curb the over-
reliance on stock buybacks and, in-
stead, encourage corporate America to
make more productive investments
that help workers and communities
therein.
We are planning to introduce legisla-
tion that will prohibit a corporation
from buying back its own stock unless
it invests in workers and communities
first, including doing things—there will
be a list—like paying people $15 an
hour, providing 7 days of sick leave, of-
fering decent pensions, more reliable
healthcare, putting money into train-
ing workers, and providing equipment.
These are the kinds of things we al-
ways thought American corporations
would do and now they do scantily
when compared to how much they do in
terms of buybacks.
I know many of my Democratic col-
leagues have focused on these issues,
including Senators BALDWIN, BOOKER,
CASEY, WARREN, SCHATZ, and GILLI-
BRAND. We all believe that this Con-
gress, this Senate, should vote on legis-
lation that demands that corporations
commit to addressing the needs of
their workers and communities before
the interests of wealthy shareholders.
I yield the floor.
f
RESERVATION OF LEADER TIME
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the leadership time
is reserved.
f
CONCLUSION OF MORNING
BUSINESS
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Morning
business is closed.
f
STRENGTHENING AMERICA’S SE-
CURITY IN THE MIDDLE EAST
ACT OF 2019—Resumed
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Under
the previous order, the Senate will re-
sume consideration of S. 1, which the
clerk will report.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.002 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S820 February 4, 2019
The bill clerk read as follows:
A bill (S. 1) to make improvements to cer-
tain defense and security assistance provi-
sions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
Pending:
McConnell amendment No. 65, to express
the sense of the Senate that the United
States faces continuing threats from ter-
rorist groups operating in Syria and Afghan-
istan and that the precipitous withdrawal of
United States forces from either country
could put at risk hard-won gains and United
States national security.
Menendez amendment No. 96 (to McConnell
amendment No. 65), to clarify that the
amendment shall not be construed as a dec-
laration of war or an authorization of the use
of military force.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Maine.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, not-
withstanding the previous order, I ask
unanimous consent to speak as in
morning business in order to introduce
two bills.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
(The remarks of Ms. COLLINS and Ms.
HASSAN pertaining to the introduction
of S. 321 and S. 322 are printed in to-
day’s RECORD under ‘‘Statements on In-
troduced Bills and Joint Resolutions.’’)
Ms. COLLINS. I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
INF TREATY
Mrs. FISCHER. Mr. President, I rise
to speak about the Trump administra-
tion’s decision to suspend compliance
with the Intermediate-Range Nuclear
Forces—or, the INF—Treaty and begin
the process of withdrawing from this
accord.
Signed in 1987, the INF Treaty
banned all ground-launched cruise and
ballistic missile systems with inter-
mediate ranges between 300 and 3,400
miles. This landmark agreement led to
the destruction of approximately 800
U.S. and 1,800 Soviet ground-launched
missiles, along with their supporting
equipment.
This is an issue I have been following
closely since I joined the U.S. Senate
in 2013. While concerns about Russia’s
compliance with the INF Treaty began
long before then, 2013 was the first year
U.S. officials formally raised the issue
with their Russian counterparts. The
following year, the Obama administra-
tion declared Russia to be in violation
of the treaty and accused Russia of
possessing an intermediate-range,
ground-launched cruise missile.
After affirming Russia’s violation of
its INF obligations, the Obama admin-
istration continued to raise Russia’s
noncompliance at numerous bilateral
and multilateral diplomatic engage-
ments. In 2016, the Obama administra-
tion also resurrected the Special Veri-
fication Commission, a mechanism set
up under the treaty to resolve compli-
ance issues, which had not held a meet-
ing since the year 2000. The Trump ad-
ministration continued to exert diplo-
matic pressure on Russia, raising this
issue at all levels of the Russian Gov-
ernment. Additionally, this adminis-
tration began treaty-compliant re-
search and development work on con-
ventional, ground-launched missile
systems to demonstrate to Russia that
the United States would pursue addi-
tional military capabilities if Russia
persisted in producing these illegal sys-
tems.
To further impose costs on Russia for
its behavior, the administration sanc-
tioned Russian companies involved in
the development of the illegal missile
system in December of 2017. Diplomatic
engagement continued in 2018, and, de-
spite multiple ultimatums, Russia con-
tinues to deny its violation of the trea-
ty.
The United States has led a sus-
tained, deliberate effort to methodi-
cally increase pressure on Russia,
which has had every opportunity to re-
turn to compliance, but instead it con-
tinues to produce and deploy illegal
systems in greater and greater num-
bers. Just last week, reports surfaced,
alleging Russia has deployed another
battalion equipped with the banned
missile system. Instead of moving to
correct its violation, Russia is going in
the opposite direction. The evidence is
clear, Russia has no intention of re-
turning to compliance, and the United
States cannot remain party to an
agreement that amounts to a unilat-
eral limitation on our Nation. It would
certainly have been easier to ignore
this issue and let another year pass
with U.S. diplomats renewing their ap-
peals while Russia builds more illegal
weapons. However, this administration
understood that maintaining U.S. com-
pliance in order to prop up the illusion
of an effective arms control agreement
does not make our Nation safer. I ap-
plaud the Trump administration for
making the tough but correct decision
to withdraw.
The administration also deserves
credit for its coordination with our
NATO allies on this topic. A statement
released by NATO last Friday ex-
pressed solidarity with the U.S. posi-
tion, and NATO Secretary General
Jens Stoltenberg stated:
All allies agree with the United States, be-
cause Russia has violated the treaty for sev-
eral years. They are deploying more and
more of the new nuclear capable missiles in
Europe.
Let me repeat this point. As NATO
has expressed solidarity with the U.S.
position to withdraw from the INF
treaty, our allies support us. Our NATO
allies understand the Russian threat
increase due to their treaty violation
because they are at the most risk.
Some want to use this issue as an op-
portunity to debate the temperament
of this administration and paint its de-
cision to withdraw as a symptom of its
contempt for arms control treaties.
Others say the decision is motivated by
China, as though Russia’s violation and
the deployment of a new nuclear-capa-
ble weapons system designed to hold
our allies and our forces in Europe at
risk is not relevant or is a secondary
consideration, at best. Others have
even gone so far as to argue that the
decision to withdraw benefits Russia
by liberating them from the limita-
tions of the treaty. This is a deeply
misguided view that overlooks the fact
that Russia is already ignoring the
treaty’s limitations.
Let’s be absolutely clear about what
Russia wants. Russia wants the United
States to stay in the treaty and main-
tain the status quo because it benefits
them. They are building banned weap-
ons systems while we are not. Their
diplomats have sustained a campaign
of denial and deception in order to put
pressure on the United States to re-
main in this treaty. The notion that
leaving the treaty is a windfall for Rus-
sia is a mistaken one.
Those who oppose the administra-
tion’s decision must answer one basic
question: How does remaining part of
an agreement that Russia has already
walked away from enhance U.S. secu-
rity?
The answer is simple. It doesn’t. The
administration is right to leave the
agreement, and responsibility for the
failure of the INF Treaty lies squarely
with Russia. The United States must
now take additional steps to ensure
that Russia derives no military advan-
tage from its blatant violation of this
accord.
Last year, the administration pro-
posed developing a sea-launched cruise
missile to ensure that our Nation has
credible options to deter Russia’s ex-
panding arsenal of nonstrategic nu-
clear weapons. This effort must go for-
ward, but it is years away from deliv-
ering such capability. Existing re-
search and development efforts into
ground-launched systems should be ac-
celerated as part of a near-term re-
sponse to Russia’s actions.
Some will surely criticize these steps
as an arms race and ridicule them as a
symptom of outmoded ‘‘Cold War’’
thinking. Indeed, there are people who
would prefer that we do nothing. I
think that is dangerous. We must im-
pose costs on Russia for its violation
and create incentives for Russia to halt
its destabilizing behavior. Again, they
are building banned weapons systems.
We are not. For years, we have used
diplomatic appeals and sanctions to en-
courage Russia to stop production of
these systems and to return to compli-
ance. Yet they continue to blatantly
violate the accord. Clearly, a firmer
approach is needed.
Developing additional military capa-
bilities in response to Russia’s actions
demonstrates to Russia that its pursuit
of illegal systems will only result in a
more lethal and a more capable U.S.
military. In this way, we clearly indi-
cate to Russia that violating treaties
and building illegal weapons will ulti-
mately harm its own national security
interests. If we fail to respond suffi-
ciently, Russia is likely to conclude
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.004 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S821
February 4, 2019
that it can break treaties and favor-
ably affect the balance of military
power in the European theater at a
modest cost. This will only encourage
additional misbehavior, which could
put the broader nonproliferation re-
gime at risk.
The Trump administration’s decision
to withdraw is not the end of this proc-
ess. The more important question is
what comes next. Congress and the ad-
ministration must ensure that the con-
sequences of Russia’s cheating out-
weigh any benefits it has obtained by
violating this treaty.
Thank you, Madam President.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Ms.
ERNST). The Senator from Texas.
Mr. CORNYN. Madam President, I
would like to begin by expressing my
appreciation to the Senator from Ne-
braska for her comments on the INF
Treaty that President Trump has with-
drawn the United States from. There
wasn’t much of a treaty left, really,
after Russia repeatedly violated it, and
China is not even bound by it. It is very
important, when we are talking about
these issues, that we understand the
facts and the state of the world as it is.
I read a recent summary by the
RAND Corporation of their analysis of
Russia and China. They called Russia a
rogue, not a peer, and China a peer, not
a rogue. There is a lot behind that, but
I think it really is true that the only
way we are going to deter the Russians
is by maintaining our strength. The
way we do that is by doing what is nec-
essary to protect the United States and
our allies. In this case, that means tak-
ing a treaty that has already been vio-
lated by the Russians and no longer
bounds China and building the appro-
priate missiles to deter anybody from
taking advantage of any perceived
weakness in the United States, insofar
as it comes to protecting ourselves or
our allies.
I would like to express my apprecia-
tion for those comments and support
them.
HONORING DONNA DOSS
Madam President, it is with a heavy
heart that I come to the Senate floor
this morning to express my deepest
condolences for the friends, family, and
colleagues of U.S. Border Patrol agent
Donna Doss, who was killed in the line
of duty this last weekend.
On Saturday, February 2, Agent Doss
responded to a call for assistance from
a Texas Department Public Safety
trooper on Interstate Highway 20, near
Abilene, TX. While on the scene, she
was struck by a passing vehicle and
died shortly thereafter of her injuries.
During her more than 15 years of
dedicated service, Agent Doss has made
immeasurable contributions to public
safety, both in Texas and beyond. Her
career with the Border Patrol began at
the Brackettville Station in the Del
Rio Sector, where she worked to dis-
rupt and dismantle several of our nar-
cotic organizations as a Drug Enforce-
ment Administration task force offi-
cer.
Her career then led her to Wash-
ington State, where she led the Crimi-
nal Alien Prosecutions Unit for the
Spokane Sector.
Then, in 2011, Agent Doss made her
way back to Texas to serve in the La-
redo Sector, first, as supervisory Bor-
der Patrol agent and, later, as oper-
ations officer.
Since March of 2017, she served as
resident agent in Abilene, where she
was responsible for all of the enforce-
ment operations across eight counties.
In addition to leading a distinguished
career, Agent Doss was a loving wife,
daughter, sister, and stepmother. Her
loss is another solemn reminder of the
courageous sacrifices law enforcement
officers and their families make every
day. We are grateful to all of those who
put their lives on the line when they
put on their uniform every morning,
ready to face the unknown challenges
that lie ahead. I am particularly grate-
ful to the men and women in green who
make up our Nation’s Border Patrol,
like Agent Doss.
I want to thank Agent Doss’ family
for her selfless service and sacrifice,
and I send my heartfelt condolences to
Agent Doss’ family, friends, Acting
Sector Chief Matthew Hudak, the
agents of the Border Patrol Del Rio
Sector, where she honorably served,
and the entire Border Patrol family
during this difficult time.
S. 1
Madam President, in a moment we
will hold a cloture vote on the
strengthening America’s Security in
the Middle East Act and soon have an
opportunity to pass this legislation,
which has been balled up for some time
because of the intervening shutdown.
Importantly, it reaffirms our long-
standing commitment to the stability
in the Middle East. This vote has been
a long time in coming. The four bills
that comprise this legislation enjoyed
bipartisan support last year, but we
ran out of time before we could get
them passed.
Exactly 1 month ago today, as we
were kicking off this new Congress, the
majority leader announced his intent
to package these four noncontroversial
bills together and bring them to the
floor. Here we are a month later, and
this is how noncontroversial things get
handled in these strange times we live
in. For weeks, our Democratic col-
leagues have blocked us from voting on
this legislation, not because they dis-
agreed with the contents but because
they claimed no work should be done
during a governmental shutdown, even
though 75 percent of the government
was up and running and funded, includ-
ing the legislative branch, of which
Congress is a part.
They used this as an excuse to show-
boat and to not do their job. Of course,
something changed when they saw an
opportunity to take a vote on an en-
tirely political matter involving Rus-
sia. All of a sudden, they decided it was
OK to do other things during the shut-
down as long as it had the potential to
embarrass our political adversaries, in-
cluding President Trump. Nevertheless,
I am glad that today we will finally be
able to vote on this bill.
In the face of the ongoing troubles in
the Middle East, it is important to re-
affirm our commitment to our allies
and condemn the brutalities of our en-
emies. While this legislation is far
from the comprehensive solution to the
challenges faced in the Middle East, it
is important to take steps in the right
direction where we can.
First, this bill strengthens our rela-
tionship with Israel, the lone democ-
racy in the region. Israel faces near-
constant attacks from Iran, Syria,
Hezbollah, Hamas, and other terrorist
groups. To ensure that Israel is poised
not only to withstand but to counter
threats from these shared adversaries,
this bill authorizes needed military as-
sistance, including things like missile
defense and loan guarantees.
It also includes measures to enhance
Israel’s ability to address threats in its
vicinity, like drones, which are in-
creasingly used by Iran, which is bent
on the destruction of the State of
Israel. This is a major step to ensure
that the nation of Israel is poised to
tackle both the threats of today and
tomorrow.
Secondly, this bill provides support
to Jordan by reauthorizing legislation
to deepen our defense cooperation. Jor-
dan has borne the brunt of much of the
upheaval in the Syrian civil war, with
many refugees calling Jordan their
home temporarily because they are dis-
placed from their home country. Jor-
dan continues to face grave challenges
posed by the chaos in Syria, and our
assistance is desperately needed.
As I said, Jordan has absorbed a dis-
proportionate number of refugees who
have been escaping the Syrian civil
war. Some 740,000 refugees are cur-
rently in the relatively small country,
making it the second highest refugee
host per capita in the world. The im-
pact of the Syria crisis is immense, and
our assistance with humanitarian re-
lief is critical.
Third, this legislation provides flexi-
bility for State and local governments
that disagree with the Boycott, Divest,
and Sanctions, or BDS, movement.
This movement is designed to isolate
Israel, both economically and politi-
cally, by encouraging governments and
businesses, including academic institu-
tions, to cut ties with the Jewish state.
At least 34 States, including mine—
the State of Texas—have already en-
acted legislation to combat BDS. This
legislation doesn’t require States to
take any sort of particular stance. It
simply clarifies the right to counter
boycotts of Israel without fear that
they are somehow in jeopardy of Fed-
eral law.
Finally, this bill takes steps to ad-
dress the ongoing crisis in Syria at
large. It holds accountable those re-
sponsible for the crisis in Syria by im-
posing new sanctions on anyone who
supports Syria either financially or
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.009 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S822 February 4, 2019
militarily, specifically targeting mili-
tary aviation, telecommunications,
and energy industries. It also provides
needed aid to impacted communities
and condemns the heinous human
rights violations of the Assad regime.
In addition to these four pillars of
this legislation, I am glad we have the
opportunity to vote this afternoon on
an amendment to affirm that American
leadership is needed in our ongoing
fight in Syria and Afghanistan. We
simply cannot afford to leave a vacuum
in places where terrorists flood when
they take advantage of the chaos and
the upheaval in the Syrian civil war.
These are places where they can lodge,
grow, and train and then export their
terrorist attacks, not only around the
region but, as we saw 9/11, even around
the world.
There is no doubt that we made great
progress on our fight against ISIS and
al-Qaida, but as the majority leader
noted when he offered this amendment
last week that ‘‘our response to this
progress must not be to take our foot
off the gas pedal, but rather to keep up
those strategies that are working.’’
One of our colleagues, the Senator
from Florida, Mr. RUBIO, said that ter-
rorism is like a tumor. It is like a can-
cer. You can try to eliminate it, but if
you are unsuccessful in eliminating it,
even though you have shrunk it, it will
come back as soon as you remove the
pressure. Though we made incredible
gains in the fight to eradicate these
terrorist groups, the threat has not
been entirely eliminated, and our job
may never be finished. This is what
some people have called the ‘‘long
war.’’ Sadly, it is necessary in order to
keep ourselves safe, as well as our al-
lies.
Fully defeating these groups and the
radical ideology will require our con-
tinued commitment. We simply can’t
unremember the lessons of 9/11, which
are that things that happen overseas
don’t stay overseas and that when you
have power vacuums or safe havens for
terrorist organizations to exploit, that
endangers not only people in the region
but also us here at home. We cannot
allow a resurgence of ISIS or al-Qaida
and somehow let the gains we have
fought so hard to make slip through
our fingers.
During a time of ongoing instability
in the Middle East, it is imperative
that our allies remain confident in our
commitment and our partnership and
stand ready to continue to fight for our
shared interests.
As I indicated, this bill will not solve
all the problems in the Middle East. It
will not provide justice for innocent ci-
vilians killed by the Assad regime or
rebuild the communities destroyed at
the hands of terrorist groups. But it is
an important step to ensure our allies
are prepared to fight alongside us and
defend our shared national security in-
terests.
This legislation will support and pro-
tect our allies, safeguard U.S. interests
in the Middle East, and take a stand
against the despicable human rights
violations committed by the Assad re-
gime. I look forward to supporting the
majority leader’s amendment this
afternoon and voting yes on this legis-
lation when that opportunity arises.
I yield the floor.
I suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. LEE. Madam President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
BORN-ALIVE ABORTION SURVIVORS PROTECTION
ACT
Mr. LEE. Madam President, on the
morning of April 5, 1977, a 17-year-old
girl—scared, alone, and 71⁄2 months
pregnant—set foot inside of a Los An-
geles abortion clinic. She had been ad-
vised to get a saline abortion—a proce-
dure in which an injected saline solu-
tion burns a baby inside the womb, who
is then delivered dead 24 hours later.
So she signed some papers, received the
injection, and then waited for the poi-
son to run its course.
But the child, little Gianna Jessen,
had other ideas. Triumphantly, defi-
antly, and against all odds, Gianna
Jessen entered this world after her own
abortion. She was delivered—alive—in
that same abortion clinic on April 6.
She should have been burned. She
should have been blind. She should
have been dead. Yet, at 21⁄2 pounds, lit-
tle Gianna Jessen was very much alive,
albeit suffering the effects of the saline
solution, which was intended to be le-
thal.
The nurse could have left her to die
that day, but mercifully she instead de-
cided to call an ambulance. Little
Gianna was transferred to the hospital,
and her life was saved. This was indeed
an act of mercy. Even more impor-
tantly, it was just the beginning of
Gianna’s story, comprising only the
first chapter of her amazing life. The
saline solution that had been injected
to take her life did not have its in-
tended effect, but it starved her brain
of oxygen, so she was born with cere-
bral palsy, which left her with physical
and cognitive disabilities.
Doctors said that this child, who was
not supposed to live in the first place,
would also never be able to lift her
head, let alone walk. Yet, here again,
Gianna beat the odds. With the help of
a loving adoptive mother, a walker,
and some leg braces, she was walking
by the time she was 3 years old. By the
time she was just 14 years old, she was
speaking to audiences about her ex-
traordinary birth and the exceptional
life it made possible.
Since then, Gianna has literally run
marathons and trained to climb moun-
tains. For years, she has traveled
around the country and, in fact, around
the world speaking and marching,
limping one step at a time, for the un-
born children who cannot.
Her accomplishments, especially in
light of her disabilities, are breath-
taking. Yet, because of those disabil-
ities, she was exactly the kind of baby
some would say should have been al-
lowed to die after a botched abortion,
exactly the kind of baby some might
dismissively characterize as a ‘‘bur-
den’’ on society.
Gianna Jessen’s life shows that she is
quite the opposite of a burden on all of
those who have the good fortune to
know her. As she puts it, she has been
blessed with the ‘‘tremendous gift’’ of
cerebral palsy. She adds, ‘‘I have more
joy than I can ever articulate because
of the obstacles I have overcome.’’ But
perhaps that is her truest and greatest
achievement, for Gianna lives with a
deep, authentic, and contagious joy
that she spreads wherever she goes. To
listen to her, to talk to her, to know
her is truly to know the joy of life—a
woman fully alive indeed.
It is good that Gianna Jessen exists—
very good. Good for her and good for all
of us. Her life is not defined by what
she can do. It is not defined but what
she cannot do or by whether she was
originally wanted. Her life is
unrepeatable, irreplaceable, and of infi-
nite and immeasurable worth. She has
made an indelible mark on the entire
world, as only she could.
Today, we have a chance to stand up
and defend the truth that Gianna’s life
is, in fact, worthwhile, that all babies’
lives are valuable and worth living,
just like Gianna’s. Women, like
Gianna’s birth mother, deserve better
than what many in our society have
told them. They deserve to be pro-
tected right alongside their babies.
Pro-life Americans like me believe
that children like Gianna should be
protected within the womb. Both the
essential moral principle of human dig-
nity and the undisputed scientific facts
of human biology insist on this very
point. But the bill I am here to discuss
today does not. This bill, the Born-
Alive Abortion Survivors Protection
Act, takes no position on abortion or
on the rights of the unborn child. It
simply says that in this country, when
a child is born, even if by accident,
even in the most dangerous place in
the world for an infant—that is, a
Planned Parenthood clinic—he or she
becomes a citizen of the United States
under our Constitution and is entitled
to the full protection of our laws.
Boy or girl, Black or White, rich or
poor, each deserves—paraphrasing the
immortal words of Abraham Lincoln—
an unfettered start and a fair chance in
the race of life. This is the essence of
what it means to have rights and to be
entitled to the equal protection of our
laws. Among our inalienable rights is
the right to ‘‘life, liberty, and the pur-
suit of happiness’’—a concept that
clearly encompasses the right not to be
murdered. This bill will simply reaf-
firm that such fundamental rights ex-
tend not simply to the rich and the
powerful but even to the furthest mar-
gins of our society and even to the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.010 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S823
February 4, 2019
most vulnerable and newest citizens of
our great Nation.
This legislation should not be con-
troversial. In fact, if you think about
it, what is more remarkable here is the
fact that outlawing the murder of the
innocent—in the first moments of life,
no less—is even controversial among
many Members of this body. Those ob-
jecting to this legislation, including
the political media covering up the
scandal, will say otherwise, but we
know the truth, and so do they.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Montana.
Mr. DAINES. Madam President, last
week, Governor Northam of Virginia
gave chilling remarks that defended a
law legalizing abortion to the point of
birth—and even after. In fact, these
were Governor Northam’s exact words:
If a mother is in labor, I can tell you ex-
actly what would happen. The infant would
be delivered. The infant would be kept com-
fortable. The infant would be resuscitated if
that’s what the mother and the family de-
sired, and then a discussion would ensue be-
tween the physicians and the mother.
I was asked by many what I thought
about those words. The word ‘‘evil’’
comes to mind. ‘‘Chilling.’’
On January 23, my wife Cindy and I
celebrated the birth of our first grand-
child. Little Emma Rae Daines was
born in Denver. She was about 10 days
early. Her due date, in fact, was
Groundhog Day. She is doing wonder-
fully—a healthy, beautiful grand-
daughter, our first grandchild.
When I think about what the Gov-
ernor said, I can’t help but think about
looking at the pictures we receive. I
think on darn near an hourly basis, we
are getting new pictures of our new,
beautiful, little granddaughter. But
these comments the Governor made
pull back the curtain on an extreme
and dangerous abortion agenda that
shows callous disregard for human life.
What the Virginia Governor is de-
fending and what these ghoulish abor-
tion-up-to-birth laws enable is the free
rein of brutal killers like Kermit
Gosnell. Babies who survive the vio-
lence of an attempted abortion must
not be subject to further violence or
neglect, and that is why we are here
this afternoon.
Soon, Senator SASSE will be offering
his legislation, the Born-Alive Abor-
tion Survivors Protection Act. What
Senator SASSE is proposing is that it
would be a Federal law that born
alive—let me say that again on the
floor of the U.S. Senate—what this law
says is that born-alive babies who sur-
vive an abortion must be treated the
same as every other living baby—with
dignity.
As a nation, how is it that we can go
to the OB–GYN, the delivery section of
our hospitals, and see the NICU areas
where they are doing all they can to
save the lives of these preemies, and
yet we are going to hear—I think our
colleagues across the aisle are going to
object to this law that would protect a
baby who is born alive.
If we can’t agree on something so
fundamental—that babies born alive
deserve the right to life—I fear deeply
for the direction that some are taking
our country. I implore my colleagues
on the other side of the aisle not to
block legislation that would bring
much needed protections for the most
vulnerable among us.
I found it interesting that at the
March for Life, one of the best tweets
I saw that day was by someone who, in
essence, said: It is the only march in
America where those who are showing
up to march are not marching for their
rights; they are marching on behalf of
those who don’t have a voice. That is
worth standing up for on the floor of
the Senate today. Every human life
must be valued. Every human life must
be protected from conception until
death.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Tennessee.
COLLEGE FINANCING
Mr. ALEXANDER. Madam President,
a college graduate who pays more than
$1,000 a month on student loans re-
cently wrote the New York Times, ‘‘I
was told to chase down a bachelor’s de-
gree by any means necessary. But no
one mentions just how expensive and
soul-crushing the debt will be.’’
The United States, our country, has
most of the best colleges in the world,
but we also have the most graduates
paying off college debt. Roughly 40 mil-
lion borrowers owe $1.5 trillion in col-
lective student loan debt.
The questions I hear most often
about college are, No. 1, can I afford it?
No. 2, is it worth it? And No. 3, can you
make applying for financial aid and re-
paying student loans simpler? And
from administrators, as well, I hear:
Can’t you do something about the jun-
gle of red tape that makes it so hard to
apply for Federal financial aid, to pay
back student loans and that wastes
money on overhead that ought to be
spent on students?
Today, I addressed a group at the
American Enterprise Institute, and I
made three proposals to help make the
answer to all four of those questions a
yes. I want to briefly discuss those pro-
posals today and other work that is
going on in the Senate Education Com-
mittee, which I chair, and on which
Senator MURRAY is the senior Demo-
crat from the State of Washington. I
will discuss what we are doing to an-
swer those questions. Then I will ask
at the appropriate time to submit most
of my remarks at the American Enter-
prise Institute into the RECORD.
My first proposal was to simplify the
FAFSA.
I ask unanimous consent to use a
piece of demonstrative evidence in my
speech.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. ALEXANDER. Thank you.
This is a FAFSA. You may say that
nobody knows what that is. Well, 20
million American families know what
this is because 20 million American
families fill this out every single year.
If you want a Federal loan to help
you go to college or if you want a Pell
grant that you don’t have to pay
back—60 percent of the 20 million stu-
dents who go to college receive a Fed-
eral loan or grant—to do that they first
must fill out this Federal student aid
application form.
In our first hearing on this subject in
2013—I can remember it as if it were
yesterday—we had four excellent wit-
nesses who came from different parts of
the country, with different directions.
They weren’t all singing the same
song. One of them was Kim Cook from
the National College Access Network.
She said that simplifying the FAFSA
would encourage as many as 2 million
more Americans to go to college and
make it more affordable for them.
In our State of Tennessee, we became
the first—thanks to the leadership of
Governor Bill Haslam in our State leg-
islature—to make 2 years of college
tuition-free for high school graduates
and now for adults as well. But in order
to get the money from the State to
make your tuition free, you first have
to fill out this FAFSA. Those who help
students file FAFSA at the community
colleges and in the high schools tell me
that it is the single biggest impedi-
ment for low-income Tennesseans to
have a chance to go to college.
The President of Southwest Ten-
nessee Community College in Memphis
told me that he thinks he loses 1,500
students a semester because the fami-
lies say to him: Well, we don’t know
how to fill this out. We are uncomfort-
able with the information. We have al-
ready given the same information to
the Internal Revenue Service, so why
should we give the same information to
two governmental Agencies?
Here we have an opportunity in our
State for every single student who
wants to have 2 years tuition-free, and
this form is the biggest impediment.
From what I can remember of the tes-
timony in 2013—and Senator BENNET of
Colorado and I really came to the same
conclusion—all four witnesses said that
these 108 questions are unnecessary.
They also agreed that they could prob-
ably be reduced to two questions. Ms.
Cook said that if that were done, as
many as 2 million more students would
apply for student aid.
So Senator BENNET and I went to
work. We worked with counselors in
high schools. We worked with college
aid specialists. We worked in a bipar-
tisan way, and we came to a conclusion
that we could reduce the amount of
questions from 108 to between 15 and 25.
Senator BENNET is now on the Fi-
nance Committee and not on our edu-
cation committee, but he stays very in-
volved. Soon Senator BENNET with Sen-
ator DOUG JONES of Alabama, Senator
SUSAN COLLINS, and I, are all going to
introduce this legislation this year as
one way of making college simpler and
more affordable for students.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:27 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.012 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S824 February 4, 2019
The second proposal that I hope to
make and that I will talk about today
is a new system of repaying loans.
Today, there are nine different ways to
repay student loans. Senators BURR
and KING, among others, have intro-
duced legislation to make that simpler.
Well, my proposal is to scrap the cur-
rent system that has been called by Dr.
Susan Dynarski a ‘‘rigid archaic pay-
ment system that unnecessarily
plunges millions into financial dis-
tress’’ and reduce it to two new op-
tions. The first new option would be
based on a student’s income. If you
were to get a student loan under this
option—which is the option I think
most students will take—you would
never be required to pay back more
than 10 percent of your discretionary
income. Your payments each month
would be deducted from your paycheck,
and you would continue to make those
payments until your loan was paid off.
If you didn’t make enough money to
make your monthly payment, you
would owe nothing, and if you would
pay nothing, it would not reflect on
your credit.
Let me give you one example of how
this income-based repayment system
would work. Let’s take Joe, who earns
a bachelor’s degree in engineering. He
has an average loan for college grad-
uates, which is $28,500. That is the av-
erage loan for an American graduate
with a 4-year degree. Joe makes about
$60,000 in his new job as an engineer.
That is what the Census Bureau says is
the median starting salary for someone
with an engineering degree.
Joe is unmarried and has no children.
Here is the way the repayment plan
works for him. We deduct a portion of
Joe’s income that is needed for neces-
sities under a government formula;
that is, about $18,700. What is left we
call his discretionary income; that is,
$41,265. So Joe will pay no more than 10
percent of that $41,000, which is $4,127
to be exact, or $343 a month. That is
Joe’s payment on a student loan. Under
this proposal, if Joe, the engineer,
never gets a raise, he will pay back his
loan in 9 years.
There are other examples, which I
will submit later for the RECORD, but
here is one more example. For Maya,
who earned a bachelor’s degree in eco-
nomics, the average salary for that de-
gree is less, according to the Census
Bureau—closer to $43,000. The same
amount for living necessities and ex-
penses is deducted. She will pay 10 per-
cent of a lesser amount, which will be
$202 a month, in her case. Now it takes
a little longer to pay off her loan, but
if she never gets a raise she will still be
able to pay it off within 16 years.
What if you can’t pay off your loan?
What if you don’t make enough money
to pay toward your loan? What if you
drop out, and you owe money? Well, if
you don’t earn anything, you don’t pay
anything. And if it isn’t paid off at the
end of 20 years, your loan is forgiven
under current laws, and we don’t pro-
pose to change that.
My new loan repayment system
should make it possible for students to
avoid nightmares about paying back
their student loans. Since the money
to repay the loan is deducted from the
paycheck each month, it should make
the taxpayer whole. Under my proposal
I believe most students will choose the
option I just described. But if they
want to choose to pay their loan in 10-
years—like a mortgage loan with a flat
payment—they can still do that and
they will pay their loan off a little
faster. The money will be deducted
from their paycheck too, and it will be
paid off a little faster.
The third proposal is a new account-
ability system for colleges based upon
whether borrowers are actually repay-
ing their student loans. This should en-
courage lower tuition for some pro-
grams or even discourage schools from
offering programs that are not worth it
to students.
So all three of these proposals—sim-
plifying the FAFSA application form
from 108 questions down to 15 to 25, No.
1; No. 2, scrapping the current method
of paying back student loans from this
archaic system we have now and re-
placing it by giving the students the
option of an income-based repayment
program with monthly payments de-
ducted from their paychecks that are
never more than 10 percent of their dis-
cretionary income or keeping the 10-
year mortgage style payment, if they
prefer, with monthly payments de-
ducted from their paychecks; and the
third is a new accountability system
based upon whether borrowers are ac-
tually repaying their loans.
Now before I submit the rest of my
speech for the RECORD, let me just
mention the activity in our Senate
education committee.
During the last 4 years, we have held
27 hearings on the Higher Education
Act, and there are a number of bipar-
tisan proposals that have emerged from
that.
I mentioned the proposal by Senators
JONES and BENNET and COLLINS and I to
simplify the FAFSA.
There is another proposal to simplify
the FAFSA that Senator MURRAY and I
passed in the Senate last year and that
we plan to introduce this year. It al-
lows a student, with one click, to an-
swer 22 questions.
Senators BURR and KING have pro-
posed ways to simplify loan repayment.
Senators MURPHY, ENZI, and HASSAN
are interested in expanding com-
petency-based education programs.
Professor Walter Russell Mead de-
scribes these programs as ‘‘measuring
whether a student is learning stuff in-
stead of measuring how long he or she
sits in their seat.’’ In other words, if
you show up and already know how to
be a welder, you don’t have to stay
there just because of the Federal dol-
lars it is giving out based on how long
you sit in your seat.
Senators GRASSLEY and SMITH have a
bill that would require institutions to
tell you exactly whether the money
you are being awarded when you are
admitted is a loan you have to pay
back or is a grant you don’t have to
pay back. Financial aid letters are con-
fusing for many students. Senators
CASSIDY and WARREN have legislation
about data. Senators GRASSLEY and
SMITH have other legislation to counsel
students about how much money they
should borrow. Senators MURPHY and
WARREN want to expand Pell grants to
prisoners, which I think is a good idea.
Senators YOUNG and HASSAN are inter-
ested in experimental sites. Senator
KAINE and I have discussed allowing
students to use their Pell grants to pay
for shorter programs.
In 2013, Senators BENNET, BURR, Mi-
kulski, and I asked a distinguished
group of college administrators to give
us specific steps to simplify and to
make more effective the thousands of
pages of regulations that govern our
6,000 institutions. The result was the
Kirwan-Zeppos report that gave us 59
grant recommendations to eliminate
the jungle of red tape.
In conclusion, this year, I have met
with Senator MURRAY several times
and with most of the members of our
committee. We want to work on a
broad piece of legislation that would
update the Higher Education Act. Our
goal would be to have it ready for the
committee this spring so the Senate
can consider it this summer. That
schedule should permit a conference
with the House of Representatives that
would produce a Christmas present for
20 million families by the end of the
year.
Our Federal aid for students began
with the GI bill for veterans in 1944,
when only about 5 percent of students
attended college and had bachelor’s de-
grees. Today 35 percent of students
have bachelor’s degrees, and 60 percent
of our country’s 20 million college stu-
dents receive Federal aid—$28 billion in
grants and $90 billion in new loans.
It is time for us to update our Fed-
eral laws on higher education. My pro-
posal is to simplify the FAFSA—to
scrap the current system of repaying
student loans with an income-based op-
tion, by which a student would never
pay more than 10 percent of his discre-
tionary income, and create a new ac-
countability system that would apply
to all colleges and all programs that
would be based on whether students are
actually repaying their loans, which
would tend to discourage colleges from
offering programs in which students
couldn’t earn enough to pay back their
loans and could encourage lower tui-
tion. All of those, along with the other
proposals we have seen in our com-
mittee, should give the Senate plenty
to work on.
First, simplifying the FAFSA.
The cumbersome FAFSA is one
major impediment to low-income stu-
dents who want to go to college.
They and their parents are intimi-
dated by the complexity, are wary of
the government form, and don’t see
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:23 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.014 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S825
February 4, 2019
why they should have to give the Edu-
cation Department information they
have already given to the IRS.
The former president of Southwest
Community College in Memphis told
me he believes that he loses 1,500 stu-
dents each semester because of the
complexity of the FAFSA.
A woman who has mentored with
Tennessee’s free tuition program, the
Tennessee Promise program, said the
complex form has a ‘‘chilling effect’’—
intimidating parents who may them-
selves never have attended college and
have no experience navigating the
process.
And over and over families have
asked me, ‘‘I’ve already given most of
this information to the federal govern-
ment when I paid my taxes. Why do I
have to do it again? Once is enough.’’
To make matters worse, there is a
verification process that stops the pay-
ments of Pell Grants while the family
scrambles to resubmit its tax informa-
tion again and the government checks
to make sure that the information is
correct.
I recently talked with another ad-
ministrator from Southwest Commu-
nity College who told me that over one
third of the applicants who put down
the school as an option on their
FAFSA applications were selected for
verification last fall.
At a school where over 60 percent of
students receive a Pell Grant, this is a
huge burden for the low-income stu-
dents who we want to fill out the
FAFSA the most.
This is happening across Tennessee—
the President of East Tennessee State
University told me one third of his stu-
dents who receive federal financial aid
were subjected to this verification pro-
cedure this year.
I have two proposals to simplify the
FAFSA:
First, Senator JONES and I, along
with Senators BENNET and COLLINS, are
reintroducing legislation soon that
would reduce the number of questions
from 108 to 15–25 basic questions about
students, their families, and their
plans for college.
We would keep providing the infor-
mation that States and institutions
use to calculate additional aid to pre-
vent students and families from having
to complete additional paperwork
down the line.
Senator JONES’s and my legislation
would allow students as young as mid-
dle school to easily learn about their
likely Pell Grant awards with a phone
app or a chart so they can begin to
think about and plan for college.
The second way to simplify the
FAFSA is legislation the Senate passed
last year and that Senator MURRAY and
I plan to reintroduce this year, which
would allow families to answer up to 22
FAFSA questions with just one click.
It does this by ending the need for
families to give the same information
to two different federal departments—
the Department of Education and the
Internal Revenue Service.
It would also:
Simplify the burdensome application
process for the 40 percent of applicants
who do not file Federal income taxes
but likely qualify for Pell Grants;
Dramatically decrease the number of
students whose aid is tangled up when
they are selected to be verified; and
Eliminate the $6 billion in mistakes
that the Treasury Department esti-
mates are made each year by awarding
an applicant too much or too little aid.
My second proposal, to help make
federal loans more affordable once stu-
dents graduate, will simplify the nine
different ways to repay loans into two
options.
The current system is so complex
that even college administrators strug-
gle to navigate it.
At a roundtable at the University of
Tennessee—Martin, a Tennessee col-
lege president, told me it took him
months to figure out how to help his
daughter pay off her Federal student
loans in full even with the money in
hand.
This proposal would streamline those
nine plans into a new option that guar-
antees that borrowers would never
have to pay more than 10 percent of
their income that is not needed for ne-
cessities.
And if a borrower loses his job or
does not make enough, he would not
pay anything, and it would not hurt his
credit score.
The monthly payment would be auto-
matically withheld from borrowers’
paychecks, just like Federal taxes.
I believe all students will want to
take advantage of this simple and af-
fordable new option, but if not, they
will still be able to opt to pay on the
existing 10-year loan repayment plan
schedule, which, for many borrowers,
will help them pay off their loans fast-
er.
Just like the new repayment plan,
borrowers who wish to pay their loans
off faster would have their payments
automatically deducted from their
paychecks.
Let’s talk about how the new in-
come-based repayment plan would
work:
Joe earned his bachelor’s degree in
engineering.
He has the average loan for college
graduates of $28,500.
He makes $60,000—that is what the
Census Bureau says is the median
starting salary for someone with an en-
gineering degree.
He is unmarried and has no children.
So that year, we deduct the portion
of his income that is needed for neces-
sities—that is $18,735—and what is left
is what we call his discretionary in-
come—$41,265.
He will pay ten percent of that $41,265
a year, which is $4,127—or $343 a month.
Under this proposal, even if he never
gets a raise, Joe will pay back his loan
in 9 years.
Now let’s take Maya, who earned a
bachelor’s degree in economics.
She also has the average loan of
$28,500.
Her starting salary is $43,000—the
median starting salary for someone
with a degree in economics, according
to the Census Bureau.
She is also unmarried and has no
children.
So, that year, we deduct the same
thing for necessities—$18,735—and that
leaves her discretionary income at
$24,265.
Maya will pay 10 percent of that
$24,265 a year, which is $2,427, or $202 a
month.
Under this proposal, even if she never
gets a raise, Maya will pay back her
loan in 16 years.
Stephanie earned her associate’s de-
gree from a local community college.
She has $10,400 in student loan debt—
the median amount a recent commu-
nity college graduate would expect to
have.
Her starting salary is $39,000—the
median salary for a 25–29-year-old with
an associate’s degree.
She is unmarried and has one child.
So the portion of her income that is
needed for necessities—$25,365—is larg-
er because it is supporting two people.
That leaves her discretionary income
at $13,635.
Stephanie will pay 10 percent of that
$13,635 a year, which is $1,364, or $114 a
month.
Under this proposal, Stephanie will
pay back her loan in 10 years even if
she never gets a raise.
Finally, let’s look at someone who
isn’t able to repay his loan.
John went to community college for
a year, took out $7,500 in student loans,
but dropped out after his first year.
He makes $20,000 a year.
He is unmarried and has no children.
So we deduct the portion of his in-
come that is needed for necessities—
$18,735—and that leaves his discre-
tionary income at $1,265.
John will pay 10 percent of that $1,265
a year, which is $127.
Under this proposal, assuming he
never gets a raise, John will have not
repaid his loan in 20 years.
In three out of these four examples,
the borrowers were able to pay back
their loans in 20 years.
And if these students have reasonable
salary increases, they would pay off
their loans even sooner.
But for those undergraduate students
like John who never make enough to
pay back their loans in 20 years, the
amount that hasn’t been paid after 20
years is forgiven under current law,
and that seems like a policy we should
keep.
Under this new repayment system,
students will have manageable pay-
ments and most will completely pay off
their loans, which is good for the stu-
dents and is good for the taxpayers.
This new option should end the
nightmare that many students have of
never being able to afford their student
loan payments.
My third proposal is a new account-
ability system for colleges to make
sure the degrees they offer are worth
students’ time and money.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE6.002 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S826 February 4, 2019
This new accountability system
would measure whether students are
actually paying off their loans.
The proposal would simplify and ex-
pand what the gainful employment
rule—proposed in 2014 by the U.S. De-
partment of Education—tried to ac-
complish.
What is different is it would apply to
every program at every college—pub-
lic, private, and for-profit—and the
measure will be much simpler.
For some programs, this should pro-
vide colleges with an incentive to
lower tuition and help their students
finish their degrees and find jobs so
they can repay their loans.
TITLE IX
There will be other good ideas, and
some of them are difficult.
One of these is a rule about campus
safety.
The U.S. Department of Education
has proposed a rule addressing campus
safety by clarifying what is required by
title IX.
I’m glad to see the Department is
going through the rulemaking process,
which allowed the public to submit
comments.
It is my belief that Congress can also
address some of these issues, and I am
committed to trying to do that.
CONCLUSION
We have a committee with many dif-
ferent voices and diverse views, but we
have been successful in bringing legis-
lation with broad bipartisan support,
including with a divided government,
including fixing Federal student loans,
the law fixing No Child Left Behind,
the 21st Century Cures Act, and legisla-
tion to combat the opioid crisis.
In my conversations with Democrat
and Republican Senators, I have found
a remarkable degree of bipartisan con-
sensus about the directions we should
take to make college affordable and
make students’ degrees worth their
time and money.
Of course, there will be differences of
opinion, and if there are, we will re-
solve them the traditional way: by vot-
ing.
And if we cannot agree on one thing,
I would be willing to do, as our com-
mittee has in the past, which is to
move forward on those important mat-
ters on which we can agree.
There has never been a time when
more Americans have agreed that edu-
cation and training beyond high school
is essential to a good life and a higher
income.
It is our responsibility to take what-
ever steps we can to help students af-
ford college and make sure that the de-
grees they earn are worth the time and
money they pay for them.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr.
BOOZMAN). The Senator from Kentucky
is recognized.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I com-
pliment President Trump on being bold
enough and strong enough to do some-
thing no President has contemplated in
decades, Republican or Democratic,
and that is to end the war in Afghani-
stan.
We have been there for 17 years. We
voted on a resolution initially that
said we would go after the people who
attacked us on 9/11 and anyone who
aided or abetted them. We did that.
Today there is no one living who at-
tacked us on 9/11 or who is free. There
is no one living who aided or abetted
the people who attacked us on 9/11. By
any measurement, we are victorious.
We killed bin Laden. We have disrupted
the terror camps in Afghanistan. Is Af-
ghanistan a mess? Sure, it is a mess. It
has always been a mess and always will
be a mess, but now our mission has
changed to nation-building.
I compliment President Trump for
being bold and brave in saying enough
is enough. Let’s spend that money at
home. We spend $51 billion a year in Af-
ghanistan. That money could be spent
at home. I have three members of my
family who are in the military. I don’t
want them to go to Afghanistan. Every
one of our political and military lead-
ers—Republican, Democratic, and Inde-
pendent—will tell you there is no mili-
tary mission in Afghanistan. Yet we
stay. Some of the very same people
who say we have no mission, in their
next breaths say we need to send more
troops there. We sent 100,000, and we
completely had victory. Then they
came back as our troops came down.
Are we to send 100,000 and keep them
there forever?
This resolution is an insult to the
President, and I will oppose it. This
resolution has been put forward by Re-
publicans, who say to President
Trump: You are leaving precipitously
from Afghanistan. How do you leave
precipitously after 17 years? We are no
longer fighting anyone who attacked
us on 9/11. The people we are fighting
were not even born when 9/11 happened.
The war over there has nothing to do
with 9/11. It has to do with nation-
building. I will tell you what one Navy
SEAL, whom I met a year or two ago,
told me. He said: We will go every-
where. We will kill our enemy. We will
do what you ask of us, but the mistake
is when you ask us to stay, plant the
flag, and become policemen. They don’t
want to be policemen. Our military
members do not want to be the police-
men of the world.
We fight when we have to, and we
should come home. That money should
be spent here at home. I completely
and vigorously oppose this condemna-
tion of the President. They say we are
leaving precipitously. We have been
there 17 years. The same people in the
war caucus—and they are on both sides
of the aisle—will also tell you, if you
announce that you are leaving in 6
months, then you are telegraphing to
the enemy that you are leaving. So
they don’t want us to leave precipi-
tously, but they don’t want us to leave
in a planned way. They have left us no
way to leave.
People talk about bipartisanship.
What is the one thing that brings Re-
publicans and Democrats together?
War. They love it—the more the better,
forever war, perpetual war. We are
spending $51 billion a year in Afghani-
stan. We spend it on luxury hotels that
are half completed. The contractors
have run off with the money. One of
the hotels that sits across from our
Embassy serves as a place for snipers
to shoot at our soldiers. We have to
now patrol this half-built hotel, and
the guy who was building it ran off
with the money. The government we
supported for a decade—the Karzai gov-
ernment—grew more poppy than any-
body in the world. The guy’s brother
was a drug dealer, and his other broth-
er was a thief and ran off with the
money. Is it any wonder that the Af-
ghan people turn away from the gov-
ernment we have given them? It is
time to declare victory and come
home.
This resolution, like so many resolu-
tions, could be misinterpreted as being
another affirmation that we stay for-
ever. So I also support language that
should be added to this resolution that
says: Nothing in this resolution is to be
construed as an authorization for war.
Why? Because we had an authorization
like this about Libya that didn’t give
power to the government to commit
war. It passed on a Thursday evening,
when many Members were traveling
back to their States, and President
Obama, at that time, used it and said:
Oh, everybody is in favor of the new
war in Libya, which also turned out to
be a disaster.
With regard to the troops in Syria,
President Trump said: I will defeat
ISIS, and we will come home. Now the
people are changing the mission. They
say: We have to stay there until the
Russians leave. We have to stay there
until the Iranians leave. They have
been there a long time. They are not
leaving. That means we stay there for-
ever. We have 2,000 troops compared to
tens of thousands of other troops, com-
pared to a couple hundred thousand
Turkish troops along the border. Do we
really want to be involved in another
enormous land war in the Middle East?
To what end?
The great irony of this is, the war
caucus on both sides—Republicans and
Democrats, those who will not ever let
the soldiers come home—typically
vents its anger and says: The President
has unlimited power, and how dare
Congress get in his way with regard to
war. Here is the irony. We now have a
President who wants to use his power
to come home, and they are stepping in
and saying: Oh, no. We need to make
sure he is consulting with Congress be-
cause we want to stay at war forever,
and the President wants to bring
troops home. So this is a resolution to
condemn the President for trying to
bring troops home for the first time in
17 years.
What are we spending the money
on—$51 billion a year? We have spent
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:39 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE6.005 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S827
February 4, 2019
over $6 trillion between the Iraq war
and the Afghan war—$6 trillion. The
$51 billion a year we are spending in Af-
ghanistan is being spent on a luxury
hotel, and we have spent $45 billion on
a gas station. I think we spent about
$90 million on the hotel and $45 million
on the gas station. Do you know what
kind of gas they pump? Natural gas.
How many people have a car in Amer-
ica that runs on natural gas? Virtually
nobody. How many people in Afghani-
stan have a car that runs on natural
gas? Zero. So we bought them some
cars. Then they didn’t have any money,
so we gave them credit cards so they
could use the gas pumps. I sent my
staffers to see if the gas station even
existed, but they couldn’t get there be-
cause it was too dangerous. After 17
years, you can’t travel more than a few
blocks in Kabul except without heli-
copter warships and an escort of dozens
of marines.
It is completely a disaster. More
poppy was grown there last year than
in any recent year, and the people say:
We shouldn’t give up. All we have to do
is send more soldiers. All we have to do
is fight longer. When are they going to
fight? They have 300,000 people in their
army. When are they going to fight? If
they want their homeland, stand up
and fight for it. I am tired of America
always doing everybody else’s fighting.
I am tired of America always paying
for everybody else’s war.
People say: Oh, they might come and
attack us. We should be prepared. We
should have robust intelligence. We
should know what is going on, and we
should disrupt terrorist camps if we
have to. Yet every person out there
who believes in this radical Islam, in
this radical jihad is not coming over
here. Every misbegotten village in Af-
rica is not a threat to the United
States, and that is the debate we
should be having.
They say: It is in our national secu-
rity interests. Really? To go to Niger
to go to Mali? to be fighting in Soma-
lia? to be fighting in Yemen? to be
fighting in Afghanistan and in Iraq?
That is not in our national interest.
People say: We must fight them there
or they will come here. Well, guess
what. They have been coming here
since 9/11. We have arrested over 300
terrorists in our country. It was only a
year ago that a dozen people were
killed in New York by a terrorist, so it
is not as if they haven’t been coming.
In fact, we don’t condone terrorists’
reasons for coming, but if you look at
their reasons for coming, they say it is
because we are over there.
So we are trapped by this platitude.
This platitude is: We must fight them
over there so they will not be over
here. Well, they are over here, and
when they tell you why they are over
here, they say they are over here be-
cause we are over there. I am not say-
ing we do nothing. I am not saying we
don’t have counterterrorism, but I will
tell you that when in some remote vil-
lage in Yemen we swoop in at night
and kill 15 people, including women
and children, the surrounding neigh-
borhood and countryside, for 100 years,
will speak to an old tradition of the
night the Americans came.
Ultimately, Islam must police Islam.
They are never going to accept Ameri-
cans coming in and telling them how to
live or how they should behave or get-
ting rid of even the bad elements
among them. They need to step up and
do it.
We have taken 99 percent of the land
back from ISIS. That is not enough.
People say there are still suicide bomb-
ers. Yes, there will be suicide bombers
in the Middle East until the end of
time. If we are waiting until there are
no suicide bombers in the Middle East,
we will wait forever. Can the people
there do nothing to take care of them-
selves? Is there nobody there who can
stop the 1 percent from coming back?
Will people not step up and fight their
own wars?
We have given them trillions of dol-
lars—the uniforms, the weapons. Ev-
erything has been ours. Every time we
say we have to be involved, there are
unintended consequences. In Syria, we
gave arms to people who were radical
extremists. We gave arms to people
who were actually allied with al-Qaida.
Some say there is no difference be-
tween al-Qaida and the people to whom
we gave arms. At one point in time, it
was said that ISIS had $1 billion worth
of humvees that were from the United
States. The arms that were coming out
of Libya—and Hillary Clinton sup-
ported taking those arms into Libya—
were going to the wrong people. We
were taking them to one set of bad peo-
ple and giving them to another set of
bad people.
Maybe, sometimes, there isn’t a less-
er of two evils. Maybe, sometimes, we
have to be concerned about America.
What I am saying with this resolution
is I am for replacing it completely and
saying to President Trump: We think
we are doing a great job, and thank
goodness for being bold enough to say
it is time to start thinking about
America first.
I ask unanimous consent that we get
rid of the resolution condemning the
President and that we replace it with
the resolution that simply says that we
applaud President Trump for being
bold and brave enough to consider
bringing our troops home, declaring
victory, and ending America’s longest
war.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
The Senator from Idaho is recog-
nized.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, reserving
the right to object, first of all, I want
to respond to a number of things said
by my distinguished colleague from
Kentucky.
He makes a number of points that he
has been making over the years that
deserve serious consideration. I say
this is something that deserves a de-
bate. I agree with him that the Presi-
dent of the United States should be
commended, not condemned, for rais-
ing these issues for a debate. Indeed,
that is the purpose of this resolution.
As you know, this resolution is made
up of many different parts, the most
recent of which is the resolution that
talks about the very things my good
friend was speaking about. This resolu-
tion we have in front of us is not a re-
buke or an insult to the President of
the United States. Indeed, as I read it,
it recognizes the President’s efforts in
this regard and recognizes his efforts
for us to examine exactly what we are
doing in these places, as Senator PAUL
has already so eloquently talked about.
I think there are a lot of people both
in Congress and outside of Congress
who recognize that after World War II,
the United States was very successful
in nation building. Whether or not you
agreed with it—and there is always a
debate as to what our obligation is,
how far we should go, and how much of
the American taxpayers’ money we
should spend on nation building—we
rebuilt Germany, we rebuilt Japan, and
after the Korean war, we rebuilt South
Korea, and we were very successful in
that regard. Not only did we rebuild
the nation itself, but we also trained
the necessary police efforts there and
military efforts for ongoing work.
Now, fast-forward to the Middle East
and the difficulties we have had there.
I don’t think there is anyone who could
stand up and successfully defend that
this has been a successful nation-build-
ing effort in the areas Senator PAUL re-
ferred to. Indeed, they have not been.
My view is that before you can give
something to somebody, they have to
want it.
I think we have spent a couple of tril-
lion dollars in Afghanistan. As Senator
PAUL pointed out, there are things
going on there that are very difficult
and no better than when we got there
17 years ago. Indeed, in some places, it
is probably worse than when we got
there 17 years ago. It is appropriate to
have that debate as to whether we
should continue nation building and
whether we should continue to try to
stand up and train fighting units in Af-
ghanistan or, for that matter, in other
places.
Senator PAUL referred to only a min-
imum number of places where we have
attempted to train fighters to fight
like Americans. The fact is, they just
don’t. No matter how much training
you give them and no matter what
kind of equipment you give them, they
just don’t fight like America’s finest.
In addition to that, Senator PAUL
correctly pointed out that in some in-
stances in the Middle East, there are
places where tribal disputes have gone
on for centuries, and they are still
going on. When you try to stand them
up to do something else, they just
don’t do it. They may train, but they
will not train to fight for what we want
and for the kinds of values and cultures
we have.
Having said all of that, again, I come
back to what we are attempting to do
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.018 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S828 February 4, 2019
here with the resolution we have in
front of us, and that is, we are recog-
nizing that President Trump has start-
ed this conversation, and we are en-
couraging him in that regard.
I note that in recent days the na-
tional media has delighted in saying
that Congress is rebuking the Presi-
dent of the United States. I have a dif-
ferent view of this. The President of
the United States, as the Commander
in Chief, as the Chief Executive, start-
ed this conversation, and after the con-
versation was started, there have been
numerous discussions—both internally
within the executive branch and be-
tween the legislative branch and the
executive branch—as to the issues the
President raised and the issues my
good friend Senator PAUL was talking
about. The result of that is the lan-
guage we have in front of us that rec-
ognizes that the President of the
United States started this conversa-
tion. It recognizes that he thinks we
ought to be talking about some of
these things, just as Senator PAUL has
raised and has debated, and we should
continue talking about those.
So the purposes of the resolution are,
I would urge, pretty much the opposite
of what Senator PAUL talks about
when he says we are rebuking the
President or criticizing the President
or in any other way insulting the
President. Indeed, nothing could be fur-
ther from the truth. This progress—
this process is working exactly the way
it was intended to work, and that is for
someone—in this case, the leader of the
Nation—to raise these issues, and then
discussions take place amongst all of
the people who have an interest in this
and everyone who believes they have
some input into this, recognizing both
the shortcomings and the successes of
what we have had.
Certainly, the President is to be com-
mended for what he has said about de-
feating the vast majority of ISIS. That
group is a shadow of its former self. As
Senator PAUL noted, the vast majority
of the land holdings it had have been
taken back, so there is a great victory
there. There is certainly more work to
be done.
I agree with Senator PAUL that this
is a little bit like the laundry—it is
never going to be completely done. As
long as the Middle East exists, as long
as there are people who are inclined to
do this sort of thing, people who are
radicals, this sort of thing is going to
go on. Where I part company a bit with
Senator PAUL is that we can do things
over there that will make us safer here.
Senator PAUL is right. Intelligence
plays a huge role in this. Indeed, had
we had a better handle before 9/11, that
could have been disrupted, just as we
have disrupted many other efforts to
attack the homeland, the vast major-
ity of which the American people will
never hear about.
In any event, I think we should all
get behind this particular resolution. I
think it encourages the President for
the road that he is going down to take
each of these elements, to look at them
critically, and to determine what we
need to do to continue to protect
Americans.
When the President first rolled out
this idea, one of the things I think is
important is that I don’t think he ever
indicated that he was somehow going
to withdraw from the Middle East and
give up all the platforms that we have
and that we must have if, indeed, we
get something going on to a point like
we had right before 9/11 where there
were these training camps in Afghani-
stan that were training people to come
to America and do what they did. If the
intelligence people are able to deter-
mine that, then I think we need to be
able to hit that with an operation that
will dismantle it. It doesn’t have to be
a war that goes on for very long; in-
deed, many of these are 1-night oper-
ations. That is the way these things
need to be handled.
In any event, I would urge everyone
to get behind this particular resolution
we have encouraging the President and
encouraging people on all sides of the
issue who have strong feelings about it,
just as my good friend Senator PAUL
has, to get their two cents’ worth in
here and then we all work together to
make this work right and not be pull-
ing at each other and encouraging our
enemies in that regard.
Mr. President, I object to the request
made.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
The Senator from Kentucky.
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—AMENDMENT
NO. 102
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, one of the
things that I think are fundamental to
our country is the freedom to protest,
the freedom to dissent, and the free-
dom to boycott if you so choose. Our
country was actually founded with a
boycott. The boycott was dumping
English tea into the ocean. In my
State, Henry Clay was famous for pass-
ing legislation boycotting British
goods so that people could wear Amer-
ican clothing. He actually fought a
duel over that and became famous and
then became one of the most famous
U.S. Senators.
The idea that you should be allowed
to boycott, that it is an extension of
your speech, that it is an extension of
the First Amendment, I think goes to
the very heart of who we are as a peo-
ple. It is hard for me to believe that
part of this bill they are putting for-
ward would affirm State law that says
you can’t do business with the govern-
ment if you are involved with the boy-
cott against Israel.
I am not really making a point on
whether the boycott is good or bad or
with regard to Israeli policy; my point
is whether it is good or bad with regard
to the First Amendment. You see, the
First Amendment isn’t really about
hearing from people about things that
you like. If it is speech that you like
and people say you are a great guy, you
are not going to be offended by that
speech. It is when people are critical of
you or critical of your thoughts or
have different thoughts—that is what
the First Amendment is about.
It is an extraordinary thing in our
country that people can actually speak
up and speak their minds. If people
don’t think the settlements on the
West Bank are a good idea, should they
be allowed to speak their mind? Should
they be forbidden from doing work for
the government?
The problem is that the government
has gotten so big. There is a teacher in
Texas who is Muslim. I think she
teaches autistic or special needs kids.
She is a contractor. She was asked to
sign a statement saying that she would
never boycott goods made in Israel.
Well, she objects to some of the poli-
cies, I presume, on the West Bank. I
don’t agree with her, but that is a fun-
damentally American thing—to be able
to object. Should we have a law that
says you can’t boycott your govern-
ment and that you can’t boycott your
government’s policy? To me, that is a
real danger.
I have an amendment to this overall
bill that would simply say that we re-
move any kind of affirmation of anti-
boycotting legislation, that boycotting
or protesting is something so fun-
damentally American, so fundamen-
tally associated with the First Amend-
ment that even if we don’t like what
you are boycotting, even if we don’t
like what you are saying, that in
America we allow that to happen be-
cause that is what freedom of speech is
about.
Freedom of speech is not about the
easy stuff. It is not about the language
you like. It is not about saying ‘‘Oh, if
you are a Republican and everybody is
saying Republican things, that is fine,
but we are not going to hear from
Democrats,’’ or if you are a Democrat,
it is not about saying ‘‘Well, the First
Amendment is fine for Democrats, but
we don’t want to hear from those Re-
publicans.’’ It is about speech, whether
you like it or not. Boycotting is
speech.
I went to a Baptist college. I remem-
ber when I was in college that the Bap-
tist women of the Southwest Baptist
Convention didn’t like pornography
being out in front at the store where
kids could view it. Do you know what
they did? They marched. They didn’t
hurt anybody. They didn’t commit vio-
lence. They did nonviolent protests by
marching in front of the utility stores
until—guess what—because of the eco-
nomic boycott and the bad press, the
people put the pornographic magazines
behind the counter, and only adults
were allowed to buy them and look at
them. That is from a boycott.
We boycotted English tea to found a
country.
Does anybody remember the boycotts
in Montgomery? Rosa Parks didn’t like
the fact that she was being separated
and told to sit in the back of the bus,
so African Americans from around the
country but definitely across Alabama
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.019 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S829
February 4, 2019
and Montgomery boycotted the bus
system.
Are we here to say that we are going
to forbid boycotting, that you can’t do
business with the government? Here is
the problem. People say: Oh, it is a
privilege to do business with the gov-
ernment. What if you are a physician
and half of your business is with the
government? What if you are a nurse?
Half of the healthcare in our country is
paid for by the government. What if
you are a teacher and you work in the
public schools? Are we going to ask all
of these people to take a litmus test
that they are not going to boycott or
protest against their government’s pol-
icy? What kind of country would we
live in? Yet it is groupthink around
here. Everybody is so paranoid and say-
ing: Oh, we can’t object to this lobby.
Because this lobby is so powerful, we
can’t object to them.
Look, it isn’t about the ideas; it is
about the freedom of speech.
I ask unanimous consent that my
amendment be put forward, which is a
germane amendment.
Listen to what you will hear here.
There is going to be an objection. They
are not going to let me vote on this. So
not only are they going to ban boy-
cotting, they are banning the idea
that, in the Senate, we would vote on
whether we would allow boycotting in
our country.
My amendment is to take out the
language that supports banning boy-
cotts and reaffirms the First Amend-
ment. It will be denied because nobody
wants to vote on this. Nobody wants to
have a debate over the First Amend-
ment.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent to set aside the pending amend-
ment and call up my germane amend-
ment that has everything to do with
the bill, amendment No. 102.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Mr. RISCH. Reserving the right to
object.
Mr. President, fellow Senators, again
I part ways with my good friend Sen-
ator PAUL on this one, to a large de-
gree.
The speech he gave, I am in absolute
agreement that the government should
not be stopping any individual from
boycotting whatever they want to boy-
cott for whatever reason they want to
boycott. This is America. You have the
First Amendment right to do that, but
I would draw attention to section 402,
which simply states: ‘‘Nonpreemption
of measures by state and local govern-
ments to divest from entities that en-
gage in certain boycott, divestment, or
sanctions activities targeting Israel or
persons doing business in Israel or
Israel-controlled territories.’’
Look, if an individual wants to do
this, this is America. People can do
what they want, but if a government—
State or local government—is going to
use taxpayer dollars to engage in anti-
Israel activities, that is a different ball
game. They are then using people’s
funds who disagree with what they
want to do, and that is not right. State
and local governments should not in
any way be involved in boycotting
other countries, particularly—particu-
larly—a country that is one of the best
friends we have in the world, really the
only democracy in the Middle East,
and they are doing it, why? Because
they are Jewish people. This is wrong.
This is very wrong.
The BDS Act we have here prohibits
State and local governments from
doing that. Any person who wants to
do that has the First Amendment right
to do that.
In any event, we think this is a good
measure that prohibits State and local
governments from spending taxpayers’
money in a way that many taxpayers
don’t want it spent. I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Objec-
tion is heard.
Mr. PAUL. Mr. President, I ask unan-
imous consent to have 20 seconds.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
Mr. PAUL. I think this is an impor-
tant debate, and time will tell. This
will go to the Supreme Court, and I ex-
pect the Supreme Court will rebuke
this body for not carefully considering
the First Amendment.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 96
The PRESIDING OFFICER. If there
is no further debate, the question is on
agreeing to amendment No. 96, offered
by the Senator from New Jersey [Mr.
MENENDEZ].
The amendment (No. 96) was agreed
to.
VOTE ON AMENDMENT NO. 65
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
question is on agreeing to amendment
No. 65.
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I ask for
the yeas and nays.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there a
sufficient second?
There appears to be a sufficient sec-
ond.
The clerk will call the roll.
The bill clerk called the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER), the Sen-
ator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI), and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Washington (Ms. CANT-
WELL) is necessarily absent.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The result was announced—yeas 70,
nays 26, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 14 Leg.]
YEAS—70
Alexander
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Carper
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Daines
Duckworth
Enzi
Ernst
Feinstein
Fischer
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kaine
King
Lankford
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murray
Peters
Portman
Reed
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shaheen
Shelby
Sinema
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Young
NAYS—26
Baldwin
Booker
Brown
Cardin
Cruz
Durbin
Gillibrand
Harris
Heinrich
Hirono
Kennedy
Klobuchar
Leahy
Lee
Markey
Merkley
Murphy
Paul
Sanders
Schatz
Schumer
Smith
Udall
Van Hollen
Warren
Wyden
NOT VOTING—4
Cantwell
Gardner
Murkowski
Perdue
The amendment (No. 65), as amended,
was agreed to.
CLOTURE MOTION
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Pursuant
to rule XXII, the Chair lays before the
Senate the pending cloture motion,
which the clerk will state.
The bill clerk read as follows:
CLOTURE MOTION
We, the undersigned Senators, in accord-
ance with the provisions of rule XXII of the
Standing Rules of the Senate, do hereby
move to bring to a close debate on Calendar
No. 1, S. 1, a bill to make improvements to
certain defense and security assistance pro-
visions and to authorize the appropriation of
funds to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of
2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter of
the Syrian people, and for other purposes.
Mitch McConnell, Pat Roberts, Shelley
Moore Capito, Mitt Romney, Richard
Burr, John Cornyn, Rick Scott, Mike
Crapo, Cindy Hyde-Smith, Michael B.
Enzi, Kevin Cramer, Mike Braun, John
Boozman, Steve Daines, James M.
Inhofe, Thom Tillis, Joni K. Ernst.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. By unan-
imous consent, the mandatory quorum
call has been waived.
The question is, Is it the sense of the
Senate that debate on S. 1, an act to
make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes, shall be brought to a
close?
The yeas and nays are mandatory
under the rule.
The clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant bill clerk called
the roll.
Mr. THUNE. The following Senators
are necessarily absent: the Senator
from Colorado (Mr. GARDNER), the Sen-
ator from Alaska (Ms. MURKOWSKI), and
the Senator from Georgia (Mr.
PERDUE).
Mr. DURBIN. I announce that the
Senator from Washington (Ms. CANT-
WELL) is necessarily absent.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:58 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.020 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S830 February 4, 2019
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Are there
any other Senators in the Chamber de-
siring to vote?
The yeas and nays resulted—yeas 72,
nays 24, as follows:
[Rollcall Vote No. 15 Leg.]
YEAS—72
Alexander
Barrasso
Bennet
Blackburn
Blumenthal
Blunt
Boozman
Braun
Burr
Capito
Cardin
Casey
Cassidy
Collins
Coons
Cornyn
Cortez Masto
Cotton
Cramer
Crapo
Cruz
Daines
Duckworth
Enzi
Ernst
Fischer
Graham
Grassley
Hassan
Hawley
Hoeven
Hyde-Smith
Inhofe
Isakson
Johnson
Jones
Kennedy
King
Klobuchar
Lankford
Lee
Manchin
McConnell
McSally
Menendez
Moran
Murray
Portman
Risch
Roberts
Romney
Rosen
Rounds
Rubio
Sasse
Schumer
Scott (FL)
Scott (SC)
Shelby
Sinema
Smith
Stabenow
Sullivan
Tester
Thune
Tillis
Toomey
Warner
Whitehouse
Wicker
Wyden
Young
NAYS—24
Baldwin
Booker
Brown
Carper
Durbin
Feinstein
Gillibrand
Harris
Heinrich
Hirono
Kaine
Leahy
Markey
Merkley
Murphy
Paul
Peters
Reed
Sanders
Schatz
Shaheen
Udall
Van Hollen
Warren
NOT VOTING—4
Cantwell
Gardner
Murkowski
Perdue
The PRESIDING OFFICER. On this
vote, the yeas are 72, the nays are 24.
Three-fifths of the Senators duly cho-
sen and sworn having voted in the af-
firmative, the motion is agreed to.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
AMENDMENT NO. 97
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I call up
amendment No. 97.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from Idaho [Mr. RISCH] pro-
poses an amendment numbered 97.
Mr. RISCH. I ask unanimous consent
that the reading of the amendment be
waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To clarify the deadline for the re-
porting requirement relating to the estab-
lishment of a Jordan Enterprise Fund)
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. CLARIFICATION OF DEADLINE FOR RE-
PORT ON ESTABLISHING AN ENTER-
PRISE FUND FOR JORDAN.
For purposes of section 205(a), the term
‘‘establishment of the United States Devel-
opment Finance Corporation’’ means the end
of the transition period, as defined in section
1461 of the Better Utilization of Investments
Leading to Development Act of 2018 (division
F of Public Law 115–254).
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Jersey.
AMENDMENT NO. 98 TO AMENDMENT NO. 97
Mr. MENENDEZ. Mr. President, I
call up an amendment numbered 98 to
amendment No. 97.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
read as follows:
The Senator from New Jersey [Mr. MENEN-
DEZ], for Mr. RISCH, proposes an amendment
numbered 98 to amendment No. 97.
Mr. MENENDEZ. I ask unanimous
consent that the reading of the amend-
ment be waived.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
The amendment is as follows:
(Purpose: To provide for a classified annex to
be submitted with the report on the co-
operation of the United States and Israel
with respect to countering unmanned aer-
ial systems)
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. ll. FORM OF REPORT ON THE COOPERA-
TION OF THE UNITED STATES AND
ISRAEL WITH RESPECT TO COUN-
TERING UNMANNED AERIAL SYS-
TEMS.
The report required under section 123(d)
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but
may include a classified annex.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Idaho.
f
MORNING BUSINESS
Mr. RISCH. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate be
in a period of morning business, with
Senators permitted to speak therein
for up to 10 minutes each.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Is there
objection?
Without objection, it is so ordered.
f
TRIBUTE TO KATHLEEN GARDNER
CRAVEDI
Mr. WYDEN. Mr. President, today I
recognize the distinguished career of
Kathleen Gardner Cravedi, who is retir-
ing after 41 years of dedicated Federal
service and for whose public service we
should all be grateful.
As somebody who started his career
in public service as the co-director of
the Oregon Grey Panthers, I appreciate
the work of individuals who are com-
mitted to improving conditions for
older Americans. Kathy began her ca-
reer in public service on Capitol Hill
working on exactly those issues. As a
Member of the U.S. House of Rep-
resentatives, I had the benefit of work-
ing with Kathy when she was staff di-
rector for the Subcommittee on Health
and Long-term Care of the U.S. House
of Representatives Select Committee
on Aging. Working under her chair-
man, the late-great Congressman
Claude Pepper, Kathy helped pass legis-
lation ending mandatory retirement
and providing hospice care under Medi-
care. She worked on fighting elder
abuse, health fraud, and she worked on
the first congressional hearing ever on
Alzheimer’s disease.
She helped to establish the National
Center for Biotechnology Information
and National Institute on Arthritis and
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases and
the National Institute on Deafness and
Other Communication Disorders.
Following her service in Congress,
Kathy continued her healthcare advo-
cacy by directing a nationwide cam-
paign to bring citizens from all 50
States to Washington, DC, to testify
before Congress and talk with the First
Lady on the need for healthcare re-
form.
In 1996, Kathy moved over to the Na-
tional Library of Medicine, or NLM,
which is the world’s largest biomedical
library and a key resource for some of
the most exciting medical science out
there. Serving as NLM’s first public li-
aison, she worked hard connecting
NLM’s work with the public, spear-
heading campaigns that drew huge at-
tention in the United States and
abroad. She brought in lawmakers and
celebrities and athletes and scientists
to promote the organization’s mission.
Over 23 years at NLM, Kathy steadily
moved up the ranks, and she is now re-
tiring as the director of the Office of
Communications and Public Liaison.
Her career at NLM has been key to
connecting the American public with
the astounding work this organization
does.
Forty-one successful years in public
service is a tremendous accomplish-
ment. So I want to thank Kathy for all
her many years of hard work, and I
want to congratulate her on her well-
earned retirement.
f
MEASURES PLACED ON THE
CALENDAR
The following bill was read the sec-
ond time, and placed on the calendar:
S. 311. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care practi-
tioner from failing to exercise the proper de-
gree of care in the case of a child who sur-
vives an abortion or attempted abortion.
f
PRIVILEGED NOMINATION
REFERRED TO COMMITTEE
On request by Senator CHUCK GRASS-
LEY, under the authority of S. Res. 116,
112th Congress, the following nomina-
tion was referred to the Committee on
Finance: Elizabeth Darling, of Texas,
to be Commissioner on Children,
Youth, and Families, Department of
Health and Human Services, vice
Rafael J. Lopez.
f
EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS
The following communications were
laid before the Senate, together with
accompanying papers, reports, and doc-
uments, and were referred as indicated:
EC–197. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting a report
on the approved retirement of Lieutenant
General Jerry P. Martinez, United States Air
Force, and his advancement to the grade of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 05:22 Feb 06, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\RECORD19\FEBRUARY\S04FE9.REC S04FE9
rfrederick
on
DSK9F5VC42PROD
with
CONG-REC-ONLINE
CORRECTION
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S831
February 4, 2019
lieutenant general on the retired list; to the
Committee on Armed Services.
EC–198. A communication from the Acting
Secretary of Defense, transmitting the re-
port of an officer authorized to wear the in-
signia of the grade of brigadier general in ac-
cordance with title 10, United States Code,
section 777, this will not cause the Depart-
ment to exceed the number of frocked offi-
cers authorized; to the Committee on Armed
Services.
EC–199. A communication from the Sec-
retary, Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Disclosure of Hedging
by Employees, Officers and Directors’’
(RIN3235–AL49) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 30, 2019;
to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs.
EC–200. A communication from the General
Counsel of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Home Loan
Bank Capital Requirements’’ (RIN2590–AA70)
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Af-
fairs.
EC–201. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Legislation, Regula-
tion and Energy Efficiency, Department of
Energy, transmitting, pursuant to law, the
report of a rule entitled ‘‘Energy Conserva-
tion Program: Energy Conservation Stand-
ards for Certain External Power Supplies’’
((RIN1904–AE23) (10 CFR Parts 429 and 430))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 31, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Energy and Natural Resources.
EC–202. A communication from the Assist-
ant Legal Adviser for Treaty Affairs, Depart-
ment of State, transmitting, pursuant to the
Case-Zablocki Act, 1 U.S.C. 112b, as amended,
the report of the texts and background state-
ments of international agreements, other
than treaties (List 2019–0001—2019–0008); to
the Committee on Foreign Relations.
EC–203. A communication from the White
House Liaison, Department of Education,
transmitting, pursuant to law, the report of
a vacancy in the position of General Counsel,
Department of Education, received in the Of-
fice of the President of the Senate on Janu-
ary 30, 2019; to the Committee on Health,
Education, Labor, and Pensions.
EC–204. A communication from the Assist-
ant General Counsel for Regulatory Services,
Office of General Counsel, Department of
Education, transmitting, pursuant to law,
the report of a rule entitled ‘‘Adjustment of
Civil Monetary Penalties for Inflation’’
((RIN1801–AA18) (34 CFR Parts 36 and 668))
received in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions.
EC–205. A communication from the Chief
Privacy Officer, Department of Homeland
Security, transmitting, pursuant to law, a
report entitled ‘‘Department of Homeland
Security Privacy Office’s Fiscal Year 2018
Semiannual Report to Congress’’; to the
Committees on Homeland Security and Gov-
ernmental Affairs; the Judiciary; and Select
Committee on Intelligence.
EC–206. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–564, ‘‘Sexual Blackmail Elimi-
nation and Immigrant Protection Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–207. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–565, ‘‘Voting Rights Notifica-
tion Amendment Act of 2018’’; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–208. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–575, ‘‘Health Insurance Mar-
ketplace Improvement Temporary Amend-
ment Act of 2018’’; to the Committee on
Homeland Security and Governmental Af-
fairs.
EC–209. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2019–01; Introduction’’ ((48 CFR Chapter 1)
(FAC 2019–01)) received in the Office of the
President of the Senate on January 30, 2019;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
EC–210. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Federal Acquisition Circular
2019–01; Small Entity Compliance Guide’’ ((48
CFR Chapter 1) (FAC 2019–01)) received in the
Office of the President of the Senate on Jan-
uary 30, 2019; to the Committee on Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs.
EC–211. A communication from the Senior
Procurement Executive, Office of Acquisi-
tion Policy, General Services Administra-
tion, transmitting, pursuant to law, the re-
port of a rule entitled ‘‘Federal Acquisition
Regulation; Combatting Trafficking in Per-
sons—Definition of ‘Recruitment Fees’ ’’
((RIN9000–AN02) (48 CFR Parts 22 and 52)) re-
ceived in the Office of the President of the
Senate on January 30, 2019; to the Com-
mittee on Homeland Security and Govern-
mental Affairs.
EC–212. A communication from the Chief of
the Regulatory Coordination Division, Citi-
zenship and Immigration Services, Depart-
ment of Homeland Security, transmitting,
pursuant to law, the report of a rule entitled
‘‘Registration Requirement for Petitioners
Seeking to File H–1B Petitions on Behalf of
Cap-Subject Aliens’’ (RIN1615–AB71) received
in the Office of the President of the Senate
on January 31, 2019; to the Committee on the
Judiciary.
EC–213. A communication from the Chair-
man of the Council of the District of Colum-
bia, transmitting, pursuant to law, a report
on D.C. Act 22–576, ‘‘Controlled Substance
Testing Temporary Amendment Act of 2018’’;
to the Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs.
f
INTRODUCTION OF BILLS AND
JOINT RESOLUTIONS
The following bills and joint resolu-
tions were introduced, read the first
and second times by unanimous con-
sent, and referred as indicated:
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 316. A bill to establish the Sacramento-
San Joaquin Delta National Heritage Area;
to the Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources.
By Mr. GRASSLEY (for himself and
Mr. BENNET):
S. 317. A bill to amend title XIX of the So-
cial Security Act to provide States with the
option of providing coordinated care for chil-
dren with complex medical conditions
through a health home; to the Committee on
Finance.
By Mrs. MURRAY:
S. 318. A bill to authorize the Secretary of
Veterans Affairs to furnish medically nec-
essary transportation for newborn children
of certain women veterans; to the Com-
mittee on Veterans’ Affairs.
By Mrs. MURRAY:
S. 319. A bill to improve the reproductive
assistance provided by the Department of
Defense and the Department of Veterans Af-
fairs to severely wounded, ill, or injured
members of the Armed Forces, veterans, and
their spouses or partners, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Veterans’ Af-
fairs.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MARKEY, Ms. WAR-
REN, Mr. CASEY, Ms. DUCKWORTH, and
Mrs. GILLIBRAND):
S. 320. A bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to require federally licensed
firearms importers, manufacturers, and deal-
ers to meet certain requirements with re-
spect to securing their firearms inventory,
business records, and business premises; to
the Committee on the Judiciary.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Ms.
HASSAN):
S. 321. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to modify safe harbor re-
quirements applicable to automatic con-
tribution arrangements, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Finance.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and Mr.
WARNER):
S. 322. A bill to amend the Internal Rev-
enue Code of 1986 to promote retirement sav-
ings on behalf of small business employees
by making improvements to SIMPLE retire-
ment accounts and easing the transition
from a SIMPLE plan to a 401(k) plan, and for
other purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
By Mrs. MURRAY (for herself, Ms.
KLOBUCHAR, Ms. DUCKWORTH, and
Mrs. FEINSTEIN):
S. 323. A bill to direct the Secretary of
Education to establish the Recognition In-
spiring School Employees (RISE) Program
recognizing excellence exhibited by classi-
fied school employees providing services to
students in prekindergarten through high
school; to the Committee on Health, Edu-
cation, Labor, and Pensions.
By Ms. KLOBUCHAR (for herself and
Mr. SULLIVAN):
S. 324. A bill to promote international ex-
changes on best election practices, cultivate
more secure democratic institutions around
the world, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on Foreign Relations.
By Mr. HOEVEN (for himself and Mr.
CRAMER):
S. 325. A bill to require the Secretary of
the Interior to convey the Garrison Diver-
sion Unit Project Oakes Test Area in Dickey
County, North Dakota, to the Dickey-Sar-
gent Irrigation District, and for other pur-
poses; to the Committee on Energy and Nat-
ural Resources.
By Mr. UDALL (for himself, Mr. HEIN-
RICH, Ms. HARRIS, Ms. CORTEZ MASTO,
Mr. MERKLEY, Mrs. FEINSTEIN, Mrs.
MURRAY, Mr. MARKEY, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. BOOKER, Mr.
MENENDEZ, Ms. HIRONO, Ms. STABE-
NOW, Mr. LEAHY, and Mr. REED):
S. 326. A bill to prohibit the use of amounts
appropriated for military construction or the
Army Corps of Engineers for the construc-
tion of barriers, land acquisition, or any
other associated activities on the southern
border without specific statutory authoriza-
tion from Congress; to the Committee on Ap-
propriations.
By Mrs. SHAHEEN (for herself and Ms.
COLLINS):
S. 327. A bill to amend the Federal Lands
Recreation Enhancement Act to provide for
a lifetime National Recreational Pass for
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE6.013 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S832 February 4, 2019
any veteran with a service-connected dis-
ability; to the Committee on Energy and
Natural Resources.
By Mr. MORAN (for himself, Mr. WAR-
NER, Mr. BLUNT, and Ms. KLOBUCHAR):
S. 328. A bill to jump-start economic recov-
ery through the formation and growth of new
businesses, and for other purposes; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
f
ADDITIONAL COSPONSORS
S. 47
At the request of Mr. TESTER, his
name was added as a cosponsor of S. 47,
a bill to provide for the management of
the natural resources of the United
States, and for other purposes.
S. 90
At the request of Mr. LEE, the name
of the Senator from Alaska (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN) was added as a cosponsor of S.
90, a bill to limit the establishment or
extension of national monuments in
the State of Utah.
S. 92
At the request of Mr. PAUL, the name
of the Senator from Arkansas (Mr.
BOOZMAN) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 92, a bill to amend chapter 8 of title
5, United States Code, to provide that
major rules of the executive branch
shall have no force or effect unless a
joint resolution of approval is enacted
into law.
S. 104
At the request of Mr. PORTMAN, the
name of the Senator from Arkansas
(Mr. BOOZMAN) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 104, a bill to amend title 31,
United States Code, to provide for
automatic continuing resolutions.
S. 112
At the request of Mr. YOUNG, the
name of the Senator from North Da-
kota (Mr. HOEVEN) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 112, a bill to amend the
charter of the Future Farmers of
America, and for other purposes.
S. 130
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
names of the Senator from Utah (Mr.
LEE) and the Senator from Alaska (Mr.
SULLIVAN) were added as cosponsors of
S. 130, a bill to amend title 18, United
States Code, to prohibit a health care
practitioner from failing to exercise
the proper degree of care in the case of
a child who survives an abortion or at-
tempted abortion.
S. 162
At the request of Ms. SMITH, the
name of the Senator from Maine (Ms.
COLLINS) was added as a cosponsor of S.
162, a bill to provide back pay to low-
wage contractor employees, and for
other purposes.
S. 165
At the request of Mr. BLUMENTHAL,
the name of the Senator from Wash-
ington (Mrs. MURRAY) was added as a
cosponsor of S. 165, a bill to amend
chapter 85 of title 5, United States
Code, to clarify that Federal employees
excepted from a furlough are eligible
for unemployment compensation.
S. 201
At the request of Mr. MENENDEZ, the
name of the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 201, a bill to amend title
13, United States Code, to make clear
that each decennial census, as required
for the apportionment of Representa-
tives in Congress among the several
States, shall tabulate the total number
of persons in each State, and to provide
that no information regarding United
States citizenship or immigration sta-
tus may be elicited in any such census.
S. 210
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 210, a bill to amend the Tribal Law
and Order Act of 2010 and the Indian
Law Enforcement Reform Act to pro-
vide for advancement in public safety
services to Indian communities, and for
other purposes.
S. 211
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
names of the Senator from Massachu-
setts (Ms. WARREN) and the Senator
from Arizona (Ms. MCSALLY) were
added as cosponsors of S. 211, a bill to
amend the Victims of Crime Act of 1984
to secure urgent resources vital to In-
dian victims of crime, and for other
purposes.
S. 212
At the request of Mr. HOEVEN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 212, a bill to amend the Native
American Business Development,
Trade Promotion, and Tourism Act of
2000, the Buy Indian Act, and the Na-
tive American Programs Act of 1974 to
provide industry and economic devel-
opment opportunities to Indian com-
munities.
S. 226
At the request of Mr. MORAN, the
name of the Senator from Arizona (Ms.
MCSALLY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 226, a bill to clarify the rights of In-
dians and Indian Tribes on Indian lands
under the National Labor Relations
Act.
S. 229
At the request of Mr. UDALL, the
name of the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
MERKLEY) was added as a cosponsor of
S. 229, a bill to provide advance appro-
priations authority for certain ac-
counts of the Bureau of Indian Affairs
and Bureau of Indian Education of the
Department of the Interior and the In-
dian Health Service of the Department
of Health and Human Services, and for
other purposes.
S. 249
At the request of Mr. INHOFE, the
name of the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) was added as a cosponsor
of S. 249, a bill to direct the Secretary
of State to develop a strategy to regain
observer status for Taiwan in the
World Health Organization, and for
other purposes.
S. 262
At the request of Mr. VAN HOLLEN,
the names of the Senator from Cali-
fornia (Mrs. FEINSTEIN), the Senator
from Washington (Mrs. MURRAY), the
Senator from Massachusetts (Ms. WAR-
REN) and the Senator from Minnesota
(Ms. KLOBUCHAR) were added as cospon-
sors of S. 262, a bill to provide for a pay
increase in 2019 for certain civilian em-
ployees of the Federal Government,
and for other purposes.
S. 272
At the request of Ms. WARREN, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 272, a bill to establish the
policy of the United States regarding
the no-first-use of nuclear weapons.
S. 284
At the request of Mr. ISAKSON, the
name of the Senator from Nebraska
(Mrs. FISCHER) was added as a cospon-
sor of S. 284, a bill to provide for a bi-
ennial budget process and a biennial
appropriations process and to enhance
oversight and the performance of the
Federal Government.
S. 306
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 306, a bill to promote
merger enforcement and protect com-
petition through adjusting premerger
filing fees, increasing antitrust en-
forcement resources, and improving
the information provided to antitrust
enforcers.
S. 307
At the request of Ms. KLOBUCHAR, the
name of the Senator from New York
(Mrs. GILLIBRAND) was added as a co-
sponsor of S. 307, a bill to amend the
Clayton Act to modify the standard for
an unlawful acquisition, and for other
purposes.
S. 311
At the request of Mr. SASSE, the
names of the Senator from Tennessee
(Mr. ALEXANDER), the Senator from
Utah (Mr. LEE) and the Senator from
Alaska (Mr. SULLIVAN) were added as
cosponsors of S. 311, a bill to amend
title 18, United States Code, to prohibit
a health care practitioner from failing
to exercise the proper degree of care in
the case of a child who survives an
abortion or attempted abortion.
S. 312
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
names of the Senator from Washington
(Mrs. MURRAY) and the Senator from
Hawaii (Ms. HIRONO) were added as co-
sponsors of S. 312, a bill to prevent a
nuclear arms race resulting from weak-
ened international restrictions on the
proliferation of intermediate- and
shorter-range missiles, and for other
purposes.
S.J. RES. 7
At the request of Mr. SANDERS, the
names of the Senator from New Jersey
(Mr. BOOKER), the Senator from Illinois
(Mr. DURBIN), the Senator from Massa-
chusetts (Ms. WARREN), the Senator
from Massachusetts (Mr. MARKEY), the
Senator from Vermont (Mr. LEAHY),
the Senator from California (Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN), the Senator from Oregon (Mr.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE6.010 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S833
February 4, 2019
WYDEN), the Senator from Connecticut
(Mr. BLUMENTHAL), the Senator from
New York (Mrs. GILLIBRAND), the Sen-
ator from Wisconsin (Ms. BALDWIN), the
Senator from Oregon (Mr. MERKLEY),
the Senator from Virginia (Mr. KAINE),
the Senator from California (Ms. HAR-
RIS), the Senator from Ohio (Mr.
BROWN) and the Senator from Michigan
(Mr. PETERS) were added as cosponsors
of S.J. Res. 7, a joint resolution to di-
rect the removal of United States
Armed Forces from hostilities in the
Republic of Yemen that have not been
authorized by Congress.
S. RES. 34
At the request of Mr. MERKLEY, the
name of the Senator from Virginia (Mr.
WARNER) was added as a cosponsor of S.
Res. 34, a resolution expressing the
sense of the Senate that the Govern-
ments of Burma and Bangladesh ensure
the safe, dignified, voluntary, and sus-
tainable return of the Rohingya refu-
gees who have been displaced by the
campaign of ethnic cleansing con-
ducted by the Burmese military and to
immediately release unjustly impris-
oned journalists, Wa Lone and Kyaw
Soe Oo.
AMENDMENT NO. 96
At the request of Mr. PAUL, his name
was added as a cosponsor of amend-
ment No. 96 proposed to S. 1, a bill to
make improvements to certain defense
and security assistance provisions and
to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United
States-Jordan Defense Cooperation Act
of 2015, and to halt the wholesale
slaughter of the Syrian people, and for
other purposes.
f
STATEMENTS ON INTRODUCED
BILLS AND JOINT RESOLUTIONS
By Mrs. FEINSTEIN:
S. 316. A bill to establish the Sac-
ramento-San Joaquin Delta National
Heritage Area; to the Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources.
Mrs. FEINSTEIN. Mr. President, I
rise to reintroduce legislation to estab-
lish the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta
National Heritage Area, California’s
first National Heritage Area.
I am very pleased to work with Sen-
ator HARRIS, Congressman JOHN
GARAMENDI, and local stakeholders in
California on this important legisla-
tion.
This legislation will establish Cali-
fornia’s first National Heritage Area in
the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta to
promote environmental stewardship,
heritage conservation, and economic
development in communities across
five Delta-area counties.
The Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta
is the largest estuary in the western
United States and one of the most pro-
ductive and ecologically important wa-
tersheds in North America. This exten-
sive inland delta is a national treasure
that must be protected.
The Delta offers recreational oppor-
tunities enjoyed by millions of Califor-
nians and out-of-state visitors alike,
who come each year for boating, fish-
ing, hunting, and sightseeing.
It also provides critical habitat for
more than 750 wildlife species, includ-
ing Sandhill cranes and other migra-
tory birds along the Pacific Flyway as
well as iconic native fish like the Chi-
nook salmon, some as large as 60
pounds, which return each year to
travel through the Delta to spawn in
tributaries upstream.
These same waterways also provide
freshwater to millions of California
households and irrigated farmland
south of the Delta and elsewhere in the
state.
Before being converted for farmland
starting in the 19th century, the Delta
flooded regularly following the spring-
time snowmelt and once supported the
continent’s largest Native Americans
communities.
Later, the Delta served as the gate-
way for the California Gold Rush, after
which Chinese immigrant workers
built hundreds of miles of levees to
make the Delta’s rich peat soils avail-
able for farming and to control flood-
ing.
Japanese, Chinese, Italian, German,
Portuguese, Dutch, Greek, South
Asian, and other immigrants began the
area’s farming legacy and established
proud communities that continue
today.
Over the years, the vibrant ‘‘river
culture’’ unique to Delta communities
has attracted the attention of cele-
brated authors from Mark Twain and
Jack London to Joan Didion.
A National Heritage Area designa-
tion would help to preserve this
uniquely American story by providing
the opportunity for modest federal
funding to help local entities, prin-
cipally the Delta Protection Commis-
sion, manage the Heritage Area in ac-
cordance with California law and in
partnership with Delta communities.
The management planning process
required by this legislation will be col-
laborative and open to the public. Fed-
eral, State, tribal, and local govern-
ments, private property owners, and all
stakeholders will have a voice in the
management planning for the Heritage
Area.
I’d like to emphasize that this legis-
lation does not affect water rights or
water contracts, nor does it impose any
additional responsibilities on local gov-
ernments or private landowners.
Instead, this legislation authorizes
Federal assistance to support local
projects as part of an inclusive process
required by State law.
Today, the Delta faces a crisis due to
invasive species, urban and agricul-
tural run-off, wastewater overloads,
channelization, dredging, water ex-
ports, and other stressors.
Many Delta islands are now 10 to 20
feet below sea level due to subsidence,
and the present levee system is inad-
equate for providing reliable flood pro-
tection for historic communities, agri-
cultural enterprises, and infrastruc-
ture.
Alarmingly, many existing levees
were simply not engineered to with-
stand earthquakes. Should levees fail,
a rush of saltwater into the interior
Delta would damage this already frag-
ile ecosystem, disrupt drinking water
supplies, flood agricultural land, inun-
date towns, and damage roads,
powerlines, and water infrastructure.
Our legislation recognizes the Delta
as a working landscape central to Cali-
fornia life and seeks to further local
projects already underway that pro-
mote environmental stewardship, her-
itage conservation, community revital-
ization, and economic development
throughout the Delta.
This legislation also seeks to fulfill
the broadly supported 2009 California
state law that called for a Heritage
Area designation for the Delta.
Our legislation is a small part of the
commitment the Federal government
must make to the California Delta.
I look forward to continuing to work
with my colleagues at every level of
government to restore the Delta and
its native species, upgrade California’s
water supply, safeguard against flood
risk, improve water quality, and pre-
serve Delta communities’ rich heritage
and continued vibrancy.
Thank you, Mr. President, I yield the
floor.
By Mr. DURBIN (for himself, Mr.
BLUMENTHAL, Mr. MARKEY, Ms.
WARREN, Mr. CASEY, Ms.
DUCKWORTH, and Mrs. GILLI-
BRAND):
S. 320. A bill to amend title 18,
United States Code, to require feder-
ally licensed firearms importers, man-
ufacturers, and dealers to meet certain
requirements with respect to securing
their firearms inventory, business
records, and business premises; to the
Committee on the Judiciary.
Mr. DURBIN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the text of the
bill be printed in the RECORD.
There being no objection, the text of
the bill was ordered to be printed in
the RECORD, as follows:
S. 320
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Rep-
resentatives of the United States of America in
Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the ‘‘Safety En-
hancements for Communities Using Reason-
able and Effective Firearm Storage Act’’ or
the ‘‘SECURE Firearm Storage Act’’.
SEC. 2. SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR FEDER-
ALLY LICENSED FIREARMS IMPORT-
ERS, MANUFACTURERS, AND DEAL-
ERS.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Section 923 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(m) SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.—
‘‘(1) RELATION TO PROVISION GOVERNING GUN
SHOWS.—This subsection shall apply to a li-
censed importer, licensed manufacturer, or
licensed dealer except as provided in sub-
section (j).
‘‘(2) FIREARM STORAGE.—
‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—A person who is a li-
censed importer, licensed manufacturer, or
licensed dealer shall keep and store each
firearm in the business inventory of the li-
censee at the premises covered by the li-
cense.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:33 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE6.017 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S834 February 4, 2019
‘‘(B) MEANS OF STORAGE.—When the prem-
ises covered by the license are not open for
business, the licensee shall, with respect to
each firearm in the business inventory of the
licensee—
‘‘(i) secure the firearm with a hardened
steel rod 1⁄4 inch thick through the space be-
tween the trigger guard, and the frame or re-
ceiver, of the firearm, with—
‘‘(I) the steel rod secured by a hardened
steel lock that has a shackle;
‘‘(II) the lock and shackle protected or
shielded from the use of a bolt cutter; and
‘‘(III) the rod anchored to prevent the re-
moval of the firearm from the premises; or
‘‘(ii) store the firearm in—
‘‘(I) a locked fireproof safe;
‘‘(II) a locked gun cabinet (and if the
locked gun cabinet is not steel, each firearm
within the cabinet shall be secured with a
hardened steel rod 1⁄4 inch thick, protected or
shielded from the use of a bolt cutter and an-
chored to prevent the removal of the firearm
from the premises); or
‘‘(III) a locked vault.
‘‘(3) PAPER RECORD STORAGE.—When the
premises covered by the license are not open
for business, the licensee shall store each
paper record of the business inventory and
firearm transactions of, and other disposi-
tions of firearms by, the licensee at the
premises in a secure location such as a
locked fireproof safe or locked vault.
‘‘(4) ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.—
The Attorney General may, by regulation,
prescribe such additional security require-
ments as the Attorney General determines
appropriate with respect to the firearms
business conducted by a licensed importer,
licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer,
such as requirements relating to the use of—
‘‘(A) alarm and security camera systems;
‘‘(B) site hardening;
‘‘(C) measures to secure any electronic
record of the business inventory and firearm
transactions of, and other dispositions of
firearms by, the licensee; and
‘‘(D) other measures necessary to reduce
the risk of theft at the business premises of
a licensee.’’.
(b) PENALTIES.—Section 924 of title 18,
United States Code, is amended by adding at
the end the following:
‘‘(q) PENALTIES FOR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH
FIREARMS LICENSEE SECURITY REQUIRE-
MENTS.—
‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—
‘‘(A) PENALTY.—With respect to a violation
by a licensee of section 923(m) or a regula-
tion issued under that section, the Attorney
General, after notice and opportunity for
hearing—
‘‘(i) in the case of the first violation or re-
lated series of violations on the same date,
shall subject the licensee to a civil penalty
in an amount equal to not less than $1,000
and not more than $10,000;
‘‘(ii) in the case of the second violation or
related series of violations on the same
date—
‘‘(I) shall suspend the license issued to the
licensee under this chapter until the licensee
cures the violation; and
‘‘(II) may subject the licensee to a civil
penalty in an amount provided in clause (i);
or
‘‘(iii) in the case of the third violation or
related series of violations on the same
date—
‘‘(I) shall revoke the license issued to the
licensee under this chapter; and
‘‘(II) may subject the licensee to a civil
penalty in an amount provided in clause (i).
‘‘(B) REVIEW.—An action of the Attorney
General under this paragraph may be re-
viewed only as provided under section 923(f).
‘‘(2) ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES.—The impo-
sition of a civil penalty or suspension or rev-
ocation of a license under paragraph (1) shall
not preclude any administrative remedy that
is otherwise available to the Attorney Gen-
eral.’’.
(c) APPLICATION REQUIREMENT.—Section 923
of title 18, United States Code, is amended—
(1) in subsection (a), in the second sen-
tence, by striking ‘‘be in such form and con-
tain only that’’ and inserting ‘‘describe how
the applicant plans to comply with sub-
section (m) and shall be in such form and
contain only such other’’; and
(2) in subsection (d)(1)—
(A) in subparagraph (F), by striking ‘‘and’’
at the end;
(B) in subparagraph (G), by striking the pe-
riod at the end and inserting ‘‘; and’’; and
(C) by adding at the end the following:
‘‘(H) the Attorney General determines that
the description in the application of how the
applicant plans to comply with subsection
(m) would, if implemented, so comply.’’.
(d) EFFECTIVE DATES.—
(1) INITIAL FIREARM STORAGE REQUIRE-
MENTS.—Section 923(m)(2) of title 18, United
States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall
take effect on the date that is 1 year after
the date of enactment of this Act.
(2) INITIAL PAPER RECORDS STORAGE RE-
QUIREMENTS.—Section 923(m)(3) of title 18,
United States Code, as added by subsection
(a), shall take effect on the date that is 90
days after the date of enactment of this Act.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Ms. HASSAN):
S. 321. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to modify safe
harbor requirements applicable to
automatic contribution arrangements,
and for other purposes; to the Com-
mittee on Finance.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, as
chairman of the Senate Aging Com-
mittee, ensuring that more Americans
are secure financially in their retire-
ment years is one of my highest prior-
ities.
Later this week, our Aging Com-
mittee will hold a hearing on this very
topic, following up on previous work
we have done in the last Congress.
Today, I rise to introduce two bipar-
tisan bills that would help to promote
greater retirement security. Together,
these bills would encourage more small
employers to offer retirement plans,
provide incentives for employees to
save more for their retirement, and
make it easier for low- and middle-in-
come taxpayers to claim an existing
tax break for their retirement savings.
According to the nonpartisan Center
for Retirement Research, there is an
estimated $7.7 trillion gap between the
savings that American households need
to maintain their standard of living in
retirement and what they actually
have saved. Think of that. We are not
talking about billions here; we are
talking about a $7.7 trillion gap.
A recent Gallup poll found that only
54 percent of working Americans be-
lieve they will have enough money to
live comfortably in their retirement
years. We must, therefore, continue to
work to ensure that more Americans
will have sufficient resources that they
need to enjoy what are supposed to be
their golden years.
There are many reasons why Ameri-
cans have struggled to have sufficient
funds for their retirement. One is the
shift away from employer-based de-
fined benefit plans, known as pensions,
to defined contribution plans in which
the risk is placed more on the em-
ployee. Another is the severity of the
2008 financial crisis. Yet another is ris-
ing healthcare costs, including the
need for expensive long-term care. But
the No. 1 factor is that Americans are
living far longer than they did in the
past. Many Americans are also reach-
ing retirement age with more debt
than retirees in past generations. Many
Americans are worried that they will
outlive their retirement savings.
There is another contributing factor,
and that is that employees of small
businesses, which are the majority of
businesses in this country, are much
less likely to participate or even have
access to employer-based retirement
plans. According to a study by the Pew
Charitable Trusts, more than 30 mil-
lion U.S. workers lack access to a
work-based plan to save for retirement,
so making it easier for small busi-
nesses to offer retirement plans would
make a significant difference in the fi-
nancial security for many Americans.
That is why the first of the two retire-
ment security bills that I am intro-
ducing today—the Retirement Security
Act—would focus on reducing the cost
and complexity of retirement plans, es-
pecially for our small businesses, and
on encouraging individual employees
to save more for their retirement.
I am delighted that my friend and
colleague from New Hampshire, Sen-
ator HASSAN, has agreed to be the lead
Democratic cosponsor on this bill. My
colleague from New Hampshire has
great compassion for those who are
struggling to make ends meet. She and
I both represent States with an aging
population, and we know how difficult
it is for many older Americans when
they are struggling with high
healthcare costs, heating their homes,
affording their medications, and trying
to get by in their retirement years.
Our bill would make it easier for
businesses to enter into multiple em-
ployer plans, known as MEPs, in order
to offer retirement programs to their
employees.
MEPs permit small companies to
share the administrative costs and bur-
den of a retirement plan, and that
helps to lower the costs overall. Cur-
rent law discourages the use of MEPs,
however, because it requires a connec-
tion, or a nexus, between unrelated
businesses in order to join together as
a MEP, such as membership in the
same trade association. Our bill would
waive that nexus requirement for busi-
nesses and would prevent employers
from losing their tax benefits if one
member of the MEP fails to meet the
minimum requirements necessary to
obtain these tax incentives.
In addition, the bill would reduce the
cost of maintaining a plan by directing
the Department of Treasury to consoli-
date notices and other required docu-
mentation—in other words, to reduce
all of the onerous paperwork.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE6.020 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S835
February 4, 2019
The Retirement Security Act would
also modify the existing safe harbor for
automatic enrollment plans to allow
employees to receive an employer
match of contributions of up to 10 per-
cent of their pay. Employees would be
able to contribute more than 10 percent
of their wages or salary, albeit without
an employer match for contributions
above 10 percent. This is an example of
a provision that would encourage em-
ployees to save more for their retire-
ment by giving them this tax incen-
tive.
I realize that businesses that choose
to adopt this plan with the new op-
tional safe harbor may face additional
costs due to the increased employer
match, and that is why our bill would
also help the smallest businesses—
those with fewer than 100 employees—
to offset this cost by providing a new
tax credit equal to the increased
match.
What we want to do in our bill is to
provide incentives for employees to es-
tablish these plans by waiving the re-
quirement that they have to be in a re-
lated industry, and we would also en-
courage both employees and employers
to increase, if they can, the amount of
money they are donating to these re-
tirement plans.
The new retirement plan options for
businesses that are included in our bill
are just that—they are options; they
are opportunities. No business, large or
small, would be required to offer its
employees a retirement plan under our
bill. This is an opportunity, not a man-
date, but it is an opportunity that I
would hope that more and more small
businesses would consider because I
know they share the concern about the
financial security of their employees
once they reach their retirement years.
I am very pleased to see my colleague
from New Hampshire on the Senate
floor. I hope the Senate will listen
carefully to her words as well.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from New Hampshire.
Ms. HASSAN. Mr. President, I rise to
join my colleague from Maine in dis-
cussing the Retirement Security Act.
I first just want to start by thanking
Senator COLLINS for her work on this
bipartisan bill, the other bill she dis-
cussed, and for her leadership as chair-
man of the Aging Committee, to help
ensure that older Americans can
thrive. That includes, of course, mak-
ing it easier to save for retirement.
By the time they reach retirement,
every hard-working American should
have the peace of mind of knowing
they can live comfortably and without
having to worry about how to make
ends meet. While Social Security is a
critical safety net—one we have to pro-
tect for all—it was only designed, as
Senator COLLINS pointed out, as part of
the retirement equation.
It is clear we are on the verge of a re-
tirement crisis, as more and more
Americans are retiring without the
economic security they need. Accord-
ing to the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, approxi-
mately 25 percent of working Ameri-
cans have reported having no retire-
ment savings or pension. AARP esti-
mates that 55 million Americans—in-
cluding roughly 230,000 Granite
Staters—do not have access to a retire-
ment plan at their workplace, and par-
ticipation in retirement plans has
dropped over the past several years.
We know there is a significant gap
between what people need in order to
maintain their standard of living after
retirement and what they actually
have. It is essential we do more to help
workers close that gap. That is why I
am pleased to join with Senator COL-
LINS today in introducing the bipar-
tisan Retirement Security Act.
This commonsense legislation makes
it easier for small businesses to provide
retirement plans for their employees,
something I hear from small business
people all the time, something they
want to do, but there are technical and
financial challenges to doing it. This
bill would encourage people in the
workforce as well to save more for re-
tirement, and it would help reduce the
costs and complexities of maintaining
a retirement plan.
We have more work to do to help peo-
ple in New Hampshire, in Maine, and
all across our country plan and save for
retirement, and the Retirement Sav-
ings Act is a strong step forward. I
again thank Senator COLLINS for her
leadership on this issue, and I look for-
ward to continuing to work with her to
pass the bipartisan legislation, as well
as other shared priorities for retirees,
small businesses, and more.
Additionally, as a new member of the
Finance Committee, I look forward to
working with my colleagues to tackle
this and other critical issues.
By Ms. COLLINS (for herself and
Mr. WARNER):
S. 322. A bill to amend the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 to promote retire-
ment savings on behalf of small busi-
ness employees by making improve-
ments to SIMPLE retirement accounts
and easing the transition from a SIM-
PLE plan to a 401(k) plan, and for other
purposes; to the Committee on Fi-
nance.
Ms. COLLINS. Mr. President, build-
ing on this comprehensive effort to
strengthen retirement security, I am
also introducing a second bill today
with my friend and colleague from Vir-
ginia, Senator MARK WARNER.
It would provide greater flexibility
and access to both employees and their
employers seeking to use the popular
SIMPLE plans for saving for retire-
ment.
Established in 1996, SIMPLE plans
can help small businesses provide their
employees with a retirement plan that
is less costly and easier to navigate
than the 401(k) plan, which many small
employers simply cannot afford.
Our bill, the SIMPLE Plan Mod-
ernization Act, would help expand ac-
cess to SIMPLE plans by increasing
the contribution limit for most small
companies. This would achieve two im-
portant goals. First, it would encour-
age more small employers to offer a re-
tirement savings benefit to their em-
ployees. Second, it would allow em-
ployees of small businesses to save
even more for retirement each year on
a tax-deferred basis.
This legislation is also a win-win
proposition for retirement security. It
encourages small business employers
and their employees to take additional
steps to save for retirement. For many
small employers, this legislation would
provide enhanced saving opportunities.
At the same time, it is carefully con-
structed to prevent employers that al-
ready have a 401(k) plan from dropping
that plan to adopt a SIMPLE plan. In
other words, we want to broaden the
number of employers who are able to
offer retirement plans to their employ-
ees. It also preserves strong incentives
for small businesses that become more
successful to move from a SIMPLE
plan to a 401(k) plan as they become
bigger, more profitable, and more se-
cure.
In light of the positive effects these
bills would have in strengthening re-
tirement security for millions of Amer-
icans, I urge my colleagues to join in
supporting the Retirement Security
Act of 2019 and the SIMPLE Plan Mod-
ernization Act.
This is a crisis that is looming on the
horizon. It used to be that we could
count on the three pillars that made up
the retirement system, Social Secu-
rity, a pension from an employer, and
also personal savings. All three of
those pillars are shaky right now. The
two bills I have introduced today at-
tempt to strengthen two out of three of
the legs of this three-legged stool. We
need to do that to ensure that Ameri-
cans can enjoy a financially secure re-
tirement and not end up retiring in
poverty.
f
AMENDMENTS SUBMITTED AND
PROPOSED
SA 101. Mr. PAUL submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, to make improvements to certain
defense and security assistance provisions
and to authorize the appropriation of funds
to Israel, to reauthorize the United States-
Jordan Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and
to halt the wholesale slaughter of the Syrian
people, and for other purposes; which was or-
dered to lie on the table.
SA 102. Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mrs. FEIN-
STEIN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. SANDERS, and Ms.
WARREN) submitted an amendment intended
to be proposed by him to the bill S. 1, supra;
which was ordered to lie on the table.
SA 103. Mr. PETERS submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 104. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
SA 105. Mr. CRUZ submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him to the
bill S. 1, supra; which was ordered to lie on
the table.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00019 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.007 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S836 February 4, 2019
SA 106. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1, supra; which was ordered to
lie on the table.
f
TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
SA 101. Mr. PAUL submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of subtitle A of title I, add the
following:
SEC. 119. REDUCING FOREIGN AID TO OFFSET IN-
CREASED ASSISTANCE FOR ISRAEL.
(a) IN GENERAL.—Notwithstanding the For-
eign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et
seq.) and section 23 of the Arms Export Con-
trol Act (22 U.S.C. 2763), the United States
Government may not provide any financial
assistance during the period beginning on
the date of the enactment of this Act and
ending on September 30, 2028, to any of the
following countries:
(1) Afghanistan.
(2) Bangladesh.
(3) Iraq.
(4) Libya.
(5) Pakistan.
(6) Saudi Arabia.
(7) Somalia.
(8) Syria.
(9) Turkey.
(10) Yemen.
(b) GLOBAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.—Not-
withstanding any other provision of law, the
Secretary of State and the Administrator of
the United States Agency for International
Development may not provide any economic
development assistance in any country dur-
ing the period beginning on the date of the
enactment of this Act and ending on Sep-
tember 30, 2028.
SA 102. Mr. PAUL (for himself, Mrs.
FEINSTEIN, Mr. LEAHY, Mr. SANDERS,
and Ms. WARREN) submitted an amend-
ment intended to be proposed by him
to the bill S. 1, to make improvements
to certain defense and security assist-
ance provisions and to authorize the
appropriation of funds to Israel, to re-
authorize the United States-Jordan De-
fense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Strike title IV.
SA 103. Mr. PETERS submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the end of section 402, insert the fol-
lowing:
(i) EXCEPTIONS TO AUTHORITY TO ADOPT AND
ENFORCE MEASURES RESTRICTING CON-
TRACTING.—The authority under subsection
(a) for a State or local government to adopt
and enforce measures to restrict contracting
with certain entities does not apply to the
following:
(1) A contract with an entity that has 10 or
fewer employees.
(2) A contract with a value not exceeding
$100,000.
(3) A contract with a sole proprietorship.
SA 104. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
On page 13, line 12, strike the period and
insert ‘‘, including initiatives aimed at—
(1) commercialization and economic devel-
opment of low-Earth orbit, including for the
production of manufactured goods;
(2) construction of permanent human habi-
tation off planet Earth
(3) extension of the reach of humanity into
CIS-lunar space, including exploration of the
Moon, Mars, and beyond;
(4) participation of Israel, as appropriate,
in crewed missions involving the Inter-
national Space Station (ISS) and in other
space exploration missions under the leader-
ship of the United States; and
(5) development of partnerships between
nongovernmental organizations and compa-
nies, the Administration, and the Israel
Space Agency for human space exploration.
SA 105. Mr. CRUZ submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
Beginning in section 121, strike subsection
(b) and all that follows through section 122
and insert the following:
(b) CONTINUING COOPERATION.—The Admin-
istrator of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration shall continue to work
with the Israel Space Agency to identify and
cooperatively pursue peaceful space explo-
ration and science initiatives in areas of mu-
tual interest, taking all appropriate meas-
ures to protect sensitive information, intel-
lectual property, trade secrets, and economic
interests of the United States, including
through joint projects in Israel and Israeli-
controlled territories to be funded through
the United States-Israel Binational Science
Foundation, the United States-Israel Bina-
tional Industrial Research and Development
Foundation, and the Israel-United States Bi-
national Industrial Research and Develop-
ment Foundation.
SEC. 122. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ENHANCED
PARTNERSHIP FOR DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATION IN DEVELOPING
COUNTRIES.
(a) STATEMENT OF POLICY.—It should be the
policy of the United States to partner with
Israel in order to advance common goals
across a wide variety of sectors, including
energy, agriculture and food security, de-
mocracy, human rights and governance, eco-
nomic growth and trade, education, environ-
ment, global health, and water and sanita-
tion, including through joint projects in
Israel and Israeli-controlled territories to be
funded through the United States-Israel Bi-
national Science Foundation, the United
States-Israel Binational Industrial Research
and Development Foundation, and the Israel-
United States Binational Industrial Re-
search and Development Foundation.
(b) MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING.—The
Secretary of State, acting through the Ad-
ministrator of the United States Agency for
International Development in accordance
with established procedures, is authorized to
enter into memoranda of understanding with
Israel in order to enhance coordination on
advancing common goals on energy, agri-
culture and food security, democracy, human
rights and governance, economic growth and
trade, education, environment, global
health, and water and sanitation, including
through joint projects in Israel and Israeli-
controlled territories to be funded through
the United States-Israel Binational Science
Foundation, the United States-Israel Bina-
tional Industrial Research and Development
Foundation, and the Israel-United States Bi-
national Industrial Research and Develop-
ment Foundation, with a focus on strength-
ening mutual ties and cooperation with na-
tions throughout the world.
SA 106. Mr. KENNEDY submitted an
amendment intended to be proposed by
him to the bill S. 1, to make improve-
ments to certain defense and security
assistance provisions and to authorize
the appropriation of funds to Israel, to
reauthorize the United States-Jordan
Defense Cooperation Act of 2015, and to
halt the wholesale slaughter of the
Syrian people, and for other purposes;
which was ordered to lie on the table;
as follows:
At the appropriate place, insert the fol-
lowing:
SEC. lll. BRIEFING ON STRATEGY TO MITI-
GATE ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES OF
UNITED STATES WITHDRAWAL FROM
SYRIA ON THE SAFETY OF UNITED
STATES ALLIES IN SYRIA.
(a) BRIEFING REQUIRED.—Not later than 180
days after the date of the enactment of this
Act, the President shall brief the appropriate
committees of Congress on the strategy de-
veloped by the President to mitigate poten-
tial adverse consequences of a United States
withdrawal from Syria on the safety of reli-
gious and ethnic groups in Syria that are al-
lied with the United States, including any
humanitarian assistance to be provided in
connection with the strategy.
(b) CONSIDERATIONS IN PREPARATION OF
STRATEGY.—In preparing the strategy de-
scribed in subsection (a), the President may
consider credible data obtained by other
countries and nongovernmental organiza-
tions, including organizations operating in
Syria, on the matters covered by the strat-
egy.
(c) APPROPRIATE COMMITTEES OF CONGRESS
DEFINED.—In this section, the term ‘‘appro-
priate congressional committees’’ means—
(1) the Committee on Foreign Relations
and the Committee on Appropriations of the
Senate; and
(2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and
the Committee on Appropriations of the
House of Representatives.
f
PRIVILEGES OF THE FLOOR
Mr. CORNYN. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the following
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE6.022 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S837
February 4, 2019
interns from the Senate Committee on
Energy and Natural Resources be
granted privileges of the floor through
March 15, 2019: Grant Cummings and
Alexandra Ongman.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—
S. 130
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, thank
you.
In a few minutes, the U.S. Senate is
going to have an opportunity to con-
demn infanticide. One hundred U.S.
Senators are going to have an oppor-
tunity to unanimously say the most
basic thing imaginable, and that is
that it is wrong to kill a little newborn
baby. Every Senator will have the op-
portunity to stand for human dignity,
to stand for the belief that in this
country all of us are created equal, be-
cause if that equality means anything,
surely it means that infanticide is
wrong.
Frankly, this shouldn’t be hard. Poli-
ticians come to this floor every single
day and talk about how they care for
the poorest or the weakest or the most
marginalized members of our society.
In recent weeks, I have heard it stated
this way in powerful, eloquent, and,
from some ambitious Senators, very
clear terms about human dignity.
One of my distinguished colleagues
recently on the campaign trail de-
clared rightly ‘‘that the people in our
society who are the most often tar-
geted by predators are also most often
the voiceless and the vulnerable.’’
Amen to that.
Another Democratic Senator seeking
the Presidency said they seek to ‘‘build
a country where no one is forgotten, no
one is left behind.’’ Amen to that.
Giving words of hope and encourage-
ment, a third Senator reminded us that
‘‘no matter where you live in America
. . . you deserve a path to oppor-
tunity.’’ Amen to that.
A fourth continued that this indi-
vidual was committed ‘‘to fight for
other people’s kids as hard as I would
fight for my own.’’ Yet again, Amen.
But, sadly, in the last week, these
beautiful and inspiring words have
been choked out by the ugliness and
the cruelty from another public offi-
cial. In Virginia, disgraced Governor
Ralph Northam tarnished the Amer-
ican idea of equality under law. He be-
trayed the universal truth of human
dignity, and he turned the stomachs of
civilized people, not just in this coun-
try but in every country on Earth.
Governor Northam endorsed infan-
ticide. He said:
The infant would be kept comfortable. The
infant would be resuscitated if that’s what
the mother and the family desired, and then
a discussion would ensue between the physi-
cians and the mother.
This was the quote—that the infant
would be kept comfortable and resusci-
tated if that is what the mom and doc-
tors wanted to do, and then they could
have a debate about what to do next.
He was literally talking about allowing
space and time for a discussion about
infanticide—no euphemisms or weasel
words there. Infants can be kept com-
fortable and resuscitated, and baby
girls could be left cold and alone to die.
Just a few years ago, the abortion
lobby was really clear in its talk about
hoping that abortion would be safe and
legal, but rare. This was the slogan.
Abortion would be ‘‘safe, legal, and
rare.’’ Now we are talking about keep-
ing a baby comfortable while the doc-
tors have a debate about infanticide.
That is what we are talking about here
on the floor tonight. We are not talk-
ing about second-trimester abortion.
We are not having some big, com-
plicated discussion about a mother’s
reproductive freedom. As important as
all of those debates are, we are actu-
ally talking about babies that have
been born.
The only debate on the floor tonight
is about infanticide. The abortion in-
dustry’s PR army couldn’t defend this.
Many in the national media decided to
overlook it, but none of us in this body
can escape it. What we are talking
about on the Senate floor tonight is in-
fanticide.
Instead of saying he misspoke and in-
stead of offering an apology, the Gov-
ernor of Virginia decided to double
down on the ugliness and cruelty. This
is not about a clump of cells. This is
about fourth-trimester abortion. That
is actually what we are talking about
here tonight.
Governor Northam is a disgraced
coward, and he has such an abysmally
low belief of human dignity that he
couldn’t say this basic truth: It is
wrong to let babies who have been born
die. He couldn’t say it.
This isn’t about Republicans and
Democrats. We are way beyond that.
Everyone in the Senate ought to be
able to say unequivocally that the lit-
tle baby deserves life, that she has
rights, and that killing her is wrong.
Tonight every Member of this body has
that chance.
The Born-Alive Abortion Survivors
Protection Act prohibits exactly the
kind of infanticide Governor Northam
was endorsing. That is it. It is based on
the simple idea that every baby de-
serves a fighting chance. It is a simple
idea that every human being is an
image bearer. Even the weakest and
most marginalized among us is no less
human, and every one of us has a moral
obligation to defend the defenseless.
It is my understanding that some of
my Democratic colleagues are prepared
to object tonight. I humbly say that I
don’t understand why, and I beg you
from the bottom of my heart not to do
so.
Please don’t betray the ideals that
have been so eloquently expressed.
Please don’t reduce truths to an empty
campaign slogan, and please don’t take
the principle of dignity and equality
this cheaply.
There are two sides of the debate on
the floor tonight. You are either for ba-
bies or you are defending infanticide.
That is actually what the legislation is
before us.
Please don’t block this legislation.
Please don’t let Governor Northam de-
fine you. Don’t let an extremist pro-
abortion lobby and pledge hold you
hostage. Please don’t protect infan-
ticide.
Mr. President, I ask unanimous con-
sent that the Committee on the Judici-
ary be discharged from further consid-
eration of S. 130 and that the Senate
proceed to its immediate consider-
ation. I ask unanimous consent that
the bill be considered read a third time
and passed and that the motion to re-
consider be considered made and laid
upon the table.
The PRESIDING OFFICER (Mr. SUL-
LIVAN). Is there objection?
The Senator from Washington.
Mrs. MURRAY. Mr. President, we
have laws against infanticide in this
country. This is a gross misinterpreta-
tion of the actual language of the bill
that is being asked to be considered,
and, therefore, I object.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The ob-
jection is heard.
Mr. SASSE. With all due respect, Mr.
President——
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
Mr. SASSE. To the Senator from
Washington, the bill we are talking
about before this body tonight is be-
cause New York and Virginia—New
York already and Virginia in debate—
are having a conversation about re-
moving exactly these protections. This
debate is about infanticide and infan-
ticide only, and this is a sad day for
this body.
It shouldn’t be controversial to say
that a newborn child deserves to be
treated with dignity and humanity. It
shouldn’t be difficult to say that babies
who survive an abortion shouldn’t be
left to die cold and alone on that table.
I am sad, but I am not discouraged. I
am actually encouraged by the strong
group of Senators who cosponsored this
legislation and who have come to the
floor to support it tonight, and I am
encouraged by the millions and mil-
lions and millions of pro-life Ameri-
cans who continue to speak the truth
in love. There is legislative work we
need to do, but, far more importantly,
in the movement for love and life and
science and little babies, what we need
to have happen is a lot more persuasion
and a lot more conversation with our
neighbors. A number of my colleagues
on the floor tonight are prepared to do
just that, and I look forward to listen-
ing to their eloquent and love-based,
science-based speech.
Thank you.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Iowa.
Ms. ERNST. Mr. President, I rise
today very, very disheartened, and I do
want to thank the junior Senator from
Nebraska for having this very difficult
discussion on the floor of the Senate.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.006 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S838 February 4, 2019
As my colleague from Nebraska was
speaking, I felt a tightness in my
chest. I am a mom. I have been through
childbirth, and I can’t imagine anyone
taking my child, setting her aside, and
then having a discussion on whether
she should live or die. I can’t imagine
that. I can’t imagine, after having such
a precious thing as a child brought into
the world, having these odious discus-
sions of whether she should live. I can’t
imagine putting a baby through that.
So I am disheartened and I am abso-
lutely appalled by the debate we have
in front of us—a debate I would have
once considered unfathomable on the
floor of the U.S. Senate.
Many have often referred to this as
the world’s greatest deliberative body,
but let me be clear, folks. There is
nothing great, there is nothing moral
or even humane about the discussion
we have before us today.
Over the past week, we have wit-
nessed the absolutely ugly truth about
the far-reaching grasp of the abortion
industry and its increasingly
radicalized political agenda. Politi-
cians have not only defended aborting
a child while a woman is in labor but
have gone so far as to support the ter-
mination of a child after his or her
birth—a child—a baby.
Rationality, decency, and basic
human compassion have fallen by the
wayside. Somehow this conversation
has devolved so completely that a bill
prohibiting the murder of children who
are born alive—a bill that simply pro-
hibits infanticide—has tonight been
blocked on the floor of the Senate. We
have moved beyond all common sense,
and this body can no longer unani-
mously condemn murder. We face a
moral crisis when this body refuses to
acknowledge the repugnancy and sav-
agery of infanticide.
This assault on human dignity can-
not stand. I urge my colleagues to set
aside their partisanship and, instead,
defend the most basic values of com-
passion and decency that should define
our society. We can and we must do
better, folks.
Again, I thank the junior Senator
from the great State of Nebraska for
his leadership on this issue, and I call
on my colleagues to bring this com-
monsense legislation to the Senate
floor for a vote. I also implore my col-
leagues.
Thank you.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Missouri.
Mr. HAWLEY. Mr. President, I rise in
support of S. 130, which I am proud to
cosponsor. This legislation would en-
sure that healthcare providers treat
babies who have been born alive, after
failed abortion attempts, with the
same care they would treat any other
baby born at the same stage of preg-
nancy.
I also thank the Senator from Ne-
braska for his leadership on this issue
and for bringing this issue to the floor.
In one sense, it is very hard to imag-
ine this legislation is even necessary in
the United States of America. In the
21st century, when, every day, new, ad-
vanced technologies bring new revela-
tions about the wonders of human life,
it is hard to fathom the extremism of
the politicians in New York and now in
Virginia who would deny the protec-
tions of law to the most vulnerable
members of our society—the innocent
unborn—and allow them to be aborted,
allow them to be killed right up to the
moment of birth. It is hard to com-
prehend statements like those of Ralph
Northam’s, the Virginia Governor, who
said that if he had his way, infants who
survived abortion attempts would be
delivered and kept comfortable—that
is his word—while the doctors and the
parents decided their fate. Is this real-
ly what it has come to in the United
States? Is this really the social vision
of today’s Democratic Party? Frankly,
I can’t imagine a vision less just or less
consistent with the goodness and com-
passion of the American people.
In another sense, perhaps we should
not be so surprised. After all, the cru-
elty and extremism that has been advo-
cated by a growing number of Demo-
cratic politicians made up the conven-
tional wisdom for much of recorded
history.
We often hail the ancient Greeks as
the founders of democracy, but, of
course, most of the Greeks believed
that most humans were born to be
slaves and that their lives were utterly
worthless. Oh, they had a democracy,
of course, but it was the democracy of
the few ruling over the many.
The Romans took the same view.
They kept most of their subjects in
chains. They infamously killed chil-
dren they didn’t want and left them to
be exposed on hillsides or in deserted
places. The Romans had a republic, but
citizenship was for the few. The strong
ruled. Most lives, they thought, didn’t
matter.
This has been the general rule of the
ages. The Aztecs, the Mayans, the
Incas all practiced child sacrifice. Ar-
chaeologists recently discovered a bur-
ial ground dated to the tomb of the em-
pire in Peru where more than 140 chil-
dren were dismembered in a ritual of
sacrifice. So it has gone down through
the years. The strong prey upon the
weak. The few rule the many. Indi-
vidual lives don’t count.
We here in the United States of
America hold to a different conviction.
Our Constitution was written and the
whole edifice of American liberty de-
pends on a very different belief, on a
belief that is as simple as it is power-
ful—that every life matters. We believe
and it is our pride to believe that every
person has dignity and worth—worth
that is not given to one by the strong
or the rich, that does not come to one
from the State or the city, that does
not depend on place of birth or social
status, but is one’s by right because of
who one is—a human being created in
the image of the living God.
That is our faith, and against the
drift of history, it is a revolutionary
creed. It is a creed that inspired the
early Christians to rescue those infants
the Romans left to die and to bring
them up to be free. It led them to found
hospitals and schools and, later, uni-
versities on the supposition that all
people should be cared for, that all
could learn, and that all could govern
themselves. It is a creed that has
brought down empires and raised up
the forgotten.
It is the faith of our Constitution and
of our whole way of life. Yes, we have
struggled to realize it in this Nation.
We have struggled to make it real, and
we have fallen short many times, but
this struggle for this faith defines our
history and binds us together as Amer-
icans, and this faith is again at issue in
our time.
I know some are tempted, when they
see this rising tide of barbarism and
cruelty, to feel despair, but I do not. I
think of the words of Lincoln, who
spoke of the unfinished work of this
Nation, and I take courage that all of
these years later, we are a revolu-
tionary nation still.
So we must press forward in this gen-
eration for our revolutionary faith. Let
us not go back to the darkness and cru-
elty of the past. Let us not go back to
the arbitrary rule of the powerful and
the few. Let us affirm again our found-
ing belief in the equal worth and equal
dignity of all. As we do, we will do our
part for liberty and justice in our day.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, the
Senate often does things by unanimous
consent in areas in which there is real-
ly no common disagreement. This body
will do a unanimous consent to con-
gratulate the New England Patriots for
winning the Super Bowl, and, unani-
mously, all of us will agree to con-
gratulate them. Yet, today, the Sen-
ator from Nebraska brought up a very
straightforward, simple bill: Do we as a
nation permit infanticide?
For some reason, the New England
Patriots is noncontroversial, but the
death of children at their deliveries is
controversial enough that my Demo-
cratic colleagues are blocking it. It is
not some fancy, formal bill with a
trick piece in it; it is a very simple,
straightforward bill. Occasionally, an
abortion is botched, and while they are
actually trying to take the life of a
child, the child is actually delivered.
At that moment, the child is delivered
and is on the table, crying, and the
question is, Now what do we do?
Current medical practice is to back
away from the child and allow him to
die slowly on the table because there
was supposed to have been an abortion,
although the child was fully delivered
and was on the table, with the umbil-
ical cord attached, crying. It doesn’t
seem like this should be controversial;
it seems like this should be as straight-
forward as congratulating the Patriots
for winning the Super Bowl. How can
we as Americans say no to a fully de-
livered child’s life?
VerDate Sep 11 2014 02:25 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.029 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE S839
February 4, 2019
The question about abortion has been
historically a question about, when
does life begin? I am one of those crazy
radicals who actually believe in
science. I think, when cell division is
occurring and when DNA is there that
is different from the mom’s and dif-
ferent from the dad’s, that it is actu-
ally a different human being—a small-
er human being but a different human
being. That is what everyone in science
believes. That child who is developing
is alive. The day of his birth is just an-
other day. Now, it is a pretty trau-
matic day for him to transition from
being inside the womb to the outside,
but birth is just another day of life for
that child because he is fully devel-
oped. He was developing in the womb,
and he is developing outside the womb.
Every single person who can hear this
has had the exact same experience of
developing in the womb.
This seemed like a commonsense
issue until the legislators in the State
of New York, a few weeks ago, stood
and cheered and applauded when they
passed a bill for third-trimester abor-
tions. These are ultra-late-term abor-
tions. This is a fully viable child abor-
tion.
Let me review quickly what the
State of New York did. There are only
four countries in the world that allow
late-term abortions. There are only
four left—North Korea, China, Viet-
nam, and the United States. Those in
the New York Legislature stood and
cheered that they are in the middle of
the human rights-depraved nations of
China, North Korea, and Vietnam. That
is at 24 weeks and on. At 20 weeks,
there is still Canada and the Nether-
lands and Singapore that are left, but
by 24 weeks, at that late-term, Canada,
the Netherlands, and Singapore drop
off. They say: No, we are out. That is a
fully viable child. Yet those in the New
York Legislature stood and applauded.
It got one-upped in Virginia last
week as the Governor of Virginia ex-
plained Virginia’s late-term abortion
bill as one-upping New York’s. He said,
in Virginia’s bill, in his words, this is
how it would work. If children have de-
formities, however that is defined, or
for the mental or physical health, how-
ever they want to define that because
there was no definition, they would de-
liver the child, make him comfortable,
resuscitate the child if the mother
wants, and then would discuss what to
do with the child.
It is not enough for the State of New
York to applaud late-term abortions
and join North Korea, China, and Viet-
nam as the only places on Earth to
allow this. No. The Virginia Democrats
had to go one more and say: Let’s de-
liver the children and then discuss it
based on their deformities.
Back to the Super Bowl conversa-
tion, one of the most popular commer-
cials in the Super Bowl was for a gam-
ing system that showed kids with dis-
abilities who played a video game just
like other kids, except now they want
to decide at those children’s births
whether to just take their lives then.
How in the world can we as a culture
run a television commercial and say:
That kid is just like that kid. Look,
they play games just alike. But when
they are little, let’s deliver them and
discuss it and figure out what we want
to do.
This is infanticide. This is not about
pro-life and pro-choice; this is pro-hu-
manity. To get to the point at which
we are discussing whether children live
or die based on what they look like at
birth and then, if they don’t quite look
right, we will take those lives is inhu-
mane and is beneath us as a society. I
cannot fathom the discussion that we
are having on the floor of the U.S. Sen-
ate as to whether a fully delivered
child lives or dies or discuss what hap-
pens during a botched abortion when a
child is fully delivered. It used to be
that my Democratic colleagues said
life begins at birth. Now, apparently, it
is not at birth anymore; it is unknown
when life actually begins because it is
a discussion we are going to have at
their births now.
How can we block this bill? How can
this, of all things, not bring unanimous
consent? It is inhumane.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Indiana.
Mr. BRAUN. Mr. President, I came
here mostly to support my colleagues
and to actually listen for an objection
to a bill like this. For the short time I
have been here, what a rude awakening
as to what can happen.
Everything I have heard here makes
sense, and I would just ask for the citi-
zens across this country and for Hoo-
siers to weigh in. Let your Senators
know that this is a step too far when
something like this occurs in this
Chamber, when it is crystallized so
simply. You are either for or against
infanticide, and I never imagined I
would be seeing this so early in my
tenure here. I ask for the folks across
this country to make their voices
heard because this is a tragedy that
has happened.
I yield the floor.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Nebraska.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, this is
gross, what has happened here tonight.
We should pass this by unanimous con-
sent. If we continue being unable to
pass it by unanimous consent, a lot of
us are going to continue to fight for a
rollcall vote because it is the right
thing to do. Those little babies aren’t
Republicans or Democrats; they are ba-
bies. They need protection from all of
us.
I thank the Presiding Officer.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The Sen-
ator from Oklahoma.
Mr. LANKFORD. Mr. President, I
suggest the absence of a quorum.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will call the roll.
The senior assistant legislative clerk
proceeded to call the roll.
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the order for
the quorum call be rescinded.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
PROVIDING FOR A JOINT SESSION
OF CONGRESS TO RECEIVE A
MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENT
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that the Senate
proceed to the immediate consider-
ation of H. Con. Res. 9, which was re-
ceived from the House.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. The
clerk will report the concurrent resolu-
tion.
The legislative clerk read as follows:
A concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 9)
providing for a joint session of Congress to
receive a message from the President.
There being no objection, the Senate
proceeded to consider the concurrent
resolution.
Mr. SASSE. I ask unanimous consent
that the concurrent resolution be
agreed to and the motion to reconsider
be considered made and laid upon the
table with no intervening action or de-
bate.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
The concurrent resolution (H. Con.
Res. 9) was agreed to.
f
UNANIMOUS CONSENT REQUEST—
S. 1
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that notwith-
standing the provisions of rule XXII,
all time postcloture on S. 1 be consid-
ered expired at 3:30 p.m. on Tuesday,
February 5.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
f
ORDERS FOR TUESDAY,
FEBRUARY 5, 2019
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, I ask
unanimous consent that when the Sen-
ate completes its business today, it ad-
journ until 10 a.m. tomorrow, Tuesday,
February 5; further, that following the
prayer and pledge, the morning hour be
deemed expired, the Journal of pro-
ceedings be approved to date, the time
for the two leaders be reserved for their
use later in the day, and morning busi-
ness be closed; further, that following
leader remarks, the Senate resume
consideration S. 1 and that the Senate
recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. to
allow for the weekly conference meet-
ings; finally, that all time during re-
cess, adjournment, morning business,
and leader remarks count postcloture
on S. 1.
The PRESIDING OFFICER. Without
objection, it is so ordered.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.031 S04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — SENATE
S840 February 4, 2019
ADJOURNMENT UNTIL 10 A.M.
TOMORROW
Mr. SASSE. Mr. President, if there is
no further business to come before the
Senate, I ask unanimous consent that
it stand adjourned under the previous
order.
There being no objection, the Senate,
at 7:37 p.m., adjourned until Tuesday,
February 5, 2019, at 10 a.m.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 03:52 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 0624 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\G04FE6.032 S04FEPT1
EXTENSIONS OF REMARKS
∑ This ‘‘bullet’’ symbol identifies statements or insertions which are not spoken by a Member of the Senate on the floor.
Matter set in this typeface indicates words inserted or appended, rather than spoken, by a Member of the House on the floor.
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E123
February 4, 2019
IN RECOGNITION OF SENIOR
BISHOP MCKINLEY YOUNG
HON. EMANUEL CLEAVER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. CLEAVER. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to honor the life of Senior Bishop
McKinley Young, a champion of social justice
and civil rights, for his dedication to empow-
ering individuals through equality and oppor-
tunity both in the church and his community.
As the son of a Pastor, Bishop McKinley
Young was raised in the church and went on
to start his own distinguished career serving
the people of Big Bethel AME Church in At-
lanta from 1980 until 1992. He would further
his career in South Africa, where he went on
to lead the Centennial Celebration of African
Methodism and remained a leader in the Ecu-
menical Community. To cite his most recent
achievements, he was assigned to the Third
Episcopal District and was elevated to the of-
fice of Senior Bishop of the African Methodist
Episcopal Church. Bishop McKinley Young’s
notable career and generous spirit warrant
many accolades as countless individuals have
benefited from his hard work.
The son of a Parsonage, one could say
Bishop Young was destined to a life of faith.
He was born in Atlanta, Georgia and was a
product of the Atlanta public school system.
As an academic standout with a passion for
theology, Bishop Young could not pass up the
opportunity to further his studies. For that rea-
son, he pursued and received degrees from
Morris Brown College, Andover Newton Theo-
logical School, and the University of Chicago
Divinity School. Moreover, he also holds hon-
orary doctorates from six institutions of higher
education.
Bishop Young’s faith has been the central
focus of his life and has guided him to hold
various positions. For over 20 years, he
served as Chair of the Board with the AME
Church and Service and Development Agency
and went on to serve as president of the
Council of Bishops and the General Board.
Bishop Young also chaired several commis-
sions, including the Commission of Global Wit-
ness and Ministry and the Commission on An-
nuity Investments and Insurance. His many
accomplishments speak volumes about
Young’s commendable character and commit-
ment to his community.
Though faith remained in his heart and guid-
ed him in every aspect of his life, Bishop
Young was aware that civil rights and edu-
cation were the key to building a strong com-
munity and finding a political voice. As an ad-
vocate for social justice and civil rights, he as-
sisted in the elections of the first Black Presi-
dents of the United States of America and
South Africa by working on voter registration
efforts. Furthermore, he went on to attend the
inauguration of former Presidents Barack
Obama and Nelson Mandela.
It is my personal belief that Senior Bishop
McKinley Young’s unrelenting dedication and
steadfast vision has left a permanent imprint
on those who shared the path he walked. In
life, Bishop Young embodied a selfless dedi-
cation to his family, friends, and community.
Though it grieves me to announce his passing
on Wednesday, January 17, 2019, I speak on
behalf of the Fifth Congressional District when
I thank him for his efforts to our country. He
leaves behind his wife, Dorothy Jackson
Young; 4 children, Karyn (Ron) Young-Lowe,
Deana (Julius) McAllister, Andrea (Roderick)
Jones, and Stephanie Lynn Young; and eight
grandchildren, Jennifer Renee and Jessica
Christina Lowe, Julius III, Colin and Dylan
McAllister, and Peyton, Noah, and Miles
Jones.
It is a privilege to recognize the work of
Senior Bishop McKinley Young for his commit-
ment to the church and to social justice in the
African American community. Please join me
and all of Missouri’s Fifth Congressional Dis-
trict in honoring the life of McKinley Young for
his commitment to the community. It is with
great respect that I urge all my colleagues and
fellow citizens across the country to join me in
showing our appreciation to Bishop McKinley
Young.
f
HONORING ESTHER SALVATORE
HON. ELIOT L. ENGEL
OF NEW YORK
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. ENGEL. Madam Speaker, it is with a
heavy heart that I today honor the life of one
of my constituents, the beloved Esther
Salvatore. A lifelong resident of Eastchester,
Esther passed away peacefully with family
members by her side on January 19, 2019.
She will be deeply missed by all who knew
and loved her.
Esther’s life was devoted to her faith, to
raising her children, to loving her many nieces,
nephew and cousins, adoring her 6 grand-
children and 7 great-grandchildren, to playing
the violin and cherishing her Italian heritage.
The daughter of Antonetta and Crescenzo
DiPippo, who came to the United States from
Italy, Esther was born on August 13, 1926 in
Bronxville and lived in Eastchester her entire
life. She grew up with her siblings, Christopher
and Gloria, and her many close cousins. Es-
ther attended Waverly Elementary School and
graduated from Eastchester High School in
1944. After completing school, she attended
New York University to study music.
On September 19, 1948, Esther married
Daniel Salvatore of Tuckahoe. She shared 32
years of marriage with her loving husband,
and together they raised 3 daughters in
Eastchester. A devout Catholic, Esther at-
tended mass regularly at Assumption of Our
Lady in Tuckahoe, a place of worship that her
father and grandfather helped to build. She
was an active parishioner and was a proud
member of the Rosary Altar Society, Sodality,
the Eastchester/Tuckahoe Senior Center and
the Yonkers Philharmonic as a violinist.
Madam Speaker, Esther Salvatore lived a
beautiful, rich, and fulfilling life. She enjoyed
her family immensely and instilled her faith, a
love of music, a strong work ethic and the
bond of family across many generations. The
example she set will live on through them and
the love they shared.
I offer my sincerest condolences to Esther’s
family and to the entire Eastchester commu-
nity.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF SACRAMENTO
AREA BUSINESS LEADERS
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the many outstanding business
leaders in California’s Capital Region being
honored at the Sacramento Metropolitan
Chamber of Commerce’s 124th annual dinner
and business awards ceremony. Those being
honored are dedicated to the success of the
region and have worked tirelessly to advance
its economic vitality. I ask all my colleagues to
join me in honoring these fine Sacramentans,
and in thanking the Sacramento Metro Cham-
ber for its tireless efforts to promote business
in northern California.
Patrick & Bobbin Mulvaney, Owners of
Mulvaney’s B&L, are Sacramentans of the
Year. Patrick and Bobbin have created one of
Sacramento’s most celebrated restaurants and
worked to help further the conversation around
mental health in the restaurant industry. Pat-
rick and Bobbin have been a leading force be-
hind making Sacramento the ‘‘Farm-to-Fork’’
capital of the country.
Dave Roughton, SAFE Credit Union, is
Businessman of the Year. Dave is active in in-
dustry and community affairs through his vol-
unteer work with several organizations and
volunteers his time with credit union industry
organizations. Dave has been the Chief Exec-
utive Officer and President of SAFE Credit
Union since April 2016 and January 2013 re-
spectively and served as its Chief Operating
Officer until March 2016.
Donna Lucas, Chief Executive Officer and
President of Donna Lucas Public Affairs, is
Businesswoman of the Year. Since opening
Lucas Public Affairs in 2006, Donna has
grown the firm into a team of accomplished
public affairs professionals who work to ex-
plain the complexities around many of the
major public policy challenges facing the state.
Donna is routinely named one of Sac-
ramento’s 100 most powerful people and is
often listed as one of the state Capitol’s most
influential people.
Fairytale Town is being inducted into the
Business Hall of Fame. For 60 years, Fairytale
Town has offered children and families a safe
place to imagine, play and learn. With year-
round special events, theater performances
and educational programming, Fairytale Town
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04FE8.001 E04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E124 February 4, 2019
offers a place for children to be creative and
to exercise their minds and bodies
Silt Wine Company and Muddy Boot Wine is
Small Business of the Year Award. Muddy
Boot Wine and Silt Wine Company boasts a
long list of gold medals in various tasting com-
petitions and is made less than thirty minutes
from Midtown. Located along the Delta in
Clarksburg, their wine is local, sustainable, af-
fordable, and the owners constantly work to
make our region an even better place.
Megan Blackwell, Marketing Manager for
Otto Construction, is this year’s Young Profes-
sional of the Year. Born, raised, and educated
in Oregon, Ms. Blackwell has made Sac-
ramento her home. She is also involved with
Metro EDGE and is one of the Metro Cham-
ber’s 40 Under 40.
Julie Brown, Director of Resource Develop-
ment at California Clothing Recyclers, is Am-
bassador of the Year. Julie’s commitment to
the region and furthering the mission of the
Sacramento Metro Chamber do not go unno-
ticed. Julie is a valued partner and leader of
the Ambassador Program and works to en-
courage members to become engaged and
excited about the Sacramento Metropolitan
Chamber.
Madam Speaker, I am honored to recognize
these individuals and businesses for their con-
tributions to the Sacramento region that I love.
I ask all my colleagues to join me in com-
mending them for their unwavering commit-
ment to Sacramento.
f
HONORING DAVID STANLEY M.D.
HON. MIKE THOMPSON
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. THOMPSON of California. Madam
Speaker, I rise today to recognize Dr. David
Stanley as Napa Valley Medical Society’s Pro-
fessor Emeritus of the year. Dr. Stanley has
provided outstanding medical care to our com-
munities throughout Napa and Solano Coun-
ties and has been a mentor to many people in
the medical community.
Dr. Stanley earned a Bachelor of Science in
Chemistry at the University of Redlands and
then attended Stanford University Medical
School. While at Stanford he co-authored sev-
eral scientific publications. He interned and
completed his residency at Baylor College of
Medicine in Houston. While at Baylor he was
the chief resident in medicine at Ben Taub
General Hospital. Dr. Stanley also completed
a fellowship in endocrinology at Baylor College
of Medicine’s Division of Endocrinology and
Metabolism.
Dr. Stanley started practicing medicine in
Napa County in 1977. He has held many posi-
tions at Queen of the Valley Medical Center,
including chief of the hospital medical staff
and chairman of the Department of Medicine.
In 1989, he served as president of the Napa
County Medical Society. Dr. Stanley joined the
Permanente Medical Group in 1993. He has
worked in hospital medicine, adult primary
care and endocrinology at Kaiser Vallejo Med-
ical Center and at the Napa medical offices.
For more than five years, Dr. Stanley has
been the chief of adult and family medicine at
the Napa Kaiser offices. Dr. Stanley has dedi-
cated his career to providing the highest qual-
ity of medical care to our community. In addi-
tion, he has been a lecturer and educator to
other medical professionals in our area.
Madam Speaker, Dr. Stanley is a model
community member who has dedicated his ca-
reer to helping others. It is therefore fitting and
proper that we honor Dr. David Stanley here
today.
f
HONORING JOSEPH RUSS IV
HON. JARED HUFFMAN
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. HUFFMAN. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize Joseph Russ IV, who
passed away on January 12, 2019. His advo-
cacy for ranching and timber communities was
vital to rural areas in Humboldt County and
throughout California.
Joe was born to Joseph and Annette Russ
III in 1936 and attended the one-room Cape-
town Elementary School on the windswept
Lost Coast in the northern part of my congres-
sional district. He graduated from Ferndale
High School in 1953 at the age of 16 and the
next year was elected president of the Cali-
fornia Future Farmers of America. He at-
tended the University of California at Davis,
then graduated from UC Berkeley with a de-
gree in business administration. Joe later en-
listed in the U.S. Marine Corps. Joe married
Karen Lane in 1963. They were married for 55
years and had three children and eight grand-
children.
Joe’s civic engagement spanned decades
and resulted in many public benefits. He
served 20 years on the Humboldt County
Planning Commission, and he was president
of the Humboldt Del-Norte Cattleman’s Asso-
ciation, the Humboldt County Farm Bureau
and the Humboldt Woolgrowers Association.
Joe also became president of the California
Woolgrowers Association, sat on the California
State Board of Forestry, the state Chamber of
Commerce, and the California State Fair As-
sociation. He was a founding member of the
Stockmen’s Bank of Commerce, the Buckeye
Conservancy and the California Rangeland
Trust. Notably, he was key to the development
of the Williamson Act, which governs property
tax rates on agricultural lands in California.
Throughout his career, Joe knew the value
of understanding politics and regulation as it
related to the ranching and timber industries.
His deep involvement in state and local asso-
ciations and boards helped leave a permanent
mark on rural agricultural policy in California.
Joe was known to many as a vast resource
for all things related to agriculture and had a
deep sense of the region’s history. He was a
guiding example for ranchers trying to balance
the hard work of ranching with the need for
advocacy at the state and local levels.
Madam Speaker, Joseph Russ IV’s con-
tributions to agriculture and the communities
of the Second Congressional District and the
state of California, and his service to the coun-
try, are commendable and worthy of recogni-
tion. I urge my colleagues to join me in my
deep appreciation of him.
JOHN COLE RETIRES FROM THE
TWENTYNINE PALMS CITY COUN-
CIL
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the service and commitment of out-
going Twentynine Palms City Council Member
John Cole, who departed the dais on Tues-
day, December 11, 2018.
John was born in Cleveland, Ohio in 1945.
He attended Loyola University where he
earned a Bachelor of Science in Mathematics,
and later attended Northern Arizona University
in Flagstaff where he earned a Master of Arts
in Education. John spent 41 years serving the
Morongo Unified School District as a teacher
and administrator. He was first elected to the
Twentynine Palms City Council in 2008 and
served the city for eight years, from 2008 to
2012 and from 2014 to 2018. In addition to his
position as council member, John served as
the City of Twentynine Palms’ representative
to the Mojave Desert Air Quality Management
District, the San Bernardino County Flood
Control Advisory Committee, and as a Dele-
gate for the League of California Cities’ Envi-
ronmental Committee. During his time on the
council, John was an excellent advocate for
the City of Twentynine Palms and its citizens.
I thank Council Member John Cole for his
leadership and dedication to public service on
behalf of Twentynine Palms residents. John’s
hard-work, experience, and wealth of knowl-
edge will certainly be missed.
f
RECOGNIZING HOOSIER VETERAN
JOE STEENBEKE AND HIS CA-
NINE PARTNER TESS
HON. JACKIE WALORSKI
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mrs. WALORSKI. Madam Speaker, I rise
today to recognize the bravery, service, and
friendship of Hoosier veteran Joseph
Steenbeke and his beloved canine partner
Tess.
Joe and Tess served side-by-side to defend
our freedom, and they are true American he-
roes. Joe served in the U.S. Army, working as
a Tactical Explosive Detection Dog, or TEDD,
handler. From May 2012 to February 2013, he
was deployed to Afghanistan with Tess, a Bel-
gian Malinois trained to detect IEDs, at his
side.
Joe served his country with courage and
strength. But as Joe’s wife Stephanie put it:
‘‘He risked his life fighting beside an even
stronger force, Tess.’’ She was Joe’s partner,
his protector, and his best friend. When their
service together ended, Joe returned home to
Indiana, and Tess moved on to her next mis-
sion for the Connecticut National Guard. But
their bond remained strong.
Over the next five years, Joe never stopped
thinking about Tess and never gave up on the
idea of adopting her. Like so many of our
brave veterans do when they return from war,
Joe struggled with PTSD. But his love for
Tess and his determination to bring her home
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04FE8.003 E04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E125
February 4, 2019
gave him strength and hope. And that’s when
Stephanie wrote me a letter asking to help
them complete this mission.
It was a great honor to work with Joe and
Stephanie, the U.S. military, and the Con-
necticut National Guard to ensure once Tess
was retired she could be adopted by her
former handler. And I was thrilled to be able
to call Joe a few weeks ago with the good
news: Tess would soon be his again. Now she
is with the Steenbekes in her forever home in
Culver, Indiana, taking on her latest mission
as Joe’s partner, protector, and best friend.
Madam Speaker, I ask my colleagues to join
me in recognizing the courage and sacrifice of
Joe Steenbeke and the loyal companionship
of his beloved dog Tess. On behalf of 2nd
District Hoosiers, I am grateful for their service
to our country and the powerful example they
set. This is more than a story of man’s best
friend. This is the story of an unbreakable
bond between two American heroes.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF JUDGE
MICHAEL S. MCMANUS
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
in honor of Judge Michael S. McManus and
his retirement from the United States Bank-
ruptcy Court, Eastern District of California. As
his colleagues and local community leaders
gather to honor his remarkable career, I ask
my colleagues to join me in paying tribute to
Judge McManus’ service to the federal judici-
ary.
Judge McManus graduated from the Univer-
sity of California, Berkeley in 1975 with Bach-
elor of Art Degrees in Criminology and Psy-
chology. In 1978, Judge McManus received
his Juris Doctor from the University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles. Prior to becoming a
judge, he practiced bankruptcy law at
Diepenbrock, Wulff, Plant & Hannegan. In the
late 80’s, he also served in many capacities
on the Debtor/Creditor Relations and Bank-
ruptcy Committee of the Business Law Section
of the State Bar of California.
Judge McManus has dedicated his career to
public service. Appointed on January 11,
1994, Judge McManus initially started his first
and second terms on the bankruptcy bench in
the Modesto Division of the Eastern District of
California and subsequently transferred to the
Sacramento Division. He served as Chief
Bankruptcy Judge from 2000 to 2008, as Dis-
trict of Nevada Judge through 2010, as the
Chair of the Ninth Circuit Conference of Chief
Bankruptcy Judges, as an observer on the Ju-
dicial Council of the Ninth Circuit, and as an
ex officio member of the Court-Council on
Bankruptcy Judge Appointments. In addition to
these great accomplishments, he is a fellow of
the American College of Bankruptcy.
Madam Speaker, as Judge McManus, his
friends, and colleagues celebrate his retire-
ment, I ask all my colleagues to join me in
thanking and recognizing him for his many
years of service. Judge McManus has contrib-
uted immensely to the bankruptcy bench and
our community.
CELEBRATING THE 100TH ANNI-
VERSARY OF THE MICHIGAN
FARM BUREAU
HON. JACK BERGMAN
OF MICHIGAN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. BERGMAN. Madam Speaker, it’s my
honor to recognize the Michigan Farm Bureau
upon the occasion of its 100th Anniversary.
Through its trusted services and invaluable
community investment, MFB has become an
indispensable part of the state of Michigan.
Founded in February 1919, the Michigan
Farm Bureau was formed when representa-
tives of 57 county-level Farm Bureaus gath-
ered on the campus of the Michigan Agricul-
tural College—now Michigan State University.
Over the next century, MFB would weave to-
gether a fabric and community of farmers from
across the state. Today, the organization in-
cludes more than 40,000 farmer members that
produce hundreds of different agricultural com-
modities and represent every facet of Michi-
gan’s incredibly diverse agricultural industry.
In the last 100 years, the Michigan Farm
Bureau and its affiliates have provided its
members with a vast array of goods and serv-
ices, from farm equipment and supplies to
commodity marketing, price negotiation and in-
surance. Today, MFB serves as the voice of
Michigan’s farmers at the state and national
level, speaking on their behalf in Lansing and
Washington, D.C. Its Young Farmers initiative
helps develop the skills and leadership need-
ed to ready the next generation to take the
reins, and Farm Bureau volunteers help take
the farm into classrooms statewide—keeping
Michiganders informed about where their food
comes from. Every year, MFB members do-
nate tens of thousands of dollars’ worth of
food products and assistance to the needy,
working directly with established food banks
and other charities throughout the state. Day
after day, the Michigan Farm Bureau sets a
positive example of what can be achieved
when the people of a state work together for
the common good.
Madam Speaker, it’s my honor to congratu-
late the Michigan Farm Bureau for 100 years
of success, service, and community invest-
ment. Michiganders can take great pride in
knowing our state is home to such dedicated
citizens. On behalf of my constituents, I wish
MFB all the best in its future endeavors.
f
HONORING PAUL RIPLEY
HON. JIM BANKS
OF INDIANA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. BANKS. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
celebrate the amazing life of Paul Ripley. On
February 8, 2019, Mr. Ripley will receive the
highest French order of merit for military and
civil excellence, the French Legion of Honour.
The Legion of Honour was founded by Napo-
leon Bonaparte as an order of merit for those
who serve France and its people with honor.
At the age of 95, Paul Ripley has lived a
distinguished life. He was born in Smithton,
Missouri, on February 28, 1923, and attended
Smithton High School before going to work for
a pipe company in Sedalia, Missouri. Paul an-
swered the call to serve his nation during
World War II. Upon entering the Army on April
6, 1943, he underwent basic training at Camp
Blanding and was later deployed to France
with the Ninth United States Army.
Stationed at Army Headquarters near
Rennes, Mr. Ripley was assigned to the
Graves Registration Division, assisting with
the identification and burial of his fallen breth-
ren. He served honorably, ensuring that Amer-
ican servicemembers were buried with dignity
and respect. Technician 5th grade Paul Ripley
was honorably discharged on November 14,
1945.
After returning home Mr. Ripley attended
the University of Tulsa under the G.I. Bill and
then entered the nursery products industry,
becoming the first entrepreneur to sell prod-
ucts directly to large department stores such
as Ames, Target and Sears. This innovation
led to the creation of the modern gardening
department at many national retailers. He
moved his family to Fort Wayne, Indiana, so
that he could expand his business and better
connect with his clients. Throughout his ca-
reer, Mr. Ripley received many awards and
accolades for his ingenuity and ethics.
I would like to congratulate Paul Ripley and
his family on this distinguished honor.
f
MARY J. TROST CELEBRATES
100TH BIRTHDAY
HON. PAUL COOK
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. COOK. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
recognize the 100th birthday of Mary Jose-
phine Trost from Yucaipa, California. Mary
was born as Mary Josephine DeHetre on Jan-
uary 30, 1919 in Currie, Minnesota.
Growing up during the Great Depression,
Mary saw her formal education end before the
start of high school. Family medical issues
and a failing national economy forced her into
the workforce, where she held a variety of
jobs. In 1938, Mary married Joseph Trost, and
moved with him to his family’s farm in
Seaforth, Minnesota. They later moved to an-
other farm in Detroit Lakes, Minnesota in
1944, where Joe began working as a me-
chanic in addition to his farming business. In
1951, Mary and Joe moved across the country
to Colton, California, where Joe worked at
nearby Norton Air Force Base. Following a
three year trip to Guam for work, the family fi-
nally settled in Yucaipa, California in 1963.
Over the next 56 years, Mary has become a
staple in the local community. She has been
active in St. Frances Xavier Catholic Church
and the Catholic Daughter’s Court Holy Spirit,
where she serves as Grand Regent and re-
cently received her 50 year pin. Mary has also
seen the birth of 6 children, 13 grandchildren,
19 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-
grandchildren.
Mary has lived an incredibly rich life that
has spanned an entire century. I wish her a
happy birthday as well as continued joy and
happiness as she continues to be active in her
church, family, and community.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 9920 E:\CR\FM\A04FE8.007 E04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks
E126 February 4, 2019
CONGRATULATING ROD SMITH ON
HIS INDUCTION INTO THE MIS-
SOURI SPORTS HALL OF FAME
HON. BLAINE LUETKEMEYER
OF MISSOURI
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. LUETKEMEYER. Madam Speaker, I
rise today to honor Rod Smith, longtime
Sports Director at KRCG–TV Jefferson City,
for his recent induction into the Missouri
Sports Hall of Fame.
Growing up in Naperville, Illinois, Rod
shared his father’s love of sports, playing
baseball, basketball, golf, tennis and even
hockey as a child. In 1985, Rod graduated
from Oral Roberts University and started his
career at KRCG. Jefferson City was not on his
radar when Rod graduated, but after attending
college in Tulsa and his parents still living in
Chicago it was a good central location. His ca-
reer at KRCG started out with reporting the
weather and sports on the weekend. He didn’t
expect to stay at KRCG forever, but when he
met Lana at Capital City Christian Church ev-
erything changed. The two fell in love and built
a life in Jefferson City.
Throughout his three decades of passion-
ately delivering sports news to Jefferson City
residents Rod has become an icon and celeb-
rity in the local community. He has watched
generations of student athletes excel in their
respective sport and has cheered them on
with pride. During this longstanding career he
has also had the privilege to cover two Super
Bowls: Rams and Tennessee Titans and
Rams and New England Patriots; World Se-
ries games: St. Louis Cardinals and Kansas
City Royals; NCAA tournaments; Missouri
bowl games; and SEC football games. Per-
haps his best claim to fame in the Midwest is
‘‘Rod’s Big ol’ Fish!’’ segment that is dedicated
to showcasing the many catches from anglers
across the region.
Along with sports broadcasting Rod is
known throughout the community for his many
emcee appearances which include fundraisers
like the Mid-Missouri Heart Association Heart
Ball, American Cancer Society Relay for Life,
United Cerebral Palsy’s ‘‘Wing Ding’’ and
‘‘Deal or No Deal’’, and the YMCA and Samar-
itan Center auctions. The Fellowship of Chris-
tian Athletes, Young Life, Boy Scouts, Girl
Scouts, and many other events also appre-
ciate his energetic and positive energy. In
2018 alone, Rod emceed no less than 35 of
the area’s fund-raising events. As an accom-
plished golfer, Rod has been able to partici-
pate in 15 charity tournaments each year on
behalf of KRCG and Naught-Naught Insurance
Agency.
The biggest supporters throughout Rod’s
longstanding career are his wife of 31 years,
Lana, and daughters, Brittany, Brooke, and
Paige. While his love of sports is evident,
Rod’s family has unquestionably been his
number one priority and, even with his hectic
broadcasting schedule, he was able to coach
all three girls in softball and basketball. I have
no doubt they are as proud of their father
today as he has been of them throughout their
lives.
Madam Speaker, I ask you to join me in
congratulating Rod Smith on his induction into
the Missouri Sports Hall of Fame Class of
2019. This milestone is well deserved.
HONORING SESSIA WYCHE AT CON-
GRESSMAN VELA’S BLACK HIS-
TORY MONTH CELEBRATION
HON. FILEMON VELA
OF TEXAS
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Mr. VELA. Madam Speaker, I rise today to
honor Sessia Wyche, a dedicated educator in
the Rio Grande Valley.
Mr. Wyche earned his Bachelor of Science
and Master of Science from Texas A&I Univer-
sity in Kingsville. He helped his peers as a
mathematics tutor and a graduate teaching as-
sistant. As a Second Line Manager and Pro-
grammer at Southwestern Bell in Texas, he
wrote computer programs and helped the
company with its inventories.
An avid tutor, Mr. Wyche returned to aca-
demics as a leader for students interested in
mathematics and the sciences. He served as
Assistant Chairman of the Mathematics and
Physics Department at Texas State Technical
College (TSTC), and as Assistant Professor of
Mathematics at The University of Texas at
Brownsville (UTB) and Texas Southmost Col-
lege (TSC).
As Director of Computer Directed Instruction
in Math at UTB and TSC, he received the
‘‘Teacher of the Year’’ award, ‘‘Chancellor’s
Council Outstanding Teaching’’ Award, and
‘‘The National Institute for Staff and Organiza-
tional Development’’ award. Currently, Mr.
Wyche is teaching the future mathematicians
of the Valley at TSTC. In his spare time, he
volunteers as a chaplain in hospitals across
the Valley.
I am pleased to recognize Mr. Wyche for his
contributions to Texas’ 34th Congressional
district. He is a role model for our children,
and we are thankful for his compassion to
serve those in need. I ask my colleagues to
join me in recognizing him, his family and
friends on this special day.
f
IN RECOGNITION OF UC DAVIS’
14TH ANNUAL WOMEN’S HEART
CARE FORUM
HON. DORIS O. MATSUI
OF CALIFORNIA
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Ms. MATSUI. Madam Speaker, I rise today
to recognize the UC Davis Women’s Cardio-
vascular Medicine Program as they celebrate
their 14th Annual Women’s Heart Care Forum.
As community organizations and supporters of
this program gather today, I ask my col-
leagues to join me in honoring their commit-
ment to the promotion of women’s heart health
in the Sacramento region and its surrounding
areas.
For 25 years, the UC Davis Women’s Car-
diovascular Medicine Program has received
national recognition as the first women’s heart
program in the country. Under the leadership
of Program Director Amparo Villablanca, doc-
tors and nurses at the Women’s Cardio-
vascular Medicine Program have continued to
provide comprehensive treatment, education,
outreach and research, benefitting women
throughout our region. The program’s excep-
tional commitment to women’s heart health
has empowered women by providing knowl-
edge of how to decrease their risk factors for
heart disease and pursue healthier lifestyles.
Madam Speaker, as community organiza-
tions, staff and supporters gather at the forum
to raise awareness about heart disease, I ask
all my colleagues to join me in honoring the
UC Davis Women’s Cardiovascular Medicine
Program for their years of service dedicated to
advancing women’s heart health.
f
THE SITUATION IN VENEZUELA
HON. GWEN MOORE
OF WISCONSIN
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
Monday, February 4, 2019
Ms. MOORE. Madam Speaker, I oppose
U.S. military intervention in Venezuela. I am a
cosponsor of legislation that would make that
crystal clear to this Administration. At the
same time, I strongly and unequivocally con-
demn reported acts of violence that have been
carried out by security forces against Ven-
ezuelans peacefully exercising their funda-
mental civil rights, including to protest.
We must find other ways to continue to ex-
press our nation’s legitimate concerns, as well
as that of the rest of the international commu-
nity, about the attacks on human rights and
democracy underway in that nation. I am
aware of the demonstrations that Ven-
ezuelans, opposed to Nicolas Madura and his
cronies, have held amid a deep and ongoing
political and economic crisis.
While continuing to condemn violence
against protestors and attacks on basic demo-
cratic rights and institutions, the U.S. must
also press for multilateral diplomatic actions to
help create the conditions for a peaceful return
to democratic order in Venezuela. Additionally,
any sanctions (either bilaterally or multilater-
ally) imposed against Venezuela must be tar-
geted at government officials and coordinated
to avoid worsening the country’s dire humani-
tarian emergency. And let’s be clear, sanc-
tions are not an end to themselves and do not
substitute for smart and disciplined diplomacy.
The U.S. should support international efforts
to achieve a negotiated resolution. Rather
than trying to repeat all the mistakes of our
failed foreign policy of the past in this region,
I urge this Administration to engage with other
partners in order to best facilitate a return to
democracy.
Lastly, I share concerns about the indi-
vidual, Elliott Abrams, appointed by this Ad-
ministration to serve as a ‘‘special envoy’’ to
Venezuela. His history, particularly with re-
gards to his views on U.S. policy in this re-
gion, disqualify him to serve as an impartial
implementer of a strong diplomatic effort to
reach a peaceful resolution. Among other con-
cerns, this individual was twice convicted of
lying to Congress and has long held troubling
views on how the U.S. should engage with
governments in the region with which it dis-
agrees.
f
SENATE COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Title IV of Senate Resolution 4,
agreed to by the Senate of February 4,
1977, calls for establishment of a sys-
tem for a computerized schedule of all
meetings and hearings of Senate com-
mittees, subcommittees, joint commit-
tees, and committees of conference.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\A04FE8.012 E04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — Extensions of Remarks E127
February 4, 2019
This title requires all such committees
to notify the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest—designated by the Rules Com-
mittee—of the time, place and purpose
of the meetings, when scheduled and
any cancellations or changes in the
meetings as they occur.
As an additional procedure along
with the computerization of this infor-
mation, the Office of the Senate Daily
Digest will prepare this information for
printing in the Extensions of Remarks
section of the CONGRESSIONAL RECORD
on Monday and Wednesday of each
week.
Meetings scheduled for Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 5, 2019 may be found in the Daily
Digest of today’s RECORD.
MEETINGS SCHEDULED
FEBRUARY 6
Time to be announced
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs
Organizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules and an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by
the committee for the 116th Congress.
TBA
9:30 a.m.
Special Committee on Aging
To hold hearings to examine financial se-
curity in retirement, focusing on inno-
vations and best practices to promote
savings.
SD–562
9:45 a.m.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs
Organizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules, subcommittee
assignments, and an original resolution
authorizing expenditures by the com-
mittee for the 116th Congress.
SD–538
10 a.m.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation
Business meeting to consider sub-
committee assignments and an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by
the committee for the 116th Congress;
to be immediately followed by a hear-
ing to examine winning the race to 5G
and the next era of technology innova-
tion in the United States.
SD–G50
Committee on Homeland Security and
Governmental Affairs
Organizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules and an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by
the committee for the 116th Congress.
SD–342
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Readiness and Manage-
ment Support
To hold closed hearings to examine
United States Army readiness.
SVC–217
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Strategic Forces
To receive a closed briefing on global nu-
clear developments.
SVC–217
Committee on Indian Affairs
Business meeting to consider S. 256, to
amend the Native American Programs
Act of 1974 to provide flexibility and re-
authorization to ensure the survival
and continuing vitality of Native
American languages, S. 257, to provide
for rental assistance for homeless or
at-risk Indian veterans, S. 294, to es-
tablish a business incubators program
within the Department of the Interior
to promote economic development in
Indian reservation communities, and
an original resolution authorizing ex-
penditures by the committee for the
116th Congress.
SD–628
FEBRUARY 7
10 a.m.
Committee on Energy and Natural Re-
sources
To hold hearings to examine the status
and outlook of energy innovation in
the United States.
SD–366
Committee on the Judiciary
Business meeting to consider committee
rules, subcommittee assignments, an
original resolution authorizing expend-
itures by the committee for the 116th
Congress, and the nominations of Wil-
liam Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be
Attorney General, and Donald W.
Washington, of Texas, to be Director of
the United States Marshals Service,
both of the Department of Justice,
Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, and Eric D.
Miller, of Washington, both to be a
United States Circuit Judge for the
Ninth Circuit, Paul B. Matey, of New
Jersey, to be United States Circuit
Judge for the Third Circuit, Eric E.
Murphy, of Ohio, and Chad A. Readler,
of Ohio, both to be a United States Cir-
cuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, Alli-
son Jones Rushing, of North Carolina,
to be United States Circuit Judge for
the Fourth Circuit, Rossie David Al-
ston, Jr., to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Vir-
ginia, Roy Kalman Altman, Rodolfo
Armando Ruiz II, and Rodney Smith,
each to be a United States District
Judge for the Southern District of
Florida, Raul M. Arias-Marxuach, to be
United States District Judge for the
District of Puerto Rico, Thomas P.
Barber, and Wendy Williams Berger,
both to be a United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Flor-
ida, J. Campbell Barker, and Michael J.
Truncale, both to be a United States
District Judge for the Eastern District
of Texas, Pamela A. Barker, to be
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Ohio, Kenneth D.
Bell, to be United States District
Judge for the Western District of North
Carolina, Jean-Paul Boulee, to be
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Georgia, Holly A.
Brady, and Damon Ray Leichty, both
to be a United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Indiana,
Andrew Lynn Brasher, to be United
States District Judge for the Middle
District of Alabama, Brian C.
Buescher, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Nebraska,
James David Cain, Jr., to be United
States District Judge for the Western
District of Louisiana, Stephen R.
Clark, Sr., to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Mis-
souri, Clifton L. Corker, to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern
District of Tennessee, Daniel Desmond
Domenico, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Colorado,
Karin J. Immergut, to be United States
District Judge for the District of Or-
egon, Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be
United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Texas, Corey
Landon Maze, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Northern District of
Alabama, David Steven Morales, to be
United States District Judge for the
Southern District of Texas, Sarah
Daggett Morrison, to be United States
District Judge for the Southern Dis-
trict of Ohio, Carl J. Nichols, to be
United States District Judge for the
District of Columbia, Howard C. Niel-
son, Jr., to be United States District
Judge for the District of Utah, J. Nich-
olas Ranjan, to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Western District of
Pennsylvania, Wendy Vitter, to be
United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, T. Kent
Wetherell II, and Allen Cothrel Winsor,
both to be a United States District
Judge for the Northern District of
Florida, Joshua Wolson, and John Mil-
ton Younge, both to be a United States
District Judge for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, Patrick R. Wyrick, to
be United States District Judge for the
Western District of Oklahoma, M. Mil-
ler Baker, of Louisiana, and Timothy
M. Reif, of the District of Columbia,
both to be a Judge of the United States
Court of International Trade, and Rich-
ard A. Hertling, of Maryland, and Ryan
T. Holte, of Ohio, both to be a Judge of
the United States Court of Federal
Claims.
SH–216
10:15 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine United
States Africa Command and United
States Southern Command in review of
the Defense Authorization Request for
fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years
Defense Program.
SD–G50
2 p.m.
Committee on Foreign Relations
Organizational business meeting to con-
sider committee rules, subcommittee
assignments, and an original resolution
authorizing expenditures by the com-
mittee for the 116th Congress.
S–116
Select Committee on Intelligence
To receive a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters.
SH–219
FEBRUARY 13
2:30 p.m.
Committee on Armed Services
Subcommittee on Personnel
To hold a joint hearing to examine the
current condition of the Military Hous-
ing Privatization Initiative.
SD–G50
POSTPONEMENTS
FEBRUARY 6
10 a.m.
Committee on Armed Services
To hold hearings to examine worldwide
threats.
SH–216
Committee on Health, Education, Labor,
and Pensions
Business meeting to consider the nomi-
nations of William Beach, of Kansas, to
be Commissioner of Labor Statistics,
Scott A. Mugno, of Pennsylvania, and
John P. Pallasch, of Kentucky, both to
be an Assistant Secretary, and Cheryl
Marie Stanton, of South Carolina, to
be Administrator of the Wage and Hour
Division, all of the Department of
Labor, Mary Anne Carter, of Ten-
nessee, to be Chairperson of the Na-
tional Endowment for the Arts, Robert
L. King, of Kentucky, to be Assistant
Secretary for Postsecondary Edu-
cation, Department of Education, and
other pending nominations.
SD–430
VerDate Sep 11 2014 01:45 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0626 Sfmt 0634 E:\CR\FM\M04FE8.000 E04FEPT1
D107
Monday, February 4, 2019
Daily Digest
HIGHLIGHTS
See Résumé of Congressional Activity.
Senate
Chamber Action
Routine Proceedings, pages S817–S840
Measures Introduced: Thirteen bills were intro-
duced, as follows: S. 316–328. Pages S831–32
Measures Passed:
Providing for the State of the Union: Senate
agreed to H. Con. Res. 9, providing for a joint ses-
sion of Congress to receive a message from the Presi-
dent. Page S839
Measures Considered:
Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act—Agreement: Senate resumed consider-
ation of S. 1, to make improvements to certain de-
fense and security assistance provisions and to au-
thorize the appropriation of funds to Israel, to reau-
thorize the United States-Jordan Defense Coopera-
tion Act of 2015, and to halt the wholesale slaughter
of the Syrian people, taking action on the following
amendments proposed thereto: Pages S819–30
Adopted:
Menendez Amendment No. 96 (to McConnell
Amendment No. 65), to clarify that the amendment
shall not be construed as a declaration of war or an
authorization of the use of military force.
Pages S820–29
By 70 yeas to 26 nays (Vote No. 14), McConnell
Amendment No. 65, to express the sense of the Sen-
ate that the United States faces continuing threats
from terrorist groups operating in Syria and Afghan-
istan and that the precipitous withdrawal of United
States forces from either country could put at risk
hard-won gains and United States national security.
Pages S820–29
Pending:
Risch Amendment No. 97, to clarify the deadline
for the reporting requirement relating to the estab-
lishment of a Jordan Enterprise Fund. Page S830
Menendez (for Risch) Amendment No. 98 (to
Amendment No. 97), to provide for a classified
annex to be submitted with the report on the co-
operation of the United States and Israel with re-
spect to countering unmanned aerial systems.
Page S830
During consideration of this measure today, Senate
also took the following action:
By 72 yeas to 24 nays (Vote No. 15), three-fifths
of those Senators duly chosen and sworn, having
voted in the affirmative, Senate agreed to the motion
to close further debate on the bill. Pages S829–30
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding that notwithstanding the provisions of Rule
XXII, all post-cloture time on the bill be considered
expired at 3:30 p.m., on Tuesday, February 5, 2019.
Page S839
A unanimous-consent agreement was reached pro-
viding for further consideration of the bill, post-clo-
ture, at approximately 10 a.m., on Tuesday, February
5, 2019; and that all time during recess, adjourn-
ment, morning business, and Leader remarks count
post-cloture on the bill. Page S839
Measures Placed on the Calendar: Page S830
Executive Communications: Pages S830–31
Additional Cosponsors: Pages S832–33
Statements on Introduced Bills/Resolutions:
Pages S833–35
Amendments Submitted: Pages S835–36
Privileges of the Floor: Pages S836–37
Record Votes: Two record votes were taken today.
(Total—15) Pages S829–30
Adjournment: Senate convened at 3 p.m. and ad-
journed at 7:37 p.m., until 10 a.m. on Tuesday,
February 5, 2019. (For Senate’s program, see the re-
marks of the Acting Majority Leader in today’s
Record on page S839.)
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04FE9.REC D04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D108 February 4, 2019
Committee Meetings
(Committees not listed did not meet)
No committee meetings were held.
h
House of Representatives
Chamber Action
Public Bills and Resolutions Introduced: 16 pub-
lic bills, H.R. 946–951; and 7 resolutions, H.J. Res.
41; H. Con. Res. 12–13; and H. Res. 95–98, were
introduced. Pages H1348–49
Additional Cosponsors: Pages H1350–512
Reports Filed: There were no reports filed today.
Speaker: Read a letter from the Speaker wherein she
appointed Representative Raskin to act as Speaker
pro tempore for today. Page H1345
Senate Message: Message received from the Senate
by the Clerk and subsequently presented to the
House today appears on page H1345.
Quorum Calls—Votes: There were no yea-and-nay
votes, and there were no recorded votes. There were
no quorum calls.
Adjournment: The House met at 11:30 a.m. and
adjourned at 11:33 a.m.
Committee Meetings
No hearings were held.
Joint Meetings
No joint committee meetings were held.
f
COMMITTEE MEETINGS FOR TUESDAY,
FEBRUARY 5, 2019
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Senate
Committee on Appropriations: Subcommittee on Military
Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies,
to hold hearings to examine an implementation update on
the Department of Veterans Affairs’ electronic health
record modernization, 10:30 a.m., SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: to hold hearings to examine
the United States Central Command in review of the De-
fense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the
Future Years Defense Program, 9:30 a.m., SH–216.
Full Committee, to receive a closed briefing on the
United States Central Command in review of the Defense
Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future
Years Defense Program, 2:15 p.m., SVC–217.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: organizational
business meeting to consider committee rules, sub-
committee assignments, and an original resolution au-
thorizing expenditures by the committee for the 116th
Congress, 9:45 a.m., SD–366.
Full Committee, to hold hearings to examine the out-
look for energy and minerals markets in the 116th Con-
gress, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: business
meeting to consider committee rules, an original resolu-
tion authorizing expenditures by the committee for the
116th Congress, S. 268, to reauthorize the Partners for
Fish and Wildlife Program and certain wildlife conserva-
tion funds, to establish prize competitions relating to the
prevention of wildlife poaching and trafficking, wildlife
conservation, the management of invasive species, and the
protection of endangered species, to amend the Marine
Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 to modify the protec-
tions provided by that Act, S. 163, to prevent cata-
strophic failure or shutdown of remote diesel power en-
gines due to emission control devices, S. 94, to amend
the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facili-
tate the establishment of additional or expanded public
target ranges in certain States, S. 310, to amend the
Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act to reauthor-
ize the Act, the nominations of Andrew Wheeler, of Vir-
ginia, to be Administrator, and Peter C. Wright, of
Michigan, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid
Waste, both of the Environmental Protection Agency,
Nicole R. Nason, of New York, to be Administrator of
the Federal Highway Administration, Department of
Transportation, John Fleming, of Louisiana, to be Assist-
ant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development,
John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority, and
6 General Services Administration resolutions, 10 a.m.,
SD–406.
Committee on Finance: organizational business meeting to
consider committee rules, subcommittee assignments,
designation of members to serve on the Joint Committee
on Taxation, designation of members to serve as Congres-
sional Trade Advisors on Trade Policy and Negotiations,
an original resolution authorizing expenditures by the
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00002 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04FE9.REC D04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D109
February 4, 2019
committee during the 116th Congress, and the nomina-
tions of Michael Faulkender, of Maryland, to be an As-
sistant Secretary, and Michael J. Desmond, of California,
to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service and
an Assistant General Counsel, both of the Department of
the Treasury, Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to be an Assist-
ant Secretary of Commerce, and Elizabeth Darling, of
Texas, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Fam-
ilies, Department of Health and Human Services, 10:15
a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: to
hold hearings to examine how primary care affects health
care costs and outcomes, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on the Judiciary: to hold hearings to examine
the nominations of Neomi J. Rao, to be United States
Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, and
Aditya Bamzai, of Virginia, and Travis LeBlanc, of Mary-
land, both to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Lib-
erties Oversight Board, 10 a.m., SD–226.
Select Committee on Intelligence: closed business meeting
to consider pending intelligence matters; to be imme-
diately followed by a closed briefing on certain intel-
ligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
House
No hearings are scheduled.
f
CONGRESSIONAL PROGRAM AHEAD
Week of February 5 through February 8, 2019
Senate Chamber
On Tuesday, Senate will continue consideration of
S. 1, Strengthening America’s Security in the Middle
East Act, post-cloture, and vote on passage of the
bill at 3:30 p.m.
Following disposition of S. 1, Strengthening
America’s Security in the Middle East Act, Senate
will vote on the motion to invoke cloture on the
motion to proceed to consideration of S. 47, Natural
Resources Management Act.
During the balance of the week, Senate may con-
sider any cleared legislative and executive business.
Senate Committees
(Committee meetings are open unless otherwise indicated)
Committee on Appropriations: February 5, Subcommittee
on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, and Re-
lated Agencies, to hold hearings to examine an imple-
mentation update on the Department of Veterans Affairs’
electronic health record modernization, 10:30 a.m.,
SD–124.
Committee on Armed Services: February 5, to hold hear-
ings to examine the United States Central Command in
review of the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal
year 2020 and the Future Years Defense Program, 9:30
a.m., SH–216.
February 5, Full Committee, to receive a closed brief-
ing on the United States Central Command in review of
the Defense Authorization Request for fiscal year 2020
and the Future Years Defense Program, 2:15 p.m.,
SVC–217.
February 6, Subcommittee on Strategic Forces, to re-
ceive a closed briefing on global nuclear developments,
2:30 p.m., SVC–217.
February 6, Subcommittee on Readiness and Manage-
ment Support, to hold closed hearings to examine United
States Army readiness, 2:30 p.m., SVC–217.
February 7, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine United States Africa Command and United States
Southern Command in review of the Defense Authoriza-
tion Request for fiscal year 2020 and the Future Years
Defense Program, 10:15 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs: Feb-
ruary 6, organizational business meeting to consider com-
mittee rules, subcommittee assignments, and an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by the committee for
the 116th Congress, 9:45 a.m., SD–538.
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation: Feb-
ruary 6, business meeting to consider subcommittee as-
signments and an original resolution authorizing expendi-
tures by the committee for the 116th Congress; to be im-
mediately followed by a hearing to examine winning the
race to 5G and the next era of technology innovation in
the United States, 10 a.m., SD–G50.
Committee on Energy and Natural Resources: February 5,
organizational business meeting to consider committee
rules, subcommittee assignments, and an original resolu-
tion authorizing expenditures by the committee for the
116th Congress, 9:45 a.m., SD–366.
February 5, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the outlook for energy and minerals markets in the
116th Congress, 10 a.m., SD–366.
February 7, Full Committee, to hold hearings to exam-
ine the status and outlook of energy innovation in the
United States, 10 a.m., SD–366.
Committee on Environment and Public Works: February 5,
business meeting to consider committee rules, an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by the committee for
the 116th Congress, S. 268, to reauthorize the Partners
for Fish and Wildlife Program and certain wildlife con-
servation funds, to establish prize competitions relating to
the prevention of wildlife poaching and trafficking, wild-
life conservation, the management of invasive species, and
the protection of endangered species, to amend the Ma-
rine Turtle Conservation Act of 2004 to modify the pro-
tections provided by that Act, S. 163, to prevent cata-
strophic failure or shutdown of remote diesel power en-
gines due to emission control devices, S. 94, to amend
the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to facili-
tate the establishment of additional or expanded public
target ranges in certain States, S. 310, to amend the
Neotropical Migratory Bird Conservation Act to reauthor-
ize the Act, the nominations of Andrew Wheeler, of Vir-
ginia, to be Administrator, and Peter C. Wright, of
Michigan, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid
Waste, both of the Environmental Protection Agency,
Nicole R. Nason, of New York, to be Administrator of
the Federal Highway Administration, Department of
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04FE9.REC D04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D110 February 4, 2019
Transportation, John Fleming, of Louisiana, to be Assist-
ant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development,
John L. Ryder, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the
Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority, and
6 General Services Administration resolutions, 10 a.m.,
SD–406.
Committee on Finance: February 5, organizational busi-
ness meeting to consider committee rules, subcommittee
assignments, designation of members to serve on the
Joint Committee on Taxation, designation of members to
serve as Congressional Trade Advisors on Trade Policy
and Negotiations, an original resolution authorizing ex-
penditures by the committee during the 116th Congress,
and the nominations of Michael Faulkender, of Maryland,
to be an Assistant Secretary, and Michael J. Desmond, of
California, to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue
Service and an Assistant General Counsel, both of the De-
partment of the Treasury, Jeffrey Kessler, of Virginia, to
be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, and Elizabeth
Darling, of Texas, to be Commissioner on Children,
Youth, and Families, Department of Health and Human
Services, 10:15 a.m., SD–215.
Committee on Foreign Relations: February 7, organiza-
tional business meeting to consider committee rules, sub-
committee assignments, and an original resolution au-
thorizing expenditures by the committee for the 116th
Congress, 2 p.m., S–116, Capitol.
Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions: Feb-
ruary 5, to hold hearings to examine how primary care
affects health care costs and outcomes, 10 a.m., SD–430.
Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs:
February 6, organizational business meeting to consider
committee rules and an original resolution authorizing
expenditures by the committee for the 116th Congress,
10 a.m., SD–342.
Committee on Indian Affairs: February 6, business meet-
ing to consider S. 256, to amend the Native American
Programs Act of 1974 to provide flexibility and reauthor-
ization to ensure the survival and continuing vitality of
Native American languages, S. 257, to provide for rental
assistance for homeless or at-risk Indian veterans, S. 294,
to establish a business incubators program within the De-
partment of the Interior to promote economic develop-
ment in Indian reservation communities, and an original
resolution authorizing expenditures by the committee for
the 116th Congress, 2:30 p.m., SD–628.
Committee on the Judiciary: February 5, to hold hearings
to examine the nominations of Neomi J. Rao, to be
United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia
Circuit, and Aditya Bamzai, of Virginia, and Travis
LeBlanc, of Maryland, both to be a Member of the Pri-
vacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, 10 a.m.,
SD–226.
February 7, Full Committee, business meeting to con-
sider committee rules, subcommittee assignments, an
original resolution authorizing expenditures by the com-
mittee for the 116th Congress, and the nominations of
William Pelham Barr, of Virginia, to be Attorney Gen-
eral, and Donald W. Washington, of Texas, to be Direc-
tor of the United States Marshals Service, both of the De-
partment of Justice, Bridget S. Bade, of Arizona, and Eric
D. Miller, of Washington, both to be a United States
Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, Paul B. Matey, of
New Jersey, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Third Circuit, Eric E. Murphy, of Ohio, and Chad A.
Readler, of Ohio, both to be a United States Circuit
Judge for the Sixth Circuit, Allison Jones Rushing, of
North Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the
Fourth Circuit, Rossie David Alston, Jr., to be United
States District Judge for the Eastern District of Virginia,
Roy Kalman Altman, Rodolfo Armando Ruiz II, and
Rodney Smith, each to be a United States District Judge
for the Southern District of Florida, Raul M. Arias-
Marxuach, to be United States District Judge for the Dis-
trict of Puerto Rico, Thomas P. Barber, and Wendy Wil-
liams Berger, both to be a United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Florida, J. Campbell Barker,
and Michael J. Truncale, both to be a United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Eastern District of Texas, Pamela A.
Barker, to be United States District Judge for the North-
ern District of Ohio, Kenneth D. Bell, to be United
States District Judge for the Western District of North
Carolina, Jean-Paul Boulee, to be United States District
Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, Holly A.
Brady, and Damon Ray Leichty, both to be a United
States District Judge for the Northern District of Indiana,
Andrew Lynn Brasher, to be United States District Judge
for the Middle District of Alabama, Brian C. Buescher,
to be United States District Judge for the District of Ne-
braska, James David Cain, Jr., to be United States Dis-
trict Judge for the Western District of Louisiana, Stephen
R. Clark, Sr., to be United States District Judge for the
Eastern District of Missouri, Clifton L. Corker, to be
United States District Judge for the Eastern District of
Tennessee, Daniel Desmond Domenico, to be United
States District Judge for the District of Colorado, Karin
J. Immergut, to be United States District Judge for the
District of Oregon, Matthew J. Kacsmaryk, to be United
States District Judge for the Northern District of Texas,
Corey Landon Maze, to be United States District Judge
for the Northern District of Alabama, David Steven Mo-
rales, to be United States District Judge for the Southern
District of Texas, Sarah Daggett Morrison, to be United
States District Judge for the Southern District of Ohio,
Carl J. Nichols, to be United States District Judge for
the District of Columbia, Howard C. Nielson, Jr., to be
United States District Judge for the District of Utah, J.
Nicholas Ranjan, to be United States District Judge for
the Western District of Pennsylvania, Wendy Vitter, to
be United States District Judge for the Eastern District
of Louisiana, T. Kent Wetherell II, and Allen Cothrel
Winsor, both to be a United States District Judge for the
Northern District of Florida, Joshua Wolson, and John
Milton Younge, both to be a United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, Patrick R.
Wyrick, to be United States District Judge for the West-
ern District of Oklahoma, M. Miller Baker, of Louisiana,
and Timothy M. Reif, of the District of Columbia, both
to be a Judge of the United States Court of International
Trade, and Richard A. Hertling, of Maryland, and Ryan
T. Holte, of Ohio, both to be a Judge of the United
States Court of Federal Claims, 10 a.m., SH–216.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04FE9.REC D04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D111
February 4, 2019
Committee on Veterans’ Affairs: February 6, organizational
business meeting to consider committee rules and an
original resolution authorizing expenditures by the com-
mittee for the 116th Congress, Time to be announced,
Room to be announced.
Select Committee on Intelligence: February 5, closed busi-
ness meeting to consider pending intelligence matters; to
be immediately followed by a closed briefing on certain
intelligence matters, 2:30 p.m., SH–219.
February 7, Full Committee, to receive a closed brief-
ing on certain intelligence matters, 2 p.m., SH–219.
Special Committee on Aging: February 6, to hold hearings
to examine financial security in retirement, focusing on
innovations and best practices to promote savings, 9:30
a.m., SD–562.
House Committees
Committee on Agriculture, February 7, Full Committee,
organizational meeting, 11 a.m., 1300 Longworth.
Committee on Appropriations, February 6, Subcommittee
on the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Serv-
ices, Education, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled
‘‘Oversight Hearing: Impact of the Administration’s Poli-
cies Affecting the Affordable Care Act’’, 10 a.m., 2358–C
Rayburn.
February 6, Subcommittee on Interior, Environment,
and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘The Power of the
Purse: A Review of Agency Spending Restrictions During
a Shutdown’’, 10 a.m., 2007 Rayburn.
February 6, Subcommittee on Defense, hearing entitled
‘‘World Wide Threat Assessment and Intelligence Com-
munity Posture’’, 3 p.m., H–405 Capitol. This hearing
will be closed.
February 7, Subcommittee on Energy and Water De-
velopment, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled ‘‘En-
ergy Trends and Outlook’’, 10 a.m., 2362–B Rayburn.
February 7, Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Office of Congressional Workplace Rights’’,
10 a.m., HT–2 Capitol.
February 7, Subcommittee on Legislative Branch, hear-
ing entitled ‘‘Open World Leadership Center’’, 11 a.m.,
HT–2 Capitol.
February 7, Subcommittee on Military Construction,
Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies, hearing entitled
‘‘Quality of Life in the Military’’, 10 a.m., H–140 Cap-
itol.
Committee on Armed Services, February 6, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Evaluation of the Department of
Defense’s Counterterrorism Approach’’, 10 a.m., 2118
Rayburn.
Committee on The Budget, February 7, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Investing in America’s Economic and
National Security’’, 10 a.m., 210 Cannon.
Committee on Education and Labor, February 6, Full
Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining Threats to
Workers with Preexisting Conditions’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175
Rayburn.
February 7, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Gradu-
ally Raising the Minimum Wage to $15: Good for
Workers, Good for Businesses, and Good for the Econ-
omy’’, 10:15 a.m., 2175 Rayburn.
Committee on Energy and Commerce, February 6, Sub-
committee on Environment and Climate Change, hearing
entitled ‘‘Time for Action: Addressing the Environmental
and Economic Effects of Climate Change’’, 10 a.m., 2123
Rayburn.
February 6, Subcommittee on Health, hearing entitled
‘‘Texas v. U.S.: The Republican Lawsuit and Its Impacts
on Americans with Pre-Existing Conditions’’, 10:15 a.m.,
2322 Rayburn.
February 7, Subcommittee on Oversight and Investiga-
tions, hearing entitled ‘‘Examining the Failures of the
Trump Administration’s Inhumane Family Separation
Policy’’, 10:30 a.m., 2123 Rayburn.
February 7, Subcommittee on Communications and
Technology, hearing entitled ‘‘Preserving an Open Inter-
net for Consumers, Small Businesses, and Free Speech’’,
11 a.m., 2322 Rayburn.
Committee on Foreign Affairs, February 6, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘U.S. Policy in the Arabian Pe-
ninsula’’; and markup on H.J. Res. 37, directing the re-
moval of United States Armed Forces from hostilities in
the Republic of Yemen that have not been authorized by
Congress, 10 a.m., 2172 Rayburn.
Committee on the Judiciary, February 6, Full Committee,
hearing entitled ‘‘Preventing Gun Violence: A Call to Ac-
tion’’, 10 a.m., 2141 Rayburn.
February 8, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘Over-
sight of the U.S. Department of Justice’’, 9:30 a.m., 2141
Rayburn.
Committee on Natural Resources, February 6, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Climate Change: The Impacts
and the Need to Act’’, 10 a.m., 1324 Longworth.
February 7, Subcommittee on Water, Oceans, and
Wildlife, hearing entitled ‘‘Healthy Oceans and Healthy
Economies: The State of Our Oceans in the 21st Cen-
tury’’, 2 p.m., 1324 Longworth.
Committee on Oversight and Reform, February 6, Full
Committee, hearing on H.R. 1, the ‘‘Strengthening Eth-
ics Rules for the Ethics Branch’’, 10 a.m., 2154 Rayburn.
Committee on Rules, February 6, Full Committee, hear-
ing on H.R. 840, the ‘‘Veterans’ Access to Child Care
Act’’; and H. Res. 86, providing amounts for the ex-
penses of the Select Committee on the Climate Crisis and
the Select Committee on the Modernization of Congress,
3 p.m., H–313 Capitol.
Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, February 6,
Full Committee, organizational meeting, 10 a.m., 2318
Rayburn.
Committee on Small Business, February 6, Full Com-
mittee, organizational meeting, 10:30 a.m., 2360 Ray-
burn.
February 6, Full Committee, hearing entitled ‘‘The
Shutdown: Economic Impact to Small Businesses’’, 11
a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
February 7, Subcommittee on Economic Growth, Tax,
and Capital Access, hearing entitled ‘‘Exploring Chal-
lenges and Opportunities of Underserved Businesses in
the 21st Century’’, 10 a.m., 2360 Rayburn.
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, February
7, Full Committee, organizational meeting; and hearing
entitled ‘‘The Cost of Doing Nothing: Why Investing in
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04FE9.REC D04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
D112 February 4, 2019
Our Nation’s Infrastructure Cannot Wait’’, 9:30 a.m.,
HVC–210.
Committee on Ways and Means, February 6, Full Com-
mittee, hearing entitled ‘‘Improving Retirement Security
for America’s Workers’’, 10 a.m., 1100 Longworth.
February 7, Subcommittee on Oversight, hearing enti-
tled ‘‘Legislative Proposals and Tax Law Related to Presi-
dential and Vice-Presidential Tax Returns’’, 2 p.m., 1100
Longworth.
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, February 6, Full
Committee, organizational meeting; and business meeting
to Take Votes Related the Transmission of Certain Com-
mittee Transcripts, 10 a.m., HVC–304. This meeting
will be closed.
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 0627 Sfmt 0627 E:\CR\FM\D04FE9.REC D04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST D113
February 4, 2019
* These figures include all measures reported, even if there was no accom-
panying report. A total of 0 written reports have been filed in the Senate,
5 reports have been filed in the House.
Résumé of Congressional Activity
FIRST SESSION OF THE ONE HUNDRED SIXTEENTH CONGRESS
The first table gives a comprehensive résumé of all legislative business transacted by the Senate and House.
The second table accounts for all nominations submitted to the Senate by the President for Senate confirmation.
DATA ON LEGISLATIVE ACTIVITY
January 3 through January 31, 2019
Senate House Total
Days in session .................................... 20 19 . .
Time in session ................................... 96 hrs., 10′ 89 hrs., 43′ . .
Congressional Record:
Pages of proceedings ................... 816 1,343 . .
Extensions of Remarks ................ . . 121 . .
Public bills enacted into law ............... 1 4 5
Private bills enacted into law .............. . . . . . .
Bills in conference ............................... 1 1 . .
Measures passed, total ......................... 28 83 111
Senate bills .................................. 1 1 . .
House bills .................................. 3 44 . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... 2 4 . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... . . . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . 2 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 22 32 . .
Measures reported, total ...................... *. . *5 5
Senate bills .................................. . . . . . .
House bills .................................. . . . . . .
Senate joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
House joint resolutions ............... . . . . . .
Senate concurrent resolutions ...... . . . . . .
House concurrent resolutions ...... . . . . . .
Simple resolutions ....................... . . 5 . .
Special reports ..................................... . . . . . .
Conference reports ............................... . . . . . .
Measures pending on calendar ............. 14 . . . .
Measures introduced, total .................. 362 1,074 1,436
Bills ............................................. 315 929 . .
Joint resolutions .......................... 7 40 . .
Concurrent resolutions ................ 1 11 . .
Simple resolutions ....................... 39 94 . .
Quorum calls ....................................... 2 1 . .
Yea-and-nay votes ............................... 13 59 . .
Recorded votes .................................... . . 5 . .
Bills vetoed ......................................... . . . . . .
Vetoes overridden ................................ . . . . . .
DISPOSITION OF EXECUTIVE NOMINATIONS
January 3 through January 31, 2019
Civilian nominations, totaling 237, disposed of as follows:
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 237
Other Civilian nominations, totaling 11, disposed of as follows:
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 11
Air Force nominations, totaling 775, disposed of as follows:
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 775
Army nominations, totaling 29, disposed of as follows:
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 29
Navy nominations, totaling 58, disposed of as follows:
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 58
Marine Corps nominations, totaling 1,372, disposed of as follows:
Unconfirmed .................................................................................. 1,372
Summary
Total nominations carried over from the First Session ........................... 0
Total nominations received this Session ................................................ 2,482
Total confirmed ..................................................................................... 0
Total unconfirmed ................................................................................. 2,482
Total withdrawn .................................................................................... 0
Total returned to the White House ...................................................... 0
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 0667 Sfmt 0667 E:\CR\FM\D04FE9.REC D04FEPT1
CONGRESSIONAL RECORD — DAILY DIGEST
Congressional Record The Congressional Record (USPS 087–390). The Periodicals postage
is paid at Washington, D.C. The public proceedings of each House
of Congress, as reported by the Official Reporters thereof, are
printed pursuant to directions of the Joint Committee on Printing as authorized by appropriate provisions of Title 44, United
States Code, and published for each day that one or both Houses are in session, excepting very infrequent instances when
two or more unusually small consecutive issues are printed one time. ¶ Public access to the Congressional Record is available online through
the U.S. Government Publishing Office, at www.govinfo.gov, free of charge to the user. The information is updated online each day the
Congressional Record is published. For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office.
Phone 202–512–1800, or 866–512–1800 (toll-free). E-Mail, contactcenter@gpo.gov. ¶ To place an order for any of these products, visit the U.S.
Government Online Bookstore at: bookstore.gpo.gov. Mail orders to: Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 979050, St. Louis, MO
63197–9000, or phone orders to 866–512–1800 (toll-free), 202–512–1800 (D.C. area), or fax to 202–512–2104. Remit check or money order, made
payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or use VISA, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, or GPO Deposit Account. ¶ Following
each session of Congress, the daily Congressional Record is revised, printed, permanently bound and sold by the Superintendent of Documents
in individual parts or by sets. ¶ With the exception of copyrighted articles, there are no restrictions on the republication of material from
the Congressional Record.
POSTMASTER: Send address changes to the Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Record, U.S. Government Publishing Office,
Washington, D.C. 20402, along with the entire mailing label from the last issue received.
U
NUM
E PLURIBU
S
D114 February 4, 2019
Next Meeting of the SENATE
10 a.m., Tuesday, February 5
Senate Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Senate will continue consider-
ation of S. 1, Strengthening America’s Security in the
Middle East Act, post-cloture, and vote on passage of the
bill at 3:30 p.m.
Following disposition of S. 1, Strengthening America’s
Security in the Middle East Act, Senate will vote on the
motion to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to
consideration of S. 47, Natural Resources Management
Act.
(Senate will recess from 12:30 p.m. until 2:15 p.m. for their
respective party conferences.)
(Senators will gather in the Senate Chamber at 8:20 p.m.
and proceed as a body to the Hall of the House of Representa-
tives at 8:25 p.m., to receive a State of the Union Address from
the President.)
Next Meeting of the HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
12 noon, Tuesday, February 5
House Chamber
Program for Tuesday: Consideration of measures under
suspension of the Rules. Joint Session with the Senate to
receive the State of the Union Address from the President
of the United States.
Extensions of Remarks, as inserted in this issue
HOUSE
Banks, Jim, Ind., E125
Bergman, Jack, Mich., E125
Cleaver, Emanuel, Mo., E123
Cook, Paul, Calif., E124, E125
Engel, Eliot L., N.Y., E123
Huffman, Jared, Calif., E124
Luetkemeyer, Blaine, Mo., E126
Matsui, Doris O., Calif., E123, E125, E126
Moore, Gwen, Wisc., E126
Thompson, Mike, Calif., E124
Vela, Filemon, Tex., E126
Walorski, Jackie, Ind., E124
VerDate Sep 11 2014 04:20 Feb 05, 2019 Jkt 089060 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 0664 Sfmt 0664 E:\CR\FM\D04FE9.REC D04FEPT1
